[[Kristen Dalton (Miss USA)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Beauty pageant winners, Actors from North Carolina, Living people

Kristen Jeannine Dalton-Wolfe (born December 13, 1986) is an American actress from North Carolina who won the Miss USA 2009 pageant. She also finished tenth at the Miss Universe 2009 pageant after this.

[[Kristen Dalton]]

Kristen Dalton may mean:

[[In the Summertime]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 songs

"In the Summertime" is a song released by Mungo Jerry in 1970.

[[Edna Krabappel]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1990

Edna Krabappel is a fictional character in the television show The Simpsons. She is the fourth grade teacher of Bart Simpson's class. In the 23rd season, it is shown that she was married to Ned Flanders. Flanders's first wife died in season 11. 

Marcia Wallace was the voice actor for Edna Krabappel. Wallace died in 2013. When she died, Krabappel was not in many episodes after that.

[[UN Watch]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 establishments in Europe, Human rights organizations in Europe

UN Watch is a non-governmental organization from Geneva, Switzerland. It watches for the work of the United Nations. It has a place to watch in the UN Economic and Social Council and the UN Department of Public Information. 

UN Watch has been fighting against human rights troubles in Democratic Republic of the Congo and Darfur. It speaks in the United Nations Human Rights Council on human rights troubles in China, Cuba, Russia, Venezuela, and other countries. It is against antisemitism. 

Kofi Annan spoke well of UN Watch. Agence France-Presse said that UN Watch is a friend of Israel and it fights for human rights worldwide.

[[2021 in association football]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 in association football, Years in association football

The following are the football (soccer) events in the year 2021 around the world.

[[Xiangliu]]

Xiangliu is the only moon of the dwarf planet 225088 Gonggong. It was discovered by a team of astronomers led by Csaba Kiss during an analysis of archival Hubble Space Telescope images of Gonggong. The discovery team thought that the slow rotation of Gonggong was caused by tidal forces exerted by a moon. Xiangliu was first identified in archival Hubble images taken with Hubble's Wide Field Camera 3 on 18 September 2010. Its discovery was reported and announced by Gábor Marton, Csaba Kiss, and Thomas Müller at the 48th Meeting of the Division for Planetary Sciences on 17 October 2016. The satellite is named after Xiangliu, a nine-headed poisonous snake monster in Chinese mythology that attended the water god Gonggong as his chief minister.

[[Zam Wesell]]

CATEGORIES: Star Wars characters

Zam Wesell is a human female bounty hunter from Star Wars. Zam first appeared in Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones. She was on a mission with  Jango Fett to assassinate Senator Padmé Amidala. But during the mission Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi caught her. Jango Fett killed her with a poison dart.  Actress, Leeanna Walsman, played Zam Wesell. 

[[Fondue bourguinonne]]

CATEGORIES: Foods

Fondue bourguinonne is a kind of fondue, where pieces of meat are dipped and cooked in hot oil. Usually it is served with a number of dips, which are based on mayonnaise. It was created and first served in Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1948. Usually, beef is used as meat, but recipes that use horse meat, duck, or game  also exist.

[[Bradley Byrne]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, United States representatives from Alabama, People from Mobile, Alabama, US Republican Party politicians, Living people

Bradley Byrne (born February 16, 1955) is a former U.S representative for Alabama's 1st congressional district from 2014-2021. Bryne ran for congress in 2013 when he won in a special election. He won reelection in 2014, 2016 and finally in 2018, he announced he would not seek reelection and was replaced in 2021 by Jerry Carl. In 2019 Byrne announced that he would be running for the United States Senate held by Doug Jones but lost in the primary.

[[Alabama's 1st congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Alabama

Alabama's 1st congressional district is a United States congressional district in Alabama, which elects a representative to the United States House of Representatives. It includes all of the following counties, Washington, Mobile, Baldwin, Escambia and Monroe counties, and also includes part of Clarke County. The largest city in the district is Mobile. Republican Jerry Carl has represented the district since January 2021.

[[Accattone]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 movies, 1961 drama movies, Italian drama movies, Movies directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini, Black-and-white movies, Italian-language movies, Movies set in Rome

Accattone is a 1961 Italian drama movie directed by first time director Pier Paolo Pasolini and starring Franco Citti, Franca Pasut, Silvana Corsini, Adriana Asti, Monica Vitti. It was distributed by Brandon Films.

[[Oedipus Rex (1967 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 drama movies, Italian drama movies, Moroccan movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini, Italian-language movies, Incest in movies

Oedipus Rex (Edipo re) is a 1967 Italian drama movie directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini and was based on the 428BC play of the same name by Sophocles. It stars Silvana Mangano, Franco Citti, Alida Valli, Luciano Bartoli, Carmelo Bene and was distributed by Arco Film.

[[Oedipus Rex (disambiguation)]]

Oedipus Rex is a play by Sophocles.

Oedipus Rex may also mean:

[[Prelude in E Minor (Chopin)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Frédéric Chopin, 1839 establishments, Solo piano pieces

The Prelude in E Minor, Op. 28 No. 4 is a Prelude written by Frederic Chopin in his set of 23 Preludes.  It is known to have been completed by January 1839.  In comparison to his other works, it is technically simple, consisting of a melody over a pulse of chords in the left hand.

[[Ulana Suprun]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Ukrainian politicians

Ulana Nadia Suprun (Ukrainian: Уляна Надія Супрун, romanized: Ulyana Nadiya Suprun; née Jurkiw (Юрків, Yurkiv); born 30 January 1963) is a Ukrainian-American physician, activist, and philanthropist. She has served as the acting Minister of Healthcare from 2016 to 2019.

[[Zoriana Skaletska]]

Zoriana Stepanivna Skaletska (Ukrainian: Зоряна Степанівна Скалецька, née Chernenko (Черненко); born 9 August 1980) is a Ukrainian lawyer, activist and politician and former Minister of Healthcare of Ukraine.

[[Illia Yemets]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Ukrainian politicians

Illia Mykolayovych Yemets (Ukrainian: Ілля Миколайович Ємець; born 21 February 1956) is a Ukrainian physician and politician and twice appointed Minister of Healthcare.

[[Wild Animal Baby Explorers]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 television series debuts, Canadian television series

Wild Animal Baby Explorers is a British-Canadian-American CGI television series broadcast by 2008 to 2012. Behind 180 eleven-minute episodes for the examples for kids, as they age by two of eight, in UK produced by 2 September 2008 to 3 September 2012.

[[Bo Peep (Toy Story)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1995, Kingdom Hearts characters, Toy Story characters

Bo Peep is a character of the Toy Story franchise, starting with Toy Story (1995). She is voiced by Annie Potts.

[[Papurana grisea]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

The Went Mountains frog or Montaen swamp frog (Papurana grisea) is a frog from Indonesia and Papua New Guinea.

The adult male frog is 6.5 cm long and the adult female frog is 9.0 cm long.  They are deep green or brown and may have spots or warts.  The legs and sides of the head have darker brown stripes.  The belly is white.  There are dark brown spots on the throat.

The female frog lays eggs in swamps or other places where the water does not move quickly.  The eggs stick to rocks.  The tadpoles are 2.0 cm long and have three rows of teeth on the top jaw and two rows of teeth on the lower jaw.

[[Jerry Carl]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, United States representatives from Alabama, US Republican Party politicians, Businesspeople from Alabama, People from Mobile, Alabama, Living people

Jerry Carl  (born June 17, 1958) is a Republican politician who represents Alabama's 1st congressional district in the United States House of Representatives. He defeated Democrat James Averhart in the November general election and was sworn in on January 3, 2021.

[[Bontebok]]

CATEGORIES: Bovids, Mammals of Africa

The bontebok is a subspecies of Damaliscus pygargus, an antelope found in South Africa, Lesotho and Namibia. D. pygargus has two subspecies; the bontebok (Damaliscus pygargus pygargus), occurring naturally in the Fynbos and Renosterveld areas of the Western Cape, and the blesbok (Damaliscus pygargus phillipsi) occurring in the Highveld.

The bontebok is related to the common tsessebe.

[[Jo Bonner]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, United States representatives from Alabama, People from Selma, Alabama, US Republican Party politicians, Living people

Josiah Robins Bonner Jr. (born November 19, 1959) is a former American politician who was the U.S. Representative for Alabama's 1st congressional district from 2003 to 2013. He is part of the Republican Party. He left his job in Congress on August 2, 2013, to take a job with the University of Alabama. He currently serves as chief of staff to Alabama Governor Kay Ivey.

[[Temple of Heaven]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Beijing, Temples in Asia

The Temple of Heaven, 天坛, is a temple and famous attraction in Beijing, China.

The Temple of Heaven was built in 1420 c.e.  Emperors in the Ming Dynasty and Qing Dynasty went there to pray.  In 1918, the Temple of Heaven complex was made a public park. It is 270 hectares in size.

[[Harry the Bunny]]

CATEGORIES: Children's television series, Television shows about rabbits and hares

Harry the Bunny is a children's television show on the network BabyFirst TV.

[[Jyn Erso]]

CATEGORIES: Star Wars characters, Fictional characters introduced in 2016

Jyn Erso is a female character from Star Wars and the main character of the film Rogue One. She is the daughter of the scientist behind the Death Star, Galen Erso but is raised by rebel extremest Saw Gerrera. She is captured by the Rebel Alliance and is sent on a mission to kidnap her father. She is joined by Cassian Andor, K-2SO and other members as they try to find her father. During the mission she learns about the Death Star and how to blow it up. Although unable to capture her father she joins the rest of the Rebel Alliance in getting the plans to destroy the Death Star. She sacrifices herself during the mission but the Rebel Alliance was able to win the battle. Jyn Erso is played by Felicity Jones in the film.

[[Isabel Guzman]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s births, Living people, Administrators of the Small Business Administration, American activists, Politicians from California, People from Burbank, California, US Democratic Party politicians

Isabella Casillas Guzman (born 1970/1971) is an American government official and business activist. She is the 27th Administrator of the Small Business Administration since 2021 during the Joe Biden presidency.

Isabel Casillas Guzman was born in Burbank, California. She hails from four generations of Texans who originally fled the Mexican Revolution from the states of Aguascalientes and Jalisco. She is also of Jewish, German and Chinese descent. 

In the 1960s, Guzman's father moved from Texas to Los Angeles.

Guzman attended Schurr High School in Montebello, CA and graduated in 1988. Guzman earned a Bachelor of Science degree from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.

In April 2019, she was the director of California’s Office of the Small Business Advocate. She was also the deputy chief of staff and senior adviser to the Administrator of the Small Business Administration in the Obama administration. Guzman was also the director of strategic initiatives at ProAmerica Bank in Los Angeles.

On January 7, 2021 President-elect Joe Biden nominated Guzman to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration under his cabinet.  Her nomination was confirmed on March 16, 2021 in a 81–17 vote of the United States Senate.

[[Daniel McKee]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Governors of Rhode Island, American mayors, US Democratic Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Rhode Island

Daniel J. McKee (born June 16, 1951) is an American politician. In 2021, he became the 76th Governor of Rhode Island.

McKee was the 69th Lieutenant Governor of Rhode Island from 2015 until 2021. He was mayor of Cumberland, Rhode Island and member of the Cumberland Town Council. 

[[Lisa's Sax]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons episodes, 1997 television episodes

"Lisa's Sax" is the 3rd episode of the 9th season of The Simpsons. It was first shown on the Fox network on October 19, 1997. The episode is about how Lisa Simpson got a saxophone.

[[Donovan Richards]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, US Democratic Party politicians, Year of birth missing (living people), 21st-century American politicians, African American politicians, Politicians from New York City

Donovan Richards is an American politician. In December 2020, he became the Borough President of Queens. He was a New York City Council member representing the 31st District of the New York City Council. He is a Democrat.

[[Standardization]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Standards

In order to be able to work together, people and companies need to agree on a common set of rules, and units. These agreements are called standards. The process of agreeing is called standardization or standardisation. 

Companies that have products which follow these rules can make their products work together.  One example of a standard is the two pin plug. It provides electricity. It is commonly found in household appliances. Many countries have adopted it. However, this is not the case for three-pin plugs: they are different in each country.  

Agreements do not need to be technical. Lawyers can agree on a standard way to solve a problem, linguists can agree on what the "standard language" is, and bookkeepers can agree on rules how to evaluate a company. 

[[2020 United States Senate special election in Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 elections, November 2020 events, 2020 in the United States, 21st century in Arizona

A special election happened on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Arizona. It happened because the last senator, John McCain, died in 2018. Primary elections happened on August 4, 2020 to choose who would run for the election from each party. The Republican Party chose Martha McSally. She beat Daniel McCarthy to be the Republican candidate. Only one person, Mark Kelly, ran for the Democratic Party.

Kelly won the election and got 51.2% of the votes, so he became the junior senator from Arizona. This meant both Senators from Arizona were now from the Democratic Party. He officially became a senator on December 2, 2020 when he was sworn in.

[[Reset button]]

CATEGORIES: Television, Technology

A reset button or reset switch is a part of an electronic machine that makes it start again.  It turns the machine off and turns it back on, very fast.

Real reset buttons are on machines, but "reset button" is also a metaphor for other things.  It means "thing that makes everything start over" or "thing that puts things back the way they were in the beginning."

In fiction, especially serialized fiction, like television shows, the writers often use a reset button.  No matter what happened during the episode, things always go back to the beginning for the next episode.

[[Jamie O'Hara (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, American singer-songwriters, Grammy Award winners, Cancer deaths in the United States, Musicians from Ohio, Singers from Ohio, Writers from Ohio, People from Toledo, Ohio, American country singers, American country guitarists

James Paul O'Hara (August 8, 1950 – January 7, 2021) was an American country singer-songwriter and guitarist. He was a member of the The O'Kanes. He was known for his number one single "Can't Stop My Heart from Loving You". He was also known for his 1986 hit "Grandpa (Tell Me 'Bout the Good Old Days)" which won him a Grammy Award.

O'Hara died in Nashville, Tennessee on January 7, 2021 from cancer at the age of 70.

[[Mediterranean tropical-like cyclone]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in Europe

A Medicane is a Mediterranean tropical-like cyclone. It is a storm in the Mediterranean Sea.  These storms are similar to tropical storms and subtropical storms.

Weather scientists say there are about one or two medicanes each year.  Most of them happen in September and October, when the water in the Mediterranean sea.  Sometimes they happen at other times.  Scientists say global climate change could make medicanes stronger.

[[Mary Catherine Bateson]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, American anthropologists, Writers from New York City

Mary Catherine Bateson (December 8, 1939 – January 2, 2021) was an American writer and cultural anthropologist.

Bateson published many monographs. A well-known book she wrote is With a Daughter's Eye: A Memoir of Margaret Mead and Gregory Bateson. In it, she tells what is it like, to have parents that are famous. 

She taught at Harvard, Amherst, and George Mason University, among others. Bateson was a fellow of the International Leadership Forum and was president of the Institute for Intercultural Studies in New York until 2010.''

Bateson died on January 2, 2021, in her home in Dartmouth, New Hampshire from problems caused by a fall, aged 81.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Alaska

An election happened on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Alaska. The two people in the election were Dan Sullivan (Republican Party), Al Gross (independent), and John Wayne Howe (Alaskan Independence Party), was also on the ballot and finished a distant third. Sullivan won the election and stayed as a Senator.

Primary elections happened on August 18, 2020. Nobody ran against Sullivan in the Republican party.

[[Peyman Keshavarzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Iranian footballers, Association football defenders, Iranian expatriate footballers, Tractor S.C. players

Peyman Keshavarzi Nazarloo (پیمان کشاورزی نظرلو, born March 6, 1995) is an Iranian footballer. He plays as a centre back for Persian Gulf Pro League team Tractor SC.

[[Conditional probability]]

CATEGORIES: Probability theory

Expressed in words: The conditional probability of A occurring given B is the probability of both events occurring, divided by the probability of B occurring. As a division by zero is not defined, the probability of B occurring must not be zero.

[[Atmospheric railway]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport

An atmospheric railway is propelled by differences in atmospheric pressure. Pistons are used there. A piston is connected to the vehicle. At the beginning of railways, different systems were in use in England and in France. All systems were only used for a short time: maintenance cost was high, and there were recurring problems with the connection of the piston (tube) to the vehicle. At first, atmospheric railways were used to go downhill. The locomotives of the times didn't have enough power. That way, it speeds up to 160 were reached. At the end of the 20th century, the airport of Porto Alegre in Brazil uses an atmospheric railways. There is also a theme park in Indonesia with a 3.2 long circular atmospheric railway.

[[Lucky, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bienville Parish, Louisiana

Lucky is a village in Bienville Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Saline, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bienville Parish, Louisiana

Saline is a village in Bienville Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Taylortown, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Louisiana

Taylortown is an unincorporated community in Bossier Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Covina, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Covina is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States. The population was 47,796 at the 2010 census.

[[Cerritos, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Cerritos (Spanish for little hills), known as Dairy Valley (1956-1967), is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States. As of 2019, the population was 49,859.

[[Diamond Bar, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Diamond Bar is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States. The 2010 census states it had a population of 55,544. 

[[La Puente, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

La Puente is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States. During the 2010 census it had a population of 39,816.

[[Baldwin Park, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Baldwin Park is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States. As of the 2010 census, the population was 75,390.

[[Walnut, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Walnut is a city in Los Angeles County in the U.S. state of California. During the 2010 census, the city had a population of 29,172.

[[Irwindale, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Irwindale is a city in Los Angeles County, California.  The population was 1,422 in the 2010 census.

[[Rosemead, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Rosemead is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States.  As of the 2010 census, it had a population of 53,764.

[[Paramount, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Paramount is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States.  The city had a total population of 54,098 in the 2010 census.

[[South El Monte, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

South El Monte is a city in the San Gabriel Valley, in Los Angeles County, California, United States.  The city had a population of 20,116 in the 2000 census.

[[La Mirada, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

La Mirada is a city in Los Angeles County, California United States. The population was 48,527 at the 2010 census.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Rhode Island]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Rhode Island

An election happened on November 3, 2020, to elect a member of the United States Senate to represent the U.S. state of Rhode Island. The two people in the election were Jack Reed (Democratic Party) and Allen Waters (Republican Party). Waters was not liked by the  Republican Party after people said he did domestic violence. Reed won the election and stayed as Senator.

Primary elections happened on September 8, 2020. Both the Democratic and Republican Party primary elections had only one person in them.

[[Ed Bruce]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from natural causes in the United States, American singer-songwriters, American country singers, American voice actors, American television actors, Singers from Arkansas, Writers from Arkansas, Actors from Arkansas

William Edwin Bruce Jr. (December 29, 1939 – January 8, 2021) was an American country music singer-songwriter and actor. 

He was known for writing the 1975 song "Mammas Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up to Be Cowboys" and recording the 1982 country single "You're the Best Break This Old Heart Ever Had".  

He was also in the television series Bret Maverick with James Garner.

Bruce died of natural causes in Clarksville, Tennessee on January 8, 2021, at age 81.

[[Two Guys from Texas]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s comedy movies, American musical movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by David Butler, Movies set in Texas

Two Guys from Texas is a 1948 American musical comedy movie directed by David Butler and starring Dennis Morgan, Jack Carson, Dorothy Malone, Forrest Tucker, Fred Clark, Mel Blanc. It was distributed by Warner Bros. and is the follow up to the 1946 movie Two Guys from Milwaukee.

[[Ford Pinto]]

CATEGORIES: Ford automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles

The Ford Pinto was a subcompact car built in the 1970s. The vehicle was marketed under Ford Motor Company in the States and Canada. It was made from the 1971 to 1980 model years. Pinto was the smallest American Ford car since 1907. It was Ford's first subcompact vehicle in North America. 

The Pinto was manufactured in three body styles: two-door sedan, three-door hatchback and two-door station wagon. Mercury had rebadged versions of the Pinto, the Mercury Bobcat, from 1974 to 1980 (1975 to 1980 in the United States). Over three million Pintos were made over its ten-year production run. 

Since the 1970s, the safety reputation of the Pinto has made controversy. Several deadly fires related to tanks rupturing happened during rear-end crashes. In 1974, to meet federal regulations, five-mile-per-hour bumpers were included on the front and rear. 

In the 1977 model year, Pinto wagons were given a new option package. Some wagons were called the Pinto Cruising Wagon. This was the sedan delivery version of Pinto. It was styled to look like a small conversion van. It had round side panel bubble windows and a choice of optional vinyl graphics.

In 1977, the National Highway and Traffic Safety Administration did an investigation on Ford. In 1978 (the following year), the NHTSA warned Ford of their determination their Pinto fuel system was bad.

In June 1978, Ford recalled over 1.5 million Ford Pintos and Mercury Bobcats, the largest automotive industry recall at that time. Ford, however, disagreed with the NHTSA finding of a defect.

[[Persuasive text]]

CATEGORIES: Logic, Rhetoric

A persuasive text is any text where the main purpose is to present a point of view and seeks to persuade a reader. A persuasive text can be an argument, exposition, discussion, review or even an advertisement.

[[Village People]]

CATEGORIES: Disco groups, Musical groups from New York City, Musical groups established in 1977, 1970s establishments in New York (state), 1977 establishments in the United States

The Village People is an American disco group. They are known for suggestive lyrics, onstage costumes and some very catchy tunes. The group was originally formed by French producers Jacques Morali, Henri Belolo and lead singer Victor Willis. That was after the release of their first album Village People. The album targeted disco's largely homosexual audience. The group's name refers to Manhattan's Greenwich Village. That area has a reputation as a gay village.

The characters were a symbolic group for American masculinity and macho-gay themed fantasy personas: policeman, Native American, construction worker, rock band member, cowboy, and soldier.

The Village People had a number of hit singles, including "In the Navy", "Y.M.C.A." and "Macho Man" in the late 1970s and early 1980s.

[[Mexican food]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican food

Mexican food or Mexican cuisine is the cuisine of the state of Mexico. Maize, different kinds of beans, chili peppers, fruit and certain other vegetables play an important role. Mexico was ruled by the Spanish for a long time, this also influenced cuisine. In the north, Spanish influence is bigger. In the south, pre-Columbian recipes play a bigger role.

[[Austin Clarke]]

Austin Clarke may refer to:

[[Child marriage]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage, Social issues

A child marriage is a marriage or other similar union between an adult and a child. The child is  under a certain age, usually 18. Most child marriages are between a girl and a man, and are rooted in gender inequality. It can also be the marriage of two children. There's a minimum age for a person to be able to marry. This age is called marriable age. Very often, it is similar to the age of consent.  

As of 2019, child marriage affects about 765 million people; 650 million of them are girls or young women. There's no widely accepted definition of what child marriage is. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child says that in a child marriage, at least one of the people entering marriage has not reached age 18. Even though mosts states have a minimal age at which people can be married, this is often not respected. There may be cultural or religious reasons. Other reasons why someone is married as a child include that the parents want to make sure the girl is a virgin, when she gets married. Another reason may be that the family cannot afford the education or the upkeep of the child; when the child is married, there are no more costs to the family. Poverty is one of the main reasons for child marriage.  

The age when children legally turn into adults, and the age at which they can legally marry are usually at 18 years of age. The age when they can marry may be different from country to country. Even when it is set at 18, people may marry when they are younger, given that their parents agree. There may also be special circumstances, such as a teenage pregnancy.

Child marriage violates the rights of children. It has  long-term consequences for child brides and child grooms. Very often, girls that went to school before they were married stop going to school. Because of poor education, their career opportunities are limited. An early pregnancy and childbirth also has adverse health effects on girls.  For boys the situation is similar: they may not be well prepared for their role as a father. Also because they have not finished their education, their career opportunities are limited.  Child marriage includes civil cohabitation and court-approved early marriages after teenage pregnancy.

Causes of child marriages include poverty, dowry, cultural traditions,  illiteracy, and the thoughts that women are unable to work for money. Research shows that to some extent telling children about sex can help  prevent child marriage.

Child marriages have been common throughout history. They are still fairly widespread, particularly in developing countries such as parts of Africa, South Asia, Southeast Asia, West Asia, Latin America, and Oceania. Even in developed countries such as the United States legal exceptions mean that 17 US states have no minimum age requirement for marriage. The incidence of child marriage has been falling in most parts of the world. 2018 data from UNICEF showed that about 21 percent of young women worldwide (aged 20 to 24) were married as children. This is a 25 percent decrease from 10 years before. The countries with the highest observed rates of child marriages below the age of 18 were Niger, Chad, Mali, Bangladesh, Guinea, the Central African Republic, Mozambique, and Nepal with rates above 50%. Niger, Chad, Bangladesh, Mali and Ethiopia were the countries with child marriage rates greater than 20% below the age of 15, according to 2003–2009 surveys. Globally, an estimated 12 million girls annually are being married under the age of 18.

[[Waimakariri River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Oceania, Bodies of water of New Zealand

The Waimakariri River is one of the largest rivers in Canterbury, New Zealand.  It is on the eastern coast of New Zealand's South Island. It flows for 151  southeast from the Southern Alps across the Canterbury Plains to the Pacific Ocean.

The river is a fine example of a braided river. As the photograph shows, for much of its upper reaches, the river is braided. It runs across wide shingle beds. As the river approaches the Canterbury Plains, it passes through a belt of mountains. There it is forced into a narrow canyon (the Waimakariri Gorge). Then it goes back to its braided form across the plains. It enters the Pacific north of Christchurch, near the town of Kaiapoi.

Most New Zealand river beds are unoccupied crown land, but the bed of the Waimakariri River is looked after by the Canterbury Regional Council (Environment Canterbury).

[[2020 United States Senate election in Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Mississippi

An election happened on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Mississippi. The main two people in the election were Cindy Hyde-Smith (Republican Party) and Mike Espy (Democratic Party). Hyde-Smith won the election and stayed as Senator.

Primary elections happened on March 10, 2020. There were three people in the Democratic Party primary: Mike Espy, Tobey Bartee, and Jensen Bohren. Espy won this primary. Only Cindy Hyde-Smith was in the Republican Party primary as she was already a Sneator. The Libertarian Party chose Jimmy Edwards for the election.

[[Nathan Gale]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2004 deaths, Criminals

Nathan Miles Gale (September 11, 1979 - December 8, 2004) was an American assassin who killed Pantera guitarist Dimebag Darrell during a concert with his new band Damageplan at the Alrosa Villa Nightclub in Columbus, Ohio. He killed four more people and injured the band’s drum tech John “Kat” Brooks, taking him hostage. Gale was shot dead by Columbus police officer James Niggemeyer when he was about to kill Brooks.

[[Yey!]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 establishments in the Philippines, 21st century disestablishments in Asia, 2020 disestablishments, Filipino culture, Television channels

Yey! (stylized as YeY! or YEY!) was a Filipino pay television channel.

[[Keachi, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana, Ark-La-Tex, Settlements in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana

Keachi is a small town in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Logansport, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana, Ark-La-Tex, Settlements in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana

Logansport is a small town in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[William Rush (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, English child actors, English television actors, People from Bury, Actors from Greater Manchester

William Rush (born 6 July 1994) is a English actor, known for his role as Josh Stevenson in the BBC One school-based drama series Waterloo Road from 2009 to 2013. He has also acted in other British television series such as Grange Hill, Shameless, Drop Dead Gorgeous, Casualty, Coronation Street and Vera.

[[Debbie Rush]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, English television actors, English movie actors, Actors from Greater Manchester, People from Lancashire

Debbie Rush (born 29 March 1966) is an English actress. She is best known for her portrayal of Anna Windass in the long-running ITV soap opera Coronation Street, a role she played from 2008 to 2018. She has also acted in other British television series such as Hollyoaks: In the City, The Street, Shameless, Brassic and most recently in the BBC Two black comedy anthology series Inside No. 9.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Idaho

An election happened on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Idaho. The two main people in the election were Jim Risch (Republican Party) and Paulette Jordan (Democratic Party).  Risch won the election and stayed as Senator.

Primary elections happened on June 2, 2020. There were two people in the Democratic Party primary: Paulette Jordan and James Vandermaas. Jordan won the primary. Jim Risch, who was already a Senator before the election, was the only person in the Republican Party primary. The Constitution Party chose Ray Writz for the election. There was also an independent politician, Natalie Fleming, that was in the election.

[[Jack McMullen]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, English child actors, English television actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, English writers, Actors from Liverpool, People from Merseyside

Jack Michael McMullen (born 22 February 1991) is an English actor and writer. His most notable credits include Josh McLoughlin in the long-running Channel 4 soap opera Brookside (2002–2003), Timothy "Tigger" Johnson in the long-running BBC One children's television serial Grange Hill (2004–2008), and Finn Sharkey in the BBC One school-based drama series Waterloo Road (2010–2012). He has also starred in other British television series such as Casualty, Doctors, The Street, The Bill and Moving On, along with starring roles in Little Boy Blue (2017) and The First Team (2020).

[[Angus Deayton]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, English television actors, English television presenters, English writers, English musicians, English comedians, Game show hosts, Actors from Surrey

Gordon Angus Deayton (born 6 January 1956) is an English actor, television presenter, writer, musician, comedian, and broadcaster. He was the original presenter of the BBC satirical panel game show Have I Got News for You. He was fired from the show in October 2002, after more negative tabloid articles about his personal life. From 2007 to 2008, he was the host of the BBC One British comedy panel show Would I Lie to You?.

He also played Victor Meldrew's long-suffering neighbour Patrick Trench in the BBC One comedy series One Foot in the Grave (1990–2000), and George Windsor in the final three series of the BBC One school-based drama series Waterloo Road (2013–2015).

[[2020 United States Senate election in Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Arkansas

An election was held on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Arkansas. The main people in the election were Tom Cotton (Republican Party) and Ricky Dale Harrington Jr. (Libertarian Party). 

This election was strange because there was no person from the Democratic Party in the election. This was because the only person in their primary election, Josh Mahony, withdrew and it was too late for anyone else to be in the primary. Only Cotton was in the Republican Party's primary election.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Colorado

An election happened on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Colorado. The main two people in the election were Cory Gardner (Republican Party) and John Hickenlooper (Democratic Party). Hickenlooper won the election and became Senator. Gardner was Senator before the election.

Primary elections happened on June 30, 2020. In the Republican Party primary, nobody went against Cory Gardner. There were two people in the Democratic Party primary election: John Hickenlooper and Andrew Romanoff. Hickenlooper won this primary. There was also a primary for the Libertarian Party between Raymon Doane and Gaylon Kent. Doane won this primary.

[[Mona the Vampire]]

CATEGORIES: Television programs, Crossover animated television series

Mona the Vampire is a 1999-2003 animated TV show created by Sonia Holleyman. The show is based off of books that Holleyman wrote in the 1990s. The show ran for four seasons, and had 65 episodes.

[[2020 United States Senate election in New Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, New Mexico

An election happened on November 3, 2020, to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of New Mexico. The two people in the election were Ben Ray Luján (Democratic Party) and Mark Ronchetti (Republican Party). Ben Ray Luján won the election and became a senator for the first time.

Three primary elections were held on June 2, 2020. There was one person in the Libertarian Party's primary but three people in the Republican and Democrat primaries.

[[Tractor S.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s establishments in Iran, 1970 establishments in Asia, Iranian football clubs, East Azarbaijan Province

Tractor Sports Club (باشگاه ورزشی تراکتور), commonly known as Tractor is an Iranian football club. It is based in Tabriz, East Azarbaijan. They play in the Persian Gulf Pro League.

They used to be known as Tractor Sazi.

[[Scarface (1932 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 movies, 1930s crime movies, 1930s drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Howard Hawks, Movies directed by Richard Rosson, English-language movies, Black-and-white movies

Scarface (also known as Scarface: The Shame of the Nation and The Shame of a Nation) is a 1932 American crime drama movie directed by Howard Hawks and was based on the 1929 novel of the same name by Armitage Trail. It stars Paul Muni, Ann Dvorak, Karen Morley, Osgood Perkins, George Raft, Boris Karloff, Tully Marshall and was distributed by United Artists. It was remade in 1983.

[[Tom Chambers (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, English television actors, Actors from Derbyshire

Thomas Stuart Chambers (born 22 May 1977) is an English actor and television personality. He is most famous for his role as Sam Strachan in the BBC One medical drama's Holby City (2006–2008) and Casualty (2016–2017). His other notable credits include Waterloo Road (2009), Father Brown (2014–2015, 2019–2020), and Emmerdale (2018). He also won the sixth season of Strictly Come Dancing with his partner Camilla Dallerup.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Delaware]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Delaware

An election happened on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Delaware. The main two people in the election were Chris Coons (Democratic Party) and Lauren Witzke (Republican Party). Mark Turley (Independent Party) and Nadine Frost (Libertarian Party) were also in the election. Coons won the election and stayed as Senator.

Primary elections happened on September 15, 2020. The Democratic Party primary was between Chris Coons and Jessica Scarane, which Coons won. The Republican Party primary was between Lauren Witzke and James DeMartino, which Witzke won.

[[Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Washington, D.C., Maryland, Roman Catholicism, Religion in the United States

The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Washington is a Catholic archdiocese in the United States. Washington, D.C. and five counties in the state of Maryland (Calvert, Charles, Montgomery, Prince George's and Saint Mary's) are in the archdiocese. It was made in 1939 by Pope Pius XII. Before that, the areas now in the Archdiocese of Washington were in the Archdiocese of Baltimore. The Catholic University of America and Georgetown University are also in the archdiocese. 655,000 Catholics are part of the archdiocese.

The archdiocese is led by a bishop, who is Cardinal Wilton Gregory.

[[Stonewall, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana, Ark-La-Tex, Settlements in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana

Stonewall is a small town in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana, United States, it is the suburb of Shreveport.

[[Windows Whistler]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft operating systems

Windows Whistler is an operating system based on Microsoft Windows. It was developed by Microsoft and released on June 20, 2001. Whistler was a successor for Windows ME, but not identical to Windows XP.

[[Hot Shots Golf]]

CATEGORIES: Hot Shots Golf, Video game series

Hot Shots Golf, know in Japan as Minna no Golf, and known as Everybody's Golf in PAL regions, is a golf video game series. It was published by Sony Computer Entertainment and developed by Camelot Software & Clap Hanz. It was designed for the PlayStation video game consoles.

The seven main games were released between 1997 and 2017 for every Playstation home console. The series has had games for the PlayStation, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Portable and the PlayStation Vita.

[[2020 United States Senate election in South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, South Carolina

An election happened on November 3, 2020, to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of South Carolina. The three people in the election were Lindsey Graham (Republican Party), Jaime Harrison (Democratic Party) and Bill Bledsoe (Constitution Party). Lindsey Graham won reelection for the fourth time. Jamie Harrison got more money for his campaign than any other politician.

There was two primary elections held on June 9, 2020. Lindsey Graham easily won the Republican Party primary and Jamie Harrison won the Democratic Party primary election.

[[Deezer D]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American rap musicians from California, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Dearon Thompson (March 10, 1965 – January 7, 2021), known professionally as Deezer D, was an American actor, rapper, and motivational speaker. Thompson was born in Los Angeles, California. He was best known for his role as Nurse Malik McGrath in the American medical television series ER. He was also in the movies CB4 and Fear of a Black Hat. 

Thompson died on January 7, 2021 at the age of 55.

[[2020 United States Senate election in South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, South Dakota

An election happened on November 3, 2020, to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of South Dakota. The two people in the election were Mike Rounds (Republican Party) and Dan Ahlers (Democratic Party). Mike Rounds won reelection for a second term.

A primary election was held for each party, Mike Rounds beat Scyller Borglum in the Republican Party primary and Dan Ahlers was the only person in the Democratic Party primary, so he won.

[[Alina Sanko]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, Living people, Russian models

Alina Sanko (born 31 December 1998; Алина Санько) is a Russian model and beauty pageant who was crowned Miss Russia 2019. She represented Russia at the Miss World 2019 competition in London and reached the Top 12.

[[Brian Wallows and Peter's Swallows]]

CATEGORIES: Family Guy episodes, 2002 television episodes

"Brian Wallows and Peter's Swallows" is the 17th episode of the 3rd season of Family Guy. It was first shown on television on January 7, 2002. In the episode, Brian Griffin must take care for an elderly woman. Brian does not like her, but he learns that she was a great singer. While this happens, an endangered species of birds live in Peter's new beard. 

"Brian Wallows and Peter's Swallows" was written by Allison Adler. Dan Povenmire is the director of the episode. The people that were guest stars in the episode are A. J. Benza, Gary Cole, Adria Firestone, Melora Hardin, Butch Hartman, Phil LaMarr, Jane Lynch, Nicole Sullivan, Wally Wingert, Lori Alan, and Mike Barker. A song in the episode won an Emmy Award.

[[Sriwijaya Air Flight 182]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 disasters in Asia, 2020s in Indonesia, Aviation disasters in Asia, Aviation disasters in the 2020s, Disasters in Indonesia, History of Java, Jakarta, January 2021 events

Sriwijaya Air Flight 182 was a  flight that was supposed to go from Jakarta to Pontianak, another city in Indonesia. On 9 January 2021, the flight crashed into the sea four minutes after leaving the airport. There were 62 people on the plane. It is thought that everyone on board was killed.

[[List of heat waves]]

CATEGORIES: Weather lists, Weather events, Severe weather

This is a list of heat waves:

[[Haley Stevens]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, US Democratic Party politicians, United States representatives from Michigan, People from Rochester Hills, Michigan, Living people

Haley Stevens (born June 24, 1983) is an American politician from the state of Michigan. She is a Democrat. She is a member of the United States House of Representatives from Michigan's 11th congressional district.

Stevens was born in Rochester Hills, Michigan.

[[La Bourdonnais]]

CATEGORIES: Chess players

Louis-Charles Mahé de La Bourdonnais (1795–1840) was probably the world's best chess player around 1830. Born in Réunion, he followed Deschapelles as the top professional at the Café de la Régence, Paris. 

La Bourdonnais beat the British player Alexander McDonnell, who was the son of a doctor in Dublin. At this time McDonnell was based in London, and had taken chess lessons from William Lewis, the top London professional at the time. The two matches between La Bourdonnais and McDonnell were played at the Café de la Régence in 1834. This series was a total of 85 games.

Both men died soon afterwards, La Bourdonnais of dropsy.

He died penniless in London in December 1840. He was forced to sell his possessions, including his clothes, to pay his creditors. He is buried in Kensal Green Cemetery, London.

[[Swanson]]

CATEGORIES: American food companies

Swanson is a brand of TV dinners, broths and canned poultry made for the Hong Kong and North American markets. It was founded in Omaha, Nebraska, where it invented the frozen dinner. The TV dinner business is owned by Pinnacle Foods. The broth business is owned by the Campbell Soup Company.

The Swanson Company's first frozen dinner was a turkey dinner. The company later added beef and chicken dinners. With over half of American households having televisions, the Swanson brothers called their frozen meals TV dinners.

[[Margaret Hodge]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–, Jewish British politicians, People from Cairo, Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire, Living people

Dame Margaret Hodge GBR (born 8 September 1944) is the Labour MP for Barking and has been since 1994. She was born in Cairo, Egypt. She went to university at London School of Economics.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, 21st century in Tennessee

An election happened on November 3, 2020, to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Tennessee. The two people in the election were Bill Hagerty (Republican Party) and Marquita Bradshaw (Democratic Party). There were also many Independent candidates in the race. Bill Hagerty won the race easily against his Democratic opponent Marquita Bradshaw.

A primary election was held for each party. There were many people in the primary for the Democrats and Republicans. Bill Hagerty won the Republican Party primary and Marquita Bradshaw won the Democratic Party primary. There was no primary elections for the Independent candidates.

[[Sangria]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink

Sangria  (lang,sangría saŋˈɡɾi.a) is a kind of mixed drink on the basis of red wine. The name is protected. Under EU regulations, Sangria may only be produced in Spain and Portugal. Citrus fruit and red berries are commonly added. Some recipes also add spirits to boost the amount of alcohol.  Sangria is usually served cold. According to the EU regulation, Sangria contains between 4.5 and 12% alcohol by volume.

[[Cava]]

CATEGORIES: Wine, Spanish food, Catalonia

Cava is a white sparkling wine from Catalonia. Like other similar sparkling wine, fermentation will happen in the bottle. It is produced from different kinds of white grapes. It has been produced since 1872. Today, most Cava is produced in Penedès. Tzhe regulations for Cava are similar to those for Crémant, which is mostly produced in France.

[[Lisa Whelchel]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Singers from Texas, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Fort Worth, Texas, Living people, American child actors, American Christians, Mouseketeers, Musicians from Fort Worth, Texas, Writers from Fort Worth, Texas, American bloggers

Lisa Whelchel (born May 29, 1963) is an American actress, singer-songwriter, author and public speaker. She appeared as a Mouseketeer on The New Mickey Mouse Club. She played Blair Warner in the television series The Facts of Life. She was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Inspirational Performance for her contemporary Christian album All Because of You.

In 2012, Whelchel participated as a contestant in CBS' reality series Survivor:Philippines. She tied for second place. She was voted fan favorite.

Whelchel was born in Littlefield, Texas.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Texas]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, 21st century in Texas

An election happened on November 3, 2020, to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Texas. The five people in the election were John Cornyn (Republican Party), MJ Hegar (Democratic Party), Kerry McKennon (Libertarian Party), David Collins (Green Party), and Ricardo Turullols-Bonilla (independent). John Cornyn won the election and was reelected to the Senate for the fourth time.

A primary election was held for the Republican Party and the Democratic Party. Five people were in the Republican primary election and twelve people were in the Democratic primary election. In the Democratic primary no one got more than 50% of votes, so a second round was held between the two highest candidates. John Cornyn won the Republican primary election and MJ Hegar won the Democratic primary election.

[[NCAA Award of Valor]]

CATEGORIES: Sports trophies and awards

NCAA Award of Valor is an award presented by NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) in order to recognize "courageous action or noteworthy bravery" by individuals who are involved with intercollegiate athletics.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Wyoming

Lummis: #e27f7f #d75d5d #d72f30 #c21b18 #a80000Ben-David: #6674de

An election happened on November 3, 2020, to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Wyoming. The two people in the election were Cynthia Lummis (Republican Party) and Merav Ben-David (Democratic Party). Mike Enzi who was the senator was not going to try to be reelected so the seat was left for a new person. Cynthia Lummins won the election and became the first woman senator from Wyoming.

There were primary elections for the political parties. Ten people were in the Republican Party primary election and six people were in the Democratic Party primary election. Cynthia Lummis won the Republican Party primary election and Merav Ben-David won the Democratic Party primary election.

[[Shirley Horn]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2005 deaths, Singers from Washington, D.C., American pianists, American jazz musicians, Deaths from breast cancer, Deaths from diabetes, Grammy Award winners

Shirley Valerie Horn (May 1, 1934 – October 20, 2005) was an American jazz musician, pianist and singer. She collaborated with many jazz greats, including Dizzy Gillespie, Carmen MacRae and Wynton Marsalis.

Horn was nominated for nine Grammy Awards. She won the Grammy for Best Jazz Vocal Performance.

Horn was born in Washington, D.C.. She died from breast cancer and diabetes.

[[Debi Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, African-American sportspeople, 1988 Winter Olympics, American Olympic bronze medalists, American figure skaters, People from Poughkeepsie, New York, Sportspeople from New York, People from San Jose, California, Sportspeople from California, Living people

Debra Janine "Debi" Thomas (born March 25, 1967) is an American former figure skater and physician. She is the 1986 World champion, 1988 Olympic bronze medalist and two-time U.S. national champion. She competed with Katarina Witt in the 1988 Calgary Olympics.

Thomas was born in Poughkeepsie, New York. She grew up in San Jose, California.

[[Kimberly Elise]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, African American actors, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Living people

Kimberly Elise Trammel (born April 17, 1967) is an American movie and television actress. She made her first movie acting in Set It Off in 1996. She got high marks for her performance in the 1998 movie Beloved.

In her career, Elise has appeared in such movies as The Manchurian Candidate (2004), Diary of a Mad Black Woman (2005), For Colored Girls (2010), Almost Christmas (2016) and Death Wish (2018). She received a nomination for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Female Lead for her performance in the 2004 drama movie Woman Thou Art Loosed. She is a four-time NAACP Image Awards winner.

Elise is a vegan.

Elise was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

[[2020 United States Senate election in West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, West Virginia

Moore Capito: #e27f7f #d75d5d #d72f30 #c21b18

An election happened on November 3, 2020, to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of West Virginia. The three people in the election were Shelley Moore Capito (Republican Party), Paula Jean Swearengin (Democratic Party), and David Moran (Libertarian Party). Shelley Moore Capito won the election and a second term in the Senate. 

There were primary elections for the Republican and Democrat political parties. Three people were in the Republican Party primary and also the Democratic Party primary. Shelly Moore Capito won the Republican Party primary and Paula Jean Swearengin won the Democratic Party primary.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Virginia

An election happened on November 3, 2020, to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Virginia. The two candidates were Senator Mark Warner (Democratic Party) and Lieutenant colonel Daniel Gade (Republican Party). Mark Warner won the election and a third term in the Senate.

There was a primary election for the Republican Party. There were three people in the Republican primary and Daniel Gade won. There was no Democratic Party primary because no one ran against Mark Warner.

[[Tim Healy]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, English television actors, English movie actors, English voice actors, People from Newcastle upon Tyne

Timothy Malcolm Healy (born 29 January 1952) is an English actor. He played Dennis Patterson in the ITV-BBC One comedy-drama series Auf Wiedersehen, Pet (1983–1986, 2002–2004). Other important parts for Healy were Les/Lesley Conroy in the hit ITV comedy series Benidorm (2009–2018) and Gastric in the BBC One comedy series Still Open All Hours (2014–present). He has also acted in other British television series such as Coronation Street, Emmerdale, Casualty, and Waterloo Road. 

[[Benidorm (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 British television series debuts, 2018 television series endings, 2000s British sitcoms, 2010s British sitcoms, English-language television programs

Benidorm is a British sitcom written and created by Derren Litten and produced by Tiger Aspect Productions for ITV that aired for ten series from 1 February 2007 until 2 May 2018. The series features an ensemble cast of holiday makers and staff at the Solana all-inclusive hotel in Benidorm, Spain over the course of a week each year.

[[Liberia civil wars]]

CATEGORIES: Liberia, Civil wars

There were two civil wars in Liberia, which lasted from 1989 to 2003. Liberia is made of multiple ethnic groups. In the civil wars these groups fought for power and influence. On the other had, there were warlords, who fought each other. The civil wars were also about who had control of the natural resources of the country. Child soldiers were common during these wars. 

The first war lasted from 1989 to 1996. Charles Taylor started an armed uprising against president Samuel Doe. Doe was quickly captured, and one of Taylor's associates, Yormie Johnson,  tortured him to death. Johnson later split from Taylor, and founded his own movement. The supporters of Doe also founded their own movement, fighting went on between the different factions. All parties were very brutal when it came to interactions with civilians. Joshua Milton Blahyi, a young warlord, who was better known as General Butt Naked, was especially cruel. Using child soldiers, he is said to have killed 20,000 civilians. The UN enforced an embargo against Liberia. 

At the same time, there was a civil war in Sierra Leone. Charles Taylor supported a rebel force in Sierra Leone. He is said to have traded with blood diamonds. 

The first war lasted until 1996. In 1997, Taylor was elected president. He obtained about 75% of the votes, the elections were called free and fair.

The former enemies of Taylor didn't want to accept the election result, and they started the second war, in 1989. In 2003, the government held control over a third of the country, two thirds were controlled by rebel groups. In 2003, an international arrest warrant was issued against Taylor, for crimes he had committed when supporting the rebels in Sierra Leone. Taylor agreed to step down and leave the county, which ended the war. 

Because of both wars, about 250,000 people were killed. Over a million became displaced people or refugees. Some stayed in refugee camps in Liberia, others fled to the neighboring countries. 

The wars had a big impact on the economy, which can still be seen. In some regions in Liberia, up to 85% of the workforce are unemployed. 

[[Sexology]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

Sexology is the scientific study of human sexual behavior. This includes things like sexual development, gender identity, and the question of what a normal sexual behavior is. Sexologists also look at questions as to how mentally ill or disabled people see their sexuality, or how the views on sex change during the life of a person. An old person has different motivations to have sex than a young one or a child. Sexology also looks at sexual disfunctions, offers hints for therapies, and helps people manage them. 

[[Kaitlyn Dever]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, Award winning actors, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Phoenix, Arizona, Living people

Kaitlyn Dever (born December 21, 1996) is an American actress. She acted in the television crime drama series Justified and the ABC/Fox show Last Man Standing. She was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress-Miniseries for her role in Unbelievable (2019).

Movies in which Dever had supporting parts include Beautiful Boy (2018), Detroit (2017) and Bad Teacher (2011).

Dever was born in Phoenix, Arizona.

[[2020 United States Senate election in North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, North Carolina

An election happened on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of North Carolina. The four people in the election were Thom Tillis (Republican Party), Cal Cunningham (Democratic Party), Shannon Bray (Libertarian Party) and Kevin E. Hayes (Constitution Party). Tillis won the election against Cunningham but many people thought that Cunningham would win.

There was two primary elections for the Democrat and Republican parties. Four people were in the Republican primary election and five people were in the Democratic primary. Thom Tillis won the Republican primary and Cal Cunningham won the Democratic primary.

[[Utu (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 drama movies, New Zealand movies, Movies directed by Geoff Murphy

Utu is a 1983 New Zealand drama movie directed by Geoff Murphy and starring Bruno Lawrence, Anzac Wallace, Tim Eliott, Ilona Rodgers, Wi Kuki Kaa, Martyn Sanderson, Kelly Johnson, John Bach.

[[The Red Lanterns]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 drama movies, Greek movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Vasilis Georgiadis

The Red Lanterns (Τα κόκκινα φανάρια, translit. Ta Kokkina fanaria) is a 1963 Greek drama movie directed by Vasilis Georgiadis and was based on the play by Alekos Galanos. It stars Tzeni Karezi, Giorgos Foundas, Dimitris Papamichael, Manos Katrakis, Notis Peryalis. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1964.

[[Girls in the Sun]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 drama movies, Greek movies, Movies directed by Vasilis Georgiadis

Girls in the Sun (Κορίτσια στον Ήλιο, translit. Koritsia ston Ilio) is a 1968 Greek drama movie directed by Vasilis Georgiadis and starring Giannis Voglis, Anne Lonnberg, Kostas Bakas, Miranta Myrat, Vangelis Kazan.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Oregon

An election happened on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Oregon. The four people in the election were Jeff Merkley (Democratic Party), Jo Rae Perkins (Republican Party), Gary Dye (Libertarian Party), and Ibrahim Taher (Pacific Green Party of Oregon). The election was thought to be a easy win for the Democrats but the election got a lot of news when Jo Rae Perkins said she agreed with the conspiracy theory group, QAnon. Jeff Merkley won the election and was the senator for the third time. 

There was two primary elections for the Democrat and Republican parties. Jeff Merkey was the only one in the Democratic primary and there were four people in the Republican Party primary. Jo Rae Perkins won the Republican primary election. 

[[Brother's Little Helper]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons episodes, 1999 television episodes

"Brother's Little Helper" is the 2nd episode of the 11th season of The Simpsons. It was first shown on the Fox network on October 3, 1999. The episode is about Bart Simpson getting a prescription to take a drug. 

The episode was written by George Meyer. Mark Kirkland is the director of the episode. Meyer did not like his first writing of the episode. He used a fake name when he showed others his writing. The episode makes humor of children in school being misdiagnosed (diagnosed wrong) with ADHD. Mark McGwire is a guest star for the episode.

[[Armenian mythology]]

CATEGORIES: Mythology

Armenian mythology originated in ancient Indo-European traditions, specifically Proto-Armenian, and gradually incorporated Anatolian, Hurro-Urartian, Mesopotamian, Iranian, and Greek beliefs and deities.

[[Standing (law)]]

CATEGORIES: Law

In law, standing means that a person is allowed to file a lawsuit in court. A person only has standing if the result of the lawsuit will impact that person. There are usually other rules which affect standing.

[[Gardena, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Gardena is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States. The population was 58,829 at the 2010 census.

[[Bell Gardens, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Bell Gardens is a city in the US state of California in the Los Angeles metropolitan area.The city's population was 42,072 at the 2010 census.

[[Manhattan Beach, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Manhattan Beach is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States. The population was 35,135 in 2010.

[[Colin McDonald (Australian cricketer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Australian cricketers, Sportspeople from Victoria (Australia)

Colin Campbell McDonald AUS (17 November 1928 – 11 January 2021) was an Australian cricketer.  He played in 47 Test matches for his country from 1952 to 1961. He also played in 192 first-class matches between 1947 and 1963. McDonald was born in Glen Iris, Victoria.

McDonald died in Melbourne, Victoria, on 11 January 2021. He was 92.

[[Azusa, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Azusa is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States. The population was 46,361 at the 2010 census.

[[AOC International]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Taiwan, 1967 establishments in Asia, Companies of Taiwan, Electronics companies, Taipei

AOC International is a Taiwanese electronics company. It is based in Taipei and manufactures displays like computer monitors and televisions. It is a subsidiary from TPV Technology.

[[Hungarian Slovak Gypsies in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United States

Hungarian Slovak Gypsies are a subgroup of Romani Americans from Hungary.

[[Egyptian American]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United States

Egyptian Americans are Americans of Egyptian descent.

[[Arab American]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United States

Arab Americans are Americans of Arab descent.

[[Anitta (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Brazilian singers, Living people, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, LGBT singers, People from Rio de Janeiro

Larissa de Macedo Machado (stage name: Anitta; born March 30, 1993), is a Brazilian singer, songwriter, television host, actress, and businesswoman.

In 2017, she was ranked as one of the most influential celebrities in social media according to Billboard.

[[Brazilian Americans]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United States

Brazilian Americans (brasileiros-americanos, norte-americanos de origem brasileira or estadunidenses de origem brasileira) are Americans who are of full or partial Brazilian ancestry.  They are relatively new arrivals, for the 1960 Census only counted 27,855 Brazilians. The first major wave of immigration came after 1986, when 1.4 million Brazilians emigrated to various countries. Nearly half live in New York, Massachusetts, and New Jersey, with significant populations in the south as well.

[[Brazilian food]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian food

Brazilian food is a mix of foods from Portuguese, African and indigenous culture.

[[Flora and fauna of Brazil]]

CATEGORIES: Biology, Brazil

Brazil is one of the most biodiverse countries in the world. Brazil is home to many hummingbirds, toucans, parrots, macaws, waterfowl and birds of prey. Mammals living in Brazil are anteaters, pumas, jaguars, armadillos, otters and dolphins. Caimans, turtles and anacondas are reptiles found in Brazil.

[[Tom Acker]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Cincinnati Reds players, Sportspeople from New Jersey, People from Paterson, New Jersey

Thomas James Acker (March 7, 1930 – January 4, 2021) was an American Major League Baseball pitcher. He was born in Paterson, New Jersey. From 1956 to 1959, he played for the Cincinnati Reds.

Acker died on January 4, 2021 in Caernarvon Township, Pennsylvania at the age of 90.

[[Caernarvon Township, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in Pennsylvania

Caernarvon Township is a township in northeastern Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, United States. 4,748 people lived here in 2010.

[[C. George Boeree]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, American academics, American psychologists, Cancer deaths in Pennsylvania, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from North Holland, Scientists from Pennsylvania, Lingua Franca Nova

Cornelis George Boeree (January 15, 1952 – January 5, 2021) was an American psychologist and professor emeritus at Shippensburg University. He worked in personality theory and the history of psychology.

Boeree was also the inventor of the auxiliary language Lingua Franca Nova. He was the coeditor of the Lingua Franca Nova dictionary. 

He was born in Badhoevedorp, near Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. He died on January 5, 2021 at his home in Shippensburg, Pennsylvania from pancreatic cancer.

[[John Georgiadis]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, British violinists, British conductors

John Georgiadis (1939 – 5 January 2021) was a British violinist and conductor. He was the Concert Leader with the London Symphony Orchestra during the 1960s and 70s. He was a member of both the ensembles London Virtuosi and the Gaberieli String Quartet as well as conductor for both the Bangkok Symphony Orchestra and the Malaysian Philharmonic Orchestra. 

He was Director of Orchestral Studies at the Royal Academy of Music. Georgiadis died on 5 January 2021, aged 81.

[[Three Little Birds]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 songs, Reggae songs

"Three Little Birds" is a song by Bob Marley. It was made in 1984.  It was on the Legend album. It is a reggae song.

[[Saweetie]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, American rap musicians from California, Living people, African-American rappers, American hip hop musicians

 Diamonté Quiava Valentin Harper (stage name: Saweetie (s); born July 2, 1993), is an American rapper and songwriter.

[[Vladimír Oplt]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Czech politicians

Vladimír Oplt (1937 – 5 January 2021) was a Czech politician. He was a member of the Czech Senate from 1996 to 2001. He was a member of the Civic Democratic Party. Oplt was born in Kladno, Czech Republic.

Oplt died on 5 January 2021 in Prague, aged 83.

[[John Richardson (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom, Actors from Sussex

John Richardson (19 January 1934 – 5 January 2021) was an English actor. He was known for his roles in Black Sunday (1960) and in She (1965). He also starred in One Million Years B.C. (1966).

Richardson died of COVID-19 on January 5, 2021, at age 86.

[[William Windham (rower)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, British Olympians, Sportspeople from Bedfordshire

William Ashe Dymoke Windham (2 April 1926 – 5 January 2021) was a British rower. He competed for Great Britain in the 1952 Summer Olympics. He was born in Biggleswade, Bedfordshire. 

He died on 5 January 2021 at the age of 94.

[[Bobby Few]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, American jazz singers, American jazz musicians, American pianists, Musicians from Cleveland, Ohio, Singers from Cleveland, Ohio

Bobby Few (October 21, 1935 – January 6, 2021) was an American jazz pianist and singer. He played with saxophonist Charles Gayle and led his own trio in Paris. He was working on a Booker Ervin tribute project called Few's Blues.

Few died on January 6, 2021 aged 85.

[[Edward Gnat]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Polish politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Poland

Edward Gnat (1 March 1940 – 6 January 2021) was a Polish politician. He was a Deputy from 1985 to 1989 and again from 1993 to 1997. He was born in Maurzyce, Poland. 

Gnat died, aged 80, in Łódź, of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Poland.

[[Francis Hammel]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, French politicians

Francis Hammel (11 December 1950 – 6 January 2021) was a French politician. From 1997 to 2002, he was a member of the National Assembly. Hammel was born in Saint-Valery-sur-Somme, France. He was a member of the Socialist Party.

Hammel died on 6 January 2021 at the age of 70.

[[Gord Renwick]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Canadian businesspeople, Ice hockey people from Ontario

Gordon Ralph Renwick (February 13, 1935spndJanuary 6, 2021) was a Canadian ice hockey administrator. He was president of the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA). He also was vice-president of the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) and was the team president of the Galt Hornets. He was born in Galt, Ontario.

Renwick died on January 6, 2021 in Cambridge, Ontario at the age of 85.

[[Antonio Sabàto Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Antonio Sabàto Sr. (2 April 1943 – 10 January 2021) was an Italian-American actor. He was the father of model and actor Antonio Sabàto Jr. He was known for his roles in spaghetti western movies. His best known movies were One Dollar Too Many and Due volte Giuda.

Sabàto Sr. died in Los Angeles on 10 January 2021 from COVID-19, aged 77.

[[Antonio Sabàto Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian models, Italian stage actors, Italian politicians, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from California, Models from California, Actors from Rome, Politicians from California, US Republican Party politicians

Antonio Sabàto Jr. (born February 29, 1972) is an Italian-American model, actor, and politician. Sabàto was an underwear model for Calvin Klein and playing Jagger Cates on the soap opera General Hospital from 1992 to 1995. 

Sabàto ran unsuccessfully as the Republican candidate for U.S. Congress against incumbent Democratic Congresswoman Julia Brownley for California's 26th district in the 2018 election.

[[Jim Townsend (Irish politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Irish politicians

James Townsend (20 June 1937 – 7 January 2021) was an Irish Labour Party politician. In 1991, he was elected to Carlow County Council. He was a member of the Seanad Éireann from 1993 to 1997.

Townsend died on 7 January 2021, aged 83.

[[Albanian food]]

CATEGORIES: Albanian culture, Foods by nationality

Albanian food is the cuisine of Albania. Albanian food is Mediterranean, but also has oriental influences as part of Balkan cuisine. One of the most famous Albanian dish is Tavë kosi.

[[Filip Trifonov]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Movie actors, People from Sofia

Filip Trifonov (Филип Трифонов) (4 May 1947 – 6 January 2021) was a Bulgarian actor. He appeared in more than thirty movies. His career began in 1971. Trifonov's best known role was as Ran in the 1972 movie The Boy Turns Man. Trifonov was born in Sofia, Bulgaria.

Trifonov died on 6 January 2021 from a heart attack in Sofia, aged 73.

[[Greek food]]

CATEGORIES: Greek food

Greek food is the cuisine of Greece. Greek food is Mediterranean.

[[Jan Blommaert]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2021 deaths, Belgian scientists, European anthropologists

Jan Blommaert (4 November 1961 – 7 January 2021) was a Belgian sociolinguist and linguistic anthropologist. He was a Professor of Language, Culture and Globalization and Director of the Babylon Center at Tilburg University. Blommaert was born in Dendermonde, Belgium.

Blommaert died on 7 January 2021, aged 59.

[[Biserka Cvejić]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, Serbian singers, Serbian actors, European opera singers

Biserka Cvejić (Бисерка Цвејић; November 5, 1923 – January 7, 2021) was a Serbian operatic mezzo-soprano and contralto. She was a university professor. Her career began at the Belgrade Opera in 1954. 

She was a member of the Vienna State Opera from 1959 to 1979. She first appeared at the Metropolitan Opera in 1961 as Amneris in Verdi's Aida.

Cvejić died at the age of 97 in Belgrade on January 7, 2021.

[[Playboi Carti]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, African-American rappers, Living people, African-American singers, American rap musicians from Georgia, Musicians from Atlanta, Georgia, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia

Jordan Terrell Carter (stage name: Playboi Carti; born September 13, 1995), is an American rapper, singer, and songwriter from Atlanta, Georgia.

[[Vladimir Kiselyov]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, Soviet sportspeople, Ukrainian sportspeople, Soviet Olympic gold medalists

Vladimir Viktorovich Kiselyov (Владимир Викторович Киселёв; Володимир Вікторович Кисельов; sometimes listed as Volodymyr Kyselyov 1 January 1957 – 7 January 2021) was a Soviet-born Ukrainian athlete. He competed in the shot put during his career. He competed for the USSR in the 1980 Summer Olympics held in Moscow, where he won the gold medal.

Kiselyov died on 7 January 2021, aged 64.

[[Rich the Kid]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, African-American rappers, American rap musicians from New York, Living people, Musicians from Queens

Dimitri Leslie Roger (stage name: Rich the Kid; born July 13, 1992), is an American rapper and songwriter.

[[Kodak Black]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Living people, African-American rappers, American rap musicians from Florida, American people convicted of drug offenses, Musicians from Florida

Bill Kahan Kapri (stage name: Kodak Black; born Dieuson Octave, June 11, 1997),  is an American rapper, singer and songwriter.

[[Tom LaBonge]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Politicians from Los Angeles, California, US Democratic Party politicians

Thomas J. LaBonge (October 6, 1953 – January 7, 2021) was an American politician. He was a member of the Democratic Party. LaBonge was born in Los Angeles. He was a member of the Los Angeles City Council from 2001 to 2015.

LaBonge died on January 7, 2021 from cardiac arrest in Los Angeles, aged 67.

[[Genival Lacerda]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, Brazilian singers, Brazilian writers, Songwriters

Genival Lacerda Cavalcante (5 April 1931 – 7 January 2021) was a Brazilian forró singer-songwriter. He was born in Campina Grande, Paraíba. His best known songs were Severina Xique-Xique, Radinho de Pilha and O Chevette da Menina.

In December 2017, Lacerda was honored with the Order of Cultural Merit.

Lacerda died on January 7, 2021, in Recife, Pernambuco from COVID-19, aged 89.

[[John Land]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, British ice hockey players, British Olympians

John Land (17 July 1938 – January 2021) was a British field hockey player. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1964 Summer Olympics.

Land died in January 2021, aged 82.

[[Marion Ramsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Marion Ramsey (May 10, 1947 – January 7, 2021) was an American actress and singer. She was known for her role in Cos and as Officer Laverne Hooks in the Police Academy  movies. She also starred in Lavalantula and 2 Lava 2 Lantula!.

Ramsey died on January 7, 2021 in Los Angeles at the age of 73.

[[Norberto James Rawlings]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Dominican Republic writers, Poets

Norberto James Rawlings (February 6, 1945 – January 7, 2021) was a Dominican Republic poet. His poetry was about the everyday life in his country’s multicultural society. His first book of poetry from 1969, "Sobre la marcha" ("On the March"). 

[[Henri Schwery]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Swiss people

Henri Schwery (14 June 1932 – 7 January 2021) was a Swiss prelate of the Catholic Church. He was Bishop of Sion from 1977 to 1995. He was promoted to cardinal in 1991. Schwery was born in Saint-Léonard, Switzerland.

Schwery died at a retirement home in St-Léonard on 7 January 2021, aged 88.

[[Reynaldo Umali]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the Philippines, Filipino politicians, Filipino lawyers

Reynaldo Villar Umali (February 26, 1957 – January 7, 2021) was a Filipino politician. He was a member of the House of Representatives of the Philippines from 2010 to 2019. He ran as governor of Oriental Mindoro in 2019 but lost to Humerlito Dolor.

Umali died on January 7, 2021 from COVID-19 while being treated with liver cancer, aged 67.

[[Back-to-Africa movement]]

CATEGORIES: African-American history, History of Africa

The Back-to-Africa movement is a movement for African Americans and the black diaspora to move back to Africa. African repatriation for ex African slaves and free black people from North America and other Western societies began during the eighteenth century. They founded the country of Liberia.

[[Mel Weitsman]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, People from Long Beach, California, American Buddhists

Hakuryu Sojun Mel Weitsman (born Mel Weitsman; July 20, 1929 – January 7, 2021) was an American Buddhist. He was the founder, abbot and guiding teacher of Berkeley Zen Center. Weitsman was a Soto Zen roshi.

He was also a co-abbot of the San Francisco Zen Center, where he was from 1988 to 1997. Weitsman was also editor of the book Branching Streams Flow in the Darkness: Zen Talks on the Sandokai.

Weitsman died on January 7, 2021 at the age of 91.

[[Hubert Auriol]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in France, French sportspeople, Racecar drivers

Hubert Auriol (ybɛʁ oʁjɔl; 7 June 1952 – 10 January 2021) was a French professional off-road motorcyclist and auto racer. He was born in Addis Abeba, Ethiopia. He was the director of The Paris-Dakar rally. Auriol was known for being the first competitor to win the Dakar rally on motorcycles and in automobiles. 

In 2012, Auriol was named an FIM Legend for his motorcycling achievements.

Auriol died of cardiac arrest caused by COVID-19 at a Paris hospital on 10 January 2021, aged 68.

[[Tosh Chamberlain]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Sportspeople from London, English footballers

Trevor "Tosh" Chamberlain (11 July 1934 – 10 January 2021) was an English professional footballer. He played at outside left. He was born in London. 

In 1952, he joined Fulham for whom he made 204 first-team appearances, scoring 64 goals. He played for Dover Athletic in 1965. He finished his professional career at Gravesend and Northfleet.

Chamberlain died on 10 January 2021, aged 86.

[[Adam Dyczkowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Polish Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops

Adam Feliks Dyczkowski (17 November 1932 – 10 January 2021) was a Polish Roman Catholic bishop. He was born in Kęty, Poland. He became a priest in 1957. 

Dyczkowski was titular  bishop of Altava and was auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Wrocław from 1978 to 1992. He was auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Legnica in 1992 and 1993. He later was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Zielona Góra-Gorzów from 1993 to 2007.

Dyczkowski died on 10 January 2021 in Zielona Góra, Poland at the age of 88.

[[Nancy Walker Bush Ellis]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American environmentalists, Bush family, People from Milton, Massachusetts

Nancy Walker Bush Ellis (February 4, 1926 – January 10, 2021) was an American environmentalist and political campaigner. Bush Ellis was born in Milton, Massachusetts.

She was the only sister of former U.S. President George H. W. Bush, and aunt of both former President George W. Bush and the former governor of Florida John Ellis "Jeb" Bush.

Although she had been a liberal Democrat and an environmentalist. She joined the Republican Party in 1988 when her brother ran for president. 

Ellis was hospitalized on December 30, 2020 from COVID-19 in Concord, Massachusetts. She died on January 10, 2021 at an assisted living facility from the infection, aged 94. 

[[Pedro González (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, New York Yankees players, Cleveland Indians players, Dominican Republic sportspeople

Pedro González Olivares (December 12, 1937 – January 10, 2021), nicknamed "Speedy Gonzalez", was a Dominican professional baseball second baseman. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the New York Yankees from 1963 to 1965) and Cleveland Indians from 1965 to 1967. He was one of the first 15 Dominicans to play big league baseball. He was born in San Pedro de Macoris, Dominican Republic.

González died on January 10, 2021 in San Pedro de Macoris, aged 83.

[[Ángel Sergio Guerrero Mier]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Mexican politicians, Mexican lawyers

Ángel Sergio Guerrero Mier (August 18, 1935 – January 10, 2021) was a Mexican politician and lawyer. He was a member of the Institutional Revolutionary Party. He was Governor of Durango between 1998 and 2004.

Guerrero Mier died on January 10, 2021 in Durango, aged 85.

[[Dee Rowe]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, College basketball coaches, Sportspeople from Massachusetts, Sportspeople from Connecticut, People from Worcester, Massachusetts

Donald "Dee" Rowe (December 22, 1929 – January 10, 2021) was an American college basketball coach. He coached for the UConn Huskies men's team. He was born in Worcester, Massachusetts. He was the director of athletics and the head coach of both the men's basketball and baseball teams at the University of Connecticut for 13 years, from 1955 to 1969.

Rowe died on January 10, 2021 in Storrs, Connecticut at the age of 91.

[[Afrophobia]]

CATEGORIES: Discrimination, Africa

Afrophobia is a term to describe hatred and fear towards Black people. A person with afrophobia hates and fears Black people and anyone of African descent. The term "afrophobia" is observable in as discrimination and racist violence on the basis of a persons skin colour, ethnic origin, and nationality. Afrophobia is like homophobia or Islamophobia and other forms of discrimination grounds in that it seeks to dehumanize a large group of people, to deny their humanity, their dignity and personhood.  Afrophobia can also intersect with other grounds such as sex, homophobia, islamophobia, and disability creating cases of multiple discrimination grounds. A person who displays afrophobia or is thought to do so is described as being afrophobic and labeled as an afrophobe.

There is also afrofobic hate crimes through afrophobic verbal abuse, degrading language, physical violence against black people. 

Millions of black Europeans lack equal access to education, employment, housing, as well as goods and services. A 2009 survey by the EU fundamental rights agency shows that 41 per cent of sub-Saharan African respondents had been discriminated against on the basis of their ethnicity at least once in the previous 12 months.

Black people in the United Kingdom are on average six times more likely to be stopped and searched by the police than white people. A recent report on Afrophobia in Sweden reveals that Afro-Swedes are the Swedish minority most exposed to hate crimes.

[[Storrs, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the United States, Census-designated places in Connecticut

Storrs is a village and census-designated place (CDP) in the town of Mansfield, Tolland County, Connecticut, United States. 15,344 people lived here at the 2010 census. 

[[Mohammad Khaledur Rahman Tito]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Bangladeshi politicians, Bangladeshi Muslims, 2021 deaths

Mohammad Khaledur Rahman Tito (1946 – 10 January 2021) was a Bangladesh Awami League politician. He was a member of the Awami League. In 1986, he was elected to the Jatiya Sangsad. He left the job in 1988 and was re-elect to the parliament in 2008. Tito retired in 2014.

Tito died on 10 January 2021 in Jessore, Bangladesh at the age of 74.

[[Mehdi Attar-Ashrafi]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, Iranian sportspeople, Olympians, People from Tehran

[[František Filip]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Czech movie directors, Television directors, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the Czech Republic

František Filip (26 December 1930 – 9 January 2021) was a Czech movie and television director. Filip was born in Písek, Czechoslovakia. He was known for directing Tři chlapi v chalupě, Chalupáři and Utrpení mladého Boháčka.

Filip died on 9 January 2021 at the age of 90 from COVID-19 in Prague.

[[José Méndez (rower)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish Olympians, Rowers

José Méndez (9 May 1937 – January 2021) was a Spanish rower. He competed in the men's coxed four event at the 1960 Summer Olympics. He was born in Pontevedra, Spain.

Mendez died in January 2021, aged 83.

[[Ken Middleditch]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, British racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Surrey

Kenneth Arthur Middleditch (5 October 1925 – 9 January 2021) was a British motorcycle speedway rider. He was born in Camberley, Surrey. Middleditch signed for Third Division team Hastings in 1948. By 1949 he had become Hastings top points scorer. He later played for Poole.

Middleditch died on 9 January 2021, aged 95.

[[Ezra Nawi]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, Cancer deaths in Israel, Israeli activists, Gay men, Israeli LGBT people

Ezra Yitzhak Nawi (עזרא יצחק נאווי; 1952 – 9 January 2021) was an Israeli Mizrahi Jew, left-wing, human rights activist and pacifist. He was supportive of the Bedouin herders and farmers of the South Hebron Hills. He was a supporter of Uri Avnery. He was called "a working-class, liberal gay version of Joe the Plumber".

Nawi died on 9 January 2021 from cancer, aged 69. 

[[John Reilly (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Chicago

John Henry Matthew Reilly (November 11, 1936 – January 9, 2021) was an American actor. He appeared on soap operas including General Hospital, Sunset Beach, and Passions. Reilly was born in Chicago. His career lasted from 1965 until 2013.

Reilly died on January 9, 2021 at the age of 84.

[[Madhav Singh Solanki]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Indian politicians

Madhavsinh Singh Solanki (30 July 1927 – 9 January 2021) was an Indian politician. He was leader of Indian National Congress party. He was External Affairs minister of India from 1991 to 1992. He also was the Chief Minister of Gujarat three times from 1976 to 1977, 1980 to 1985 and from 1989 to 1990.

Solanki died on 9 January 2021, aged 93.

[[Cástor Oswaldo Azuaje Pérez]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2021 deaths, Roman Catholic bishops, Venezuelan people, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Venezuela

Càstor Oswaldo Azuaje Pérez (19 October 1951 – 8 January 2021) was a Venezuelan Roman Catholic bishop. He became a priest in 1975. 

Azuaje Pérez was titular bishop of Vertara and as auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Maracaibo, Venezuela, from 2007 to 2012. He then was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Trujillo, Venezuela, from 2012 until his death.

Azuaje Pérez died from COVID-19 at the age of 69 on 8 January 2021 in Valera, Trujillo.

[[Steve Carver]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American photographers, Movie directors from Los Angeles, California, Movie producers from Los Angeles, California

Steve Carver (April 5, 1945 – January 8, 2021) was an American movie director, producer, and photographer. He was born in New York City. His career began in 1970 and he retired in 1996. His best known works were Lone Wolf McQuade, Big Bad Mama and Capone.

Carver died in Los Angeles from a heart attack on January 8, 2021, at age 75.

[[David Darling (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, American cellists, American composers, Musicians from Indiana, Grammy Award winners, People from Elkhart, Indiana

David Darling (March 4, 1941 – January 8, 2021) was an American cellist and composer. In 2010, he won the Grammy Award for Best New Age Album. He performed and recorded with Bobby McFerrin, Paul Winter Consort, Ralph Towner and Spyro Gyra.

His best known works were Journal October, Cycles, Cello, Dark Wood, and Prayer for Compassion.

Darling died on January 8, 2021 at the age of 79.

[[Květa Eretová]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, Chess players, Sportspeople from Prague

Květa Eretová (21 October 1926 – 8 January 2021), née Jeništová, was a Czech chess player. She held the title of Woman Grandmaster (WGM, 1986). She was a ten-time winner of the Czechoslovak Women's Chess Championship (1955, 1960, 1961, 1962, 1963, 1964, 1966, 1975, 1976, 1986). She was born in Prague.

Eretová died on 8 January 2021 in Prague, aged 94.

[[Michael Fonfara]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Cancer deaths in Canada, Musicians from Ontario, Keyboardists

Michael Fonfara (11 August 1946 – 8 January 2021) was a Canadian keyboard player. He was known as a member of The Electric Flag and Rhinoceros in the 1960s, Rough Trade and Lou Reed's backing band in the 1970s and The Downchild Blues Band, from 1990 until his death. He won a Juno Award in 2014. He was born in Stevensville, Ontario.

Fonfara died on 8 January 2021 in Toronto from cancer, aged 74.

[[European Games]]

CATEGORIES: Sports competitions, Sport in Europe, Multi-sport events

The European Games is a continental multi-sport event which includes athletes from European nations and several near Europe countries. The European Games were created by the European Olympic Committees (EOC). The first Games took place in 2015 in Baku, Azerbaijan. The second in Minsk, Belarus in 2019.

The 2019 Minsk European Games Sports Programme had 15 kinds of sport.

[[Emile Hemmen]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, Luxembourgian people, Poets, Educators

Emile Hemmen (6 December 1923 – 8 January 2021) was a Luxembourgian lyric poet and writer. Hemmen was born in Sandweiler, Luxembourg. From 1945 to 1958 he worked as a teacher. Then he studied in Paris, specializing in psychology and sociology. He worked as an attaché for the Luxembourg Ministry of Education from 1968 to 1969. He founded Éditions Estuaires.

Hemmen died on 8 January 2021 at the age of 97.

[[Steve Hendrickson]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2021 deaths, American football linebackers, San Francisco 49ers players, Dallas Cowboys players, San Diego Chargers players, Tennessee Titans players, Philadelphia Eagles players, Sportspeople from California, Sportspeople from Idaho

Steven Daniel Hendrickson (August 30, 1966 – January 8, 2021) was a professional American football linebacker in the National Football League. He was born in Richmond, California. He played for San Francisco 49ers (1989), Dallas Cowboys (1989), San Diego Chargers (1990 to 1994), Houston Oilers (1995) and Philadelphia Eagles (1995).

Hendrickson died on January 8, 2021, at his home in Nampa, Idaho at the age of 54.

[[Steve Lightle]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American comics artists, People from Kansas

Steve Lightle (November 19, 1959 – January 8, 2021) was an American comics artist. He worked as a penciller. He was best known as the artist of DC Comics' Legion of Super-Heroes and Doom Patrol titles. He was born in Kansas.

Lightle died on January 8, 2021 from cardiac arrest caused by COVID-19 at the age of 61.

[[Diana Millay]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, People from Rye, New York, Actors from New York

Diana Claire Millay (June 7, 1935 – January 8, 2021) was an American actress. She was best known for her roles as Laura Collins in  Dark Shadows and as Kitty Styles in The Secret Storm.

Millay died on 8 January 2021 in New York at the age of 85.

[[Bill Nankeville]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, British athletes, British Olympians, Sportspeople from Surrey

George William Nankeville (24 March 1925 – 8 January 2021) was a British middle distance athlete. He won the AAA mile title four times in five years from 1948 to 1952. He was born in Guildford, Surrey. He competed in the 1948 Summer Olympics.

Nankeville died on 8 January 2021 at the age of 95.

[[Ivo Niederle]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Czech movie actors, Czech stage actors, Czech television actors, People from Prague

Ivo Niederle (26 December 1929 – 8 January 2021) was a Czech actor, entertainer, and commentator. He was born in Prague. He was known for his stage works at Municipal Theaters of Prague. His best known movie and television roles were in Close to Heaven, Žena za pultem, Coach to Vienna.

Niederle died on 8 January 2021 in Prague, aged 91.

[[Pippo Santonastaso]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, Comedians

Pippo Santonastaso (born 25 May 1936) is an Italian actor and comedian. He was born in Castel San Giovanni, Piacenza.

Santonastaso created an original comic duo with his younger brother Mario and were in many RAI variety shows. He appeared in many commedia sexy all'italiana movies such as Geometra Prinetti selvaggiamente Osvaldo.

[[Katharine Whitehorn]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, People with Alzheimer's disease, British columnists, British radio personalities, Journalists from London

Katharine Elizabeth Whitehorn CBE (2 March 1928 – 8 January 2021) was a British journalist, columnist, author and radio presenter.  She was the first woman to have a column in The Observer. It ran from 1963 to 1996 and from 2011 to 2017. She was the first female rector of a university in Scotland. She was born in London.

Whitehorn died on 8 January 2021 in London, aged 92. She had Alzheimer's disease and was diagnosed with COVID-19 before her death.

[[Shirley Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, American football coaches, American football players, Sportspeople from North Carolina

Shirley Schaub Wilson (September 26, 1925 – January 8, 2021) was an American football coach and player. He was the head football coach at Elon University for 1967 to 1976 and at Duke University from 1979 to 1982. He was born in Madison, North Carolina.

Wilson died on January 8, 2021 in Burlington, North Carolina at the age of 95.

[[Madison, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Carolina

Madison is a town in Rockingham County, North Carolina. 2,246 people lived here in 2010.

[[Burlington, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Carolina

Burlington is a city in Alamance and Guilford counties in the U.S. state of North Carolina. It is the main city of the Burlington, North Carolina Metropolitan Statistical Area. 50,042 people lived here at the 2010 census. 

[[Graham, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Carolina, County seats in North Carolina

Graham is a city in Alamance County, North Carolina, United States. It is part of the Burlington, North Carolina Metropolitan Statistical Area. As of the 2010 census 14,153 people lived here. It is the county seat of Alamance County.

[[Thomas G. Carpenter]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, American educators, People from Florida, People from Memphis, Tennessee

Thomas Glenn Carpenter (February 27, 1926 – January 6, 2021) was an American educator and university administrator. He was the founding President of the University of North Florida (UNF) from 1969–1980, and was President of Memphis State University from 1980 to 1991. 

Carpenter died on January 6, 2021 at the age of 94.

[[Pedro Casado]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Madrid

Pedro Casado Bucho (20 November 1937 – 10 January 2021) was a Spanish footballer. He played as a defender. Casado was born in Madrid. From 1956 to 1966, he played for Real Madrid and Plus Ultra from 1957 to 1960. In 1961, he made one appearance for the national team.

Casado died on 10 January 2021 in Madrid, aged 83.

[[Georges Pernoud]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, French journalists, French television presenters, Television producers

Georges Alexis Pernoud (11 August 1947 – 10 January 2021) was a French journalist, television presenter and television producer. He was known for presenting his television documentary Thalassa from 1980 to 2017. He was born in Rabat, Morocco.

Pernoud died in Paris on 10 January 2021, aged 73.

[[Eve Branson]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2021 deaths, Businesspeople from London, English philanthropists, English activists, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom

Evette Huntley Branson (née Flindt; 12 July 1924 – 11 January 2021) was a British philanthropist and child welfare activist. She was the mother of Richard Branson. Branson was born in Edmonton, Middlesex.

Branson toured Germany as a ballet dancer with Entertainments National Service Association (ENSA). She later became an airline hostess for British South American Airways.

Branson was a member of the board of directors of the International Centre for Missing & Exploited Children ("ICMEC").

Branson died from COVID-19 on 11 January 2021 at the age of 96.

[[Lloyd Cowan]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2021 deaths, British athletes, British Olympians, Sportspeople from London, Sportspeople from Essex

Lloyd Cowan GBR (8 July 1962 – January 2021) was a British track and field athlete. He was born in London.

Cowan was selected for the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, but he could not go because of an illness. He represented England in the 110 metres hurdles event, at the 1994 Commonwealth Games. 

He won his last medal at the AAA nationals in 1999.

On 11 January 2021, it was announced that Cowan had died at the age of 58.

[[Turlapaty Kutumba Rao]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Indian journalists

Turlapaty Kutumba Rao (1931 – 11 January 2021) was an Indian journalist and orator. He was known for his journalism in the Telugu language. He was said to have written 4,000 biographies and delivered over 16,000 public speeches which has been recorded by the Telugu Book of Records as a world record.

He was honored by the Government of India, in 2002, with the fourth highest Indian civilian award of Padma Shri making him the first journalist from the state of Andhra Pradesh to receive the award.

Rao died on 11 January 2021 in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh at the age of 89.

[[András Haán]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Sportspeople from Budapest, Sailors, Basketball players, Olympians

András Haán (19 June 1946 – 5 January 2021) was a Hungarian basketball player and sailor. He was born in Budapest. He competed in the men's basketball tournament at the 1964 Summer Olympics. He also competed in the sailing at the 1976 Summer Olympics.

Haán died on 5 January 2021 in Budapest, aged 74.

[[Eddie Bernice Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, United States representatives from Texas, People from Waco, Texas, US Democratic Party politicians

Eddie Bernice Johnson (born December 3, 1935) is an American politician. She was a member of the United States House of Representatives from Texas's 30th congressional district. Johnson is a member of the Democratic Party.

[[William Joseph Burns]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States, Politicians from North Carolina, US Democratic Party politicians, Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency

William Joseph Burns (born April 11, 1956) is an American politician. Burns is the 8th Director of the Central Intelligence Agency since March 19, 2021 during the Joe Biden administration. He was President of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He was United States Deputy Secretary of State from 2011 to 2014.

He was Ambassador of the United States to Jordan from 1998 to 2001, Assistant Secretary of State for Near East Affairs from 2001 to 2005, Ambassador of the United States to the Russian Federation from 2005 to 2008, and Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs from 2008 to 2011.

On January 11, 2021, President-elect Joe Biden nominated him to be Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. On March 18, 2021 the United States Senate confirmed his nomination.

[[Natascha McElhone]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, British movie actors, British stage actors, British television actors, British voice actors, Actors from Surrey

Natasha Abigail Taylor (born 14 December 1969), known professionally as Natascha McElhone (ˈ), is an English actress. She was in Ronin (1998), The Truman Show (1998) and Solaris (2002).

[[Life (Culture Club album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2018 albums

Life is an album by Culture Club. It was released in 2018. It was their sixth album together (apart from several Greatest Hits albums.)

[[David Khakhaleishvili]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Sportspeople from Georgia (country), Judoka, Mixed martial artists, Olympic gold medalists

David Khakhaleishvili (დავით ხახალეიშვილი, 28 February 1971 – 11 January 2021) was a Georgian heavyweight judoka, mixed martial artist and Olympic gold medalist. He was born in Kutaisi, Georgia. He won the gold medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics. He was not able to qualify for the 1996 Summer Olympics because of his weight.

Khakhaleishvili died of heart disease on 11 January 2021 in Tbilisi, Georgia at the age of 49.

[[History of Liberia]]

CATEGORIES: Liberia, History by country

Liberia is a country in West Africa. White Americans made the American Colonization Society and bought the land in 1822. They didn't want black people who were not slaves to be in the United States. So they took some of them to Liberia. At the start of the American Civil War (in the 1860s) about 12,000 freed slaves lived there. 

The name of the country means "Land of the Free" in Latin. Liberia gained its independence on July 26, 1847. Joseph Jenkins Roberts was the first president of Liberia. European states were quick to recognize Liberia as a state, but it took the US until 1862 to do so. Many of the black people who were sent to Liberia were missionaries. Its official language today is English because of this history.

In the 1990s and in the early 2000s, two civil wars badly affected the country. 

The country's constitution is similar to that of the United States. In the 2017 elections, George Weah became the twenty-fifth President of Liberia. The President before Weah was Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, the first African female president.

In August 2021, spurred on by President George Weah who called for a roadmap, the Senate voted on a series of recommendations to finally turn the page on this war. It starts with the creation of a victims compensation fund.

[[Wayne Radford]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2021 deaths, Indiana Pacers players, Sportspeople from Indianapolis, Indiana

Wayne Radford (May 29, 1956 – January 11, 2021) was an American professional basketball player. He played the guard position. Raford was born in Indianapolis, Indiana. He won the NCAA Division I championships in 1976. From 1978 to 1979, Radford played for the Indiana Pacers.

Radford died on January 11, 2021 at the age of 64.

[[Jessie Cave]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Cartoonists, Feminists, Actors from London, Comedians from London

Jessica Alice Cave Lloyd (born 5 May 1987) is an English actress, comedian and cartoonist. She played Lavender Brown in the Harry Potter movie series. She is also known for her shows in London and at the Edinburgh Fringe.

[[Shefali Chowdhury]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Welsh movie actors, Welsh television actors

Shefali Chowdhury (born 20 June 1988) is a Welsh actress. She played Parvati Patil in the Harry Potter movie series, except for Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (2004). 

Chowdhury was born in Denbigh, Denbighshire, Wales. Her parents were from Bangladesh. Chowdhury's career began in 2005.

[[Second impeachment of Donald Trump]]

CATEGORIES: January 2021 events, Donald Trump, February 2021 events, 2021 United States Capitol attack

Donald Trump, the 45th President of the United States, was impeached for a second time by the United States House of Representatives on January 13, 2021. This made Trump the only president to be impeached twice. After the impeachment, a trial happened in the United States Senate. It happened after his presidency ended. The Senate voted that Trump was not guilty, with only 57 guilty votes. Over two thirds (67) votes were needed for Trump to be found guilty.

[[Dave Eggers]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American philanthropists, American editors, American novelists, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts, Businesspeople from Boston, Massachusetts

Dave Eggers (born March 12, 1970) is an American writer, editor, and publisher. He wrote the best-selling memoir A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius.

Eggers is also the founder of McSweeney's, a co-founder of the literacy project 826 Valencia and the human rights nonprofit Voice of Witness, and the founder of ScholarMatch.

[[Amnon Rubinstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Alumni of the London School of Economics, Columnists, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni, Israeli academics, Israeli journalists, Israeli lawyers, Israeli scientists, Jewish academics, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish Israeli writers, Jewish scientists, Jurists, Meretz politicians, People from Tel Aviv

Amnon Rubinstein (אמנון רובינשטיין, born 5 September 1931) is an Israeli legal scholar, politician, and columnist. He was a member of the Knesset between 1977 and 2002. He was born in Tel Aviv. Rubinstein was a member and leader of the Shinui party. He was a member of the Shimon Peres and Yitzhak Rabin cabinets.

Rubinstein was Minister of Communications from 1984 to 1987. He was Minister of Science, Technology and Space in 1992. From 1992 to 1993, he was Minister of National Infrastructures, Energy and Resources. From 1993 to 1996, Rubinstein was Minister of Education, Culture and Sport.

In 2006, Rubinstein won the Israel Prize, for law.

[[Nina Wiener]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Israeli activists

Nina Wiener Avidar (born 1933) is an Egyptian-born Israeli activist. She was born in Alexandria, Egypt. In 1977, she founded the ISAF - International Fund for Education.

[[The Jerusalem Post]]

CATEGORIES: Jerusalem, 1930s establishments in Israel, 1932 establishments in Asia, Newspapers

The Jerusalem Post is a broadsheet newspaper based in Jerusalem. It was founded in 1932 during the British Mandate of Palestine by Gershon Agron as The Palestine Post. In 1950, it changed its name to The Jerusalem Post. The newspaper is published in English and also printed a French edition.

[[Slash-and-burn]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Slash-and-burn is a technique that has been used for thousands of years. Usually at the start of the dry season, a plot of land is  cleared of its vegetation. Very often, this is done manually, for example using machetes. This can take a long time, clearing a hectare can take up to 120 hours of work. If the land is to be used for crops that last more than two years, the roots need to be cleared as well. Usually this is not done for annual plants. The plants cleared are left to dry, often for weeks. When they are dry enough, they are burnt. The ash that is created makes the soil fertile. Weeds, and other pests have also been eliminated, so the field can be used for agriculture. After three to five years, the extra fertility is gone, and the farmer  usually moves ot another field (or again uses slash-and-burn).

[[This]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

This may refer to:

[[Spongiforma squarepantsii]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi, SpongeBob SquarePants

Spongiforma squarepantsii is a species of fungus. It is in the Boletaceae family and the Spongiforma genus. It was first seen in Malaysia in 2011. It makes orange fruit bodies that have the odor of a fruit. The fruit bodies can grow to 10 cm wide and 7 cm tall. If water is taken out, it will go back to its first shape. Its spores are in the shape of an almond. The spores can be 10 to 12.5 μm in width and 6 to 7 µm in depth. The name of the fungus came from the fictional character SpongeBob SquarePants. S. squarepantsii is one of the two species in Spongiforma. The other is S. thailandica.

[[Sloan Digital Sky Survey]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical objects

The Sloan Digital Sky Survey or SDSS is a major multi-spectral imaging and spectroscopic redshift survey using a 2.5-m wide-angle optical telescope at Apache Point Observatory in New Mexico, United States. The project was named after the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, which made much of the funding.

[[2001 QR322]]

CATEGORIES: Trojan asteroids, Neptune

2001 QR322 is a minor planet and the first Neptune trojan discovered on 21 August 2001, by the Deep Ecliptic Survey at the Cerro Tololo Observatory in Chile. It orbits ahead of Neptune at its L4 Lagrangian point.

Other Neptune trojans have been discovered since. A study by American astronomers Scott Sheppard and Chad Trujillo from the Carnegie Institution suggests that Neptune could possibly have twenty times more trojans than Jupiter.

[[May 2021 lunar eclipse]]

CATEGORIES: Eclipses, May 2021 events

A total lunar eclipse took place on 26 May 2021. It was the first total lunar eclipse since the January 2019 lunar eclipse. It was visible in areas of southeast Asia, all of Australia, all of Oceania, most of Alaska and Canada, all of the lower 48 states, all of Hawaii, and most of South America. Totality lasted for 14 minutes making it one of the shortest eclipses of the 21st century.

[[Solar eclipse of June 10, 2021]]

CATEGORIES: Eclipses, June events, June 2021 events

An annular solar eclipse occurred on June 10, 2021. A solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between Earth and the Sun, covering the image of the Sun for a viewer on Earth. An annular solar eclipse occurs when the Moon's apparent diameter is smaller than the Sun's, blocking most of the Sun's light and causing the Sun to look like a ring. An annular eclipse appears as a partial eclipse over a region of the Earth thousands of kilometres wide.

This eclipse is notable for the fact that the path of annularity passed over the North Pole, the only such eclipse in the 21st century.

While the eclipse is visible primarily in northern Canada, in Greenland and in north of Russian Far East, in the northeastern United States and Canada, the sun was partially eclipsed at sunrise, which will be between 5 and 6 A.M. (EDT)

[[2020 United States Senate election in Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Oklahoma

An election happened on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Oklahoma. The three people in the election were Jim Inhofe (Republican Party), Abby Broyles (Democratic Party), and Robert Murphy (Libertarian Party). Jim Inhofe won the election and went back to the Senate for the fourth time.

There were two primary elections. They election was on June 30, 2020. One was for the Republican Party and one for the Democratic Party. Four people were in the Republican primary election and the Democrat primary election. Jim Inhofe won the Republican Party primary and Abby Broyles won the Democratic Party primary.

[[Savannah Guthrie]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, American television personalities, American journalists, American lawyers, Writers from Arizona, People from Tucson, Arizona, Writers from Melbourne, Living people

Savannah Clark Guthrie (born December 27, 1971) is an American broadcast journalist and lawyer. She is a main co-anchor of the NBC News morning show Today. She began this position in July 2012.

Guthrie joined NBC News in September 2007 as a legal analyst and correspondent. Between 2008–2011, she was the White House correspondent. In 2010 and 2011, as co-anchor of the MSNBC program The Daily Rundown, Guthrie became the co-host of Today's third hour with Natalie Morales and Al Roker. She stopped being the third-hour and chief legal analyst in 2012. Also in 2012 she replaced Ann Curry as the co-anchor of Today.

Guthrie was born in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. She was raised in the United States.

[[The Ape (1940 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s horror movies, American horror movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by William Nigh, Black-and-white movies

The Ape is a 1940 American horror movie directed by William Nigh and starring Boris Karloff, Maris Wrixon, Gene O'Donnell, Dorothy Vaughan, Gertrude W. Hoffmann. It was distributed by Monogram Pictures. It was based on the 1924 play by Adam Hull Shirk.

[[Today (1930 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by William Nigh, Black-and-white movies

Today is a 1930 American drama movie directed by William Nigh and is the second version of the 1913 play of the same name by George Broadhurst. It stars Conrad Nagel, Catherine Dale Owen, Sarah Padden, John M. Sullivan, Judith Vosselli and was distributed by Majestic Pictures.

[[Faxian]]

CATEGORIES: 330s BC births, 422 BC deaths, Chinese people, Translators, Buddhists

Faxian (337 – c. 422) was a Chinese Buddhist monk. He is also translator. He traveled by foot from China to India, visiting sacred Buddhist sites in Central , South and Southeast Asia between 399–412 to acquire Buddhist texts. He described his journey his travelogue, A Record of Buddhist Kingdoms (Foguo Ji 佛國記).

Other transliterations of his name include Fa-Hien and Fa-hsien.

[[28th century]]

CATEGORIES: 3rd millennium, Centuries

The 28th century will begin on January 1, 2701 and will end on December 31, 2800.

[[Marianne Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 births, 1972 deaths, American poets, Writers from New York City, Deaths from stroke

Marianne Moore (November 15, 1887 – February 5, 1972) was an American modernist poet, translator, critic and editor. Her poetry had formal innovation, irony and wit.

Moore's first professionally published poems appeared in The Egoist, a periodical, and Poetry, a magazine in spring 1915.

Moore's first book, Poems, was published without her permission in 1921 by British novelist Bryher.

Moore's second book, Observations, was given the Dial Award in 1924. During these years, she worked as a librarian part-time. Then from 1925–1929 she edited The Dial magazine, a literary journal.

Moore was awarded the Helen Haire Levinson Prize by the Poetry magazine in 1933.

Moore's Collected Poems won the National Book Award, the Bollingen Prize and Pulizer Prize in 1951.

Moore was born in Kirkwood, Missouri. She had a number of strokes in her last years. She died at age 84 in New York City.

[[TPV Technology]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of China, Electronics companies, Hong Kong

TPV Technology Limited is a Chinese electronics company. It is headquartered in Kwun Tong, Hong Kong and incorporated in Bermuda. It designs and produces CRT and TFT LCD monitors and LCD TVs. TPV owns brands like AOC, Envision, and Philips for some products. It is also an original design manufacturer for other companies.

It is the world’s largest manufacturer of computer monitors with a 33% market share.

[[Jack Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1994 deaths, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Chicago, United States senators from Iowa

Jack Miller (June 6, 1916 – August 29, 1994) was a Republican United States Senator from Iowa. He went through two terms, 1961–73. Next, he was the United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. 

Miller was elected to the Iowa House of Representatives in 1955. He was elected to the Iowa Senate in 1957. He was first elected to the United States Senate in 1960.

Miller voted in favor of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. He then voted for the Twenty-fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution and Voting Rights Act of 1965.

Miller was born in Chicago, Illinois. He died in Florida, age 78.

[[Elton John (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 albums, Rock albums

Elton John is the self-titled second studio album by English singer-songwriter Elton John, released on 10 April 1970 by DJM Records and by Uni Records as John's debut album in the United States; many people there assumed it was his first album, as Empty Sky was not released in that country until 1975.

[[Hey Duggee]]

CATEGORIES: English-language television programs

Hey Duggee is a British animated educational preschool television series aimed at 2 to 5 year olds. Created by Grant Orchard,1 it is produced by Studio AKA in association with BBC Studios. The show is narrated by Alexander Armstrong in co-production with Cartoon Network (Latin America) and Disney Channel in partciectip with Birdo Studio.

[[Great Purge]]

CATEGORIES: History of the Soviet Union, Mass murder by country, Political movements, 1930s in the Soviet Union

The Great Purge or the Great Terror (Большой террор), was a campaign in the Soviet Union from 1936 to 1938. 

It was a large-scale "repression" of the more wealthy peasants (kulaks). Ethnic minorities were murdered. Even members of the Communist Party, government officials, and the Red Army leadership were killed. 

Everyone was watched by the police. Everyone was suspected.                        People were imprisoned without a fair trial. Executions were common. Historians think the total number of deaths due to Stalinist repression in 1937–38 was between 950,000 to 1.2 million.

The "Kulak Operation" and the targeting of national minorities made up the Great Terror. Together these two actions caused nine-tenths of the death sentences and three-fourths of Gulag prison camp sentences. 

In the Western world, Robert Conquest's 1968 book The Great Terror popularized the phrase. Conquest's title was a reminder of the French Revolution time known as the Reign of Terror (French: la Terreur, "the Terror"; from June to July 1794: la Grande Terreur, 'the Great Terror').

[[Numerology]]

CATEGORIES: Astrology

Numerology is the belief in a mystical divine connection between a number and certain incidents or events. It is also the study of the numerical value of the letters in words, names, and ideas. It is usually related to the paranormal, astrology, and divinatory arts.

Despite the long history of numerological ideas, the word "numerology" is not found in English before about 1907.

[[Bambang Suryadi]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Indonesia, Indonesian politicians

Bambang Suryadi, also known by his nickname Basur (1 October 1968 — 4 January 2021) was an Indonesian politician. He was a member of the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle. Suryadi was a member of the People's Representative Council from 2019 until his death in 2021. Suryadi was born in Blitar, East Java.

Suryadi died on 4 January 2021 at a Jakarta hospital due to COVID-19, aged 52. 

[[Christina Crosby]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, American academics, American feminist writers, LGBT writers, Lesbian feminists, Writers from Pennsylvania, LGBT people from Pennsylvania, People with disabilities

Christina Crosby (September 2, 1953 – January 5, 2021) was an American scholar and writer. She was born in Huntingdon, Pennsylvania.

Her works were about 19th-century British literature and disability studies. She was the author of The Ends of History: Victorians and "The Woman's Question" and A Body, Undone, a memoir about her life after she was paralyzedin a cycling accident in 2003. 

She spent her career at Wesleyan University, where she was a professor of English and of feminist, gender, and sexuality studies. Crosby, a feminist, was also openly a lesbian.

Crosby died on January 5, 2021 at her home in Middletown, Connecticut from pancreatic cancer, aged 67.

[[Dyke (slang)]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT in the United States, LGBT in the United Kingdom, Gay slang, Pejoratives, English profanity, Homophobia, Slurs

The term dyke is a slang term. It is used as a noun for lesbians. It is also used as an adjective for things related to lesbianism. It began as a homophobic and misogynistic term for a masculine or butch girl or woman.

The origin of the term dyke is obscure. Many theories have come out. Most theories tell that dyke comes off the word bulldyke, which has a similar meaning.

From the mid-19th century to the early 20th century, dike had been American slang for the well-dressed man. Diked out and out on the dike meant a young man was in his best clothes.

The word dyke was used in the 1950s as a derogatory term for lesbians by straight people. But it was also used by lesbians of higher social status to mean crude and rough-bar lesbians.

[[Gerald Hiken]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Gerald Hiken (May 27, 1927 – January 6, 2021) was an American actor. He was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Hiken was nominated for a Tony Award in 1980 for his role in Strider. He was in The Candidate (1972), Reds (1981), and Fat Man and Little Boy (1989).

Hiken died on January 6, 2021 in San Francisco, California at the age of 93.

[[Jerry Douglas (director)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, American movie directors, American theatre directors, American screenwriters, LGBT directors, LGBT screenwriters, Gay men, Writers from Des Moines, Iowa

Jerry Douglas (November 15, 1935 – January 9, 2021) was an American pornographic director and screenwriter. He was born in Des Moines, Iowa. He was known for directing many gay porno movies. He directed the play The Deep Throat Sex Scandal in 2010 and the 1999 gay porno Dream Team. He also wrote the screenplay for Score (1974).

Douglas died on January 9, 2021 in New York City, aged 85.

[[Joël Batteux]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, French mayors, Deaths from surgical complications

Joël Batteux (16 December 1943 – 10 January 2021) was a French politician. He was born in Vitré, France. He was a member of the Socialist Party and the Citizen and Republican Movement. From 1983 to 2014, Batteux was Mayor of Saint-Nazaire. 

In 2008, Batteux was made a member of the Order of the British Empire.

Batteux died on 10 January 2021 from surgery-related problems in Paris at the age of 77.

[[Walter Taibo]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Uruguayan footballers

Wálter Taibo Martínez (7 March 1931 – 10 January 2021) was a Uruguayan football goalkeeper. He played for national team from 1955 to 1966, making thirty appearances. He played with them in the 1966 FIFA World Cup. He also played for C.A. Peñarol and Huracán.

Taibo died on 10 January 2021, aged 89.

[[Frank Arok]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Serbian footballers, Serbian football managers, Naturalised citizens of Australia, Australian footballers, Australian football managers

Ferenc "Frank" Arok AUS (Árok Ferenc; 20 January 1932 – 12 January 2021) was a Yugoslavian-Australian  association football player and coach. He played for FK Jedinstvo from 1950 to 1960. From 1983 to 1989, he managed the Australia national soccer team. He also managed St George many times.

Arok died on 12 January 2021, aged 88.

[[Massoud Achkar]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 deaths, Lebanese politicians, 1956 births, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Lebanon

Massoud "Poussy" Achkar (1956 – 11 January 2021) was a Lebanese independent politician. He was a close advisor to President Bashir Gemayel. 

Achkar was the co-founder the Lebanese Forces party. He was known as "Poussy". He was in charge of military operations in Achrafieh between 1975 and 1986, the 2009 Lebanese general election and the 2018 parliamentary elections. 

Achkar died on 11 January 2021 in Beirut from COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Lebanon, aged 64.

[[Elias Rahbani]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Lebanese entertainers, Composers, Musicians, Songwriters, Conductors, Television personalities, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Lebanon

Elias Hanna Rahbani (إلياس حنا الرحباني; 1938 – 4 January 2021) was a Lebanese musician, composer, songwriter, orchestra conductor and reality television personality. He composed more than 2500 songs. He wrote the soundtrack for more than 25 movies. He composed songs for many artists including Fairuz and Sabah. Rahbani was born in Antelias, Lebanon. His career began in 1962. He was a reality show judge on SuperStar and Star Academy.

Rahbani died on 4 January 2021 at a Beirut hospital from COVID-19, aged 82.

[[Vassilis Alexakis]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Greek writers, French writers, European translators, People from Athens

Vassilis Alexakis (Βασίλης Αλεξάκης) (25 December 1943 – 11 January 2021) was a Greek-French writer and self-translator. He translated many novels in Greek to French. Alexakis was born in Athens, Greece. 

In 1974 he published his first book Le Sandwich, written in French. The first book directly written in Greek was Talgo, published in 1981. He self-translated Talgo into French. 

In 2006, Les mots étrangers was translated by Alyson Waters and published under the title Foreign Words; this was the first of his novels to be translated into English. 

In 1995, he received the prestigious Prix Médicis for La langue maternelle. In 2007, he received the Grand Prix du roman de l'Académie française.

Alexakis died on 11 January 2021, aged 77.

[[Howard Johnson (jazz musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, American jazz musicians, American saxophonists, American conductors, Musicians from Alabama, Musicians from New York City, People from Montgomery, Alabama

Howard Lewis Johnson (August 7, 1941 – January 11, 2021) was an American jazz musician. He was known for his work on tuba and baritone saxophone. He also played the bass clarinet, trumpet, and other reed instruments. He was born in Montgomery, Alabama.

Johnson was known for his sideman work, mainly with George Gruntz, Hank Crawford, and Gil Evans. During the 1970s, he was the live band conductor of the Saturday Night Live Band.

Johnson died on January 11, 2021 at his home in New York City, aged 79.

[[Kurt Oddekalv]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, Accidental deaths by drowning, Norwegian businesspeople, Environmentalists

Kurt Willy Oddekalv (27 July 1957 – 11 January 2021) was a Norwegian environmentalist. He was born in Senja, Norway.

Oddekalv was removed from the Norwegian Society for the Conservation of Nature in 1993 over his controversial views. He created his own environmental organization Green Warriors of Norway of which he was the leader until his death.

Oddekalv revealed in 2015 that he believed in chemtrails, which was criticized by many environmentalists.

Oddekalv died on 11 January 2021 after falling through ice and drowned at a lake near Bergen, Norway at the age of 63.

[[Prentice E. Sanders]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, American police officers, People from Texas, People from San Francisco

Prentice Earl Sanders, also known as Earl Sanders (October 12, 1937 – January 11, 2021) was an American police officer and member of the San Francisco Police Department from 1964 through 2003. He was born in Nacogdoches, Texas.

Sanders became the first African American chief of that department in 2002. He resigned a year later over his handling of Fajitagate, a fight between off-duty cops and civilians over a bag of fajitas.

Sanders died on January 11, 2021 at the age of 83.

[[Fajita]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican food

A fajita (f; faˈxita) in Tex-Mex is any grilled meat that is usually served as a taco on a flour or corn tortilla. 

Popular meats used include steak, chicken and other cuts of beef, as well as vegetables instead of meat. 

In restaurants, the meat is usually cooked with onions and bell peppers. Popular condiments include shredded lettuce, sour cream, guacamole, salsa, pico de gallo, shredded cheese, beans, and diced tomatoes. 

[[Salsa (sauce)]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican sauces, Condiments

Salsa is a variety of sauces used as condiments for tacos and other Mexican and Mexican-American foods, and as dips for tortilla chips. They may be raw or cooked.

[[Tortilla chip]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican food, Snack foods

A tortilla chip is a snack made from corn tortillas, which are cut into triangles and then fried—or baked. Corn tortillas are made of corn, vegetable oil, salt and water. It is a well known Mexican food.

[[Dipping sauce]]

CATEGORIES: Condiments

A dip or dipping sauce is a common condiment for many types of food.  Dips are used to add flavor to a food, such as pita bread, dumplings, crackers, cut-up raw vegetables, fruits, seafood, cubed pieces of meat and cheese, potato chips, tortilla chips, falafel, and sometimes even whole sandwiches.

Dips have many forms and are eaten all over the world. People have been using sauces for dipping for thousands of years.

[[Tex-Mex]]

CATEGORIES: Texas, American food, Mexican food

Tex-Mex cuisine (from Texan and Mexican) is an American regional cuisine that comes from the food creations of the Tejano people of Texas. 

It has spread from border states such as Texas and others in the Southwestern United States to the rest of the country as well as Canada. 

Tex-Mex is most popular in Texas.

[[Tejanos]]

CATEGORIES: People from Texas

Tejanos (teˈhano; singular: Tejano/a; Spanish for "Texan") are the Hispanic residents of the U.S. state of Texas.

Many Tejanos are related to Spanish-speaking settlers of Tejas, Coahuila, and other northern Mexican states.

[[Stacy Title]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2021 deaths, Movie directors from New York, Movie producers from New York, Screenwriters from New York, Deaths from motor neurone disease

Stacy Title (February 21, 1964 – January 11, 2021) was an American movie director, screenwriter and producer. She was known for directing and writing the horror/black comedy movies Let the Devil Wear Black (1999), The Last Supper (1995) and The Bye Bye Man (2017). Title was raised in New York state.

In December 2017, Title was diagnosed with ALS. She died from problems caused by the disease on January 11, 2021 at the age of 56.

[[Scott Kelly (astronaut)]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American astronauts, Twin people from the United States, Engineers from New Jersey, American aviators, Scientists from New Jersey, Scientists from Texas, People from Orange, New Jersey

Scott Joseph Kelly (born February 21, 1964) is an American engineer, retired astronaut, and naval aviator. Kelly flew and was in charge of the International Space Station (ISS) on Expeditions 26, 45, and 46.

Kelly retired from NASA in 2016. 

His identical twin brother, Mark Kelly, is also a retired astronaut, and the junior Senator from Arizona.

[[Marina Bay Sands]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s establishments in Singapore, 2010 establishments in Asia, Buildings and structures in Singapore, Entertainment venues, Hotels, Malls

The Marina Bay Sands  (abbreviation: MBS) is a resort in Marina Bay within the Downtown Core district of Singapore. It was opened in 2010. It has been called the world's most expensive standalone casino property at S$8 billion (US$6.88 billion), including the land cost. It is owned by the Las Vegas Sands Corporation.

It was designed by Moshe Safdie. The resort includes a 2,561-room hotel, a 1300000 convention centre, the 800000 The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands mall, a museum, a large theatre, "celebrity chef" restaurants, two floating crystal pavilions, art-science exhibits, and the world's largest atrium casino with 500 tables and 1,600 slot machines.

[[National Assembly (Malawi)]]

CATEGORIES: Malawi

The National Assembly of Malawi is the only legislative body of the nation. It is located on Capital Hill, Lilongwe along Presidential Way. The National Assembly alone has legislative supremacy and is the ultimate power over all other political bodies in Malawi. 

At its head is the Speaker of the House who is elected by his or her peers. Since June 19, 2019 the Speaker is Catherine Gotani Hara.

[[Sidik Mia]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2021 deaths, Malawian people, African businesspeople, African politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic

Sidik Mia (1965 – 12 January 2021) was a Malawian businessman and politician. He was a member of the Democratic Progressive Party. From 2004 to 2014, he was a member of the National Assembly. From 2009 to 2010, he was Minister of Defence and from 2020 until his death, Mia was Minister of Transport and Public Works.

In the 2019 general election, Mia was the running mate of Lazarus Chakwera.

Mia died on 12 January 2021 from COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Malawi, aged 56.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Malawi]]

CATEGORIES: Malawi, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Malawi is part of the worldwide pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The virus was confirmed to have reached Malawi on 2 April 2020. It has spread to all the districts of the country.

President Peter Mutharika confirmed the country's first three cases of coronavirus disease 2019 on 2 April. The three cases include a Malawian of Asian origin who travelled back from India, her relative and their housemaid.

On 7 April, the first death from the infection was reported.

[[Khalid bin Abdullah Al Saud]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Saudi Arabian businesspeople, Princes and princesses

Khalid bin Abdullah Al Saud (1937 – January 2021) (خالد بن عبدالله آل سعود) was a Saudi royal and businessman. He was a member of the House of Saud. He was the owner of Juddmonte Farms and Mawarid Holding. His father was Abdullah bin Abdul Rahman Al Saud. In 1990, Prince Khalid's wealth was estimated by Fortune magazine at $1.0 billion. He was the son-in-law of Ibn Saud.

Al Saud died in January 2021.

[[The Man with Two Brians]]

CATEGORIES: Family Guy (season 7) episodes, 2008 television episodes

"The Man with Two Brians" is the 5th episode of the 7th season of Family Guy. It was first shown on the Fox network on November 9, 2008. The episode is about the Griffin family getting a new dog. The episode was written by John Viener. Dominic Bianchi is the director of the episode. Johnny Knoxville, Will Sasso, and Camille Guaty are guest stars for the episode. 

[[Mamie Till]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2003 deaths

Mamie Elizabeth Till-Mobley (born Mamie Elizabeth Carthan; November 23, 1921 – January 6, 2003) was an American educator and activist. She took part in the Civil Rights Movement. She was the mother of Emmett Till, who was killed at the age of 14 years old after allegedly offending a white woman.

[[Elizabeth Holmes]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, American fraudsters, Businesspeople from Washington, D.C.

Elizabeth Anne Holmes (born February 3, 1984) is a former American businesswoman. She was the founder and CEO of Theranos, a now-defunct health technology company.

In 2015, Forbes had named Holmes the youngest and wealthiest self-made female billionaire in America.

After revelations of potential fraud in Theranos' claims, in 2016 Forbes revised its estimate of Holmes' net worth to zero. Fortune named her one of the "World's Most Disappointing Leaders".

She is a defendant in a criminal trial in 2021. If convicted, she can get a maximum sentence of twenty years in prison, and a fine of $250,000.

[[1988–89 North American drought]]

CATEGORIES: Severe weather, Droughts, 1988 in the United States, 1989 in the United States, 1990 in the United States

The 1988–89 North American drought was a weather problem that lasted two years. The drought began in 1988 in the Midwestern United States, High Plains and the Northeastern United States. A number of high pressure areas set themselves up over certain parts of these areas, stopping thunderstorms from developing.

During the spring of 1988, Milwaukee, Wisconsin had 55 days straight without any precipitation. In the summer, two record-setting heat waves developed, similar to 1934, 1936 and 1983. The constant heat waves led to as many as 17,000 deaths in the United States. 

During the summer of 1988, the drought led to a number of wildfires in western North America. That included the Yellowstone fires of 1988. 

At its peak, the drought covered 45% of the United States in 1988 alone. That's less area than the Dust Bowl, which covered 70% of the United States. But the Drought of 1988 caused $60 billion in damage. That not only is the most expensive drought in the history of the United States, it was the costliest natural disaster before Hurricane Katrina seventeen years later.

The drought destroyed crops nationwide. Lawns went brown. A number of cities ordered water restrictions. 

More than four inches of  helpful rain came to the Midwest through Hurricane Gilbert. The storm crossed Texas and Oklahoma as a tropical depression. It spread rain as far as the Great Lakes. Other locations, however, were at -6 or lower on the Palmer Drought Severity Index by early autumn 1988.

Dry conditions continued into 1989 and 1990, affecting Iowa, Nebraska, Minnesota, Illinois, Colorado, Kansas and Missouri.

The 1988–89 drought caused damage comparable to Hurricane Andrew in August 1992 and Hurricane Katrina in August 2005.

[[Menoetius (moon)]]

CATEGORIES: Moons

Menoetius is the only moon of the asteroid Trojan 617 Patroclus.

In 2001, scientists found that Patroclus is a binary system, made up of two asteroids of about the same size. It is one of 18 binary Trojan asteroids known to exist. In 2006, good measurements of the orbit from the Keck Laser guide star adaptive optics system were reported.

It was estimated that the two components orbit around their center of mass in 4.283 days at a distance of 680 in a roughly circular orbit. Combining these observations with thermal measurements taken in 2000, the sizes of the components of the system were estimated at 106 km and 98 km, with an equivalent whole-system diameter of 145 km, refined by later measurements from the Keck Observatory to approximately 122 km and 112 km for each partner, and a co-orbital period of 103.5 hours (4.3125 days).

On 21 October 2013, both bodies occulted a magnitude 8.8 star as observed by a team of 41 observers stationed across the USA. Observation data put the orbital distance of 664.6 km, and give a size for the slightly larger component, which retains the name Patroclus with overall volume equivalent to a 113 km sphere, with the smaller component now named Menoetius with a volume equivalent to a 104 km diameter sphere.

[[Robert Woodson]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American civil rights activists, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Robert L. Woodson Sr. (born April 8, 1937) is an American civil rights activist, community development leader, author, and founder and president of the Woodson Center. He is known for his works to help low-income communities through housing. 

In February 2020, Woodson launched the Center's 1776 Unites campaign.

[[The 1619 Project]]

CATEGORIES: August 2019 events, History of the United States, 1619

The 1619 Project is a controversial project in the United States created by Nikole Hannah-Jones, writers from The New York Times, and The New York Times Magazine. It is meant to change the country's history by talking about the effects of slavery. The project said that the United States was actually founded in 1619 when the first slaves arrived to the country. 

The project was first published in August 2019 for the 400th anniversary of the arrival of the first enslaved Africans in the Virginia colony. 

The project was very controversial and had negative comments from many historians.

[[Nikole Hannah-Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Pulitzer Prize winners, American political commentators, American journalists, People from Waterloo, Iowa, Writers from Iowa

Nikole Sheri Hannah-Jones (born April 9, 1976) is an American journalist. She is known for her coverage of civil rights in the United States. In April 2015, she became a staff writer for The New York Times. In 2020, she won a Pulitzer Prize for her work on The 1619 Project.

[[Ebenezer Baptist Church]]

CATEGORIES: Martin Luther King Jr., Baptist churches, Churches in the United States, Buildings and structures in Atlanta, Georgia

Ebenezer Baptist Church is a Baptist church in Atlanta, United States. It is part of the Progressive National Baptist Convention and American Baptist Churches USA. 

It was the church where Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was co-pastor from 1960 until his assassination in 1968. The funerals of both Dr. King and congressman John Lewis where held here.

It is the church for which United States Senator-elect Raphael Warnock has been pastor since 2005. It is located in the historic area, now called the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historical Park.

[[Diamond, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Diamond is a city in Newton County, Missouri, United States. It is in the southeast of Joplin. 902 people lived here at the 2010 census. It is part of the Joplin, Missouri, Metropolitan Statistical Area. It is the birthplace of George Washington Carver.

[[Warrenton, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Carolina, County seats in North Carolina

Warrenton is a town in and the county seat of Warren County, North Carolina, United States. 862 people lived here at the 2010 census. 

[[Plumpy'nut]]

CATEGORIES: Foods, Medicine

Plumpy'Nut is a peanut-based paste wrapped in plastic, used to treat severe malnutrition. It's manufactured by Nutriset, a French company. The paste removes the need for hospitalization, and the 92-gram (3¼ oz) packages of it can be eaten at home and allows large numbers of people to be treated.

[[Barrackpore]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, West Bengal

Barrackpore (also known as Barrackpur) is a city. It is located in the West Bengal state of India. It is around 23 kilometres (14 mi) away from Kolkata . It is also a part of the zone covered by Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA). It is the headquarters of the Barrackpore subdivision.

[[Young Republicans]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States, Republicans (United States)

Young Republicans is the name of an organization for members of the American Republican Party under the age of 40. It has both a national organization and chapters in individual states. The current Chairman of the Young Republican National Federation is Michael Mack.

The current Chairman of the Young Republican National Federation is Michael Mack. The 2006 Young Republican National Federation (YRNF) convention will be held in Las Vegas, Nevada. Delegates are expected to elect Nicolee Ambrose of Maryland as the next Chairman of the National Young Republican Federation. 

It can also be used as a generic term to mean relatively youthful political conservatives, whether or not they belong to the organization. In this usage it often carries the unspoken assumption that younger people are traditionally expected to be comparatively liberal in their politics. 

[[Dafydd ap Llywelyn]]

CATEGORIES: 1212 births, 1246 deaths, Welsh people

Dafydd ap Llywelyn (c. April 1212  25 February 1246) was Prince of Gwynedd from 1240 to 1246. He claimed the title Prince of Wales. Henry III accepted that he ruled Gwynedd, but not more. Henry forced him to accept that he did not rule outside Gwynedd.

[[CNN Airport]]

CATEGORIES: CNN, Airports, American television networks

CNN Airport is an American television network. Owned and operated by WarnerMedia, it is a special version of CNN that only plays in United States airports. The network broadcasts news, entertainment, stock market updates, weather, and travel news to 58 airports across the United States. CNN pays airports to show the channel exclusively on their monitors.

CNN Airport's 24-hour schedule is described as roughly 16% news, 19% live sports, 24% lifestyle, 24% travel, and 10% for custom messages from airports if they wish to use the timeslot.

On January 12, 2021, CNN's president Jeffrey Zucker announced that the network would be closed by the end of March.

[[Hh blood group]]

CATEGORIES: Blood

hh blood group, or the bombay blood group, is a rare blood type. This blood phenotype was first discovered in Bombay, now known as mumbai, in India, by Dr. Y. M. Bhende in 1952. It is mostly found in the Middle East such as Iran.

bombay blood group is a very rare blood group

[[Deborah Rhode]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, American lawyers, American academics, Writers from Chicago, People from Evanston, Illinois

Deborah L. Rhode (January 29, 1952 – January 8, 2021) was an American jurist. She was the Ernest W. McFarland Professor of Law at Stanford Law School. She created the term The "No-Problem" Problem. She wrote over 250 articles and 30 books, including Women and Leadership, Lawyers as Leaders, and The Beauty Bias. Rhode was born in Evanston, Illinois.

Rhode died at her home on January 8, 2021 in Stanford, California at the age of 68.

[[David and Frederick Barclay]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Businesspeople from London, British billionaires, People from Hammersmith

Sir David Rowat Barclay (27 October 1934 – 10 January 2021) and Sir Frederick Hugh Barclay (born 27 October 1934), known as the "Barclay Brothers" or "Barclay Twins", were British billionaires. They founded the The Very Group. They were born in Hammersmith, London.

The Sunday Times Rich List of 2020 said their wealth were at £7 billion.

In 1993 the brothers bought the lease of the island of Brecqhou, off the coast of Sark, Brecqhou being one of the smallest of the British Channel Islands.

Sir David died on 10 January 2021, after a short illness.

[[Bruno Ghedina]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Italian Olympians, Ice hockey players

Bruno Ghedina (21 February 1943 – 10 January 2021) was an Italian ice hockey player. He competed at the 1964 Winter Olympics. He played for SG Cortina. Ghedina won 8 times the scudetto. He was born in Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy. His career lasted from 1960 until 1975.

Ghedina died on 10 January 2021 in Belluno, Italy at the age of 77.

[[Luis Adriano Piedrahíta Sandoval]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Colombian people, Roman Catholic bishops, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Colombia

Luis Adriano Piedrahíta Sandoval (7 October 1946 – 11 January 2021) was a Colombian Roman Catholic bishop. He became a priest in 1972. He was titular bishop of Centenarian and was auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Cali, Colombia, from 1999 to 2007. 

He then was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Apartadó, Colombia, from 2007 to 2014 and bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Santa Marta, Colombia from 2014 until his death in 2021. 

Piedrahíta Sandoval died on 11 January 2021 from COVID-19, aged 74. He was diagnosed with the infection on 20 December 2020.

[[Florentin Crihălmeanu]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Romania, Romanian people, Roman Catholic bishops

Florentin Crihălmeanu (17 September 1959 – 12 January 2021) was a Romanian Greek Catholic hierarch. He was born in Iași, Romania. He became a priest in September 1990. He was named auxiliary bishop of the Cluj-Gherla Diocese in November 1996 by Pope John Paul II. In 2002, he became Bishop of Cluj-Gherla.

Crihălmeanu died on 12 January 2021 of COVID-19 in Cluj-Napoca, Romania at the age of 61.

[[Tim Lester (running back)]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Los Angeles Rams players, Pittsburgh Steelers players, Dallas Cowboys players, American football running backs, Sportspeople from Miami, Florida

Timothy Lee Lester (June 15, 1968 – January 12, 2021) was an American football professional running back. He played in the National Football League for eight seasons for the Los Angeles Rams, Pittsburgh Steelers, and Dallas Cowboys. He was born in Miami, Florida.

On January 12, 2021, Lester died in Milton, Georgia from COVID-19 at the age of 52.

[[Milton, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Georgia (U.S. state)

Milton is a suburban city in Fulton County, Georgia, United States. It is a suburb of Atlanta. It was created on December 1, 2006. 32,661 people lived here in 2010. 

[[Philaret (Vakhromeyev)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Eastern Orthodox Christians, People from Moscow

Metropolitan Philaret (Митрополит Филарет, Мітрапаліт Філарэт, born Kirill Varfolomeyevich Vakhromeev, Кирилл Варфоломеевич Вахромеев; 21 March 1935 – 12 January 2021) was a Russian-born Belarusian Orthodox prelate. He was Metropolitan of Minsk and Slutsk from 1978 to 2013 and Leader of the Belarusian Orthodox Church from 1978 to 1989. 

In 2006, for his work in the Russian Orthodox Church he was awarded the title Hero of Belarus by President Alexander Lukashenko.

Philaret died on 12 January 2021 in Minsk, Belarus at the age of 85.

[[John Capodice]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Actors from Chicago, American movie actors, American television actors, Living people

John Capodice (born December 25, 1941) is an American character actor. He was born in Chicago. His career began in 1978. He is known for his roles in Ace Ventura: Pet Detective, Naked Gun 33⅓: The Final Insult (1994), Speed (1994), Independence Day (1996), and Enemy of the State (1998).

[[Sandy Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American theatre directors, American playwrights, Theatre producers, Actors from New York City, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Living people, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Writers from New York City

Sandy Martin (born March 3, 1949) is an American actress, playwright, theatre director, and producer. She is best known for her roles in the movie Napoleon Dynamite and the television series Ray Donovan, It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia, and Big Love.

[[Speed (disambiguation)]]

Speed is the rate of motion, change, or activity.

Speed may also mean:

[[Clostridioides difficile infection]]

CATEGORIES: Infectious diseases

Clostridioides difficile'' infection''' ('''CDI''' or '''C-diff'''), also known as Clostridium difficile infection', is a symptomatic infection caused by the spore-forming bacterium Clostridioides difficile. Symptoms include watery diarrhea, fever, nausea, and abdominal pain.

It makes up about 20% of cases of antibiotic-associated diarrhea. Problems caused by this infection are  pseudomembranous colitis, toxic megacolon, perforation of the colon, and sepsis.

Clostridioides difficile infection is spread by bacterial spores found within feces.

[[Kanha Tiger Reserve]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in India, Madhya Pradesh

The Kanha Tiger Reserve (or Kanha–Kisli National Park) is the largest national park in the Indian state of  Madhya Pradesh. It is also one of the tiger reserves of India.

[[Lisa Montgomery]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2021 deaths, American people executed for murder, People executed by lethal injection, People from Kansas

Lisa Marie Montgomery (February 27, 1968  – January 13, 2021) was a convicted murderer. In 2004, she attacked and killed a 23-year old pregnant woman, and cut the unborn child from her womb. The mother had been pregnant for eight months, the child survived and was given to the father. In 2007, Montgomery confessed the crime. She was sentenced to death. She was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. Also, during her childhood, she had been sexually abused for years.  She also had other conditions, such as post-traumatic stress disorder, psychosis, dissociative identity disorder and amnesia. Her lawyers argued, that because of these conditions, she was severely handicapped, and should not have been tried in a regular court. Montgomery has four children.  On January 13, 2021, she was executed by lethal injection.

Experts, who looked at the case after she had been condemned, found that when she committed the crime, she had suffered from psychosis. Because of smoking tobacco, she had also suffered permanent brain damage. In addition, she mistrusted men in general.

[[2020 Georgian parliamentary election]]

CATEGORIES: October 2020 events, 2020 elections, History of Georgia (country)

Parliamentary elections were held in Georgia on 31 October 2020. Second round where held on 21 November, 2020. Opposition boycotted second round of elections.  Because of election fraud mandates were rejected by opposition parties.

[[Musical improvisation]]

CATEGORIES: Musical performance techniques

Musical improvisation is when musicians play a tune which does not exist yet. They play what comes to their mind. In the case of groups of musicians, they may have agreed on a few basic rules beforehand. Generally, improvisation requires a few skills:

Musical composition is different: With composition, people first write down and arrange the music, before playing it, with improvisation they play right away.

[[Mtavari Arkhi]]

Mtavari Arkhi (translate: Main Channel) is a Private TV Company in Georgia. Founded on August 17, 2019. Aired on September 9, 2019. Zaza Okuashvili owns 40% of the channel, 12% - Nika Gvaramia. Most of the channel's team consists of people who left Rustavi 2. Most of the channel's team consists of people who left Rustavi 2.

It broadcasts throughout Georgia, both open air and via satellite, through cable operators and IP televisions.

[[Nodar Dumbadze]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 1984 deaths, Writers from Georgia (country)

Nodar Dumbadze (July 14, 1928 – September 4, 1984) was a famous Georgian writer.

[[Papurana garritor]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Oceania, Frogs

The Eilogo Estate frog (Papurana garritor) is a frog from New Guinea and the d'Entrecasteaux Islands.  Scientists have seen it up to 1500 meters above sea level.

[[Bootle]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Merseyside

the village in Cumbria

Bootle is a town in Sefton, Merseyside.

[[Terrence Scammell]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, English people, English voice actors, People from Manchester

Terrence Frederick Scammell (born January 10, 1958) is a Canadian voice director and voice actor living in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

In a career that has spanned more than 30 years, Scammell worked on hundreds of series, live-action films, documentaries and video games for the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, Cartoon Network, Nickelodeon and production companies around the world.

Scammell received an BAFTA award for voicing the character of Darph Bobo and his directing work has been nominated for awards in Europe, the UK and North America.

He is married to writer and blogger Sheila Singhal and divides his time between Montreal and Ottawa. He is a member of BAFTA and the British Actors' Equity Association unions.

[[Keith Wickham]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1965 births, English comedians, Actors from Hertfordshire, English television actors, English voice actors

Keith Wickham (born 9 February 1965) is a British voice actor, comedian and screenwriter known for providing the voice of Polluto in Tommy Zoom and various characters in the children's television series Thomas & Friends and Noddy's Toyland Adventures.

[[1966 Ballon d'Or]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 in sports, 1960s in Europe, Association football, Sports trophies and awards

The 1966 Ballon d'Or was the 11th Ballon d'Or. It was awarded to Manchester United midfielder Bobby Charlton.

[[Narnia (world)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional locations

Narnia is a fantasy world from the book series The Chronicles of Narnia. It is run by Aslan, a lion. The population consists of smart talking animals.

[[John Stocker]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Actors from London, English voice actors, People from London, British casting directors, Voice directors

John Stocker (born August 13, 1944) is a British voice actor. His career in voice acting began in the 1970s.

[[Level (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: Video games

Level in video games is a form of structure to progression in a video game.

[[Dafydd ap Gruffydd]]

CATEGORIES: Welsh people, Executed people, 1238 births, 1283 deaths

Dafydd ap Gruffydd (11 July (?) 1238 – 3 October 1283) was Prince of Wales from 11 December 1282 until  on 3 October 1283. His execution was ordered by King Edward I of England. The execution was especially gruesome.

Daffyd was the last independent ruler of Wales.

[[Shippensburg, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in Pennsylvania

Shippensburg is a borough in Cumberland and Franklin counties in the U.S. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 5,492 people lived here at the 2010 census. 

[[Dan Newhouse]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, United States representatives from Washington, Scientists from Washington, US Republican Party politicians

Daniel Milton Newhouse (born July 10, 1955) is an American politician and agricultural scientist. He is a member of the United States House of Representatives for wa since 2015. 

Newhouse was director of the Washington Department of Agriculture and as a member of the Washington House of Representatives from 2009 to 2013. He is a member of the Republican Party.

Newhouse announced his support for the second impeachment of Donald Trump on January 13, 2021, following the 2021 storming of the United States Capitol.

[[Caroly Wilcox]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Puppeteers, People from Pennsylvania

Caroly Wilcox (born Carolyn Wilcox; May 16, 1931 – January 9, 2021) was an American puppeteer and theatrical designer. She was best known for her work with the Muppets. She was in Sesame Street, The Muppet Show, and Fraggle Rock, and in The Muppet Movie and The Muppets Take Manhattan.

Wilcox died on January 9, 2021, aged 89 years.

[[Edward Beard]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, United States representatives from Rhode Island, Businesspeople from Rhode Island, Politicians from Rhode Island, People from Providence, Rhode Island, US Democratic Party politicians

Edward Peter Beard (January 20, 1940 – January 11, 2021) was an American businessman and Democratic politician. He was a member of the Rhode Island House of Representatives from 1972 to 1974.

Beard was a member of the United States House of Representatives from Rhode Island's 2nd congressional district from 1975 to 1981. He unsuccessfully ran again for the U.S. House in 1990.

Beard was born in Providence, Rhode Island. He died on January 11, 2021 in Providence from problems caused by Parkinson's disease, aged 80.

[[Claudia and David]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on short stories, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Walter Lang

Claudia and David is a 1946 American comedy movie directed by Walter Lang and is the sequel to the 1943 movie Claudia and also based on the short stories by Rose Franken. It stars Dorothy McGuire, Robert Young, Mary Astor, John Sutton, Gail Patrick, Rose Hobart, Harry Davenport, Florence Bates and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Tord Peterson]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Actors from Stockholm

Tord Peterson (21 April 1926 – 11 January 2021) was a Swedish actor. He was in more than 80 movies and television shows from 1953 to 2013. He was born in Stockholm, Sweden.

Peterson was in The Shot (1969), Grisjakten (1970), Honeymoon (1972), House of Angels (1992), House of Angels – The Second Summer (1994) and Echoes from the Dead (2013).

Peterson died on 11 January 2021 in Stockholm, aged 94.

[[Football League Third Division South]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s establishments in England, 1921 establishments in Europe, 20th century disestablishments in England, 1950s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1958 disestablishments, Football in England, English Football League

The Third Division South was a former 3rd tier in the English Football League. It existed between 1921 to 1958. It ran along side the Football League Third Division North. Teams could be elected to the league, or relegated from Football League Second Division allocated to one or the other according to the team's geographical position.

[[Fred Levin]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, People with cancer, American lawyers, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from Florida, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, People from Pensacola, Florida

Fredric Gerson Levin (March 29, 1937 – January 12, 2021) was an American lawyer and philanthropist. He worked for Levin Papantonio Law Firm in Florida. The Fredric G. Levin College of Law at the University of Florida is named for him because of a donation he made to the school in 1999. He was born in Pensacola, Florida.

In January 2016, Levin was diagnosed with lung cancer. He died from COVID-19 in Gainesville, Florida on January 12, 2021 at the age of 83.

[[Álvaro Mejía (athlete)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Competitors in athletics, Olympians

Álvaro Mejía Florez (15 May 1940 – 12 January 2021) was a Colombian long-distance runner. He competed in the 1964 Tokyo Olympic Games 5,000 meter final. He was born in Medellín, Antioquia, Colombia.

Mejía competed in the 1968 Mexico City Olympics in the 10,000 meters and in the 1972 Munich Olympics.

Mejía also won the 1971 Boston Marathon. He won a bronze medal at the 1971 Pan American Games in the 10,000 metres. Mejía won the Saint Silvester Road Race in 1966.

Mejía died on 12 January 2021 in Bogotá, Colombia at the age of 80.

[[Ndubuisi Kanu]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Nigerian politicians

Ndubuisi Godwin Kanu (November 3, 1943 – January 13, 2021) was a Nigerian Navy rear admiral and politician. He was the Imo State Governor from 1976 to 1977 and Lagos State Governor from 1977 to 1978. 

Kanu died on January 13, 2021 at the age of 77.

[[Seyoum Mesfin]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2021 deaths, Ethiopian politicians, Ambassadors to China, Deaths by firearm

Seyoum Mesfin Gebredingel  (25 January 1949 – 13 January 2021) was an Ethiopian politician. He was Ethiopia's Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1991 until September 2010. He was Ethiopia's Ambassador to the People's Republic of China from 2010 until 2017. Mesfin was born in Adigrat, Ethiopia. He was a member of the People's Revolutionary Democratic Front.

Seyoum was killed during the Tigray War by the Ethiopian National Defense Force on 13 January 2021, aged 71.

[[Joël Robert]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Belgian sportspeople, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Belgium

Joël Robert (26 November 1943 – 13 January 2021) was a Belgian professional motocross racer. He was one of the most successful motocross racers competing in the Motocross World Championships during the 1960s and early 1970s.

Robert died on 13 January 2021 in Gilly, Belgium, aged 77. He was in a coma after having a heart attack while being treated with COVID-19.

[[Eusébio Scheid]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Roman Catholic bishops, Brazilian people

Eusébio Oscar Scheid, S.C.J. (8 December 1932 – 13 January 2021) was a Brazilian prelate of the Catholic Church. He was Archbishop of Rio de Janeiro from 2001 to 2009. He was born in Luzerna, Brazil.

Scheid was Bishop of São José dos Campos from 1981 to 1991 and Archbishop of Florianópolis from 1991 to 2001.

Scheid died on 13 January 2021 in São José dos Campos, Brazil from pneumonia caused by COVID-19, aged 88.

[[Philip Tartaglia]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom, Roman Catholic bishops, People from Glasgow

Philip Tartaglia (11 January 1951 – 13 January 2021) was a Scottish bishop of the Catholic Church.  He was the Metropolitan Archbishop of Glasgow from 2012 until 2021.  He was the Bishop of Paisley from 2005 to 2012. Tartaglia was born in Glasgow, Scotland.

Tartaglia died on 13 January 2021 at his home in Glasgow from COVID-19 at the age of 70.

[[Impeachment of Donald Trump]]

Impeachment of Donald Trump may mean:

[[Maguito Vilela]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, Brazilian politicians, Brazilian lawyers

Maguito Vilela (24 January 1949 – 13 January 2021) was a Brazilian politician and lawyer. He was Governor of Goiás from 1995 to 1998. He was also a member of the Brazilian Senate from 1999 to 2007. For a short time in January 2021, he was Mayor of Goiânia.

Vilela died on 13 January 2021 in Goiânia from COVID-19, aged 71.

[[Kathleen Heddle]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from breast cancer, Deaths from lymphoma, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Canadian Olympic bronze medalists, Rowers, Sportspeople from British Columbia

Kathleen Joan Heddle, CAN (November 27, 1965 – January 11, 2021) was a Canadian rower. She won two gold medals at the 1992 Summer Olympics and 1996 Summer Olympics. Heddle also won a bronze medal in 1996. In 1997, Heddle was awarded the Order of British Columbia and was honored into the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame. Heddle was born in Trail, British Columbia.

Heddle died on January 11, 2021 in Vancouver, British Columbia from breast cancer and lymphoma, aged 55.

[[Koiné language]]

CATEGORIES: Pidgins and creoles

A koiné language, koiné dialect, or simply koiné (Ancient Greek κοινή, "common language") is a standard language or dialect made by people who speak closely related languages or dialects in order to be able to talk and write to each other easily. They are created by combining phonology, vocabulary, and grammar from the different dialects (or sometimes creating new words and grammar based on the same methods earlier this sentence). The name of the term comes from Koine Greek, which was a common dialect used by Greeks to talk and write to Greeks from other city states.

This is not to be confused with pidgins or creoles because those are languages that are created for people who speak unrelated, or distantly related, languages.

[[European storm petrel]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Europe, Procellariiformes

The European storm petrel, British storm petrel, or just storm petrel (Hydrobates pelagicus) is a small seabid. It lives in the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean, around the coasts of Europe. Note that storm petrel can also refer to another group of birds, which mainly occur in the New World.

Storm petrels spend almost their whole life at sea. For breeding the come to shore, where they breed in large colonies. The bird has a well-developed sense of smell. It uses this to find its nest, or to find food, at night. In Europe, they can occasionally be seen at the Belgian coast, the Netherlands and the coast of Schleswig-Holstein. 

It is one of the smallest seabirds. Its length is 16 and wingspan about 37. It weights about 27.It is usually black, with a white patch. The biggest known colony is probably that on Nólsoy, on the Faroe Islands. The birds can mainly be found in the ocean between Iceland, the Lofoten and the Faroe Islands.

[[Stacey Plaskett]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, African American politicians, US Democratic Party politicians, Politicians from Brooklyn, American lawyers, Living people

Stacey Plaskett (born May 13, 1966) is an American politician, lawyer and commentator. She is the fifth delegate for the United States House of Representatives from the United States Virgin Islands' at large congressional district. Plaskett is a member of the Democratic Party.

Plaskett has practiced law in New York City, Washington, D.C. and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Plaskett was born in Brooklyn, New York.

[[Lauriana Mae]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Singer-songwriters, Singers from New Jersey, American R&B singers, American pop singers, Living people

Lauriana Mae (born January 18, 1983) is an American pop, R&B and soul singer-songwriter. She has collaborated with other singers, including CeeLo Green, B.o.B. and Kwamé. She performed guest vocals with Green on "Only You". That led to a performance on the Ellen DeGeneres Show on April 17, 2013.

Mae released her first extended play, Love Mae, in 2011. In 2015, she released an extended play called City of Diamonds. The  record had R&B and hip hop on it.

In 2016, Mae released a mixtape, Can't Go Back. She released the studio album Small Town City Dreams in 2019.

Mae was born in Red Bank, New Jersey.

[[Marielle de Sarnez]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Politicians from Paris, MEPs for France, Former MEPs, Cancer deaths in France

Marielle de Sarnez (ma.ʁjɛl də saʁ.nɛz ; 27 March 1951 – 13 January 2021) was a French politician. He was a member of the Democratic Movement. In 2017, De Sarnez was elected a member of the National Assembly.

De Sarnez was Minister for European Affairs in the Édouard Philippe cabinet from May to June 2017. From 1999 to 2017, she was Member of the European Parliament. 

De Sarnez was born in Paris. She was married to Philippe Augier. De Sarnez died of leukaemia in Pairs on 13 January 2021, aged 69.

[[Theodoros Mitras]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, Greek politicians, Greek lawyers

Theodoros Mitras (14 May 1948 – 12 January 2021) was a Greek politician and lawyer. He was born in Katerini, Greece. He was a member of the New Democracy Party. Mitras was a member of the Hellenic Parliament from 1993 to 1996. 

Mitras died on 12 January 2021 in Thessaloniki, Greece at the age of 72.

[[Herbert Kroemer]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, German physicists, American physicists, People from Weimar

Herbert Kroemer (born August 25, 1928) is a German-American physicist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2000 for "developing semiconductor heterostructures used in high-speed- and opto-electronics". 

Kroemer is professor emeritus of electrical and computer engineering at the University of California, Santa Barbara.

[[Jack Kilby]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2005 deaths, Engineers from Missouri, American inventors, Scientists from Missouri, Scientists from Dallas, Texas, Cancer deaths in Texas

Jack St. Clair Kilby (November 8, 1923 – June 20, 2005) was an American electrical engineer. He helped discover the first integrated circuit while working at Texas Instruments (TI) in 1958. 

He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics on December 10, 2000.  Kilby was also the co-inventor of the handheld calculator and the thermal printer.

[[Daniel McFadden]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American economists, Scientists from North Carolina, People from Raleigh, North Carolina

Daniel Little McFadden (born July 29, 1937) is an American econometrician. He won the 2000 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences with James Heckman. He won the prize "for his development of theory and methods for analyzing discrete choice". 

He is the Presidential Professor of Health Economics at the University of Southern California and Professor of the Graduate School at University of California, Berkeley.

[[James Heckman]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, American economists, Scientists from Chicago

James Joseph Heckman (born April 19, 1944) is an American economist. He won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 2000. He works at the University of Chicago. He is Co-Director of Human Capital and Economic Opportunity (HCEO) Global Working Group. 

[[Gallant Journey]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by William A. Wellman

Gallant Journey (also known as The Great Highway) is a 1946 American drama movie directed by William A. Wellman and starring Glenn Ford, Janet Blair, Charles Ruggles, Henry Travers, Charles Kemper, Arthur Shields, Willard Robertson. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Hideki Shirakawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Japanese chemists, Japanese engineers, Scientists from Tokyo

Hideki Shirakawa is a Japanese chemist and engineer. He is Professor Emeritus at the University of Tsukuba and Zhejiang University. He is best known for his discovery of conductive polymers. He won the 2000 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Alan MacDiarmid and Alan Heeger.

Shirakawa was born in Tokyo. He studied at the Tokyo Institute of Technology. He is a critic of the Nobel Prize and its media coverage.

[[Alan J. Heeger]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, American physicists, American chemists, American academics, Scientists from Iowa, People from Sioux City, Iowa

Alan Jay Heeger (born January 22, 1936) is an American physicist and academic. He won the 2000 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. He won the prize with Alan G. MacDiarmid and Hideki Shirakawa "for their discovery and development of conductive polymers".

Heeger was born in Sioux City, Iowa, to a Jewish family. He grew up in Akron, Iowa.

[[Code of the Samurai]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 2-only games, 2005 video games, Sega video games, Video games developed in Japan

Code of the Samurai is the hack & slash video game for the PlayStation 2. Published by Red Entertainment, and developed by Sega (Japan version) & also by Midas Interactive Entertainment (Europe version).

[[Wolfgang Ketterle]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, German physicists, People from Heidelberg

Wolfgang Ketterle (born 21 October 1957) is a German physicist. He is a professor of physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). His works focused on experiments that trap and cool atoms to temperatures close to absolute zero. 

He won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2001, together with Eric Allin Cornell and Carl Wieman.

[[Carl Wieman]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American physicists, Scientists from Oregon

Carl Edwin Wieman (born March 26, 1951) is an American physicist. He works at Stanford University. 

In 1995, while at the University of Colorado Boulder, he and Eric Allin Cornell created the first true Bose–Einstein condensate (BEC). In 2001, he won the Nobel Prize in Physics. 

[[Anthony James Leggett]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, British physicists, Scientists from London

Sir Anthony James Leggett GBR (born 26 March 1938) is a British theoretical physicist. He is a professor emeritus at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 

Leggett is known for his theory of low-temperature physics. He won the 2003 Nobel Prize in Physics. 

[[Elfriede Jelinek]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Austrian playwrights, Novelists

Elfriede Jelinek (ɛlˈfʁiːdə ˈjɛlinɛk; born 20 October 1946) is an Austrian playwright and novelist. She won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2004. Jelinek was born in Mürzzuschlag, Styria, Austria.

Her best known works are The Piano Teacher, Die Kinder der Toten, Greed and Lust.

[[David Gross]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, American physicists, Scientists from Washington, D.C.

David Jonathan Gross (g; born February 19, 1941) is an American theoretical physicist and string theorist. He won the 2004 Nobel Prize in Physics for his discovery of asymptotic freedom. Gross is the Chancellor's Chair Professor of Theoretical Physics at the Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics of the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB). 

He is a foreign member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.

[[Philip III of France]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens of France

Philip III or Philip the Bold, was King of France from 1270 until 1285.

[[Hugh David Politzer]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American physicists, Scientists from New York City

PhysicsHugh David Politzer (ˈ; born August 31, 1949) is an American theoretical physicist. He is the Richard Chace Tolman Professor of Theoretical Physics at the California Institute of Technology. He shared the 2004 Nobel Prize in Physics with David Gross and Frank Wilczek for their discovery of asymptotic freedom in quantum chromodynamics. He was born in New York City.

[[Frank Wilczek]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American physicists, Scientists from New York, American mathematicians

Frank Anthony Wilczek (ˈ; born May 15, 1951) is an American theoretical physicist and mathematician. He works at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).

Wilczek, along with David Gross and H. David Politzer, won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2004 "for the discovery of asymptotic freedom in the theory of the strong interaction."

[[John L. Hall]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, American physicists, Scientists from Denver, Colorado

John Lewis "Jan" Hall (born August 21, 1934) is an American physicist. He won the 2005 Nobel Prize in Physics with Theodor W. Hänsch and Roy Glauber for his work in precision spectroscopy.

[[Theodor W. Hänsch]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, German physicists, People from Weimar

Theodor Wolfgang Hänsch (born 30 October 1941) is a German physicist. He won one fourth of the 2005 Nobel Prize in Physics for "contributions to the development of laser-based precision spectroscopy, including the optical frequency comb technique" sharing the prize with John L. Hall and Roy J. Glauber.

[[Tim Bogert]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, American rock singers, American rock musicians, American blues singers, American blues musicians, American bass guitarists, Musicians from New York City, Singer-songwriters from New York City

John Voorhis "Tim" Bogert III (August 27, 1944 – January 13, 2021) was an American blues rock singer-songwriter and bassist. He was born in New York City. Bogert played with Carmine Appice and appeared with Vanilla Fudge, Cactus and the power trio Beck, Bogert & Appice.

Bogert died on January 13, 2021 at the age of 76.

[[Carmine Appice]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American rock drummers, American blues musicians, American heavy metal musicians, American heavy metal singers, American rock singers, American blues singers, Singer-songwriters from New York City, Musicians from New York City

Carmine Appice (ˈ æ) (born December 15, 1946) is an American drummer and percussionist. He played with Vanilla Fudge; Cactus; the power trio Beck, Bogert & Appice; Rod Stewart; King Kobra; and Blue Murder.

[[Margo St. James]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, American activists, Prostitutes, People from Washington, People from San Francisco

Margaret Jean St. James (September 12, 1937 – January 11, 2021) was an American women's rights activist and sex worker. In 1973 she started the organization COYOTE and St. James Infirmary Clinic. COYOTE is a medical and social service organization helping sex workers in San Francisco. St. James was born in Bellingham, Washington. 

St. James died on January 11, 2021 under hospice care in San Francisco, aged 83.

[[Karim]]

Karim is an Arabic name with a female and male form, the male form is Kareem. It means "generous", "noble", or "honorable".

[[Makoto Kobayashi (physicist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Japanese physicists, Nagoya University alumni, Kyoto University faculty

Makoto Kobayashi is a Japanese physicist. He is known for his work on CP-violation. He won the 2008 Nobel Prize in Physics "for the discovery of the origin of the broken symmetry which predicts the existence of at least three families of quarks in nature."

[[Makoto Kobayashi]]

Makoto Kobayashi may refer to:

[[Toshihide Maskawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Japanese physicists, Nagoya University alumni, Kyoto University faculty, Deaths from jaw cancer

Toshihide Maskawa (or Masukawa) was a Japanese theoretical physicist. He is known for his work on CP-violation. He won the 2008 Nobel Prize in Physics "for the discovery of the origin of the broken symmetry which predicts the existence of at least three families of quarks in nature."

Maskawa died on July 23, 2021 in Kyoto, Japan from jaw cancer at the age of 81.

[[Andre Geim]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Russian physicists, Dutch physicists, British physicists, People from Manchester

Sir Andre K. Geim FRS, HonFRSC, HonFInstP (Андре́й Константи́нович Гейм; born 21 October 1958) is a Russian-born Dutch-British physicist. He works at the School of Physics and Astronomy at the University of Manchester.

Geim was awarded the 2010 Nobel Prize in Physics with Konstantin Novoselov for his work on graphene. 

He is Regius Professor of Physics and Royal Society Research Professor at the National Graphene Institute. He was born in Sochi, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union.

[[Konstantin Novoselov]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Russian physicists, British physicists

Sir Konstantin Sergeevich Novoselov GBR (

; born 23 August 1974) is a Russian-British physicist. He is a Professor at the Centre for Advanced 2D Materials, National University of Singapore. 

His work on graphene with Andre Geim won them the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2010.

[[Saul Perlmutter]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American physicists, Scientists from Illinois, People from Champaign, Illinois

Saul Perlmutter (born September 22, 1959) is an American astrophysicist. He worked at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and a professor of physics at the University of California, Berkeley. He is a member of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences.

Perlmutter won the 2011 Nobel Prize in Physics.

[[Adam Riess]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American physicists, Scientists from Washington, D.C.

Adam Guy Riess (born December 16, 1969) is an American astrophysicist. He works at Johns Hopkins University and the Space Telescope Science Institute. He is known for his research in using supernovae as cosmological probes. 

Riess shared both the 2006 Shaw Prize in Astronomy and the 2011 Nobel Prize in Physics with Saul Perlmutter and Brian P. Schmidt for "providing evidence that the accelerating expansion of the universe".

In 2020, Riess was made fellow of the American Astronomical Society.

[[Serge Haroche]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Moroccan scientists, French physicists, People from Casablanca

Serge Haroche (born 11 September 1944) is a French physicist. He won 2012 Nobel Prize for Physics with David J. Wineland for "ground-breaking experimental methods that enable measuring and manipulation of individual quantum systems". 

[[David J. Wineland]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, American physicists, Scientists from Milwaukee, Wisconsin

David Jeffrey Wineland (born February 24, 1944) is an American physicist. He works at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) physics laboratory. He was awarded the 2012 Nobel Prize in Physics with Serge Haroche for "ground-breaking experimental methods that enable measuring and manipulation of individual quantum systems". He was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

[[Mo Yan]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Chinese novelists, Chinese Nobel Prize winners

Guan Moye (管謨業; born 17 February 1955), better known by the pen name Mo Yan (m, 莫言), is a Chinese novelist and short story writer. 

He is best known to Western readers for his 1987 novel  Red Sorghum Clan. In 2012, Mo was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature for his work as a writer "who with hallucinatory realism merges folk tales, history and the contemporary".

[[Isamu Akasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Japanese physicists, Nagoya University alumni, Kyoto University alumni

Isamu Akasaki was a Japanese engineer and physicist. He was best known for inventing the bright gallium nitride (GaN) p-n junction blue LED in 1989.

Akasaki was awarded the Kyoto Prize in Advanced Technology in 2009. He was also awarded the 2014 Nobel prize in Physics with Hiroshi Amano and Shuji Nakamura "for the invention of efficient blue light-emitting diodes, which has enabled bright and energy-saving white light sources".

Akasaki died on April 1, 2021 at his home in Nagoya, Japan from pneumonia, aged 92.

[[Hiroshi Amano]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Japanese physicists, Japanese engineers, Japanese inventors, Nagoya University alumni

Hiroshi Amano is a Japanese physicist, engineer and inventor. His work focused on semiconductor technology. He won the 2014 Nobel Prize in Physics together with Isamu Akasaki and Shuji Nakamura for "the invention of efficient blue light-emitting diodes which has enabled bright and energy-saving white light sources".

[[Shuji Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Japanese scientists, American engineers, American inventors, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Shuji Nakamura GBR is a Japanese-born American electronic engineer. He is a professor at the Materials Department of the College of Engineering, University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB). He is known as the inventor of the blue LED. 

With Isamu Akasaki and Hiroshi Amano, he is one of the three winners of the 2014 Nobel Prize for Physics.

[[Patrick Modiano]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, French novelists

Jean Patrick Modiano (ʒɑ̃ patʁik mɔdjano; born 30 July 1945), generally known as Patrick Modiano, is a French novelist. He won the 2014 Nobel Prize in Literature. He is known for Rue des boutiques obscures. 

[[Tunisian National Dialogue Quartet]]

CATEGORIES: Tunisia

The Tunisian National Dialogue Quartet (Arabic: الرباعي التونسي للحوار الوطني‎, French: Quartet du dialogue national) is a group of four civil society organizations. They focus on democracy and the constitutional settlement in Tunisia.

The quartet was formed in the summer of 2013 after a political crisis. 

On 9 October 2015, the quartet was awarded the 2015 Nobel Peace Prize.

[[Takaaki Kajita]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Japanese physicists, University of Tokyo alumni, University of Tokyo faculty

Takaaki Kajita is a Japanese physicist. In 2015, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics with Canadian physicist Arthur B. McDonald.

On 1 October 2020, he became the president of the Science Council of Japan.

[[William C. Campbell (scientist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Irish scientists, American biologists, Naturalized citizens of the United States

William Cecil Campbell (born 28 June 1930) is an Irish-born American biologist and parasitologist. He is known for his work in discovering a novel therapy against infections caused by roundworms. He won the 2015 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. He helped to discover a class of drugs called ivermectins. 

Campbell worked at the Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research and is currently a research fellow emeritus at Drew University.

[[Duncan Haldane]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, British physicists, Slovenian scientists, Scientists from London

Frederick Duncan Michael Haldane  GBR (born 14 September 1951), known as F. Duncan Haldane, is a British-born physicist. He is the Sherman Fairchild University Professor of Physics at Princeton University. He is a co-recipient of the 2016 Nobel Prize in Physics, along with David J. Thouless and J. Michael Kosterlitz.

[[International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 establishments, Nuclear weapons

The International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons is a global civil society group working to support and promote the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. ICAN was launched in 2007 and counts 541 partner organizations in 103 countries as of 2019.

The campaign received the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize "for its work to draw attention to the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of any use of nuclear weapons and for its ground-breaking efforts to achieve a treaty-based prohibition of such weapons."

[[Peter Fenwick]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, British scientists, British writers, Neuroscientists, Psychiatrists, Physiologists

Peter Brooke Cadogan Fenwick (born 25 May 1935) is a British neuropsychiatrist and neurophysiologist. He is known for his studies of epilepsy and end-of-life phenomena.

Fenwick is a senior lecturer at King's College, London. He works as a consultant at the Institute of Psychiatry.

[[Deathbed phenomena]]

CATEGORIES: Death

Deathbed phenomena is many experiences seen by people who are dying. There are many examples of deathbed phenomena in both non-fiction and fictional literature.

In scientific literature, they have been called as death-related sensory experiences (DRSE). Dying patients have reported to staff working in hospices they have experienced comforting visions.

Modern scientists think that the deathbed phenomena and visions are hallucinations.

[[Devi Lal]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2001 deaths, Indian Deputy Prime Ministers, Indian politicians, Indian National Congress politicians

Chaudhary Devi Lal (born Devi Dayal; 25 September 1914 — 6 April 2001) was an Indian politician. He served as 6th Deputy Prime Minister of India from 1989 to 1991 in the management of V. P. Singh and Chandra Shekhar. He is popularly known as Tau (uncle). Devi Lal came out as farmer leader from the state of Haryana. He served as the Chief Minister of Haryana first in 1977-79 and then in 1987-89.

[[Yashwantrao Chavan]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1984 deaths, Indian politicians, Indian Deputy Prime Ministers, People of British India

Yashwantrao Balwantrao Chavan (12 March 1913 – 25 November 1984) was an Indian politician. He served as the Deputy Prime Minister of India from 1979 to 1980. He was a strong Congress leader. He is also co-operative leader, social activist and writer. He was popularly known as Leader of Common People.

[[Gilda]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s romance movies, American romantic drama movies, Argentine movies, Movies directed by Charles Vidor

Gilda is a 1946 American romantic drama movie directed by Charles Vidor and starring Rita Hayworth, Glenn Ford, Joe Sawyer, Steven Geray, George Macready, Joseph Calleia, Don Douglas, Gerald Mohr. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2004 deaths, Presidents of the United Arab Emirates

Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan (Ash-Shaykh Zāyed bin Sulṭān Āl Nahyān; 6 May 1918 – 2 November 2004) was the ruler of Abu Dhabi for more than 30 years (6 August 1966 – 2 November 2004). 

He was the main builder of the United Arab Emirates. He was the Union's first Raʾīs (President), a post which he held for almost 33 years (1971 until his death in 2004). He is known as the "Father of the Nation".

[[Storm petrel]]

Storm petrel may mean one of two bird families, both in the order Procellariiformes, once treated as the same family.

The two families are:

[[Chicka Chicka 1, 2, 3]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books, Mathematics books

Chicka Chicka 1, 2, 3 is a children's book written by Bill Martin, Jr. and Michael Sampson. The book features anthropomorphized numbers.

[[Continental philosophers]]

CATEGORIES: Continental philosophers, 19th century philosophers, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers

Continental philosophers are a group of philosophers mainly from continental Europe (especially France and Germany). Continental philosophy includes philosophical movements from the 19th century and after. The term became popular among researchers in England after World War II. It is often used to separate from analytic philosophy. Being a philosopher from continental Europe is not quite the same as being a continental philosopher. Some continental philosophers are from other parts of the world.

There are many movements within continental philosophy, such as: critical theory, deconstruction, existentialism, German idealism, Hegelianism, Marxism, Nietzscheanism, phenomenology, postmodernism, and others.

[[Papurana supragrisea]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Oceania, Frogs

The Papua gray frog (Papurana supragrisea) is a frog from New Guinea.  Scientists have seen it on the southeast peninsual and the d'Entrecasteaux Islands and they think it may live in other places as well.

[[2020–21 United States Senate election in Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, 21st century in Georgia (U.S. state), 2021 elections

An election happened to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Georgia. There were two rounds on November 3, 2020; and January 5, 2021. The two people in last round of the election were Jon Ossoff (Democratic Party) and David Perdue (Republican Party). 

Primary elections happened on June 9, 2020. The Republican Party primary only had one person, David Perdue, as he was Senator before the election. There were many people in the Democratic Party primary, and Jon Oscoff won. These went against Libertarian Party candidate Shane T. Hazel. Nobody got more than 50% of the vote, so the top two (Oscoff and Perdue) went to a second round in January. Ossoff won the second round and became Senator.

[[Echinococcosis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Echinococcosis is an infection caused by tapeworms. Animals such as dogs and sheep are able to transmit the disease. Risk factors are coming in contact with feces of livestock, dogs and foxes. Humans become infected swallowing tapeworm eggs in the contaminated food. Then eggs can spread to liver, lungs and brain forming cysts. That is why Echinococcosis is also called Hydatid cyst disease. Cysts can be found using ultrasound, computer tomography, or magnetic resonance imaging. To confirm the diagnosis ELISA, immunological test should be done. Treatment includes antiparasitic medications. Surgical intervention such as cyst aspiration is recommended to avoid to prevent to spread of the infection.

[[Mulyadi Tamsir]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2021 deaths, Aviation deaths, Indonesian activists, Indonesian politicians

Mulyadi P. Tamsir (8 April 1981 – 9 January 2021) was an Indonesian student activist and politician. He was a member the People's Conscience Party. He was the chairman of the Muslim Students' Association from 2015 until 2018. Tamsir was born in Lampung, Indonesia. 

Tamsir was killed in a plane crash on 9 January 2021 outside Jakarta near the Java Sea, aged 39.

[[Harold Bornstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Donald Trump, American physicians, Businesspeople from New York City

Harold Nelson Bornstein (March 26, 1947 – January 8, 2021) was an American gastroenterologist. He was best known as Donald Trump's personal physician. He was his personal physician from 1980 until early 2018. He was born in New York City.

In May 2018 Bornstein said that Trump had told him what to write on a letter about his health over the telephone, then sent a car to pick it up.

Speaking to The New York Times in February 2017, Bornstein revealed that he was invited to and attended President Trump's inauguration with his wife Melissa. Bornstein told The Times that he enjoyed the attention from being known as the President's personal physician. Bornstein had hoped to be the Physician to the President, but the White House decided that Ronny Jackson would continue in that role.

Bornstein died on January 8, 2021 at the age of 73.

[[Oscar Rizzato]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Italian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Italy

Oscar Rizzato (28 February 1928 – 11 January 2021) was an Italian Roman Catholic prelate. He became a priest in 1954. He was created titular bishop of Virunum from 1989 until his death. He was born in Veneto, Italy.

Rizzato died on January 11, 2021 in Padua, Italy from problems caused by COVID-19, at the age of 91. 

[[Mona Malm]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish stage actors, Actors from Stockholm

Mona Malm (born Mona Kristina Ericsson; 24 January 1935 – 12 January 2021) was a Swedish actress. Her career began in 1957. Malm was born in Stockholm.

Malm was known for her roles in Smiles of a Summer Night (1955), The Seventh Seal (1957), All These Women (1964), Heja Roland! (1966), Fanny and Alexander (1982), Nånting levande åt Lame-Kal (1988), The Best Intentions (1992), The Tattooed Widow (1998) and After the Wedding (2006).

Malm died at a Stockholm hospital on 12 January 2021, at the age of 85.

[[Mimi Pond]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), American cartoonists, American television writers, American comics writers

Mimi Pond is an American cartoonist. She wrote the first episode of The Simpsons ("Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire"). Producers did not allow her to write more episodes because she is a woman. She wrote two memoirs. She wrote Over Easy in 2014 and The Customer is Always Wrong in 2017.

She is married to the artist Wayne White. They have two children, Woodrow and Lulu White.

[[I Am Cuba]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 drama movies, Cuban movies, Russian movies, Soviet culture, Movies directed by Mikhail Kalatozov

I Am Cuba (Soy Cuba; Я Куба, Ya Kuba) is a 1964 anthology drama movie directed by Mikhail Kalatozov. The movie was Soviet-Cuba and was not popular in both countries. It was thought to be a lost movie until being re-discovered in 1994. 

The movie is shot in black and white.

[[John Ward (New Zealand cricketer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, New Zealand cricketers

John Thomas Ward (11 March 1937 – 12 January 2021) was a New Zealand cricketer. He played as a wicket-keeper in eight Test matches between 1964 and 1968. He was born in Timaru, New Zealand. He played for Canterbury from 1959 until 1971. He also played for the national team from 1964 to 1968. 

Ward died in Timaru on 12 January 2021 after a short illness, aged 83.

[[Mario Cecchini]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Italian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Italy

Mario Cecchini (25 January 1933 – 13 January 2021) was an Italian Roman Catholic bishop. He became a priest in 1958. He was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Fano-Fossombrone-Cagli-Pergola from 1986 until his resignation in 1998. He was born in Arcevia, Italy.

Cecchini died on 13 January 2021 from COVID-19 in Arcevia, aged 87.

[[Arcevia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Marche

Arcevia is a comune in the province of Ancona of the region of Marche, central-eastern Italy.

[[Moses Hamungole]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2021 deaths, Zambian people, Roman Catholic bishops, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic

Moses Hamungole (1 May 1967 – 13 January 2021) was a Zambian Roman Catholic bishop. Hamungole was born in Lusaka, Zambia. He became a priest in 1994. He was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Monze, Zambia from 2014 until his death in 2021.

Hamungole died on 13 January 2021 in Lusaka from COVID-19, aged 53.

[[Gimax]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Italian racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Milan

"Gimax", pseudonym of Carlo Franchi (1 January 1938 – 13 January 2021) was an Italian racing driver. He never raced under his real name. He was born in Milan. He entered one World Championship Formula One Grand Prix with Surtees, the 1978 Italian Grand Prix, but did not qualify. Gimax also participated in one non-Championship Formula One race, the 1979 Dino Ferrari Grand Prix.

Gimax died on 13 January 2021 in Milan, aged 83.

[[Vincent Logan]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, Scottish people, Roman Catholic bishops

The Right Reverend Vincent Paul Logan (30 June 1941 – 14 January 2021) was a Scottish Roman Catholic prelate. He was the ninth bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Dunkeld from 1981 to 2012. He was born in Bathgate, Scotland. He became a priest in 1964,

Logan died on 14 January 2021, aged 79.

[[Aleksandr Borisovich Nikitin]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2021 deaths, Russian footballers, Soviet sportspeople, Russian football managers

Aleksandr Borisovich Nikitin (Алекса́ндр Бори́сович Ники́тин; 4 February 1961 – 14 January 2021) was a Russian professional football coach and player. He was born in Stalingrad, Russia. He was known for playing and managing Rotor Volgograd. His playing career lasted from 1978 to 1993. His managing career lasted from 1997 to 2009.

Nikitin died on 14 January 2021 in Volgograd at the age of 59. 

[[Leonidas Pelekanakis]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2021 deaths, Greek sportspeople, Sailors, Olympians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Greece, People from Athens

Leonidas Pelekanakis (2 November 1962 – 14 January 2021) was a Greek sailor. He competed at the 1984 Summer Olympics, the 2000 Summer Olympics, and the 2004 Summer Olympics. He was born in Athens, Greece.

Pelekanakis died of COVID-19 on 14 January 2021 in Athens, aged 58.

[[Safwat El-Sherif]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Egyptian businesspeople, Egyptian politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Egypt

Mohamed Safwat El Sherif (محمد صفوت الشريف) (19 December 1933 – 14 January 2021) was an Egyptian politician and businessman. He was Chairman of the State Information Service. He was the Minister of Information from 1981 to 2004.

El Sherif died on 14 January 2021 in Cairo, Egypt from COVID-19 at the age of 88.

[[Kenneth Mitchell (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian voice actors, Actors from Toronto

Kenneth Alexander Mitchell (born 25 November 1974) is a Canadian actor. He was born in Toronto. His career began in 2000. He is known for playing many Klingon characters Star Trek: Discovery. He also played Deke Slayton in ABC's The Astronaut Wives Club television drama series.

In 2006, Mitchell married actress Susan May Pratt. They have two children.

In February 2020, Mitchell revealed that he was diagnosed with ALS in 2019.

[[Susan May Pratt]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Michigan, People from Lansing, Michigan

Susan May Pratt (born February 8, 1974) is an American actress. She played Mandella in 10 Things I Hate About You, Alicia in Drive Me Crazy, and Maureen Cummings in Center Stage.

Pratt was born in Lansing, Michigan. Her career began in 1998. In 2006, Pratt married Kenneth Mitchell. They have two children.

[[Charlotte, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan, County seats in Michigan

Charlotte (ʃ shar) is a city in the U.S. state of Michigan. In the 2010 census, 9,074 people lived here.  It is the county seat of Eaton County.

[[Lansing, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York

Lansing (ˈ) is a town in Tompkins County, New York, United States. 11,033 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Lansing (village), New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Lansing is a village in Tompkins County, New York, United States. 3,529 people lived here in the 2010 census.

The Village of Lansing is in the Town of Lansing. It is north of the City of Ithaca.

[[Methuen, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Massachusetts

Methuen m is a city in Essex County, Massachusetts, United States. 47,255 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Saratoga, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Texas

Saratoga is an unincorporated community in Hardin County, Texas, United States. It is located 36 northwest of Beaumont. The ZIP code is 77585.

[[Vidor, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Vidor (ˈ VY) is a city in western Orange County, Texas, United States.

[[Robert Stroud]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1963 deaths, American people convicted of manslaughter, American people convicted of murder, American people convicted of assault, People from Seattle, Washington, People from Metropolis, Illinois, Criminals from Illinois

Robert Franklin Stroud (January 28, 1890 – November 21, 1963), known as the "Birdman of Alcatraz", was an American convicted murderer, federal prisoner and author. He was one of the most notorious criminals in the United States. 

During his time at Leavenworth Penitentiary, he sold birds and became a respected ornithologist. He was transferred to Alcatraz, where he was incarcerated from 1942 to 1959. 

Stroud was never released from the federal prison system; he was imprisoned from 1909 to his death in 1963.

[[State Information Service]]

CATEGORIES: Egypt

The State Information Service is an Egyptian government agency. It reports directly to the Egyptian Presidency. It is the official media and public relations apparatus of the Egyptian state. It is responsible for regulating the affairs of foreign press and media correspondents in Egypt.

The Service was founded in 1954 by the Revolutionary Command Council. It abolished the Monarchy. Revolutionary Command Council member Salah Salem was SIS's first Chairman.

The current Chairman of SIS is Diaa Rashwan. He is a journalist and politician. He was appointed to the post by president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi in June 2017. Among the previous Chairmen of SIS was Safwat El-Sherif one of the leading figures in president Hosni Mubarak's government.

Chairmen of SIS

- Salah Salem (1954 - 1955)

- Amin Howeidi (1965 - 1966)

- Ahmed Asmat Abdel-Meguid (1967 - 1968)

- Safwat El-Sherif (1979 - 1980)

- Mamdouh El Beltagui (1983 - 1993)

- Nabil Othman (1994 - 2003)

- Taha Abdel Alim (2003 - 2004)

- Nasser Kamel (2005 - 2006)

- Diaa Rashwan (2017 - present)

[[José Luis Caballero]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2021 deaths, Mexican footballers, Sportspeople from Mexico City, Olympians

José Luis Caballero (21 June 1955 – 14 January 2021) was a Mexican footballer. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1976 Summer Olympics. He won a gold medal at the 1975 Pan American Games. He was born in Mexico City.

Caballero died on 14 January 2021 in Mexico City, aged 65.

[[Sinikka Nopola]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2021 deaths, Finnish writers, Journalists, Children's writers, People from Helsinki

Sinikka Marianna Nopola (26 November 1953 – 13 January 2021) was a Finnish children's writer. She published 80 books from 1987 until her death. Nopola's popular series were series Hayflower and Quiltshoe and Ricky Rapper. Nopola was born in Helsinki. She worked as a journalist for the newspaper Helsingin Sanomat.

Nopola died on 13 January 2021 in Helsinki, aged 67.

[[Antonello da Messina]]

CATEGORIES: Italian painters, 1430s births, 1479 deaths

Antonello da Messina (born 1429 or 1430 in Messina, died 1479) was an Italian painter from the 15th century. His real name was Antonio di Giovanni de Antonio, the da Messina simply refers to his origin. He was the first to use light in his paintings. With this, he was able to add some of what the Dutch painters of the time did already. Today, he is mostly known for portraits.

[[A Wicked Woman]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 movies, 1930s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, MGM movies, Movies directed by Charles Brabin

A Wicked Woman is a 1934 American drama movie directed by Charles Brabin and was based on the novel of the same name by Anne Austin. It stars Mady Christians, Charles Bickford, Betty Furness, Zelda Sears, Robert Taylor, Sterling Holloway and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[The Return of October]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Joseph H. Lewis

The Return of October is a 1948 American comedy movie directed by Joseph H. Lewis and starring Glenn Ford, Albert Sharpe, Terry Moore, James Gleason, Dame May Whitty, Lloyd Corrigan. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Bernd Kannenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, German Olympic gold medalists, Competitors in athletics

Bernhard "Bernd" Kannenberg (20 August 1942 – 13 January 2021) was a West German race walker. He won the 50 km event at the 1972 Summer Olympics, winning the gold medal. Kannenberg was born in Königsberg, East Prussia, Nazi Germany. After retiring from competitions he coached the German race walking team.

Kannenberg died on 13 January 2021, aged 78. 

[[Comic book convention]]

CATEGORIES: comics

A comic book convention, often called comic con is an event where people gather to talk about comic books. Fans of comic books will come to comic book conventions to meet other comic book fans, to meet with comic book authors, or to participate in many other activities related to comic books. The first comic book convention was held in 1964, and was called New York Comicon.

[[Tadanobu Asano]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese actors, 1973 births

Tadanobu Asano is a Japanese actor, musician, painter. He  was born in Kanagawa on November 27 in 1973. At the age of 16, he played a role in the Japanese famous TV show Kinpachi Sensei in 1988. It was the start of his career as an actor. He is also active on social media and has 255,000 followers on Instagram. 

[[New Hope Club]]

CATEGORIES: British pop music groups

New Hope Club is a British pop band formed in 2015. The members are Reece Bibby, Blake Richardson, and George Smith. All are multi-musicians; they play instruments, sing and write songs.  Bibby plays guitar, bass and drums. Richardson plays guitar, ukulele and piano. Smith plays guitar and eight other instruments. 

New Hope Club was influenced by The Beatles and Oasis. 

The album Welcome To The Club Pt. 2 released in October 2018 reached first place in iTunes in 10 countries. The song "Let Me Down Slow", released in January 2020, also received attention. The 2017 debut EP "Welcome to the Club" made them popular.

[[Shota Yasuda]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese actors, 1984 births

Shota Yasuda is a Japanese actor and singer. He is a member of idol group Kanjani∞, which is managed by Johnny & Associates. 

[[Ushiro Keisuke]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese people, Japanese sportspeople stubs

Ushiro Keisuke is a Japanese athlete.  He competes in decathalon, discus, javelin, long jump and pole vault.

[[Takefusa Kubo]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J3 League players, FC Tokyo players, FC Tokyo U-23 players, Yokohama F. Marinos players

Takefusa Kubo is a Japanese football player. He plays for the Japan national team.

[[Toshizo Hijikata]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese people, Samurai

Toshizo Hijikata lived in Japan during the late Edo  period. He was a member of Shinsengumi. They guarded the Shogun. And he was a Vice President of Shinsengumi. He supported the president, Isami Kondo. He was a very strict person. So he was feared as a Vice President of the ogre. He died in Hokkaido at the age of 35.

[[Demon Slayer]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s manga, 2010s television series, 2016 manga, 2019 television series debuts, Action television series, Adult Swim, Animation, Anime series, Anime series based on manga, Fantasy television series, Japanese movies, Manga series, Upcoming video games, Works about siblings

Demon Slayer became one of the representative comic books in 2020. Not only Japanese people but also people all over the world are fascinated by the comic book. And it expanded the range of success from 2019 to 2020, so it was featured on a great deal of media.

[[King Gnu]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese musical groups

King Gnu is a Japanese alternative rock band. The band is made up of 4 members: Daiki Tsuneta (guitar & vocal), Satoru Iguchi (keyboard & vocal), Kazuki Arai (bass) and Yu Seki (drum).

[[Slam Dunk (manga)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s manga

SLAM DUNK is a manga from Japan. It is about basketball.  It was written by Takehiko Inoue and serialized in Weekly Shonen jump from 1990 to 1996. This comic caused a big basketball boom in the 1990's. As of August 2018, the cumulative circulation of the domestic series has exceeded 120 million. It was made into 31 comic books and 101 animations. Its animations were broadcast on TV Asahi from 1993 to 1996.  The comics have been printed in 17 countries.

In 2020, Slam Dunk was voted the third most popular manga in Japan.

[[NiziU]]

NiziU is a Japanese idol girl group. In the word NiziU, “Nizi” means the symbol of the audition project, and “U” means you, that is to say, members and people who like this group. In the group, there are nine members.

[[Terrigal]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Australia

Terrigal is the coastal town in Australia. Terrigal is famous for some places and beaches.

[[Gott erhalte, Gott beschütze]]

CATEGORIES: National anthems, Austria-Hungary

"Gott erhalte, Gott beschütze" was the anthem of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. It used the tune of "Gott erhalte Franz den Kaiser" which was a personal hymn for Emperor Francis II of the Holy Roman Empire.

[[Grace VanderWaal]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 births, Living people, American pop singers, American pop musicians, Singer-songwriters from New York, Musicians from New York, Singers from Kansas, Musicians from Kansas, Writers from Kansas, Actors from New York, Actors from Kansas

Grace Avery VanderWaal (born January 15, 2004) is an American singer-songwriter and actress. She is known for her ukulele performances and for winning the 11th season of America's Got Talent.

[[Namahage]]

CATEGORIES: Akita Prefecture, Japanese culture, Japanese folklore, Shinto

One of the strangest events takes place around Akita.  It is called Namahage.  Namahage is a traditional culture in Akita prefecture.  The main event of namahage is very terrible for children.  The frightfully dressed men portray Namahage equipped with masks, knives and traditional capes made of straw during a New Year's ritual of the Oga peninsula.

On New Year’s Eve, they march along a street and make inhabitants go back to their homes. Then they visit houses door to door, scolding children who may be guilty of laziness or bad behavior.

[[ENHYPEN]]

CATEGORIES: K-pop music groups

In 2020, a new K-pop boys group was born. The name is ENHYPEN. They belong to Belift Lab. Their fan name is ENGENE. ENHYPEN is produced by Bang Si-hyuk who is the director of Bighit entertainment that BTS belongs to. They already gathered attention from all over the world before debut. Because there were applications to audition from around the world. And, the seven members were chosen.

[[Just Dance (game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, Video game series, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation 4 games, PlayStation 5 games, Stadia games, Wii games, Wii U games, Xbox 360 games, Xbox One games

Just Dance is a video game series made by Ubisoft. Just Dance was named after a song sung by Lady Gaga. The first Just Dance was released in 2009 in North America, Europe, and Australia. It was Just Dance Wii for the Nintendo Wii.

[[Gen Hoshino]]

January 2021

Gen Hoshino is a Japanese singer-songwriter. His songs are very famous and used in various TV shows. Meanwhile, he has been famous for his acting in Japanese dramas and films. He also improves his career by publishing some books and broadcasting his own radio channel. Therefore, he has been rewarded for his efforts with gaining his fame. 

[[Higashine, Yamagata]]

CATEGORIES: Yamagata Prefecture

Higashine city is one of the cities of Yamagata prefecture in Japan. It is on the border of Yamagata prefecture and Miyagi prefecture and it is basin. In February 2020, 47,910 people lived there. The size is 206,94 square kilometer. Higashine is especially famous for many kinds of fruits. 

Sightseeing

There is an airport called ‘Oishi Yamagata airport’ built in 1964. There were charter flights from Taiwan until 2019 and many Taiwanese visited Higashine city by boarding them. 

There is a big old tree called ‘Okeyaki’ at Higashine elementary school. The age of it is said to be more than 1500 years and it has been designated as a national nature treasure. 

Higashine onsen is famous for relaxing. There is also a foot bath in the onsen street. Their hotels are also used for many kinds of gatherings like after the coming of age ceremony. 

Marathon competition called ‘Sakuranbo Marathon’ is held every June. It started in 2002. Anyone can join it , so many people from all over Japan, about 9000 people ran in the race in 2019. Runners can choose to run from 3km, 5km, 10km, and 21km, so it is easy to join even from children to a wide range of ages. 

Fruits

Higashine city is famous for some kinds of fruits and is called ‘kingdom of fruits’. Its early summer cherries are very popular. Higashine grows the most cherries in Japan and one of the breed, ‘Satonishiki’ was born here. Satonishiki was born in 1928. And now ‘Higashine Sakuranbo’ was classified as GI (geographical indication) in 2017 and it is found as a gift. There are reasons this city is suitable for growing cherries. There has not been so much rain and sunlight time in June. Also the drainage is good and the temperature is suitable. That is why the environment is the best to culture cherries.

La France is another famous fruit. It is fruit that you can enjoy in fall seasons. 80% of the La France production in Japan is in Yamagata prefecture. The image character of Higashine city, ‘Tanto-kun’ is a La France motif.

Education

Higashine is the only city where the population is increasing in Yamagata. It is because they put effort into making the environment for raising children.

‘Asobia-land’ is a kind of park where children can enjoy exercise built in 2013. Many little children gather there and enjoy playing outside.

‘Tantokuru center’ is a community center and place where children can exercise inside. Children to elderly visit as a place to interact with civilians. In 2015, Their Majesties the Emperor and Empress visited there .

Touohgakkan junior & senior high school is next to the city hall. It was built in 2016.  

[[Tamagotchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 video games, Toys

Tamagotchi is a handheld video game. It was released in 1996. It was created in 1996 by Aki Maita and sold by Bandai. It is a strategy game. The main characters are also called Tamagotchi. The Tamagotchi are electronic pets, and the player takes care of them as part of the game. A new version of Tamagotchi was released in 2020.

[[29th century]]

CATEGORIES: 3rd millennium, Centuries

The 29th century will begin on January 1, 2801 and will end on December 31, 2900.

[[Costco]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s establishments in Washington (state), 1983 establishments in the United States, Supermarkets of the United States, Companies listed on NASDAQ

Costco Wholesale Corporation (COST), which is Costco for short, is an American operator of discount stores known as warehouse clubs or wholesale clubs. Abundance of products are sold with deeply discounted prices to club members who need to pay annual membership fees. Costco is based in Issaquah, Washington and one of the largest retailers in the world. 

[[KANA-BOON]]

KANA-BOON is a Japanese rock band. They are from Osaka and now they live and work in Tokyo. They made their debut in 2013 and released a lot of mini CDs and albums until now. And there are many of their fans not only in Japan but also in foreign countries.

[[Narashino]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan

Narashino is a town in Chiba prefecture in Japan. Its population density is approximately 8000. It is the 4th largest city in Chiba prefecture.

[[30th century]]

CATEGORIES: 3rd millennium, Centuries

The 30th century will begin on January 1, 2901 and will end on December 31, 3000. It will be the last century of the 3rd millennium.

[[Ahmedabad District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Gujarat

Ahmedabad, in western India, is the largest city in the state of Gujarat. The Sabarmati River runs through its center. On the western bank is the Gandhi Ashram at Sabarmati, which displays the spiritual leader’s living quarters and artifacts. Across the river, the Calico Museum of Textiles, once a cloth merchant's mansion, has a significant collection of antique and modern fabrics. ― Google

[[Goshuin]]

CATEGORIES: Japan, Shinto

Goshuin is a seal or impression of a Shinto shrine or temple that is stamped on visitors. In addition to affixing the seal, it is common to have the date of worship, the name of the temple, the enshrined deity, the name of the principal image, etc. They are written in black ink. Also, the notebook used to receive Goshuin is called "Goshuin-cho".

[[6th millennium]]

CATEGORIES: Millennia

The sixth millennium is the millennium that will start on January 1, 5001 and will end on December 31, 6000.

[[7th millennium]]

CATEGORIES: Millennia

The seventh millennium is the millennium that will start on January 1, 6001 and will end on December 31, 7000.

[[8th millennium]]

CATEGORIES: Millennia

The eighth millennium is the millennium that will start on January 1, 7001 and will end on December 31, 8000. 

[[9th millennium]]

CATEGORIES: Millennia

[[Shirley Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, US Republican Party politicians

Shirley Johnson (December 14, 1937 – January 14, 2021) was an American politician. She was a member of the Republican Party. Johnson was born in Detroit, Michigan. From 1981 to 1992 and 1993 to 1998, Johnson was a member of the Michigan House of Representatives. From 1999 to 2004, she was a member of the Michigan Senate.

Johnson died on January 14, 2021 in Royal Oak, Michigan at the age of 83.

[[Gary Gensler]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Members of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Businesspeople from Baltimore, Maryland, Politicians from Baltimore, Maryland, US Democratic Party politicians

Gary Gensler (born October 18, 1957) is an American businessman and politician. He is the 33rd and current Chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission since April 17, 2021.

Gensler was the 11th chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under President Barack Obama from May 26, 2009 to January 3, 2014. He was the Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance from 1999 to 2001. Gensler was the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Markets from 1997 to 1999.

On January 12, 2021, then President-elect Joe Biden nominated Gensler to be the 33rd Chair of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. On April 14, 2021, his nomination was confirmed in the Senate by a vote of 53–45.

[[NYSE Chicago]]

CATEGORIES: 1880s establishments in Illinois, 1882 establishments in the United States, Companies based in Chicago, Illinois, Stock exchanges, Buildings and structures in Chicago, Illinois

NYSE Chicago, formerly known as the Chicago Stock Exchange (CHX), is a stock exchange in Chicago, Illinois, United States. The exchange is a national securities exchange and self-regulatory organization. It works with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) bought CHX in July 2018.

[[Qveen Herby]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, American rap musicians, American singers, Singers from Nebraska‎

Amy Renee Noonan (born April 29, 1986), known by her stage name Qveen Herby, is an American rapper, singer and songwriter.

[[Dustin Diamond]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from California, Movie directors from California, Musicians from California, Actors from California, People from San Jose, California, Criminals from California, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in Florida

Dustin Neil Diamond (January 7, 1977 – February 1, 2021) was an American actor, director, comedian, and musician. He was best known for his role as Samuel "Screech" Powers in Saved by the Bell. Diamond was born in San Jose, California.

On December 26, 2014, Diamond was arrested in Ozaukee County, Wisconsin for stabbing a man at a bar. On May 29, 2015, Diamond was convicted of two misdemeanors and was sentenced to four months in prison. He served three months and was released on probation.

In January 2021, Diamond was diagnosed with stage-4 small-cell lung carcinoma. He died from the disease while undergoing chemotherapy in Cape Coral, Florida on February 1, 2021 at the age of 44.

[[Ozaukee County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Wisconsin counties

Ozaukee County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. At the 2010 census, 6,395 people lived here. Its county seat is Port Washington.

[[Port Washington, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin

Port Washington is the county seat of Ozaukee County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.

[[Sjarifuddin Baharsjah]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Indonesian politicians, Academics

[[Justika Baharsjah]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Indonesian politicians, Indonesian activists

Justika Sjarifuddin Baharsjah (born 7 May 1937) is an Indonesian activist and politician. She was born in Cianjur, West Java. Baharsjah was a member of the cabinets of Suharto and B. J. Habibie. She was Minister of Agriculture from March to May 1998. She also was Minister of Social Affairs from 1998 to 1999. She was married to Sjarifuddin Baharsjah.

[[Red River]]

Red River usually means one of the following:

Red River may also mean:

[[Red River (1948 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Howard Hawks

Red River is a 1948 western movie. Howard Hawks directed and produced the movie. It stars actors John Wayne and Montgomery Clift. It is about the first cattle drive from Texas to Kansas along the Chisholm Trail. Red River was added to the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress in 1990 for being important. 

[[Steven G. Bradbury]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, American lawyers, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Portland, Oregon, Living people

Steven G. Bradbury (born September 12, 1958) is an American politician. He is a member of the Republican Party serving as the acting Secretary of Transportation after Secretary Chao had resigned due to the storming of the United States Capitol.

[[Gabriela Silang]]

CATEGORIES: 1731 births, 1763 deaths, Filipino military people, Executed people

María Josefa Gabriela Cariño de Silang (19 March 1731 – 20 September 1763) was a Filipina military leader best known for her role as the female leader of the Ilocano independence movement from Spain. She took over from her second husband Diego Silang after his death in 1763, leading her people for four months before she was captured and executed by the colonial government of the Captaincy General of the Philippines. She is remembered as the "Joan of Arc of Ilocandia". 

[[The Big Sleep (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s crime movies, American crime movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Howard Hawks

The Big Sleep is a 1946 American crime movie directed by Howard Hawks and was based on the 1939 novel of the same name by Raymond Chandler. It stars Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, John Ridgely, Martha Vickers, Sonia Darrin, Dorothy Malone, Peggy Knudsen, Regis Toomey, Charles Waldron and was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[Papaya Bull]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s animated television series, Brazilian television series

Papaya Bull is a Brazilian cartoon series, In Cobraction with Disney XD which is being shown by Nickelodeon Brazil. The series in co-production with TeamTO, Cake Entertainment, Boutique Filmes, Nickelodeon and NBCUniversal International Networks. Produced by Birdo Studio, who also worked on Cartoon Network and TV Cultura, and 52 Animation Studio.

[[Video recorder]]

Video recorder is a camera that can record video.

[[Fantasy world]]

CATEGORIES: Fantasy, Fictional locations

A fantasy world is an author-conceived world created in fictional media, such as literature, movie or games.  Typical fantasy worlds involve magic or magical abilities, nonexistent technology and sometimes, either a historical or futuristic theme.

[[Brawlhalla]]

CATEGORIES: Indie video games

A game currently owned by Ubisoft, it has super smash bros type gameplay and has a player base of 50 million and climbing.

[[Trokosi]]

CATEGORIES: Slavery

Trokosi is a ritual that is practised in parts of Western Africa, mainly in Ghana, Togo, and Benin, with traditional religions. In these religions, children, aged between 5 and 10 years are given to the priests, to "pay for" sins of the family or to ask for clemency of the gods. Most often, they are girls, boys are given only rarely. These children, who are also called Trokosi, have to serve the priests. They have to do hard work for the priests, and will not get paid for this work. They will also be exploited for sex. If a trokosi-girl dies or manages to flee, the family has to provide another girl. 

All the countries affected made Trokosi a crime, which is punishable with up to three years in prison. Despite this, no case of Trokosi ever came to a court in one of these countries.

[[Papurana waliesa]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Oceania, Frogs

The Papurana waliesa is a frog from Papua New Guinea.  Scientists saw it on Fergusson Island, Goodenough Island, and Normanby Island.  They also saw it on the Pini Range in Milne Bay and in the Owen Stanley Mountains.

[[Cake Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 establishments in the United Kingdom, Entertainment companies, Companies of the United Kingdom, London Borough of Camden

Cake Entertainment is an independent company specializing in the making of children's entertainment.

[[Lyrical dance]]

CATEGORIES: Dance types

Lyrical dance is a dance style that has aspects of ballet, jazz, acrobatics, and modern dance.  The style is usually danced at a faster pace than ballet but not as fast as jazz. Lyrical dance is a category of dance competitions.

[[Vero Boquete]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Spanish footballers, People from Santiago de Compostela, Living people

Verónica Boquete (born 9 April 1987 in Santiago de Compostela) is a Spanish footballer who plays as a midfielder for the Associazione Calcio Milan of Serie A in Italy. She was international with the Spanish team, of which she became captain.

Since February 2015 she has been a UEFA ambassador for the development of women's football, and since 2017 she has been part of the CommonGoal community of footballers, an initiative led by Juan Mata, also from Spain, who fights for the social reintegration of children in through the funds raised with 1% of the salary of the community footballers.

[[Borja Iglesias]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Spanish footballers, People from Santiago de Compostela, Living people

Borja Iglesias Quintás (born 17 January 1993 in Santiago de Compostela, Spain) is a Spanish football player. He plays as a forward and his current team is Real Betis Balompié from La Liga.

[[Yago Iglesias]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Spanish football managers, People from Santiago de Compostela, Living people

Santiago "Yago" Iglesias Estepa (born 6 October 1982) is a Spanish football manager, currently in charge of SD Compostela.

[[Personalized video game]]

CATEGORIES: Video games

A personalized video game is a video game made for specific people, usually as a luxury gift. It can contain personal information of who the game is for. They are usually made for birthdays, anniversaries and engagement proposals.

[[Red states and blue states]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United States

When elections are done in the United States, single US states are classified by their majority. In that context, in a blue state, the majority voted for a Democratic candidate, in a red state they voted for a Republican candidate. This classification has been in use since the year 2000. If people talk about a red or a blue state outside the context of an election, they refer to the party  most people in the state usually support.  

[[The Simpsons Archive]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons, Entertainment websites

The Simpsons Archive is a website made by fans of The Simpsons. It has facts on episodes of the show. The domain name used to be snpp.com. SNPP is an acronym for the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant. 

Matt Groening (creator of The Simpsons) said in 2003 that the staff of the show would sometimes go to websites to get ideas. He said that "one of the best is www.snpp.com." He thought that fans on the website think "every episode is the worst ever."

[[Carl Bosch]]

CATEGORIES: 1874 births, 1940 deaths, German chemists, German businesspeople, German Nobel Prize winners, People from Cologne

Carl Bosch was a German chemist. He developed the Haber-Bosch process which allows the production of Ammonia. BASF developed a procedure to industrially produce fertilizers on the base of nitrogen. These fertilizers can be produced with the Haber-Bosch process. Today, Nitrogen-based fertilizers are commonly used to help food production in the world. Carl Bosch was also a diplomat: He had a big influence on the Treaty of Versailles, which ended the First World War. He also worked to find a solutions about finding ways to end hunger after the war. Between 1919 and 1925 he was the head of BASF. later he became involved with I.G. Farben, a chemical company he founded. At that time, I.G. Farben was the biggest chemical company in the world. In 1931, Bosch was awarded the Nobel Prize for Chemistry, for his work in high-pressure chemistry, together with Friedrich Bergius. In 1937, he followed Max Planck as the head of the Kaiser Wilhelm Society. Because of the political situation in Germany, Bosch developed depression. In 1939, he tried to commit suicide, but failed. He died a year later, in Heidelberg.

[[Crimean Tatars]]

CATEGORIES: Republic of Crimea, Ethnic groups in Europe, Ethnic groups in Asia, Bulgarian people, Romanian people, Russian people, Turkish people, Ukrainian people, Uzbekistani people

Crimean Tatars (Qırımtatarlar), are an East European Turkic people who are indigenous to Crimea, and mainly live there. Their native language is Crimean Tatar.

[[Oil and Natural Gas Corporation]]

Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) is an Indian public sector multinational crude oil and gas company. Its registered office is in New Delhi. It is owned by the Government of India, under the administrative control of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. It is the largest oil and gas exploration and production company in the country, and produces around 70% of India's crude oil (equivalent to around 57% of the country's total demand) and around 84% of its natural gas.5 In November 2010, the Government of India conferred the Maharatna status to ONGC.6

In a survey by Government of India for fiscal year 2019–20, it was ranked as the largest profit making PSU in India.7 It is ranked 7th among the Top 250 Global Energy Companies by Platts.ONGC was founded on 14 August 1956 by Government of India. It is involved in exploring for and exploiting hydrocarbons in 26 ONGC has discovered 6 of the 7 commercially producing Indian Basins, in the last 50 years, adding over 7.15 billion tonnes of In-place Oil & Gas volume of hydrocarbons in Indian basins. Against a global decline of production from matured fields, ONGC has maintained production from its brownfields like Mumbai High, with the help of aggressive investments in various IOR (Improved Oil Recovery) and EOR (Enhanced Oil Recovery) schemes. ONGC has many matured fields with a current recovery factor of 25–33%.5 Its Reserve Replacement Ratio for between 2005 and 2013, has been more than one

[[Cody Bellinger]]

CATEGORIES: American baseball players, Los Angeles Dodgers players

Cody James Bellinger (#35) is a 6'4" professional baseball player playing for the Los Angeles Dodgers, bellinger plays First Base and Outfield. Bellinger was drafted by LA in the fourth round of the 2013 MLB (Major League Baseball) draft. Cody Bellinger made his MLB debut in 2017 against the San Francisco Giants.

[[2021 Sulawesi earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 disasters in Asia, 2020s in Indonesia, Earthquakes in Indonesia, Earthquakes in the 2020s, History of Sulawesi, January 2021 events

The 2021 Sulawesi earthquake hit the Majene Regency, in the province of West Sulawesi, on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi on 15 January at 02:28 WITA. It had a magnitude of w6.2. This earthquake was felt as far away as Makassar, the capital of South Sulawesi, and Palu in Central Sulawesi. 

Several buildings were destroyed, such as a three-storey building in Mamuju. 

42 people are confirmed dead and 820 more injured.

[[Jefferson, New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New Hampshire

Jefferson is a town in Coos County, New Hampshire, United States. 1,107 people lived here at the 2010 census. The town is sometimes known as "Dartmouth".

[[Mickey Edwards]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, United States representatives from Oklahoma, Politicians from Cleveland, Ohio, Politicians from Oklahoma City, US Republican Party politicians, Independent politicians in the United States

Marvin Henry "Mickey" Edwards (born July 12, 1937) is an American politician. He was a Republican member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Oklahoma's 5th congressional district from 1977 to 1993.

Edwards was born in Cleveland, Ohio. He studied at the University of Oklahoma and at Oklahoma City University.

In January 2021, Edwards said he was no longer a member of the Republican Party because he felt that it was a "cult serving Donald Trump".

[[Osian Ellis]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Welsh musicians, Composers, People from Flintshire

Osian Gwynn Ellis CBE (8 February 1928 – 6 January 2021) was a Welsh harpist and composer. He was known as the first harpist of the Melos Ensemble and for his musical works with Benjamin Britten. He was born in Ffynnongroyw, Flintshire, Wales.

Ellis died on 6 January 2021, aged 92.

[[Eric Lander]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Directors of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, American mathematicians, American geneticists, Scientists from New York City, Politicians from New York City, US Democratic Party politicians

Eric Steven Lander (born  February 3, 1957) is an American mathematician and geneticist. He has been the 11th Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy since 2021 during the Joe Biden administration.

Lander is a professor of biology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). She was a professor of systems biology at Harvard Medical School.

He was a former member of the Whitehead Institute, and the founding director of the Broad Institute. He was co-chair of U.S. President Barack Obama's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. He is a 1987 MacArthur Fellow.

On January 15, 2021 Lander was nominated to be Director of Office of Science and Technology Policy by then President-elect Joe Biden. Biden also upgraded the office to cabinet-level office. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on May 28, 2021.

[[Carlos Armando Biebrich]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, Mexican lawyers, Mexican politicians

Carlos Armando Biebrich Torres (19 November 1939 – 14 January 2021) was a Mexican lawyer and politician. He was a member the Institutional Revolutionary Party. He was Governor of Sonora from 1973 to 1975. He was a member of the Chamber of Deputies from 1967 to 1970.

Armando Biebrich died on 14 January 2021 in Hermosillo, Sonora from COVID-19 at the age of 81.

[[Cliff Burvill]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Australian Olympians, Cyclists, Sportspeople from New South Wales, Accidental deaths from falls

Cliff Burvill (26 March 1937 – 14 January 2021) was an Australian cyclist. He competed in the team pursuit event at the 1956 Summer Olympics. He was born in Coffs Harbour, New South Wales.

Burvill died on 14 January 2021 after a fall at a bicycle track in Byron Bay, New South Wales at the age of 83.

[[Boris Grachevsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2021 deaths, Russian movie directors, Russian screenwriters, Russian movie actors, Russian television actors, Russian television presenters, Television directors, Television writers, Writers from Moscow, Actors from Moscow, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Russia

Boris Grachevsky (Russian: Борис Юрьевич Грачевский; March 18, 1949 – January 14, 2021) was a Russian movie director, screenwriter, and actor. He was artistic director of the children's television show and magazine Yeralash. Grachevsky was born in Moscow, Russia.

Grachevsky died on January 14, 2021 in Moscow from COVID-19, aged 71.

[[Melanio Asensio]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish athletes, Spanish Olympians

Melanio Asensio Montes (18 May 1936 – 15 January 2021) was a Spanish sprinter. He competed in the men's 200 metres at the 1960 Summer Olympics. Asensio was born in Bimenes, Spain.

Asensio died on 15 January 2021 at the age of 84.

[[Vicente Cantatore]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Argentine footballers, Argentine football managers, Chilean footballers

Vicente Cantatore (6 October 1935 – 15 January 2021) was an Argentine-Chilean football player and manager. He was born in Rosario, Argentina. His playing career lasted from 1955 to 1970. His managing career lasted from 1980 to 2001.

He played for Talleres de Córdoba, Tigre, San Lorenzo, Rangers de Talca, Santiago Wanderers and Deportes Concepción.

He managed the Chilean national team, Real Valladolid and Sevilla.

Cantatore died on 15 January 2021 in Valladolid, Spain at the age of 85.

[[Michael Shaw, Baron Shaw of Northstead]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2021 deaths, UK MPs 1959–1964, UK MPs 1966–1970, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, Former MEPs, MEPs for the United Kingdom, Former Conservative MPs (UK), People from Leeds

Michael Norman Shaw, Baron Shaw of Northstead (9 October 1920 – January 2021) was a British Conservative Party politician. He was a Member of Parliament (MP) from 1960 to 1964 and from 1966 to 1992. He was a member of the National Liberal, before becoming a Conservative. He was born in Leeds, West Yorkshire.

From 1973 to 1979, he was a Member of the European Parliament.

Shaw turned 100 in October 2020. He died three months later in January 2021.

[[Siegfried Pank]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, German academics, Cellists, German musicians, People from Saxony-Anhalt

Siegfried Pank (born 24 March 1936) is a German cellist and viol player. He was a member of the Gewandhausorchester in Leipzig from 1962 to 1980. He also performed with the Neues Bachisches Collegium Musicum.

He lectured cello and viol at the Musikhochschule Leipzig from 1984, as professor from 1988 to 2001. He helped start the International Telemann Association in 1991.

Plank was born in Salzwedel, Saxony-Anhalt.

[[Key Largo]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s crime movies, 1940s drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on plays, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by John Huston

Key Largo is a 1948 American crime drama movie directed by John Huston and was based on the 1939 play of the same name by Maxwell Anderson. It stars Humphrey Bogart, Edward G. Robinson, Lauren Bacall, Lionel Barrymore, Claire Trevor (in her Oscar winning role), Thomas Gomez, Marc Lawrence and was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[PogChamp]]

CATEGORIES: Internet culture

PogChamp is an emote that is used on the streaming platform Twitch. It is used to express excitement, joy or shock. The image shows the streamer Ryan "Gootecks" Gutierrez with a surprised expression. The original emoticon originates from a video that was uploaded to YouTube on November 26, 2010, which shows behind-the-scenes recordings that were posted on Gutierrez's YouTube channel "Cross Counter TV" The PogChamp emote was added to Twitch's list of global emotes starting from 2012. However, the original emote was later removed by Twitch in January 2021, after Gutierrez posted on his Twitter page about supporting the 2021 storming of the United States Capitol. Since January 8, 2021, a different person is shown as the face of PogChamp every 24 hours.

Since February 12, 2021, the original KomodoHype emote now replaces the PogChamp emote. This now means that there are now two duplicated versions of the KomodoHype emote.

[[Alexis Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Video game designers, Award winning writers, British science fiction writers, British businesspeople, Living people

Alexis Kennedy (born 1972) is a British video game developer and writer. He makes independent or 'indie' games. This means his games are not made by big companies, but small groups of people. He made the small games company Failbetter Games in 2009, and was its CEO until 2016. In 2017, he made a new company called Weather Factory. Kennedy's games are known for being different to most video games. He refers to them as "weird" and "experimental", meaning they have new ideas and work differently to other games.

[[2020 United States Senate election in New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, New Jersey

An election happened on November 3, 2020, to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of New Jersey. The three people in the election were Cory Booker (Democratic Party), Rik Mehta (Republican Party) and Madelyn Hoffman (Green Party). There were also two independent people in the election. Cory Booker easily won the election and went back to the senate for a second time.

Two primary elections were held on July 7,2020. There were two people in the Democratic Party primary election and there were five people in the Republican Party primary election. Cory Booker won the Democratic Party primary election and Rik Mehta won the Republican Party primary election.

[[Deirdre Barlow]]

CATEGORIES: Coronation Street, Television characters

Deirdre Barlow (also Hunt, Langton and Rachid) is a fictional character from the British ITV soap opera, Coronation Street, played by Anne Kirkbride. She made her first screen appearance  on 20 November 1972, her last appearance was on 8 October 2014.

Kirkbride decided to take an long break from the soap in autumn 2014. She last appeared on-screen on 8 October 2014. She died in January 2015, before she could return to work. Her character Deirdre was killed off and given a farewell storyline, with her "funeral" taking place on 13 July 2015.

[[Hilda Ogden]]

CATEGORIES: Coronation Street, Television characters

Hilda Ogden (also Crabtree) is a fictional character from the British ITV soap opera, Coronation Street. She is one of the best-known regular characters in the serial. Her name became synonymous with a classic hard-working Northern working-class woman. She was played by Jean Alexander from 1964 to 1987. 

[[Eric Scullin]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Musicians from Los Angeles

Eric Scullin is an American musical artist and producer based in Mount Washington, Los Angeles. He is the lead singer of indie rock duo band Dysplay.

[[Rajat Choudhary]]

CATEGORIES: Indian men's volleyball players, Living people

Rajat Choudhary is an Indian Team Volleyball Player (born 11 April 1996), known as Rajat is an integral part of current India men's national volleyball team.

[[Geoff Barnett (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, English footballers, Sportspeople from Cheshire

Geoffrey Colin Barnett (16 October 1946 – 15 January 2021) was an English footballer. He played as a goalkeeper. He was born in Northwich, England. His playing career lasted from 1962 to 1980. He played for Everton, Arsenal and the Minnesota Kicks.

Barnett died on 15 January 2021 at the age of 74.

[[Navy Blue and Gold (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 movies, 1930s drama movies, American drama movies, MGM movies, Movies directed by Sam Wood

Navy Blue and Gold is a 1937 American drama movie. It is directed by Sam Wood. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. The plot revolves around the experiences of three young men attending the United States Naval Academy.

[[Royal National Theatre]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s establishments in England, 1976 establishments in the United Kingdom, Theatres in the United Kingdom, Buildings and structures in London, London Borough of Lambeth

The Royal National Theatre in London, commonly known as the National Theatre (NT), is one of the United Kingdom's three most well known publicly funded performing arts center. It is known as the National Theatre of Great Britain. It was founded by Laurence Olivier.

[[Elijah Moshinsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Television directors, Theatre directors, People from Melbourne, People from Shanghai

Elijah Moshinsky (8 January 1946 – 14 January 2021) was an Australian opera director, theatre director and television director. He worked at the Royal Opera House, the Metropolitan Opera, the Royal National Theatre and BBC Television. Moshinsky was born in Shanghai and but was raised in Melbourne.

Moshinsky died on 14 January 2021 in London, aged 75.

[[Gildardo García]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2021 deaths, Colombian sportspeople, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Colombia, Chess grandmasters

Gildardo García (9 March 1954 - 15 January 2021) was a Colombian chess player. He became Colombia's second Grandmaster in 1992. He won the Colombian national champion 10 times.

In 2006, he played in the chess olympiads for Colombia.

García died in Medellín, Colombia from COVID-19 on 15 January 2021, aged 66.

[[Shashi Tharoor]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Indian politicians, Indian National Congress politicians, Indian writers, Indian journalists, English writers by location of origin

Shashi Tharoor (born 9 March 1956) is an Indian politician. He is also a writer and retired international diplomat. He has been Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha from Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, since 2009. He used to be Under-Secretary General of the United Nations. He also tried to become Secretary-General in 2006, but lost to Ban Ki Moon. 

[[B. S. Gnanadesikan]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2021 deaths, Indian politicians

B. S. Gnanadesikan (20 January 1949 – 15 January 2021) was an Indian politician. He was born in Tamil Nadu, India. He was a member of the Tamil Maanila Congress. From 2001 to 2013, Gnanadesikan was a member of the Rajya Sabha. 

Gnanadesikan died on 15 January 2021 in Chennai, India at the age of 71.

[[Salleh Abas]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Malaysian politicians, Lawyers, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Malaysia

Mohamed Salleh bin Abas (25 August 1929 – 16 January 2021) was a Malaysian politician and lawyer. He was Lord President of the Supreme Court of Malaysia from 1984 to 1988. From 1999 to 2004, he was a member of the Terengganu State Legislative Assembly. Abas was a member of the Malaysian Islamic Party.

Abas died on 16 January 2021 at a hospital in Kuala Terengganu, Malaysia from COVID-19 at the age of 91.

[[Anak Krakatoa]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Indonesia, Mountains of Asia, Islands of Indonesia, Calderas, Uninhabited islands

The Anak Krakatoa (Child of Krakatoa) or Anak Krakatau is a small volcanic island in the Sunda Strait.  It is between the island of Java and Sumatra. Mount Anak Krakatoa is a leftover piece of Mount Krakatoa, which erupted in 1883. After the eruption of Krakatoa, new volcanic activity began on the bottom of the ocean along the same line as the previous volcanoes. In early 1928, a new volcano grew until its top came above the water. By 1930 it had become a small island. The volcano has been active sporadically since that time. The volcano has continued to grow to an elevation of about 1,000 feet (300 metres) above the sea. It has became famous because it erupted in 2018, causing a tsunami that killed many people and damaged buildings and property.

[[Michael Bryce]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths

Michael John Strachan Bryce AUS (21 June 1938 – 16 January 2021) was an Australian architect and graphic and industrial designer. He was the husband of the 25th Governor-General of Australia, Dame Quentin Bryce. He was born in Brisbane, Australia.

Bryce died on 16 January 2021 after a long-illness, aged 82.

[[James E. O'Grady]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Politicians from Chicago, US Democratic Party politicians, US Republican Party politicians, Police officers

James E. O'Grady (born 1929) is an American law enforcement official and politician. He was the Superintendent of the Chicago Police Department from 1978 to 1979 and in 1983. O'Grady was Sheriff of Cook County, Illinois from 1986 to 1990. O'Grady was born in Chicago.

[[Hillside Strangler]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 in the United States, 1978 in California, Murder in the 1970s, Murder in California, American serial killers, Duos

The Hillside Strangler, later the Hillside Stranglers, were two American serial killers who killed ten young females in Los Angeles between October 1977 and February 1978.

It was thought at first that only one person did the killings. The police, however, knew from the positions of the dead bodies that two individuals were working together. These two individuals were eventually discovered: they were cousins Kenneth Bianchi and Angelo Buono Jr.. They were later convicted of kidnapping, raping, torturing and murdering ten females, who were from 12 to 28 years old.

A big investigation had been fruitless. Then the arrest of Bianchi in January 1979 for the murder of two more young women in Washington was linked to his past in the Strangler case.

[[Subrahmanyam Jaishankar]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Indian politicians, Bharatiya Janata Party politicians, Living people, Ambassadors of India to the United States, Ambassadors to China

Subrahmanyam Jaishankar (born 9 January 1955) is an Indian diplomat and politician. He became Minister of External Affairs of the Government of India on 31 May 2019. He is a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party. He is also a Member of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha since 5 July 2019, representing Gujarat. He was Foreign Secretary from January 2015 to January 2018.

He joined the Indian Foreign Service in 1977. During his diplomatic career over 38 years, he worked in India and abroad. His jobs included High Commissioner to Singapore (2007–09) and Ambassador to the Czech Republic (2001–04), China (2009–2013) and the USA (2014–2015). Jaishankar played a key role in negotiating the Indo-US civilian nuclear agreement.

[[Trolls (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 animated movies, 2016 comedy movies, 2010s musical movies, American animated movies, American musical comedy movies, DreamWorks Animation movies

Trolls is an animated movie that was produced by DreamWorks Animation. It premiered on October 8, 2016 at the BFI London Film Festival.

The movie has the voices of Anna Kendrick, Justin Timberlake, Christopher Mintz-Plasse, Zooey Deschanel, Christine Baranski, Russell Brand, James Corden, Jeffrey Tambor, John Cleese and Gwen Stefani.

A sequel, Trolls World Tour, released on April 10, 2020.

[[Mukesh Tiwari]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Indian actors, Living people

Mukesh Tiwari (born 24 August 1969) is an Indian movie actor. He plays negative and comic roles in Bollywood and several other Indian language movies. He began his acting career with the Hindi movie China Gate, in which he played Jageera. His best known character is Vasooli, a recurring don, in the Golmaal movie series.

[[Antonaves]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Hautes-Alpes

Antonaves used to be a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

On 1 January 2016, it became part of the Val Buëch-Méouge commune.

[[Base ten block]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

Base ten blocks are a tool to help students learn concepts in mathematics such as arithmetic and place value.

They are also known as multibase arithmetic blocks (MABs) or Dienes blocks after the Hungarian mathematician Zoltán Pál Dienes, who told others about using them.

[[Arvieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Arvieux is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Orcières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Orcières is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Seal of the President of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Presidency of the United States, Symbols of the United States

The Seal of the President of the United States is used to mark correspondence from the president of the United States to the U.S. Congress. It is also used as a symbol of the presidency itself. The central design, based on the Great Seal of the United States, is the official coat of arms of the U.S. presidency. It is also appears on the presidential flag.

[[La Bâtie-Neuve]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

La Bâtie-Neuve is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Flag of the President of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Presidency of the United States, Flags of the United States

The flag of the President of the United States consists of the presidential coat of arms on a dark blue background.

Attached to the order were illustrations of the seal and flag, and also a set of "specifications" for the flag, which defines more precise colors for the elements than does the blazon of the coat of arms:

[[Video game programmer]]

CATEGORIES: Video game people, Computing

A video game programmer is a person who can understand write in a programming language. They can know more than one programming language. They make games with programming. They sometimes give it to video game publishers to put it on places like the App Store and Google Play.

[[Josh Gottheimer]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, People from Livingston, New Jersey, United States representatives from New Jersey, US Democratic Party politicians

Josh Gottheimer (born March 8, 1975) is a U.S representative for New Jersey's 5th congressional district. Josh first ran for United States House of Representatives in 2016. He won the election against the Republican, Scott Garrett. He won the second election in 2018. Josh Gottheimer is know for voting with Republicans on some issues even if he is a Democrat.

[[Kathak]]

CATEGORIES: Dance in India

Kathak is a classical northern Indian traditional dance style. It is one of the classical ten styles. The other nine are: Bharatanatyam, Kuchipudi, Odissi, Manipuri, Cchau, Kathakali, Satriya, Yaksagana and Bhagavata Mela.

[[Survival game]]

CATEGORIES: Video game genres

Survival games are one kind of action video game. The player stays alive in a dangerous world. Usually, the player begins with no equipment and must try to survive by making tools, making shelters and gathering resources. Many survival games take place in a single world, that are sometimes randomly generated. There are also sometimes online options to play with other people.

[[New Jersey's 5th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: New Jersey

New Jersey's 5th congressional district is a United States congressional district in New Jersey, which elects a representative to the United States House of Representatives. Bergen County, Passaic County, Sussex County, and Warren County are counties that are part of the congressional district. Democrat Josh Gottheimer became the representative in 2016.

[[Military service]]

CATEGORIES: Military

Many countries have armed forces, which they usually call military. Some people in these forces are soldiers, and they have a special education as a soldier. In many cases, the military is not only made of such people, but the country also requires its citizens to spend part of their life in the military. This time is usually called military service. In most cases, it will be done after a first education has finished, with adolescents and young adults. Most countries only require men to do this service, women often don't have to, but they can volunteer. A few countries require all people of a given age group to serve in the military. Very often, there's a concept called civil service, for people who do not want to carry weapons.

[[Amtali Upazila]]

CATEGORIES: Subdivisions of Bangladesh

Amtali (আমতলী) is an Upazila of Barguna District in Bangladesh.  It is a part of the Barisal Division. The area is 720.76 km2.

[[Railhead (Philip Reeve novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s books

Railhead is the first book of the Railhead Trilogy. Philip Reeve wrote the book and published it in 2014.

[[Black Light Express]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 books

Black Light Express is the second book of the Railhead Trilogy. Philip Reeve wrote the book and published it in 2016.

[[Station Zero]]

CATEGORIES: 2018 books

Station Zero is the final book of the Railhead Trilogy. Philip Reeve wrote the nook and published it in 2018.

[[Tachelhit language]]

CATEGORIES: Berber languages, Morocco

Tachelhit is a Berber language (Tachelhit:  Taclḥit - ⵜⴰⵛⵍⵃⵉⵜ - تشلحيت) spoken by the Shilha people. There are 7,823,000 speakers worldwide, the majority in Morocco, where there are more 7,000,000 speakers.

[[Jimi River frog]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Oceania, Frogs

The Jimi River frog (Papurana jimiensis) is a frog from New Guinea.  It can be found north of the highlands in the middle of the island.  It lives in both Papua New Guinea and Indonesia.  Scientists have seen it near the Jimi River, Sepik River, and Ramu River.

[[Jean Alexander]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, English autobiographers, Actors from Liverpool

Jean Mavis Hodgkinson (11 October 1926 – 14 October 2016), known by the stage name Jean Alexander, was a award-winning English actress. She played Hilda Ogden in the ITV soap opera Coronation Street from 1964 to 1987. She also played Auntie Wainwright in the long-running BBC One sitcom Last of the Summer Wine from 1988 to 1989, and again from 1992 to 2010. She worked as an actress for more than 60 years.

Alexander celebrated her 90th birthday on 11 October 2016, but became ill and died three days later in Southport Hospital.

[[Tillie's Punctured Romance (1914 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 movies, 1910s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on plays, American silent movies, Movies directed by Mack Sennett

Tillie's Punctured Romance is a 1914 American silent comedy movie directed by Mack Sennett and was based on the play Tillie's Nightmare by A. Baldwin Sloane and Edgar Smith. It stars Marie Dressler, Charlie Chaplin, Mack Swain, Charles Bennett and was distributed by Alco Film Corporation.

[[Timeline of national flags]]

CATEGORIES: National flags

[[Seventeen (South Korean band)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in South Korea, 2015 establishments in Asia, K-pop music groups, South Korean boy bands, Musical groups established in the 2010s

SEVENTEEN (Hangul: 세븐틴) is a South Korean boy band made up of thirteen members. They were created by Pledis Entertainment in 2015. The members include S.Coups, Jeonghan, Joshua, Jun, Hoshi, Wonwoo, Woozi, The8, Mingyu, DK, Seungkwan, Vernon and Dino.The group debuted on May 26, 2015, and three days later, on May 29, they released their mini album 17 Carat and held their debut showcase. Thay have since released 3 Korean studio albums: Love & Letter(2016), Teen, Age(2017) and An Ode(2019); 2 special albumsː Love & Letter Repackage Album(2016), Special Album 'Director's Cut'(2018); 1 compilation albumː 17 Hits(2016); 10 extended plays(EPs)ː 17 Carat(2015), Boys Be(2015), Going Seventeen(2016), AL1(2017), You Make My Day(2018), You Made My Dawn(2019), Heng:garæ(2020), Semicolon(2020), We Make You (2018) and 24H (2020); and nineteen singles.

[[Batch processing]]

CATEGORIES: Computer protocols

Batch processing is when a number of tasks ("jobs") are put together over a set period of time. The jobs are then loaded into a computer system ("job queue") and done all at once, in a "batch." 

[[Black Narcissus]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 movies, 1940s drama movies, British drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Michael Powell, Movies directed by Emeric Pressburger

Black Narcissus is a 1947 British drama movie directed by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger and was based on the 1939 novel of the same name by Rumer Godden. It stars Deborah Kerr, Sabu, Kathleen Byron, David Farrar, Flora Robson, Jean Simmons, Jenny Laird, Judith Furse, Esmond Knight and was distributed by General Film Distributors. It won 2 Academy Awards in 1948.

[[Les Orres]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Les Orres is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Vars, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Vars is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Bruis]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Hautes-Alpes

Bruis is a former commune in the Hautes-Alpes department. On 1 July 2017, it was merged into a new commune called Valdoule.

[[Papurana kreffti]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Oceania, Frogs

The San Cristoval frog or San Cristobal treefrog (Papurana kreffti) is a frog from Papua New Guinea.  Scientists have seen it on the Solomon Islands and New Ireland Island.

[[Risoul]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Risoul is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Rosans]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Rosans is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, 21st century in Illinois

An election happened on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Illinois. The main two people in the election were Dick Durbin (Democratic Party) and Mark Curran (Republican Party). Durbin won the election and stayed as Senator.

Primary elections happened on March 17, 2020. There was only one person in the Democratic Party primary, Dick Durbin, so he won. There were many people in the Republican Party primary, and Mark Curran won. The Libertarian Party chose Danny Malouf for the election. The Green Party chose David F. Black. Willie Wilson was also in the election from his party, the Willie Wilson Party.

[[Laye]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Laye is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Lazer, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Lazer is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Dunlop Tyres]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in the United States, 1985 establishments in the United Kingdom, Companies of the United States, Companies of the United Kingdom, Tire manufacturers

Dunlop Tyres, or simply Dunlop, is one of the biggest manufacturers of tyres for cars and motorcycles. From 1999 to 2015, it was a joint-venture of Sumitomo Rubber Industries and Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company. Since 2015, the two companies have split up the market. John Boyd Dunlop founded the company in 1888, when he got a patent for the first pneumatic rubber tyre.

[[Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Ohio, 1898 establishments in the United States, Companies of the United States, Tire manufacturers, Akron, Ohio

As of 2021, The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company is one of the four biggest producers of tires for automobiles. The other three big ones are Bridgestone (Japan), Michelin (France) and Continental (Germany). The company is named after Charles Goodyear, who invented vulcanized rubber, which he also used for tires.

[[Derek O'Brien (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Indian politicians

Derek O’Brien (born 13 March 1961) is an Indian politician. He is also a quiz master. He is Member of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha  (Upper House of India's Parliament) from West Bengal. He is also a member of the All India Trinamool Congress Party. He is the leader of the All India Trinamool Congress Parliamentary party in the Rajya Sabha. Other than to his Parliamentary career, he became well known as the quizmaster for the Bournvita Quiz Contest and other shows.

[[Dark Passage (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 movies, 1940s thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies based on books, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Delmer Daves

Dark Passage is a 1947 American thriller movie directed by Delmer Daves and was based on the 1946 novel of the same name by David Goodis. It stars Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, Bruce Bennett, Agnes Moorehead, Tom D'Andrea, Clifton Young, Douglas Kennedy and was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[Simon von Stampfer]]

CATEGORIES: 1790s births, 1864 deaths, Austrian scientists, Mathematicians, Inventors

Simon von Stampfer (26 October 1790 or 1792 – 10 November 1864) was an Austrian mathematician, surveyor and inventor. He also was a professor at what is the Technical University of Vienna today. He was one inventor of the stroboscopic disc. The disc was the first tool to use many pictures to show a moving image. In 1822, he married Johanna Wagner. They had two children. In 1850, both died of tuberculosis. His wife died of tuberculosis in 1856. In 1864, he died of a stroke.

[[Stroboscopic disc]]

CATEGORIES: Animation, Optics

The stroboscopic disc was the first tool that showed a moving picture. It is also known as phénakisticope or phenakistoscope.  Simon von Stampfer, and Joseph Antoine Ferdinand Plateau each invented it separately at the start of the 1830s. In 1833, first models were used to amuse people in London. The disc uses the optical illusion called beta movement or stroboscopic movement today. There is a rotating disc with images, and there are small slits between the images. A person watching will look at the reflection of the image in a mirror, from behind the disc. They will look through the slits, and see the images move, as shown in the picture. Franz von Uchatius combined the stroboscopic disc and the laterna magica to get a device that was able to project images, in the 1850s.

[[The Long Chance]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 movies, 1920s western movies, American silent movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Jack Conway, Universal Pictures movies

The Long Chance is a 1922 American silent western movie directed by Jack Conway and starring Henry B. Walthall, Marjorie Daw, Ralph Graves. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Verzasca, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Ticino

Verzasca is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 17 October 2020 the former municipalities of Brione (Verzasca), Corippo, Frasco, Sonogno and Vogorno merged to form the new municipality of Verzasca.

[[Go and Get It]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 movies, 1920s comedy movies, American mystery movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Marshall Neilan

Go and Get It is a 1920 American silent mystery comedy movie directed by Marshall Neilan and Henry Roberts Symonds. It stars Bull Montana, Pat O'Malley, Wesley Barry, Agnes Ayers, J. Barney Sherry, Charles Hill Mailes, Noah Beery Sr., Lydia Yeamans Titus and was distributed by First National Pictures.

[[Premier League Golden Glove]]

CATEGORIES: Premier League, Sports trophies and awards

The Premier League Golden Glove is an association football award. It is given to the goalkeeper who has kept the most clean sheets in a Premier League season. In association football, a clean sheet is given to a team's defence or goalkeeper if they prevent their opponents from scoring any goals during a match. For sponsorship reasons, it has been referred to as the Barclays Golden Glove since it was created for the 2004–05 season until the 2015–16 season. Since the 2017–18 season, it is known as the Cadbury Golden Glove.

In 2005, the first Premier League Golden Glove was awarded to Petr Čech of Chelsea. Čech's 24 clean sheets in a single season remains the current record. Since 2005, Čech and Joe Hart have won the award the most amout of times, with 4 each. Pepe Reina was the first goalkeeper to win the award back-to-back, winning it in 3 consecutive seasons between 2005 and 2008. Joe Hart later repeated the achievement with Manchester City between 2010 and 2013.

During the 2008–09 season, Edwin van der Sar surpassed Čech's previous record of 10 consecutive clean sheets by reaching 14. During his streak, Van der Sar went 1,311 minutes without conceding a goal. In the process, he broke both Čech's Premier League record (1,025 minutes), Steve Death's Football League record (1,103 minutes) and also the all-time league record in Britain (1,155 minutes) for most consecutive scoreless minutes.

[[Papurana milneana]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Oceania, Frogs

Papurana milneana is a frog from Papua New Guinea.  Scientists have also seen it on Fergusson Island and Normanby Island, which are in the d'Entrecasteaux Islands. They think they may have seen it in the Lousiade Islands.

Scientists used to think this was the same frog as Rana daemeli.

[[Ten-Point Program]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in the United States, American civil rights

The Ten-Point Program is a list of goals and guidelines made by the Black Panther Party. It is based on the Bill of Rights and the Declaration of Independence. It was written by party members Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seale in 1966.

[[Lake Chuzenji]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Japan

Lake Chūzenji is a lake in a national park in Nikkō, Tochigi Prefecture. It is the 25th largest lake by area in Japan.

[[Tokyo Ghoul]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 manga

Tokyo Ghoul is Japanese dark fantasy manga drawn by Sui Ishida. It was serialized in a weekly Young Jump. The story was separated from two sections. Section 1 was serialized 2011 No.41- 2014 No.46. And section 2 was serialized 2014 No.46- 2018 No.31. The comic series has a circulation of 44 million (May 2019). 

[[Clione]]

CATEGORIES: Gastropods

A clione is a genus of sea slug.  They are also called sea butterflies and sea angels.

There are 16 species of Clione. They live in the ocean.   The body is small, and the brain and heart are pink so they show through the clear body.  Human beings like to put them in aquariums.

[[Iruma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan

Iruma is a city in Saitama Prefecture in Japan. 

Iruma covers an area of 44,69 km². Its population is 146,078. The city’s tree is keyaki, the city's flower is the tea flower. The city’s bird is hibari. Iruma is famous for Sayama tea. Iruma city produces 60 percent of all Sayama tea.

[[Big Band Beat]]

CATEGORIES: Disney, Jazz music

Big Band Beat is a jazz show at Tokyo Disney Sea. Big Band Beat is held at the Broadway Music Theatre in the American waterfront part of the park. It is held four to six times in a day. Big Band Beat is often called "BB" among Disney's fans. 

[[Hokkaido (dog)]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

Have you ever seen the Hokkaido dog? It is one of the Japanese purebred dogs. 

Hokkaido dog 

The Hokkaido dog is one of the Japanese dogs which is from Hokkaido prefecture in Japan. There are six types of purebred dogs that originated in Japan. They are Hokkaido, Akita, Shiba, Kai, Kishuu, and Shikoku. These are said to have the same ancestry. In the public interest incorporated foundation “Nihon Ken Hozonkai'' has designated those six ones as the Japanese dogs and each of which is a national natural memorial. The Hokkaido dog is known as a character of the Japanese mobile company SoftBank. Therefore many Japanese people may know or see this breed at least once through the animal TV programs or TV commercials even if they are not familiar with it.

General Knowledge 

Hokkaido dog is a relatively rare breed in those six types, and it is estimated that there are only about 7,000 dogs currently in Japan. Their lifespan is about 13 to 15 years old. It is generally said that medium dogs have a lifespan of 10 to 14 years old, so Hokkaido dogs are the same as those. Also, the height is about 42 to 53 centimeters and the weight is about 15 to 30 kilograms. It is a little bigger than the other medium dogs. Some people may be mistaken for the Shiba dogs because they and Hokkaido dogs look similar in their figures a bit, but the size is a little different. It is one size larger than Shiba dogs, and the chest of the Hokkaido dog is deeper and the muscles are firm. 

Unique Points 

They have the double coat with long hard and short soft. Because they are from the Hokkaido area, so it prevents cold weather and the air. It consists of an over coat which is bristle and an under coat which is a soft one that can adjust their body temperature. Some people may know white colored ones. However there are various colors such as sesame, tiger, red, dark brown, wolf ash and white. In addition, their small triangular “standing ears” is eye catching.

History 

The ancestors of it lived in Honshu and moved to Hokkaido with humans, and became a pure breed. It has lived with the Ainu people there for a long time, so it is also popular as an Ainu dog. In Ainu language, it is called “Seta.” It was designated as a national natural monument in 1937.

Character 

Ainu people have long been hunting large beasts, so dogs are brave and strong to hunt. Furthermore, they affectionately treat their owners who are recognized as leaders by dogs, and they have a strong loyalty to protect their owners.

[[Childcare benefits scandal]]

CATEGORIES: January 2021 events, 2020s in the Netherlands, 2010s in the Netherlands, Political scandals, Politics of the Netherlands

The childcare benefits scandal (kinderopvangtoeslagaffaire or toeslagenaffaire, childcare allowances affair) is a political scandal in the Netherlands about false accusations of fraud made by the Tax and Customs Administration. Between 2013 and at least 2019, about 26,000 parents in the Netherlands were wrongfully suspected of making fraud claims to childcare benefit and were required to pay back large amounts of money.

The scandal was brought to the public's attention in September 2018. In 2019, the Dutch State Secretary for Finance Menno Snel resigned over his mishandling of the affair.

In January 2021, Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Eric Wiebes stepped down, for his former role as State Secretary for Finance. The same day, two months before the 2021 Dutch general election, the prime minister Mark Rutte and his cabinet resigned after a parliamentary investigation released a report on the affair.

[[In This Corner of the World]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 manga, 2011 television series debuts, 2016 movies, Japanese television dramas based on manga, Manga series

In This Corner of the World is a Japanese animated wartime drama film in 2016. Also it was made into a movie based on a manga of the same name. The main character Suzu was played by Non, because her soft voice was admired by Katabuchi who is a director.

Differences from the original

It was made into a movie based on a manga. Therefore some scenes are different from the original. First, at the beginning of the story there is a scene where Suzu encounters a kidnapper while delivering seaweed. However the date was changed from “January 1934” to “December 1933”. In this film it was drawn that a city bustling with the economics of Christmas, although this year there was an event of the birth of the crown prince on December 23rd. Therefore people who made this movie thought the celebratory mood would continue to the beginning of the year and they changed the date. Second, it is not drawn Rin who was the main character in the original so much in this movie. Also it is not drawn about the love triangle between Shusaku, Rin and Suzu.

Plot

Suzu who is an eighteen year-old girl loves drawing. In December 1943, when she is helping her grandmother to make seaweed at Kusatsu, sudden news comes. The news is from a man who would like to marry her. She goes home in a hurry and she peeks through a window at a young man. The man is Shusaku Hojo from Kure but she does not know the man. In February 1944, Suzu will get married to him and Suzu’s new life begins. Husband is gentle but Suzu’s sister-in-law is strict. Even though it is under wartime and supplies are reduced, Suzu lives the life with her humor and she is gradually accepted by Hojo family and neighbors. However the next year in 1945 an atomic bomb is dropped on Hiroshima, then she lost her important thing. After the war ends, she decides a place where she belongs is Kure and lives a life.

Characters

The main character of this movie is Suzu Hojo. She was born in Eba, Hiroshima. In addition, she loves drawing. When she was a child, she had a mysterious experience encountering “Bakemon”. At the age of 18, she got married. She has a younger sister Sumi Urano and she has been getting close since she was a child. Also Shusaku Hojo is Suzu’s husband. He first met her when he was a child. Keiko Kuromura is Shusaku's sister and she came back to her house with her daughter Harumi. Harumi is five years old and unlike her mother she likes Suzu. Also Tetsu Mizuhara was Suzu’s classmate when he was an elementary school student.

Places

Eba is a place where Suzu was born and she moved to Kure where Shusaku lived after she got married and she lived life there.

[[2021 Dutch general election]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 elections, 2020s in the Netherlands, Elections in the Netherlands

The 2021 Dutch general election to elect the members of the House of Representatives was set for 17 March 2021.

The Third Rutte cabinet was inaugurated after the longest coalition formation in Dutch history, with 225 days between the election and swearing in of the cabinet. 

COVID-19 pandemic caused Interior Minister Kajsa Ollongren to propose spreading the election over a period of three days between 15 and 17 March 2021. 

The entire Dutch government, including Prime Minister Mark Rutte resigned on 15 January 2021 over the Childcare benefits scandal.

[[Rohit Chopra]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American political activists, Politicians from Massachusetts, Businesspeople from Massachusetts, Year of birth missing (living people), US Democratic Party politicians

Rohit Chopra is an American consumer activist. In May 2018, he became Commissioner on the Federal Trade Commission.

On January 17, 2021, President-elect Joe Biden nominated Chopra to be director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

[[Dinesh Trivedi]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Indian politicians, Living people

Dinesh Trivedi (born 4 June 1950) is an Indian politician. He was a Member of Parliament in Rajya Sabha from West Bengal from 4 April 2020 to 12 February 2021. He is a former Member of parliament, Lok Sabha (2009 to 2019) representing Barrackpore constituency of West Bengal. He was Member of parliament, Rajya Sabha for two separate terms (1990-1996, 2002 to 2008). He is the ex-Union Minister for Railways and the ex-Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare under Manmohan Singh's cabinet. Trivedi was awarded of Outstanding Parliamentarian Award for 2016-2017 period and was given at an event at the central hall of Indian Parliament. He is also the Chairman of the Indo-European Union Parliamentary Forum (IEUPF), and other Parliamentary Forums.

[[Anpanman]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 television series debuts, Anime series based on manga, Children's television series

Anpanman is a Japanese children's superhero picture book series. It was written by Takashi Yanase. It ran from 1973 until the author's death in 2013. Anpanman is one of the most popular anime series for young children. Anpanman is a superhero with an anpan (a red bean paste filled pastry) for a head. He protects the world from an evil anthropomorphic germ named Baikinman.

[[Summer Sonic Festival]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 establishments in Japan, Music festivals, Festivals in Asia, Chiba Prefecture, Osaka

The Summer Sonic Festival is a music festival in Japan. It is in Chiba and Osaka for three days in summer. It is planned and run by Creativeman Production.

[[Red-shanked douc]]

CATEGORIES: Old World monkeys, Mammals of Asia

The red-shanked douc or red-shanked douc langur (Pygathrix nemaeus) is an Old World monkey.  It is known for its colorful fur. The red-shanked douc lives in forests in Vietnam and Cambodia.

[[Inzai]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Chiba Prefecture

Inzai is a city in Chiba Prefecture, Japan. It has about 105,463 people and 42,388 households. Inzai has an area of 123.8 square kilometers and a population density of 850 people per square kilometer. The city's flower is cosmos, the tree is cherry blossom, the bird is Japanese white-eye and the fish is catfish. Inzai's mascot is Inzaikun.

[[Automotive industry in Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Japan, Automotive technologies

The automotive industry in Japan is known for the high quality products in the world. It is more popular than other countries’ one like Europe, America, Germany and so on. The car made in Japan has special attractions that the one made in other countries doesn’t have.

[[Jissen Gakuen High School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools, Education in Japan, Buildings and structures in Tokyo

Jissen Gakuen Junior & Senior High School is a combined junior and high school in Tokyo. This school is also a co-educational school, but there are more boys than girls: 601 boys and 454 girls so a total of 1055 students. In April 2020, there are four courses that academic-track, standard, sports, and liberal & science course.

[[Comme des Garçons]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Japan, Fashion, Companies of Japan

Comme des Garçons (CDG) is a French fashion company started by Rei Kawakubo in Paris. The label started in 1969 and the company started in 1973. The company also makes jewelry and perfume.

[[Mika Ninagawa]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese movie directors, 1972 births, Biography articles of living people, Feminists

Mika Ninagawa is a famous person in Japan. She is most famous for making movies and photography.

[[JO1]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 establishments, 21st century establishments in Japan, Japanese boy bands

JO1 is a Japanese boy group started through the reality competition show Produce 101 Japan. It has eleven members: Issei Mamehara, Ren Kawashiri, Takumi Kawanishi, Shosei Ohira, Shion Tsurubo, Ruki Shiroiwa, Keigo Sato, Syoya Kimata, Junki Kono, Sukai Kinjo, and Sho Yonashiro, the group is managed by Lapone Entertainment, a joint company between Yoshimoto Kogyo and CJ ENM.

[[Derek O'Brien]]

Derek O'Brien may mean:

[[Derek O'Brien (footballer, born 1957)]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Irish footballers, Sportspeople from Dublin

Derek O'Brien (born 11 September 1957) is a retired Irish footballer who played in the League of Ireland in the 1980s.

[[Nara Juvenile Prison]]

CATEGORIES: Prisons, Buildings and structures in Japan, Nara Prefecture

The former Nara prison or Nara Juvenile Prison is in Nara, Japan. It was built in 1908 during the Meiji Period.  It was used as a prison until 2017.  It has been named an Important Cultural Property.  Now it is being rebuilt as a hotel and scheduled to open in 2024.

[[Tatebayashi, Gunma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Gunma Prefecture

Tatebayashi is a city in Gunma Prefecture, Japan. 2020, 75,442 people live there, and a population density of 1200 persons per km². The total area of the city is 60.97. Tatebayashi is famous for Azalea Hill Park and Bunbuku Chagama of Morin-ji temple.

[[Mamamoo]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean girl groups, 2014 establishments in Asia, 2010s establishments in South Korea

Mamamoo (마마무), most often written as MAMAMOO, is a South Korean girl group started by RBW (formerly WA Entertainment) in 2014. The group officially started on June 18, 2014 with their single "Mr. Ambiguous."

[[Shōdoshima]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Japan, Kagawa Prefecture

Shōdoshima or Shōdo Island is an island in the Inland Sea of Japan. The name means "Island of Small Beans". There are two towns on the island: Tonoshō and Shōdoshima. It is also known for growing olives, and is sometimes called "Olive Island".

[[Doutor Coffee]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Japan, Companies of Japan, Coffee houses

Doutor Coffee (株式会社ドトールコーヒー) is a Japanese retail company that makes coffee and owns coffee shop franchises. It was founded by Toriba Hiromichi in 1976.

[[Shimofuri Myojo]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese comedians, Duos, People from Osaka, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Shimofuri Myojo is a Japanese comedy duo (kombi) made up of Seiya (せいや) and Soshina (粗品). They work for Yoshimoto Kogyo, and are mainly active in Tokyo and Osaka.

[[Warframe]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 video games, Shooter video games, Nintendo Switch games, PlayStation 4 games, PlayStation 5 games, Windows games, Xbox One games

Warframe is a third person shooter online game and developed by Digital Extremes (DE). Warframe also has been in open beta since 2013 and available for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and the personal computer. Developers got an idea from Ninja, so players can find Japanese weapons such as a katana and a kunai and Japanese instruments like a shamisen in the game.

Warframe is designed to be free-to-play. Players do not have to pay to play the game. Most items and Warframes can be acquired without paying.

[[G. M. C. Balayogi]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2002 deaths, Speakers of the Lok Sabha, Indian lawyers, Aviation deaths

Ganti Mohana Chandra Balayogi (yogi.ogg; 1 October 1951 – 3 March 2002) was an Indian lawyer and politician. He was the speaker of Lok Sabha from 1998 to 2002.

He received his Post Graduate in Kakinada and a law degree from Andhra University, Visakhapatnam. 

[[Le Noyer, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Le Noyer is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Aspremont, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Aspremont is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Baratier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Baratier is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Ronnie Spector]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, African-American singers, Singers from New York City, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees, The Ronettes members

Veronica Yvette Spector (née Bennett; born August 10, 1943), known as Ronnie Spector, is an American singer who was the lead singer of the group the Ronettes. She was in this group with her sister Estelle Bennett and their cousin Nedra Talley.

[[Nedra Talley]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, African-American singers, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees, The Ronettes members

Nedra Talley (born January 27, 1946), now known as Nedra Talley-Ross, is an American retired singer who was backing singer for the group the Ronettes with her cousins Ronnie and Estelle Bennett. She now works in real estate in Virginia Beach, Virginia, where she lives with her husband Scott Ross.

[[Edward Leung]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Chinese politicians, Activists from Hong Kong, Criminals, People from Hong Kong

Edward Leung Tin Kei (c=梁天琦; born 2 June 1991) is a Hong Kong politician and activist. He was a spokesperson of Hong Kong Indigenous. He claims Hong Kong independence and created the sentence "Liberate Hong Kong, the revolution of our times" during the 2016 by-election. The sentence is later widely used in the 2019–20 Hong Kong protests.

In 2016, he became a candidate representing Hong Kong Indigenous in the Legislative Council by-election. In February 2016, he was arrested in the Mong Kok civil unrest. However, he still got over 66,000 votes, about 15% of the total votes. The Hong Kong government then requested future candidates to report their political position. Leung reported to give up its claim on independence. However, the officier still declined his candidacy.

In 2017, a documentary based on his story, Lost in the Fumes, was released. In June 2018, he was sent to jail for 6 years for "rioting" and "assaulting a police officer".

In 2019, he became one of the people in the "100 Next" chosen by Time magazine.

[[Estelle Bennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2009 deaths, African-American singers, Singers from New York City, Cancer deaths in New Jersey, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees, The Ronettes members

Estelle Bennett (July 22, 1941 – February 11, 2009) was an American singer who was in the group the Ronettes with her sister Ronnie Bennett and their cousin, Nedra Talley.

Over many years after the group ended, Bennett had anorexia and schizophrenia, and was homeless many times. When the Ronettes were added to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2007, Bennett was too fraile to perform, and only said a few words "I would just like to say, thank you very much for giving us this award. I'm Estelle of the Ronettes, thank you".

Bennett died on February 11, 2009 at the age of 67 from colon cancer.

[[Be My Baby]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 songs, Pop songs, R&B songs

"Be My Baby" is a song written by Jeff Barry, Ellie Greenwich, and Phil Spector. It was recorded on July 5, 1963 at Gold Star Studios Hollywood by American girl group the Ronettes. It was released as a single in August 1963 and was also on their 1964 debut album Presenting the Fabulous Ronettes featuring Veronica. Phil Spector produced the song, and was a well-known example of the "wall of sound" style of production that Spector was famous for.

[[Kanglatongbi]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in India, Manipur

Kanglatongbi (Kanglatombi, Kangla Tongbi) is the most populous village in the Imphal West district of the Indian state of Manipur.

It is in Lamshang Tehsil and comes under the Sekmai assembly and Inner Manipur Parliamentary constituency.

The nearest city Is Imphal, 25 km away.

The population density of Kanglatongbi is 1million persons per square kilometers with a total geographical area of 1201.6 hectares making it the third biggest village by area in the Lamshang sub-district, which is situated 8km away and headquarter at Lamphel, Imphal.

The village location code of Kanglatongbi is 270036.

As per the constitution of India, and the Panchayati Raj Act, Kanglatongbi is administrated by Pradhan and comes under the Kanglatongbi Gram Panchayat system.

There are about 1,600 houses in Kanglatongbi with an average of 5 persons in every household.

As per the 2011 Population Census, the total population is 7152 of which 3433 are males while 3719 are females.

The population of children under the age of 0-6 is 897 which makes up 12.54 % of the total population.

The Average Sex Ratio of the village is 1083 which is higher than the Manipur state average of 985.

Also, the Child Sex Ratio as per the population census is 993 which is higher than the average 930 of the state, Manipur.

In 2011, the literacy rate of Kanglatongbi was 87.77% compared to 76.94% of Manipur.

Male literacy stands at 94.33% while the female literacy rate was 81.78%.

It is one of the fastest emerging villages of the Lamshang sub-division.

The average high temperature in Kanglatongbi is 24.3°C (75.7°F) and an average low-temperature of 6.3°C (43.4°F), January is the coldest month in Kanglatongbi.

[[The Ronettes discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies

This article is a discography for American singing group The Ronettes. The Ronettes started recording with Colpix Records in 1961 and recorded eleven songs for Colpix. In March 1963, the group moved to Phil Spector's Philles Records, where they were most successful.

[[Presenting the Fabulous Ronettes Featuring Veronica]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 albums, R&B albums, Pop albums

Presenting the Fabulous Ronettes Featuring Veronica is the only studio album by American group the Ronettes. It was released in 1964 and had a number of singles that had been released before. It was produced by Phil Spector.  The album was rated the 31st best album of the 1960s by Pitchfork. Rolling Stone ranked it number 422 on their list of "The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time". 

[[Counterweight]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Engineering

A counterweight (kaʊntəweɪt), or a counterbalance, is a weight that makes lifting a load faster and more efficient.

[[Paul Schneider (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, American movie actors, American television actors, Living people, Actors from North Carolina, People from Asheville, North Carolina

Paul Andrew Schneider (born March 16, 1976) is an American actor. He is best known for playing Mark Brendanawicz on the first two seasons of the NBC television show Parks and Recreation. He also plays Dick Liddil in The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford.  

[[King's Pawn Game]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

The King's Pawn Game is any chess opening starting with the move:

It is the most popular opening move in chess.

[[Stefano Cicchini]]

CATEGORIES: Italian artists, Living people

Stefano Cicchini is an Italian blogger, and influencer marketing manager.

[[Sexual capital]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Sexual capital (or erotic capital) is the social value an individual or social group gets as a function of their sexual attractiveness. Like other forms of economic capital, sexual capital can be converted to other forms of capital. Sexual capital can be useful in getting social or economic capital. British sociologist Catherine Hakim first used the term "erotic capital", in the early 2000s. French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu had already defined other forms of capital, such as economic, cultural, or social capital. Hakim saw sexual capital as different. She says erotic capital is independent of class origin;  for this reason, it enables social mobility. Hakim  argues that this makes erotic capital socially subversive, which results in the prevailing power structures devaluing and trying to suppress it. In the manosphere, the parallel term sexual market value or its abbreviation SMV is often used.

Nobel prize winner Gary Becker  developed a theory of human capital. In 1972, Michael Grossmann had developed the term "health capital". Robert Michael extended this term to include sexual capital. Maichal says, if an individual choses to use his or her sexual attractivness, this is a rational choice, and the individual will expect something in return.

[[Barcillonnette]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Barcillionnette is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Air fryer]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking appliances

An air fryer is a small oven designed to do the same as deep frying without putting the food in oil.

[[Annasif Døhlen]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Norwegian painters, Sculptors

Annasif Døhlen (23 June 1930 – 5 January 2021) was a Norwegian painter and sculptor. She was born in Stavanger, Norway. She was known for her portraits of Johan Scharffenberg, Håkon Bleken and David Monrad Johansen, and a sculpture of Olav V of Norway, which is at the Holmenkollen ski arena.

She was represented in the National Gallery of Norway and Riksgalleriet.

Døhlen died on 5 January 2021, aged 90.

[[Ras malai]]

CATEGORIES: Indian food

Ras malai or rossomalai, (রসমালাই)is a well loved dessert in many places in the world. It is also the national dessert of Bangladesh.

[[2021 Ugandan general election]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 elections, 2021 in Africa, January 2021 events, Uganda

A general election was held in Uganda on 14 January 2021 to elect the President and the Parliament. Incumbent President Yoweri Museveni, who has ruled the country since 1986, was re-elected for a sixth term with 58.64% of the vote. Voter turnout was 57%.

[[Bobi Wine]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Ugandan politicians, African entertainers, African businesspeople, Singers, Movie actors

Robert Kyagulanyi Ssentamu (born 12 February 1982), known by his stage name Bobi Wine, is a Ugandan politician, singer, actor and businessman. He has been a member of the Parliament of Uganda since 2017. He is the leader of the People Power, Our Power movement. He is a known critic of President Yoweri Museveni. 

In June 2019, he announced his candidacy for the 2021 Ugandan presidential election. He lost the election on January 14, 2021 to President Museveni.

[[Elanga Buala]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2021 deaths, Papua New Guinean people, Sprinters, Olympians

Elanga Buala (21 May 1964 – 7 January 2021) was a Papua New Guinean sprinter. She competed in the women's 200 metres at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. She was born in Lae, Morobe Province. She won many gold medals at the Pacific Games in 1983.

Buala died on 7 January 2021, aged 56.

[[Pacific Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s establishments in Oceania, 1963 establishments, Multi-sport events, Olympic Games

The Pacific Games (formerly known as the South Pacific Games) is a continental multi-sport event competing Olympic sports. Only countries around the Pacific Ocean are allowed to play at these games. It is held every four years and began in 1963.

[[William Henry Barbour Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, American judges, Politicians from Mississippi, People from Yazoo City, Mississippi, US Republican Party politicians

William Henry Barbour Jr. (February 4, 1941 – January 8, 2021) was an American lawyer and politician. He was born in Yazoo City, Mississippi. Barbour Jr. was a member of the Republican Party. 

In 1983, President Ronald Reagan nominated him to be Judge of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District. He was Chief Judge from 1989 to 1996. 

Barbour was a cousin and former law partner of Haley Barbour, former Governor of Mississippi.

Barbour died on January 8, 2021, at his home in Yazoo City at the age of 79.

[[Robert Halley (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, French mayors, French businesspeople

Robert Halley (20 October 1935 – 10 January 2021) was a French politician and businessman. He was born in Cherbourg, France. From 1978 to 2001, Halley served as Mayor of Les Moutiers-Hubert.

Halley died on 10 January 2021 in Lisieux, France at the age of 85.

[[Bruce Bennett (Canadian football)]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American football safeties, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state)

Lamar Bruce Bennett, Jr. (1944 – January 12, 2021) was an American college and professional football player. He was a safety in the Canadian Football League (CFL) for seven seasons during the 1960s and early 1970s.  

Bennett played college football for the University of Florida, and was recognized as an All-American. He played professionally for the Saskatchewan Roughriders of the CFL. He was born in Valdosta, Georgia.

Bennett died on January 12, 2021 in Ocala, Florida from pneumonia caused by COVID-19 at the age of 77.

[[Wim de Graaff]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Coaches, Dutch Olympians, Speed skaters, Sportspeople from Rotterdam

Willem "Wim" de Graaff (25 August 1931 – 12 January 2021) was a Dutch  speed skater. He competed in the 1956 Winter Olympics and in the 1960 Winter Olympics. He was born in Rotterdam.

De Graaff died on 12 January 2021 in Rotterdam, aged 89.

[[Peter Nottet]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Dutch Olympic bronze medalists, Speed skaters, Sportspeople from The Hague

Petrus "Peter" Wilhelmus Frederikus Nottet (born 23 September 1944) is a Dutch speed skater. He competed in the 1964 Winter Olympics and in the 1968 Winter Olympics. 

In 1964 he finished 34th in the 5000 metres event. Four years later he won the bronze medal in the 5000 metres competition. 

[[Bridget Rowe]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, British journalists, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom

Bridget Rowe (16 March 1950 – 12 January 2021) was a British journalist. 

Rowe was an Assistant Editor of The Sun, then editor of "Sunday", the News of the World's magazine. In 1986, Rowe became editor of Woman's Own. 

Rowe edited the Sunday Mirror from 1991 to 1992, then moved to edit The People. She was a panelist on the first series of Loose Women in 1999.

Rowe died on 12 January 2021 from COVID-19 at the age of 70.

[[Benjamin F. Gibson]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, American judges, Politicians from Alabama, Politicians from Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians

Benjamin F. Gibson (July 13, 1931 – January 13, 2021) was an American politician and lawyer. He was born in Dallas County, Alabama. He was a member of the Democratic Party. 

In 1979, Gibson was nominated to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Michigan by President Jimmy Carter. From 1991 to 1995, he was Chief Judge of the court. He retired from the court in 1999.

Gibson died on January 13, 2021 in Gulfport, Mississippi at the age of 89.

[[Michel Gravel (photographer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Canadian photographers, Canadian journalists, Photojournalists, People from Montreal

Michel Gravel (1936 – 13 January 2021) was a Canadian photographer. He was one of the most well known photojournalists in Quebec. He was born in Montreal, Quebec.

He worked for newspapers such as Le Devoir, the Montreal Gazette, and La Presse. He covered major events such as the Vietnam War and the 1976 Summer Olympics. He officially retired in 2005. 

Gravel died on 13 January 2021 at the age of 84.

[[Nelson Nieves]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Venezuelan sportspeople, Olympians, People from Caracas

Nelson Nieves (25 December 1934 – 13 January 2021) was a Venezuelan fencer. He competed in the team foil events at the 1952 Summer Olympics. He was born in Caracas, Venezuela.

Nieves died on 13 January 2021 in Caracas at the age of 86.

[[Jan de Vries]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Motorcycle racers, Sportspeople from Friesland

Jan de Vries (5 January 1944 – 14 January 2021) was a Dutch Grand Prix motorcycle road racer. He was born in Sint Jacobiparochie, Netherlands. 

In 1971, he became the first Dutchman to win a F.I.M. world championship. In 1973, he won another 50 cc world championship.

He lost the 1972 world championship to Angel Nieto by the narrowest of margins. 

Vries died on 14 January 2021 of cardiac arrest in Purmerend, Netherlands at the age of 77.

[[Larry Willoughby]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American country singers, American singer-songwriters, Businesspeople from Texas, Singers from Texas, Writers from Texas

Larry Willoughby (1947 – January 14, 2021) was an American country music singer-songwriter and music businessman. He was the vice president of A&R at Capitol Records. He was born in Sherman, Texas. Willoughby's debut album, Building Bridges, was released in 1984 by Atlantic America.

Willoughby died of COVID-19 on January 14, 2021.

[[James White (New Mexico politician)]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, 2021 deaths, 1943 births, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from New Mexico, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Albuquerque, New Mexico

James P. "Jim" White (1943 – January 15, 2021) was an American politician. He was a member of the New Mexico Senate from 2016 until his death. White was a member of the New Mexico House of Representatives from 2009 to 2015. White was a member of the Republican Party. 

White died on January 15, 2021 in Albuquerque, New Mexico at the age of 77.

[[Sharon Begley]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2021 deaths, American journalists, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts, People from Englewood, New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey

[[Ben Thanh Market]]

CATEGORIES: Retail markets, Buildings and structures in Vietnam

Ben Thanh Market is a city market in Ho Chi Minh City's District 1. It is open every day from 6am to 10pm. It is one of the oldest buildings still standing in the city.

[[2020 United States Senate election in Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States Senate elections, Nebraska

An election happened on November 3, 2020 to elect a Senator from the U.S. state of Nebraska. The main two people in the election were Ben Sasse (Republican Party), Chris Janicek (Democratic Party). Sasse won the election and went back to the Senate for a second term.

This election was strange because Democratic nominee Chris Janicek, lost the support of his party after a number of scandals, write-in candidate Preston Love Jr., got the support of the state Democratic Party instead but Janicek was still on the ballot. Primary elections happened on March 12, 2020. There were two people in the Republican Party primary election. Ben Sasse won the primary election against Matt Innis. There was seven people in the Democratic Party primary election. Chris Janicek won the primary election. Gene Siadek was the only person in the Libertarian Party primary election. They won the Libertarian Party primary election. 

[[Chord chart]]

CATEGORIES: Musical notation

A chord chart (or chart) is a form of musical notation that describes the basic harmonic and rhythmic information for a song or tune.

[[Virtue signalling]]

CATEGORIES: Human behavior

Virtue signalling is when a person shows anger to make themselves look good to others.  Usually, this means the person says that they don't like or don't approve of something.  For example, a person might talk about political ideas that they know the other people around them agree with.

Psychologists Jillian Jordan and David Rand say that even when people feel true anger, they still show it in ways that they think will make them look good to other people.  They even do this when they are alone.

According to the Boston Globe, the word "virtue signalling" was used as early as 2004 and became popular in 2015.

[[Juan Carlos Copes]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, People from Buenos Aires, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Argentina, Dancers, Choreographers

Juan Carlos Copes (31 May 1931 – 16 January 2021) was an Argentine tango dancer, choreographer, and performer. He started dancing with Maria Nieves when he was 17 and she 14. Copes and Nieves were well known for their Tango dancing from the 1970s and, particularly, in Argentine Tango. He was born in Buenos Aires.

Copes died from COVID-19 on 16 January 2021 at a Buenos Aeries hospital during the COVID-19 pandemic in Argentina, aged 89.  

[[María Nieves]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Dancers, Choreographers, People from Buenos Aires

María Nieves Rego (born September 6, 1934) is an Argentine tango dancer and choreographer. She worked with her long time dance partner Juan Carlos Copes in the 1983 musical Tango Argentino. She was born in Buenos Aires.

[[Chris Cramer]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, BBC people, CNN people, British journalists, People from Portsmouth, Cancer deaths in England

Christopher Ranville Cramer (3 January 1948 – 16 January 2021) was a British news journalist and executive. During his career, he was worked for the BBC and was an executive at CNN International. He worked as a consultant for The Wall Street Journal. He was born in Portsmouth, England.

Cramer died of cancer on 16 January 2021 at age 73.

[[György Handel]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2021 deaths, Hungarian footballers, Sportspeople from Budapest, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Hungary

György Handel (20 March 1959 – 16 January 2021) was a Hungarian footballer. He played once for the Hungary national football team in 1987. His playing career lasted from 1973 to 1997. He played for Győri ETO and MTK Budapest.

Handel died on 16 January 2021 from COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Hungary, aged 61.

[[Pave Maijanen]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Finnish musicians, Finnish singers, Finnish writers, Songwriters, Keyboardists, Drummers, Guitarists, Record producers, Eurovision Song Contest entrants

Pekka Juhani "Pave" Maijanen (3 September 1950 – 16 January 2021) was a Finnish musician and singer-songwriter. He was a bass player, keyboard player, drummer, guitarist and producer. Maijanen was a member of The Royals, Rock'n'Roll Band, Pepe & Paradise. He was the keyboard player and producer of Dingo and the Hurriganes. Maijanen was born in Lappeenranta, Finland.

Maijanen participated in the 1992 Eurovision Song Contest with his song "Yamma, yamma".

In 2018, Maijanen was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). He died from the illness on 16 January 2021, aged 70.

[[Schroders]]

CATEGORIES: 1800s establishments in the United Kingdom, 1804 establishments in Europe, Companies of the United Kingdom

Schroders plc is a British multinational asset management company. It was founded in 1804. The company has over 5,000 people worldwide in 32 locations. Its headquarters is in the City of London.

[[Sergi Mingote]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2021 deaths, Politicians from Barcelona, Mountain climbers, Accidental deaths from falls

Sergi Mingote Moreno (1971 – January 16, 2021) was a Spanish mountaineer and politician. He was also a lecturer at the ESADE. Mingote was born in Parets del Vallès, Spain. He was mayor of Parets del Vallès for the Socialists' Party of Catalonia between 2011 and 2018.

Mingote fell to his death while attempting to climb K2 in Pakistan on January 16, 2021. He was 50.

[[Parets del Vallès]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Parets del Vallès is a city about 23 km north of Barcelona, in Catalonia, Spain, in the south-west of the comarca of Vallès Oriental, and 7 km from its capital Granollers.

[[Bheki Ntuli]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa, South African politicians

[[Sayidiman Suryohadiprojo]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Military people, Indonesian politicians, Ambassadors of Indonesia

Sayidiman Suryohadiprojo (21 September 1927 — 16 January 2021) was an Indonesian Javanese Army lieutenant general and politician. He was an Ambassador to Japan from 1979 until 1983 and Ambassador-at-large to Africa from 1992 until 1995. Suryohadiprojo was born in Bojonegoro Regency, East Java. 

Suryohadiprojo died on 16 January 2021 at a Jakarta hospital, aged 93.

[[Ibaté]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in São Paulo (state)

Ibaté is a municipality in the state of São Paulo, Brazil. 30,734 people lived here in 2010. 

[[Arturo Tizón]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish sportspeople, Deaths in sport

Arturo Tizón Ibáñez (25 May 1984 – 16 January 2021) was a Spanish motorcycle racer. He was born in La Vall d'Uixó, Spain. From 2005 to 2007, he competed in the 250cc Motorcycle World championship. He was the CEV Supersport champion in 2005.

Tizón was killed on 16 January 2021 in a biking accident in Alcudia de Veo, Spain at the age of 36.

[[Pedro Trebbau]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, German scientists, Venezuelan people, Zoologists

Pedro Trebbau (born Karl Peter Trebbau Millowitsch; 20 May 1929 – 16 January 2021) was a German-born Venezuelan zoologist. He was known for his reference book The Turtles of Venezuela. Trebbau was born in Cologne, Germany. Trebbau worked at the El Pinar Zoo and at Caricuao Zoo. 

Trebbau died on 16 January 2021 in Caracas, Venezuela at the age of 91.

[[Paul Varelans]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American mixed martial artists, Sportspeople from California

Paul Varelans (September 17, 1969 – January 16, 2021) was an American professional mixed martial artist. He competed in Ultimate Fighting Championship from 1995 to 1996. He had a fixed match in Extreme Championship Wrestling in 1996. He was born in Sunnyvale, California. 

In December 2020, Varelans was hospitalized with COVID-19 in Atlanta, Georgia and was put into an induced coma. He died on January 16, 2021 from the infection at the age of 51.

[[Nikolay Antoshkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Russian military people, Russian politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Russia

Nikolay Timofeyevich Antoshkin (Николай Тимофеевич Антошкин; December 19, 1942 – January 17, 2021) was a Russian Air Force colonel general and politician. He was born in Kuzminovka, Soviet Union. He was known for being in charge over the Chernobyl disaster response. He was a member of the State Duma from 2014 until his death. He was a member of the United Russia. Antoshkin was a Hero of the Soviet Union.

Antoshkin died of COVID-19 in Moscow on January 17, 2021 at the age of 78.

[[Dave Arnold (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, State legislators of the United States, American lawyers, Politicians from Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

David J. Arnold Jr. (December 7, 1971 – January 17, 2021) was an American politician and lawyer. He was born in Lebanon County, Pennsylvania. Arnold was a member of the Pennsylvania State Senate from 2020 until his death. He was a member of the Republican Party.

Arnold was diagnosed with brain cancer in October 2019. He died on January 17, 2021 in Lebanon County from the disease at the age of 49.

[[Jacques Bral]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, French movie directors, French movie producers, French screenwriters, French painters, People from Tehran

Jacques Bral (21 September 1948 – 17 January 2021) was a French movie director, screenwriter, and producer. He was also a painter. He was born in Tehran, Iran. Bral directed and wrote the 2012 movie Black Really Suits You. He wrote the 1989 crime movie Street of No Return.

Bral died in Paris on 17 January 2021 at the age of 72.

[[Harry T. Edwards]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, American judges, American lawyers, Politicians from New York City, Politicians from Washington, D.C., US Democratic Party politicians

Harry Thomas Edwards (born November 3, 1940), an American politician, lawyer and legal scholar. He is a Senior United States Circuit Judge and chief judge emeritus of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Washington, D.C.. In 1980, he was nominated to the court by President Jimmy Carter.

He is a professor of law at the New York University School of Law.

[[Abel Gabuza]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2021 deaths, Roman Catholic bishops, South African people, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa

Abel Gabuza (23 March 1955 – 17 January 2021) was a South African prelate of the Catholic Church. He was the Archbishop Coadjutor of the Archdiocese of Durban from 9 December 2018 and until his death in 2021. He was Bishop of Kimberley from 2010 to 2018. He was born in Alexandra, South Africa.

Gabuza died from COVID-19 on 17 January 2021 at the age of 65 in Durban's Hillcrest Hospital.

[[Ghulam Mustafa Khan (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Indian musicians

Ghulam Mustafa Khan (3 March 1931 – 17 January 2021) was an Indian classical musician. His works were in the Hindustani classical music tradition. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 1991, the Padma Bhushan in 2006 and Padma Vibhushan in 2018. Khan was born in present-day Uttar Pradesh, India.

Khan died at his Mumbai home on 17 January 2021, aged 89.

[[.org]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments, Non-profit organizations, Top-level domains

The domain name org is a generic top-level domain (gTLD) of the Domain Name System (DNS) used in the Internet. The name is truncated from organization. It was one of the original domains established in 1985, and has been operated by the Public Interest Registry since 2003. The domain was originally intended for non-profit entities, but this restriction was removed in August 2019. 

In November 2019, the Public Interest Registry (PIR) was to be sold by the Internet Society to shell company Ethos Capital for US$1.135 billion.  However, this move was criticized by non-profits and various digital rights groups on concerns that Ethos Capital, a private equity firm, would raise fees or censor the domain. The sale was blocked by Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) in April 2020 on the basis that transfer of control of the domain to the private equity firm would create "unacceptable uncertainty" for non-profits that relied on the org domain.

[[First Rutte cabinet]]

CATEGORIES: Cabinets of the Netherlands, 2010 establishments in the Netherlands

The First Rutte cabinet, also called Rutte I cabinet or Rutte I, was a Dutch cabinet, which governed the Netherlands from October 14, 2010 until November 5, 2012 (outgoing from April 23, 2012).

It consisted of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) and the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA). It was supported by the Party for Freedom (PVV).

The Prime Minister was Mark Rutte (VVD), the Deputy Prime Minister Maxime Verhagen.

It was succeeded by the Second Rutte cabinet.

[[Jubril Martins-Kuye]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Nigerian politicians

Jubril Martins-Kuye (16 August 1942 – 17 January 2021) was a Nigerian politician. He was a member of the People's Democratic Party. He unsuccessfully ran for Governor of the Ogun State in 1999. From 2010 to 2011, he was  Minister of Commerce and Industry during the Goodluck Jonathan administration.

Martins-Kuye died on 17 January 2021 in Ago Iwoye, Ogun State at the age of 78.

[[Sammy Nestico]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2021 deaths, American composers, Musicians from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, American jazz musicians

Samuel Louis Nistico (February 6, 1924 – January 17, 2021), better known as Sammy Nestico, was an American composer and arranger. Nestico was best known for his arrangements for the Count Basie orchestra.

Nestico died on January 17, 2021 at the age of 96.

[[Vincent M. Rizzotto]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Roman Catholic bishops, People from Houston, Texas

Vincent Michael Rizzotto (September 9, 1931 – January 17, 2021) was an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. Rizzotto was an auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston from 2001 to 2006. He was born in Houston, Texas. 

Rizzotto died on January 17, 2021 at the age of 89 in Houston.

[[József Sas]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Hungary, Hungarian stage actors, Comedians, Theatre directors

József Sas (born József Polacsek; 3 January 1939 – 17 January 2021) was a Hungarian actor, comedian and theatre manager. He was director of the Mikroszkóp Theatre from 1985 to 2009. He was born in Békéscsaba, Hungary. His career lasted from 1957 to 2018. 

Sas was hospitalized with COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Hungary. He died on 17 January 2021 from the infection in Budpaest, aged 82.

[[Philip Wilson (bishop)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, Australian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic archbishops, People from Adelaide

Philip Edward Wilson (2 October 1950 – 17 January 2021) was an Australian Roman Catholic prelate. He was the eighth Archbishop of Adelaide from 2001 to 2018. He was President of the Australian Catholic Bishops' Conference from 2006 to 2010. 

From 1996 to 2001 Wilson was bishop of the Diocese of Wollongong. He was born in Cessnock, New South Wales.

Wilson died in Adelaide, South Australia on 17 January 2021, aged 70.

[[La Beaume]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

La Beaume is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Jean-Pierre Bacri]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2021 deaths, French screenwriters, French movie actors, French television actors, Algerian people, Cancer deaths in France

Jean-Pierre Bacri (24 May 1951 – 18 January 2021) was an Algerian-born French actor and screenwriter. He was born in Bou Ismaïl, Algeria. Bacri was known for his movie roles in Same Old Song and Place Vendôme. He was also known for writing the screenplay for The Taste of Others.

Bacri died of cancer in Paris on 18 January 2021, aged 69.

[[Ceillac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Ceillac is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Carlos Burga]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, Peruvian people, Boxers, Olympians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Peru

Carlos Burga (12 May 1952 – 18 January 2021) was a Peruvian boxer. He competed in the men's welterweight event at the 1972 Summer Olympics. Burga also competed in the welterweight class at the 1975 Pan American Games.

Burga died on 18 January 2021 from COVID-19 in Lima, Peru at the age of 68.

[[Joshua Kyeremeh]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 deaths, Year of birth missing, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Ghana, Ghanaian politicians

Joshua Kyeremeh (died 18 January 2021) was a Ghanaian politician and administrator. He was a member of the New Patriotic Party. He was a National security coordinator for the President of Ghana. Kyeremeh was Director of the Bureau of National Investigations from 2005 to 2009.

Kyeremeh died on 18 January 2021 at an Accra hospital from COVID-19.

[[Josep Mestres Quadreny]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish composers

Josep Maria Mestres Quadreny (4 March 1929 – 18 January 2021) was a Catalan composer. He taught at the Darmstadt New Music Courses and the Latin American Course of Contemporary Music in Brazil. 

He was chairman of the Joan Brossa Foundation and an emeritus member of the board of trustees of the Joan Miró Foundation. He composed the music for Nocturne 29.

Mestres Quadreny died on 18 January 2021 in Manresa, Spain at the age of 91.

[[Francisco Daniel Rivera Sánchez]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, Roman Catholic bishops, Mexican people

Francisco Daniel Rivera Sánchez (15 October 1955 – 18 January 2021) was a Mexican Roman Catholic auxiliary bishop. Rivera Sánchez was born in Guadalajara, Jalisco. He became a priest in 1988. He was titular bishop of Aradi and auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Mexico City from 2020 until his death in 2021.

Rivera Sánchez died on 18 January 2021 from COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, aged 65.

[[Pro-Life Action League]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s establishments in Illinois, 1980 establishments in the United States, Abortion, Political organizations based in the United States, Chicago, Illinois

The Pro-Life Action League is an American anti-abortion organization. It was founded by Joseph M. Scheidler in Chicago in 1980. The organization's mission is to end abortion.

It was involved in the Scheidler v. NOW 2006 decision by the United States Supreme Court.

[[Juan Carlos Tabío]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Cuban screenwriters, Movie directors

Juan Carlos Tabío (1943 – 18 January 2021) was a Cuban movie director and screenwriter. He was best known for his 1994 movie  Strawberry and Chocolate which won awards at the 44th Berlin International Film Festival, and was also nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. He also directed the 2000 movie Lista de Espera.

Tabío died on 18 January 2021 at the age of 77.

[[William Vickrey]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1996 deaths, American Protestants, Columbia University faculty, Columbia University alumni, People from Victoria, British Columbia

William Spencer Vickrey (21 June 1914 – 11 October 1996) was a Canadian-American professor of economics. He is a Nobel Laureate. He was awarded the 1996 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences with James Mirrlees for their research into the economic theory of incentives under asymmetric information, becoming the only Nobel laureate born in British Columbia.

The announcement of his Nobel Prize was made just three days prior to his death. Vickrey died during his journey to a conference of Georgist academics that he helped found. He was never missed once in 20 years. His Columbia University economics department colleague C. Lowell Harriss accepted the posthumous prize on his behalf. There are only three other cases where a Nobel Prize has been presented posthumously.

[[Chris Bauer]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Mark Christopher Bauer (born October 28, 1966) is an American actor. He was best known for his television work in The Wire, Third Watch, True Blood, Survivor's Remorse and The Deuce.

[[K. V. Vijayadas]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2021 deaths, Indian politicians, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage

K. V. Vijayadas (25 May 1959 – 18 January 2021) was an Indian politician. He was a Member of the Kerala Legislative Assembly from the Kongad (State Assembly constituency) from 2011 until his death. He was a member of the Marxist Communist Party. 

Vijayadas died of a cerebral haemorrhage on 18 January 2021 in Palakkad, India at the age of 61.

[[Fernanda Urrejola]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, People from Santiago, Chilean movie actors, Chilean television actors

Fernanda Loreto Urrejola Arroyo (born September 24, 1981) is a Chilean actress. She was born in Santiago de Chile. Her best known movie roles were in My Best Enemy (2005), Drama (2010) and Bring Me the Head of the Machine Gun Woman (2012). She will star in the 2021 Clint Eastwood movie Cry Macho.

[[Molly Bernard]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, LGBT actors, Lesbians, Actors from New York City

Molly Kate Bernard (born April 10, 1988) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as Lauren Heller on the television series Younger. Bernard was born in New York City.

Bernard is openly lesbian.

[[Jerry Ferrara]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

Jerry Charles Ferrara (born November 25, 1979) is an American actor. He is known for his role as Turtle on the HBO comedy series Entourage. He starred on the Starz drama series Power as Joe Proctor. Ferrara was born in New York City.

[[Ramji Lal]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Indian politicians

Ramji Lal (25 March 1930 – 15 January 2021) was an Indian politician. He was in the Rajya Sabha as a member of the  Indian National Congress from 1992 to 1993 and 1994 to 2000.

Lal died on 15 January 2021 at the age of 90.

[[Anatoliy Vishnevskiy]]

CATEGORIES: Russian academics, Economists, 1935 births, 2021 deaths

Anatoliy Vishnevskiy (1 April 1935 – 15 January 2021) was a Russian demographer and economist. He was born in Kharkiv, Kharkiv Oblast. He was a visiting professor at Lumière University Lyon 2, the University of Paris 8 Vincennes-Saint-Denis, and Sciences Po.

Vishnevskiy was editor-in-chief of the information bulletin "Population and Society" and of the online journal "Demoscope Weekly". He was also a writer and historian of the White émigré. 

Vishnevskiy died in Moscow on 15 January 2021 at the age of 85.

[[Jon Arnett]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Los Angeles Rams players, Chicago Bears players, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California

Jon Dwane "Jaguar Jon" Arnett (April 20, 1935 – January 16, 2021) was an American professional football player.  He was a first-team All-American. He was born in Los Angeles, California. He played for the Los Angeles Rams from 1957 to 1963 and for the Chicago Bears from 1964 to 1966.

Arnett died on January 16, 2021 from heart failure in Lake Oswego, Oregon at the age of 85.

[[Svavar Gestsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Icelandic politicians, Ambassadors

Svavar Gestsson (26 June 1944 – 18 January 2021) was an Icelandic politician. He was a Minister of Social Affairs from 1980 to 1983. He was an Ambassador to Sweden from 2001 to 2005 and Ambassador to Denmark from 2005 to 2012.

Gestsson died on 18 January 2021 in Reykjavík, Iceland at the age of 76.

[[Maria Koterbska]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2021 deaths, Polish singers

Maria Koterbska (13 July 1924 – 18 January 2021) was a Polish singer. She was popular in the 1950s and 1960s. She was born in Bielsko, Poland. 

In 1999, Koterbska was awarded the Officer's Cross of the Order of Polonia Restituta.

Koterbska was known for her singles were "Augustowskie noce", "Brzydula i rudzielec", "Karuzela", "Parasolki", "Serduszko puka w rytmie cza cza", "Wrocławska piosenka" and "Do grającej szafy grosik wrzuć".

Koterbska died in Bielsko-Biała, Poland on 18 January 2021 at the age of 96.

[[Dündar Ali Osman]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Turkish people

Dündar Ali Osman (dynˈdaɾ ˈali ˈosman, Dundār ʿEly ʿOsmān; 30 December 1930 – 18 January 2021), also known as Dündar Ali Osman Osmanoğlu was the 45th Head of the House of Osman from 2017 until his death. He was born in Damascus, Syria. 

Osman died on 18 January 2021 in Istanbul, Turkey at the age of 90.

[[David Richardson (writer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American television producers, American television writers, Cancer survivors

David Richardson (December 24, 1955 – January 18, 2021) was an American television writer and producer. He wrote for The Simpsons, Malcolm in the Middle, Two and a Half Men, and F Is for Family. 

Richardson died of heart failure on January 18, 2021 at the age of 65.

[[V. Shanta]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian scientists

Viswanathan Shanta (11 March 1927 – 19 January 2021) was an Indian oncologist. She was born in Chennai, India. Shanta was Director of the Adyar Cancer Institute from 1980 to 1997. Shanta was awarded the Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan, and Padma Vibhushan.

Shanta died on 19 January 2021 in Chennai from a heart attack, aged 93.

[[Dani Shmulevich-Rom]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Israeli footballers

Daniel "Dani" Shmulevich-Rom (דני (רום) שמולביץ; 29 November 1940 – 18 January 2021) was an Israeli footballer. He played for the Maccabi Haifa F.C. from 1957 to 1973. He also played for the national team.

Shmulevich-Rom died on 18 January 2021 from cancer at the age of 80.

[[Sinclair Hood]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2021 deaths, British archaeologists, British academics, British centenarians

Martin Sinclair Frankland Hood (31 January 1917 – 18 January 2021), generally known as Sinclair Hood, was a British archaeologist and academic. He was Director of the British School of Archaeology at Athens from 1954 to 1962. He led the excavations at Knossos from 1957 to 1961. 

Hood turned 100 in January 2017. He died on 18 January 2021, two weeks before his 104th birthday.

[[Emanuele Macaluso]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2021 deaths, Italian journalists, Italian politicians, Italian activists, Trade unionists, Accidental deaths from falls

Emanuele Macaluso (21 March 1924 – 19 January 2021) was an Italian trade unionist, journalist and politician. He was born in Caltanissetta, Italy. He was an editor of L'Unità. 

Macaluso was a member of the Italian Communist Party. From 1963 to 1976, he was a member of the Chamber of Deputies. From 1976 to 1992, Macaluso was a member of the Senate.

Macaluso died on 19 January 2021 in Rome from problems caused by a fall, aged 96.

[[University of San Diego]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s establishments in California, 1949 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in California, Buildings and structures in San Diego, California

The University of San Diego (USD) is a private Roman Catholic research university in San Diego, California. It was founded in July 1949.

It should not be confused with the University of California, San Diego, nor with the San Diego State University.

[[Süleyman I of Rüm]]

CATEGORIES: 11th century births, 11th century deaths, Turkish people

Süleyman I was born in 1041. and died in 1086. He founded an independent Seljuk Turkish state in Anatolia and ruled as Seljuk Sultan of Rûm from 1077 until his death in 1086.

[[Papurana papua]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Oceania, Frogs

The Papua frog (Papurana papua) is a frog from New Guinea.  It lives in both Indonesia and Papua New Guinea.  It also lives on Manus Island and Waigeo Island.  Scientists have seen it as high as 1200 meters above sea level.

[[Zakraoui]]

CATEGORIES: Names

Zakraoui or Zakaraoui is a name that can refer to : 

[[Nataliya Pipa]]

Nataliya Pipa (born October 12, 1983; Lviv) is a Ukrainian public and political figure, activist, platoon member, former member of AIESEC, former member of the Ukrainian Galician Party, co-founder of the Best Sykhiv NGO. She is the People's Deputy of Ukraine of the IX convocation from the party Holos (ukr. Voice).

[[Ihor Pohodin]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people

Ihor Pohodin or Igor Pogodin (ukr. Ігор Погодін; born February 4, 1974, in Vitebsk, Belarus) is a Belarusian and Ukrainian psychologist, psychotherapist, candidate of psychological sciences, associate professor, director of the Gestalt Institute, leading coach and founder of Pogodin Academy, the Academy of Practical Psychology.

[[Kyiv School of Economics]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Ukraine, 1996 establishments in Europe, Colleges and universities in Ukraine, Schools, Kiev

The Kyiv School of Economics (KSE) is a higher education institution founded in 1996 by the Consortium for Economic Research and Education (EERC). In 2017, four master's programs of the Kyiv School of Economics (economic analysis, business and finance economics, KSE business education and public policy and governance) were licensed by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. From 2021, the Kyiv School of Economics launches two new bachelor's degree programs: Economics and Big Data and IT and Business Analysis. The School does not have a single owner, it is governed by an independent board of directors who do not receive compensation for their work, and an international academic board (which includes, in particular, Nobel Laureate Roger Myerson). The president of KSE is Tymofiy Milovanov, a former Ukrainian mister of economics.

[[Ring girl]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations, Boxing, Martial arts, Professional wrestling

Combat sports such as boxing are done in rounds. Since about 1965, there are usually young women, who hold up the number of the the next round, after one round finished. These women are called ring girls. Very often, ring girls wear a bathing suit or a bikini. They are also meant to entertain the spectators in the pause when there is no combat. They are similar to pit babes, which take this function in motor racing.

[[ChuckleVision]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s British television series, 1990s British television series, 2000s British television series, 1980s children's television series, 1990s children's television series, 2000s children's television series, 1987 television series debuts, 2009 British television series endings, BBC Television programmes, Television series about brothers

ChuckleVision is a British television series created by Martin Hughes and the Chuckle Brothers for the BBC. 

[[American Name Society]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics, 1952 establishments in the United States, Non-profit organizations of the United States

The American Name Society (ANS) is a non-profit organization started in 1951 to promote onomastics, the study of names and naming practices, both in the United States and around the world. 

[[Japanese battleship Musashi]]

CATEGORIES: Warships

Musashi, named after the former Japanese province, was one of three Yamato. Four ships were begun, but only two were completed as battleships. The third, Japanese aircraft carrier, was completed as an aircraft carrier and the fourth was scrapped before completion.built for the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN), beginning in the late 1930s. The Yamato-class ships were the heaviest and most powerfully armed battleships ever constructed, displacing almost 72000 fully loaded and armed with nine 46 main guns.

[[Kilmainham Gaol]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Ireland, Prisons

The Kilmainham Gaol was a prison in Ireland.

The Kilmainham Gaol opened in 1796.  It was a county jail for the city of Dublin.  It stopped being a jail in 1924.

Today, Irish people think of Kilmainham Gaol as related to nationalism because many rebels and nationalists were prisoners in that jail.  Ordinary criminals were also prisoners in the jail.  Some of the people held in Kilmainham Gaol were later transported to Australia, meaning they were forced to move to Australia.

[[Gallagher]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American comedians, People from Tampa, Florida

Leo Anthony Gallagher, Jr. (born July 24, 1946), known mononymously as Gallagher, is an American comedian, best known for smashing watermelons as part of his prop comedy act.

[[Katy Carmichael]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, English television actors, English movie actors, English comedians, Actors from Liverpool

Katy Jane Carmichael (born 5 March 1970) is an English actress, director, and producer. She is most known for her roles as DC Jo McMullen in the ITV crime drama series Liverpool 1 (1998–1999), Twist Morgan in the Channel 4 sitcom Spaced (1999–2001), Lucy Barlow in the long-running ITV soap opera Coronation Street (2002–2003), and Melissa Ryan in the hit BBC One school-based drama series Waterloo Road (2009).

[[Sarah-Jane Potts]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, English child actors, English television actors, English movie actors, Actors from Bradford, People from Yorkshire

Sarah-Jane Potts (born 30 August 1976) is an English actress. She is best known for her roles as Molly in the American college-based drama series Felicity (2000–2001), 'Saint' Sarah in the Channel 4 comedy-drama series Sugar Rush (2006), Ellie in the BBC One medical drama series Casualty (2008), Jo Lipsett in the hit BBC One school-based drama series Waterloo Road (2009–2010), and Eddi McKee in the BBC One medical drama series Holby City (2011–2012). She has also acted in other British television series such as Children's Ward, The Bill, Peak Practice, Emmerdale and Doctors.

[[Dead Reckoning (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 movies, 1940s mystery movies, American mystery movies, Movies directed by John Cromwell

Dead Reckoning is a 1947 American mystery movie directed by John Cromwell and starring Humphrey Bogart, Lizabeth Scott, Wallace Ford, George Chandler, Morris Carnovsky. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[New York's 4th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

New York's 4th congressional district is a congressional district for the United States House of Representatives located on Long Island. The district is currently represented by Kathleen Rice. 

The district includes the communities of Baldwin, Bellmore, East Rockaway, East Meadow, the Five Towns, Lynbrook,  Floral Park, Franklin Square, Garden City, Hempstead, Atlantic Beach, Long Beach, Malverne, Freeport, Merrick,  Mineola, Carle Place, New Hyde Park, Oceanside, Rockville Centre, Roosevelt, Uniondale, Wantagh, West Hempstead, Westbury and parts of Valley Stream.

[[Caste (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s drama movies, British drama movies, Movies based on plays

Caste is a 1930 British drama movie directed by Campbell Gullan and was based on the play of the same name by T.W. Robertson. It stars Hermione Baddeley, Nora Swinburne, Alan Napier, Ben Field, Sebastian Shaw, Mabel Terry-Lewis and was distributed by United Artists.

[[The Petrified Forest]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 movies, 1930s crime movies, 1930s drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on plays, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Archie Mayo

The Petrified Forest is a 1936 American crime drama movie directed by Archie Mayo and was based on the play of the same name by Robert E. Sherwood. It stars Leslie Howard, Humphrey Bogart, Bette Davis, Joseph Sawyer, Genevieve Tobin, Porter Hall, Dick Foran, Eddie Acuff and was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[New York's 24th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

New York's 24th congressional district is a congressional district for the United States House of Representatives in western New York. Republican John Katko became the representative in the 2014 election.

The district includes all of Cayuga, Onondaga, and Wayne counties, and the western part of Oswego County. Its largest city is Syracuse.

[[Second inauguration of Barack Obama]]

CATEGORIES: Barack Obama, United States presidential inaugurations, 2013 in the United States, January 2013 events

The second inauguration of Barack Obama as President of the United States was the 57th inauguration and marked the commencement of the second and final term of Barack Obama as President and Joe Biden as Vice President. A private swearing-in ceremony took place on Sunday, January 20, 2013, in the Blue Room of the White House. A public inauguration ceremony took place on Monday, January 21, 2013, at the West Front of the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C.

[[The Ellen DeGeneres Show]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American television series, 2003 American television series debuts, 2003 in television, 2010s American television series, American LGBT television programs, American television talk shows, Comedy television series, Emmy Award winning programs, English-language television programs

The Ellen DeGeneres Show (often shortened to Ellen and stylized as ellen) is an American daytime television variety comedy talk show that is hosted by Ellen DeGeneres. Debuting on September 8, 2003, it is produced by Telepictures and airs in syndication. The majority of stations owned by NBC Owned Television Stations, along with Hearst Television, serve as the program's largest affiliate base. For its first five seasons, the show was taped in Studio 11 at NBC Studios in Burbank, California. From season 6 onwards, the show moved to being taped at Stage 1 on the nearby Warner Bros. lot. Since the beginning of the sixth season, Ellen has been broadcast in high definition in Season 6, from 2008-present.

The show has received 171 Daytime Emmy Award nominations and has won 61 Daytime Emmy Awards as of 2020, including four for Outstanding Talk Show and seven for Outstanding Talk Show Entertainment, surpassing the record held by The Oprah Winfrey Show, which won nine. The show also won 17 People's Choice Awards. On May 21, 2019, DeGeneres announced she had signed for three more years, renewing the show through 2022. On March 11, 2020, DeGeneres announced over Twitter that for now she would be shooting her show without a studio audience to protect the health and safety of the fans, staff, and crew. In a tweet dated March 13, 2020, DeGeneres announced that production of the show had been suspended until March 30, 2020 to protect the health of her audience and staff during the COVID-19 pandemic.

The eighteenth season premiered on September 21, 2020.

[[Laura Aikman]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, English child actors, English television actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, Actors from London

Laura Holly Aikman (born 24 December 1985) is an English actress. Her most notable roles include Mysti in the CBBC-BBC Two children's fantasy series The Mysti Show (2004–2005), May Phelps in the BBC One medical drama series Casualty (2009–2010), Rosie in the ITV2 mock reality show Lemon La Vida Loca (2012–2013), Melanie Poppy in the CBBC comedy drama and musical children's series 4 O'Clock Club (2012–2014), Natalie Mason in the ITV2 sitcom The Job Lot (2014–2015), Lorna Hutchinson in the BBC One school-based drama series Waterloo Road (2015), and Sonia in the hugely popular BBC One sitcom Gavin & Stacey (2019).

==Other websites==  

[[General Secretary of the Workers' Party of Korea]]

CATEGORIES: North Korea

The General Secretary of the Workers’ Party of Korea (Korean: 조선로동당 총비서) is the leader of the Workers' Party of Korea (WPK), the ruling party in North Korea and typically the supreme leader of North Korea.

The office of WPK Chairman was abolished on 12 October 1966 and replaced with the office of General Secretary by a decision of the 14th Plenary Session of the 4th Central Committee. At the 8th WPK Congress in 2021, where the WPK Chairman was abolished and replaced by the General Secretary of the Workers' Party of Korea.

The current General Secretary of the Workers' Party of Korea is Kim Jong-un, who took office on 10 January 2021.

[[Chairman of the Workers' Party of Korea]]

CATEGORIES: North Korea

The Chairman of the Workers’ Party of Korea (Korean: 조선로동당 위원장) was office that existed within the Workers' Party of Korea (WPK) between 1949–66 and 2016–21. The office of "Chairman of the Central Committee" existed between 1949–66 and the office of "Chairman of the Workers' Party of Korea" existed in 2016–21.

The deputy to the Chairman, the officeholder of Vice Chairman of the Central Committee existed in 1949–66 and 2016–21. This list also includes the chairmen and vice chairmen of the direct predecessors of the WPK.

[[Manpur]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Pakistan

Manpur Cheema is a village in Sialkot,Pakistan. A stream flows along the village which originiates from Himalayas. During the time of partition, Sikh Cheema families migrated to Indian Punjab.

Manpur Cheema is surrounded by other historic villages of Cheema Jatts including Sahowala Cheema, Kamalpur Cheema, Jamke Cheema, Baddoke Cheema, Saabke Cheema, Sahjoke Cheema, Adamke Cheema and Bhopalwala Cheema.

[[Rendezvous with Annie]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Allan Dwan

Rendezvous with Annie is a 1946 American comedy movie directed by Allan Dwan and starring Eddie Albert, Faye Marlowe, Gail Patrick, C. Aubrey Smith, Raymond Walburn, George Chandler, William Frawley, Joyce Compton. It was distributed by Republic Pictures.

[[Up in Central Park]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s comedy movies, American musical movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by William A. Seiter

Up in Central Park is a 1948 American musical comedy movie directed by William A. Seiter and was based on the play of the same name by Herbert Fields. It stars Deanna Durbin, Dick Haymes, Vincent Price, Albert Sharpe, Tom Powers, Hobart Cavanaugh, Howard Freeman and was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Moss Rose (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 movies, 1940s mystery movies, 1940s thriller movies, American mystery movies, American thriller movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Gregory Ratoff

Moss Rose is a 1947 American mystery thriller movie. It was directed by Gregory Ratoff. It was based on the novel of the same name by Marjorie Bowen. It stars Vincent Price, Peggy Cummins, Ethel Barrymore, Victor Mature, Margo Woode, George Zucco. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was a box office disappointment.

[[Rush Hour 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s action comedy movies, 2001 comedy movies, American action comedy movies, Movies directed by Brett Ratner, Multilingual movies

Rush Hour 2 is a 2001 American action comedy movie directed by Brett Ratner. It was written by Jeff Nathanson, based on the characters created by Ross LaManna. The cast were Jackie Chan, Chris Tucker, Roselyn Sánchez, John Lone, Alan King, Harris Yulin, and Zhang Ziyi. The story follows Chief Inspector Lee (Chan) and Detective James Carter (Tucker), who go to Hong Kong on vacation only to be thwarted by a murder case involving two U.S. customs agents after a bombing at the American embassy. Lee suspects that the crime is linked to the Triad crime lord Ricky Tan (Lone).

Rush Hour 2 opened on August 3, 2001, to generally mixed reviews. The movie was a commercial success. It grosses $347.3 million worldwide. It made the highest-grossing film in the franchise. A sequel, Rush Hour 3, was released on August 10, 2007.

[[RDS Group]]

CATEGORIES: Companies, Ukraine, Transport

RDS is a group of road construction companies founded in 2005 as the “Rost” investment group for housing and commercial real estate construction.

It is included in the TOP-3 road companies of Ukraine in terms of volume (mileage) of roads built. The main office is in Odessa.

[[JSTOR]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments in the United States, American websites, Libraries in the United States

JSTOR (';https://support.jstor.org/hc/en-us/articles/115007466248-JSTOR-Title-Lists short for Journal Storage) is a digital library. It was founded in 1995 in New York City, United States. It was originally containing digitized back issues of academic journals.  It is now encompasses books and other primary sources as well as current issues of journals. It provides full-text searches of almost 2,000 journals.

2013, more than 8,000 institutions in more than 160 countries had access to JSTOR. Most access is by subscription but some of the site is public domain, and open access content is available free of charge.

JSTOR's revenue was $86 million in 2015.

[[Brian Trueman]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, People from Manchester, English television presenters, English children's writers, English voice actors, English television writers, English screenwriters

Brian Trueman (born 16 May 1932) is an English writer, broadcaster and voice actor. He is known mainly for his work with the animation studio Cosgrove Hall. He wrote and/or narrated children's cartoon series, mostly during the 1970s and 1980s.

[[Víctor Crisólogo]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, Peruvian politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Peru

Víctor Crisólogo (1952 – 17 January 2021) was a Peruvian politician. He was a member of the Congress of the Republic of Peru from 2011 to 2016. He was a member of the Possible Peru. He was born in Virú, Peru.

Crisólogo died on 17 January 2021 in the Nuevo Chimbote District, Peru from COVID-19, aged 68.

[[Sutton Foster]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Drama Desk Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American dancers, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), Singers from Georgia (U.S. state)

Sutton Lenore Foster (born March 18, 1975) is an American actress, singer and dancer. She is known for her work on the Broadway stage. She won two Tony Awards for Best Performance by a Leading Actress in a Musical. She is known for her role as Millie Dillmount in Thoroughly Modern Millie and Reno Sweeney in Anything Goes.

[[Muriel Grossfeld]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, American gymnasts, American Olympians, Sportspeople from New York City

Muriel Evelyn Grossfeld (née Davis October 7, 1940 – January 17, 2021) was an American gymnast. She won a team gold medal at the 1963 Pan American Games. She competed in all artistic gymnastics events at the 1956, 1960 and 1964 Olympics. Grossfeld was born in New York City.

Grossfeld died on January 17, 2021 at the age of 80.

[[Roger Machin]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, Referees, People from Toulon

Roger Machin (26 April 1926 – 17 January 2021) was a French international football referee. Machin was born in Toulon, France. He was member of FIFA in 1964–73 and refereed six international matches. 

Machin died on 17 January 2021 at the age of 94.

[[Sokil Kyiv]]

Hockey Club Sokil Kyiv (Ukrainian: ХК Сокіл Київ; English: Falcon Hockey Club), commonly known as Sokil Kyiv or HC Sokil, is a Ukrainian Professional Hockey League team in Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine. Their home arena is  in the city, but the team also plays out of Brovary, still within the Kyiv region.

Sokil is developed many of the country's top young hockey players, producing NHL All Stars such as Dmitri Khristich and Alexei Zhitnik, and Stanley Cup Champions Ruslan Fedotenko and Anton Babchuk.

[[Junior Mance]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, American composers, American jazz musicians, American pianists, Musicians from Illinois, People from Evanston, Illinois

Julian Clifford Mance, Jr.  (October 10, 1928 – January 17, 2021), known as Junior Mance, was an American jazz pianist and composer. Mance recorded for major labels Capitol (1964–1965) and Atlantic (1966–1970).

He also taught at The New School for Jazz and Contemporary Music for 23 years, retiring in 2011.

From 1990 to 2009 Mance was part of a group called "100 Gold Fingers" which toured Japan every other year.

[[José Alves]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Brazilian footballers

José Alves, nicknamed Zague (August 10, 1934 – January 19, 2021) was a Brazilian footballer. He played for Corinthians in his home country, and Club América in Mexico.

Alves died on January 19, 2021 at the age of 86.

[[Cesare Maestri]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Italian writers, Mountain climbers

Cesare Maestri (2 October 1929 – 19 January 2021) was an Italian mountaineer and writer. He was born in Trento, Italy. 

Maestri began climbing in the Dolomites. He was known as the "Spider of the Dolomites". He became an alpine guide in 1952. 

He also climbed the Civetta, the Solda-Conforto Route on the Marmolada, and the southwest ridge of the Matterhorn in winter.

Maestri died on 19 January 2021, aged 91.

[[Gustavo Peña]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Mexican footballers, Mexican football managers

Gustavo Peña Velasco (22 November 1942 – 19 January 2021) was a Mexican football defender and manager. He was born in Talpa de Allende, Mexico. He made 82 appearances for the national football team between 1961 to 1974. 

Peña died on 19 January 2021, aged 78.

[[Stephanie Seymour]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from San Diego, California, Models from San Diego, California

Stephanie Michelle Seymour (born July 23, 1968) is an American model and actress. During the 1980s and 1990s, she was one of the most popular supermodels.

In 2000, Seymour played Helen Frankenthaler in the movie Pollock. In 2002, she played Sara Lindstrom in an episode of Law & Order: Criminal Intent.

[[Windows Phone 8]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft operating systems

Windows Phone 8 is the second release of Windows Phone. It was publicly released on October 29, 2012. It is similar to Windows 8. It is unsupported as of January 12, 2016. It can be upgraded to Windows Phone 8.1 to help updates security for unsupported Windows Phone 8, the first update was leaked on April 8, 2014. Microsoft released the final version, Update 3, on April 14, 2014, just six days after the Windows XP's end of support.

[[Lubomir Kavalek]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Czech people, American chess players

Lubomir (Lubosh) Kavalek (Lubomír Kaválek, August 9, 1943 – January 18, 2021) was a Czech-American chess player. 

He was awarded both the International Master and International Grandmaster titles by FIDE in 1965. He won two Czechoslovak and three U.S. championships, and was ranked as the world's #10 player in 1974.

Kavalek was also a chess coach, organizer, teacher, commentator, author and award-winning columnist. He was born in Prague, Czechoslovakia.

Kavalek died on January 18, 2021 in Renton, Washington at the age of 77.

[[Ákos Kriza]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2021 deaths, Romanian politicians, Hungarian politicians, Economists, Mayors

Ákos Kriza (10 February 1965 − 18 January 2021) was a Romanian-born Hungarian politician and health economist. Kriza was a member of the Fidesz Party. He was Mayor of Miskolc from October 3, 2010 to October 13, 2019. He was born in Oradea, Romania.

Kriza died on 18 January 2021 in Miskolc at the age of 55.

[[Chuck Mills]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from multiple organ failure, American football coaches, Sportspeople from Chicago

Morton J. "Chuck" Mills (December 1, 1928 – January 18, 2021) was an American college football coach. Mills was born in Chicago, Illinois.

His career lasted from 1957 to 1997. He was the head coach at Pomona College, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, the United States Merchant Marine Academy, Utah State University, Wake Forest University, Southern Oregon University, and the United States Coast Guard Academy.

Mills died on January 18, 2021 in Honolulu, Hawaii from pneumonia caused by multiple organ failure, aged 92.

[[Henryk Ostrowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2021 deaths, Polish politicians

Henryk Ostrowski (1960 – 18 January 2021) was a Polish politician and farmer. He was a member of the Sejm from 2001 to 2005. He was a member of the Self-Defence of the Republic. Ostrowski was born in Szprotawa, Poland.

Ostrowski died on 18 January 2021 in Szprotawa, aged 60.

[[Jimmie Rodgers (pop singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, American rock guitarists, American country guitarists, American folk musicians, American folk singers, American rock singers, American country singers, American pianists, Musicians from Washington, Singers from Washington

James Frederick Rodgers (September 18, 1933 – January 18, 2021) was an American folk pop singer. He was popular in the 1950s and 1960s. He was known for his singles "Honeycomb", "Kisses Sweeter than Wine" and "Secretly".

Rodgers died on January 18, 2021 at the age of 87.

[[Camas, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Camas ˈ is a city in Clark County, Washington. About 19,355 lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Gatot Sudjito]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2021 deaths, Indonesian politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Indonesia

Gatot Sudjito (28 October 1960 – 18 January 2021) was an Indonesian politician. He was a member of the Golkar party. Sudjito was born in Sidoarjo Regency, Indonesia. From 2014 until his death, he was a member of the People's Representative Council. 

Sudjito died on 18 January 2021 in Malang, Indonesia from COVID-19, aged 60.

[[Don Sutton]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Cancer deaths in California, Los Angeles Dodgers players, Houston Astros players, Milwaukee Brewers players, Oakland Athletics players, California Angels players, Sportspeople from Alabama

Donald Howard Sutton (April 2, 1945 – January 18, 2021) was an American professional baseball pitcher and broadcaster. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1966 to 1988. He played for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Houston Astros, Milwaukee Brewers, Oakland Athletics, and California Angels. He was born in Clio, Alabama.

In 1998, Sutton was honored in the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum.

Sutton died on January 18, 2021 in Rancho Mirage, California from cancer, aged 75.

[[Giovanni Zucchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Italian Olympians, Olympic bronze medalists, Rowers

Giovanni Zucchi (14 August 1931 – 19 January 2021) was an Italian rower. He competed in the 1956, 1960, and the 1964 Summer Olympics, winning bronze in 1960. He won five gold medals at European Rowing Championships. Zucchi was born in Mandello del Lario, Italy.

Zucchi died on 19 January 2021, aged 89.

[[Sibusiso Moyo]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2021 deaths, Zimbabwe politicians, Generals, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Zimbabwe

Sibusiso Busi Moyo (1961 – 20 January 2021) was a Zimbabwean politician and Army major general. He was Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade from 2017 until his death. Moyo was born in Mberengwa, Zimbabwe.

Moyo died on 20 January 2021 from COVID-19 in Harare, Zimbabwe.

[[Lâm Quang Thi]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Vietnamese people, Generals, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States

Lieutenant General Lâm Quang Thi (7 May 1932 – 19 January 2021) was a Vietnamese senior military officer in the Army of the Republic of Vietnam. He was active from 1950 to 1975 including the Vietnam War. Thi was born in Bạc Liêu, French Indochina.

Thi died on 19 January 2021 in Fremont, California at the age of 88 from COVID-19.

[[Danial Jahić]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Serbia, Long jumpers, Serbian sportspeople, Olympians

Danial Jahić (1 July 1979 – 19 January 2021) was a Serbian athlete. He competed in the men's long jump at the 2000 Summer Olympics.

On 19 January 2021, Jahić died at the age of 41 from COVID-19.

[[Nombulelo Hermans]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa, South African politicians, Women politicians

Nombulelo Lilian Hermans (1 January 1970 - 18 January 2021) was a South African politician. She was a member of the African National Congress. She was in a Member of the National Assembly of South Africa from 2019 until her death in 2021.

Hermans died from COVID-19 on 18 January 2021.

[[Xavier Hunault]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, French mayors

Xavier Hunault (29 January 1923 – 16 January 2021) was a French politician. From 1959 to 1989, he was Mayor of Châteaubriant. From 1962 to 1993, Hunault was a member of the National Assembly. He was born in Châteaubriant.

Hunault died on 16 January 2021, aged 97.

[[John Joseph Ryba]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Chicago, Politicians from Wisconsin, US Democratic Party politicians

John Joseph Ryba Jr. (August 10, 1929spaced ndashJanuary 9, 2021) was an American politician and public administrator. Ryba was a member of the Democratic Party. He was a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly from 1993 to 2003, representing Green Bay. Ryba was born in Chicago, Illinois.

Ryba died on January 9, 2021 in De Pere, Wisconsin at the age of 91.

[[Robinson Township, Allegheny County, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in Pennsylvania

Robinson Township is a township in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, United States. It is about 12 west of Pittsburgh. 13,354 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Robinson Township, Washington County, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in Pennsylvania

Robinson Township is a township in Washington County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 1,931 at the 2010 census.

[[Cry Macho (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 movies, 2020s drama movies, American drama movies, American western movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Clint Eastwood, Warner Bros. movies, HBO Max

Cry Macho is an upcoming American neo-Western drama movie directed and produced by Clint Eastwood. He also stars in the movie. It is based on the 1975 novel of the same name by N. Richard Nash. The movie was produced by Eastwood's Malpaso Productions. It will be theatrically released by Warner Bros. Pictures, and digitally on HBO Max on the same day, sometime in 2021.

[[N. Richard Nash]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2000 deaths, American playwrights, American novelists, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Nathan Richard Nusbaum (June 8, 1913 – December 11, 2000), known as N. Richard Nash, was an American writer and dramatist. He was best known for writing Broadway shows, including The Rainmaker.

[[Decatur, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tennessee, County seats in Tennessee

Decatur (d dih) is a town in Meigs County, Tennessee, United States. 1,598 people lived here at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Meigs County.

[[Decaturville, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tennessee, County seats in Tennessee

Decaturville is a town in and the county seat of Decatur County, Tennessee, United States. 867 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Parsons, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tennessee

Parsons is a city in Decatur County, Tennessee, United States. 2,373 people lived here at the 2010 census. Parsons is the largest city by population in Decatur County.

[[Shabestar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, East Azarbaijan Province

Shabestar (شبستر; also known as Chabiastar, Shabiastar, and Shabistar) is a city and is the capital of Shabestar County, East Azerbaijan Province, Iran.  As of the 2011 census, its population was 25,663.

[[Bo Welch]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American production designers, Best Production Design BAFTA Award winners, Movie directors from Pennsylvania, People from Yardley, Pennsylvania, University of Arizona alumni

Robert W. "Bo" Welch III (born November 30, 1951) is an American production designer, art director, film and television director and occasional actor.

[[Moluccas frog]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

The Moluccas frog (Papurana moluccana) is a frog from the Moluccas in Indonesia.

[[Cap]]

CATEGORIES: Headgear

A cap is a form of headgear or headware. Caps have crowns that fit very close to the head. They have been used in almost every society, especially those societies which have colder weather.

They made their first appearance as early as 3,200BC. Caps typically have a visor, but sometimes have no brim at all. They are popular in casual and informal settings, and are seen in sports and fashion.  They are designed for warmth, and often have a visor to block sunlight from the eyes. They come in many shapes, sizes, and are of different brands. Baseball caps are one of the most common types of cap.

[[Maxime Verhagen]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Deputy Prime Ministers of the Netherlands, Dutch businesspeople, Dutch councillors, Dutch historians, Dutch Roman Catholics, Former leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Former MEPs, Government ministers of the Netherlands, MEPs for the Netherlands, People from Maastricht, Politicians from Limburg (Netherlands), Writers from Limburg (Netherlands)

Maxime Jacques Marcel Verhagen (born 14 September 1956, Maastricht) is a former Dutch politician of the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA).

Verhagen studied history at Leiden University.

He was a member of the municipal council of Oegstgeest from 1989 to 1990, a member of the European Parliament from 1989 to 1994, a member of the House of Representatives from 1994 to 2007 and in 2010, and also parliamentary leader from 2002 to 2006 and in 2010.

From 2007 to 2010, he was foreign minister, in the Fourth Balkenende cabinet. He also was development cooperation minister in the same cabinet in 2010. From 2010 to 2012, he was both economics and agriculture minister, and deputy prime minister in the First Rutte cabinet.

Verhagen was leading the CDA from 2010 to 2012.

Since July 2013 he has been chairing Bouwend Nederland.

Maxime Verhagen is married with three children, and a member of the Catholic Church. He lives in Voorburg (province of South Holland).

[[Poop deck]]

CATEGORIES: Ship building

A poop deck is part of a ship. It is the deck that is the roof of a cabin. It is at the back of a ship. Usually, it is the highest deck. Note that poop comes from French poupe, Latin puppis, which is the name of the stern of a ship.  

[[1991 Georgian independence referendum]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 in Asia, 1991 in Europe, History of Georgia (country)

A referendum was held  on 31 March, 1991 in the Republic of Georgia. The question was: "Do you support the restoration of the independence of Georgia in accordance with the Act of Declaration of Independence of Georgia of May 26, 1918?"

[[New York's 9th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

New York's 9th congressional district is a congressional district for the United States House of Representatives in New York. The district is in New York City. The representative is Yvette Clarke.

The district is located entirely within Brooklyn. It includes the neighborhoods of Brownsville, Crown Heights, East Flatbush, Flatbush, Kensington, Park Slope, Prospect Heights, Midwood, Sheepshead Bay, Marine Park, Gerritsen Beach, and Prospect Lefferts Gardens.

[[He Loves to Fly and He D'ohs]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons episodes, 2007 television episodes

"He Loves to Fly and He D'ohs" is the first episode of the 19th season of The Simpsons. It was first shown on the Fox network on September 23, 2007. It is the first episode to be shown after The Simpsons Movie was first shown in movie theaters. The episode is about Homer Simpson trying to get a job that will let him fly an airplane. The episode was written by Joel H. Cohen. Mark Kirkland is the director of the episode. Lionel Richie and Stephen Colbert are guest stars in the episode.

[[New York's 1st congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

New York's 1st congressional district is a congressional district for the United States House of Representatives located on Long Island. The district had voted for a Democrat but in 2014, Republican Lee Zeldin.

The district has the counties of Suffolk County, Smithtown, Brookhaven, Riverhead, Southold, Southampton, East Hampton, and Shelter Island. The very wealthy neighborhoods of the Hamptons are also in the district. 

[[New York's 20th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

New York's 20th congressional district is a congressional district for the United States House of Representatives located in the middle of New York. It includes all of Albany and Schenectady counties, and parts of Montgomery, Rensselaer, and Saratoga counties. Democrat Paul Tonko represents the district since 2013.

[[New York's 6th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

New York's 6th congressional district is a congressional district for the United States House of Representatives in New York City. The district is part of Queens. It is represented by Democrat Grace Meng. The district has voted for a Democrat every election since 1983. Over 714,000 people live in the district.

[[New York's 19th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

New York's 19th congressional district is a congressional district in New York. It is in the middle of the state and north of New York City. The counties of Columbia, Delaware, Greene, Otsego, Schoharie, Sullivan, and Ulster are all in the district, and parts of Broome, Dutchess, Montgomery, and Rensselaer counties are also in the district. The 19th district borders Vermont, Massachusetts, and Connecticut to the east, and Pennsylvania to the southwest. The district is represented by Democrat Antonio Delgado since 2018.

[[New York's 27th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

The 27th congressional district of New York is a congressional district for the United States House of Representatives in western New York.  It includes all of Orleans, Genesee, Wyoming, and Livingston counties and parts of Erie, Monroe, Niagara, and Ontario counties. The district is represented by Republican Chris Jacobs since 2020. The district used to be represented by Republican Chris Collins but he left his job after he was found guilty of insider trading a special election was held to take Chris Collin's job. Chris Jacobs won the election.

[[New York's 13th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

New York's 13th congressional district is a congressional district for the United States House of Representatives located in New York City. The representative is Democratic congressman Adriano Espaillat. The district is the smallest congressional district in the U.S. Upper Manhattan and parts of the West Bronx are the places the district is in.

[[Dharmaśāstra]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu texts, Religious behavior and experience, Law

Dharmaśāstra (धर्मशास्त्र) is a genre of Sanskrit theological texts, and refers to the treatises (śāstras) of Hinduism on dharma.

[[Thermopause]]

CATEGORIES: Atmosphere, Earth sciences

The thermopause is part of the planet Earth's atmosphere.  It is the top of the thermosphere.

[[Fear Strikes Out]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Robert Mulligan

Fear Strikes Out is a 1957 American biographical drama movie directed by first time director Robert Mulligan and was based on the 1955 memoir of the same name by Jimmy Piersall. It stars Anthony Perkins, Karl Malden, Adam Williams, Perry Wilson and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Australian plate]]

CATEGORIES: Tectonic plates, Indian Ocean, Australia

Australian plate is a major plate tectonic that is a section of Indo-Australian plate. Australia is located centrally on the Australian plate and is remarkably stable tectonically. Australian plate and Indian plate is two separates plate, in the most recent issue of Earth and Planetary Science Letter (vol. 133).

[[Casanova's Big Night]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Norman Z. McLeod

Casanova's Big Night is a 1954 American comedy movie directed by Norman Z. McLeod and starring Bob Hope, Joan Fontaine, Audrey Dalton, Basil Rathborne, Hugh Marlowe, Arnold Moss, John Carradine, John Hoyt, Hope Emerson, Lon Chaney Jr., Raymond Burr, Vincent Price. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[The Kid from Brooklyn]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s comedy movies, American musical movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Norman Z. McLeod

The Kid from Brooklyn is a 1946 American musical comedy movie directed by Norman Z. McLeod and was a remake of the 1936 movie The Milky Way. It stars Danny Kaye, Virginia Mayo, Vera-Ellen, Steve Cochran, Eve Arden, Walter Abel and was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures.

[[The Razor's Edge]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s drama movies, 1940s romance movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Edmund Goulding

The Razor's Edge is a 1946 American romantic drama movie directed by Edmund Goulding and was based on the 1944 novel of the same name by W. Somerset Maugham. It stars Tyrone Power, Gene Tierney, John Payne, Anne Baxter, Clifton Webb, Herbert Marshall, Lucile Watson, Frank Latimore, Elsa Lanchester and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 4 Oscars and won an Academy Award in 1947.

[[List of heads of state of the Central African Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the Central Africa Republic

This article lists the heads of state of the Central African Republic.

[[List of heads of government of the Central African Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of the Central African Republic

This article lists the heads of government of the Central African Republic.

[[Firmin Ngrébada]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1968 births, Prime Ministers of the Central African Republic, Current national leaders

Firmin Ngrébada (born 1968) is the current prime minister of the Central African Republic since February 25, 2019.

[[Zoë Bell]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Stuntmen, New Zealand movie actors

Zoë E. Bell (born 17 November 1978) is a New Zealand stuntwoman and actress. Some of her best known stunt work was doubling for Lucy Lawless in Xena: Warrior Princess and for Uma Thurman in Kill Bill.

[[Don Stroud]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Surfers, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from Honolulu, Musicians from Hawaii

Donald Lee Stroud (born September 1, 1943) is an American actor, musician, and surfer.

Stroud appeared with Clint Eastwood in two movies, Coogan's Bluff (1968) and Joe Kidd (1972).

He played Sheriff Bob Sharp in the 2012 movie Django Unchained.

[[Lindsay Hartley]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from California, People from Palm Springs, California

Lindsay Nicole Korman (born April 17, 1978) is an American actress. She played Theresa Lopez-Fitzgerald Crane Winthrop on Passions, Cara Castillo on All My Children and Arianna Hernandez on Days of Our Lives. She was born in Palm Springs, California.

[[Carmen Carrera]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, LGBT models, LGBT actors, American LGBT rights activists, LGBT people from New Jersey, Models from New Jersey, Actors from New Jersey

Carmen Carrera (born April 13, 1985) is an American reality television personality, model, burlesque performer, and actress. She is known for appearing on the third season of the Logo reality television series RuPaul's Drag Race.

Carrera is a transgender woman and a transgender rights activist.

[[Elmwood Park, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in New Jersey

Elmwood Park is a borough in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. In the 2010 United States Census, 19,403 people lived here.

[[Fantastic Mr. Fox (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 comedy movies, 2009 animated movies, American comedy movies, American animated movies, Movies directed by Wes Anderson, Movies based on books

Fantastic Mr. Fox is a 2009 American stop motion animated comedy movie directed by Wes Anderson. It is based on Roald Dahl's 1970 children's novel of the same name.

The movie stars the voices of George Clooney, Meryl Streep, Jason Schwartzman, Bill Murray, Willem Dafoe, Michael Gambon, and Owen Wilson. 

It was released on November 13, 2009. The movie also received nominations for the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature and Best Original Score, but lost  both to Up.

[[Isle of Dogs (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2018 science fiction movies, 2018 comedy movies, 2018 animated movies, 2018 drama movies, American science fiction movies, American comedy movies, American animated movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Wes Anderson

Isle of Dogs is a 2018 stop-motion science-fiction comedy-drama adult animated movie written, produced, and directed by Wes Anderson. It stars Bryan Cranston  as the dog Chief and Koyu Rankin as a young human called Atari. 

The movie also stars Edward Norton, Liev Schreiber, Bill Murray, Bob Balaban, Jeff Goldblum, Scarlett Johansson, Kunichi Nomura, Tilda Swinton, Ken Watanabe, Akira Ito, Greta Gerwig, Akira Takayama, Frances McDormand, F. Murray Abraham, Courtney B. Vance, Yojiro Noda, Fisher Stevens, Mari Natsuki, Nijiro Murakami, Yoko Ono, Harvey Keitel, and Frank Wood.

It had a limited release in the United States on March 23, 2018, by Fox Searchlight Pictures, and went on wide release on April 13. It was nominated for two Academy Awards, for Best Animated Feature Film and Best Original Score.

[[Boris Zaborov]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Belarusian people, Painters

Boris Zaborov (Барыс Абрамавіч Забораў; 16 October 1935 – 20 January 2021) was a Soviet Belarusian artist. He moved to Paris, France in 1980 to begin a career in painting. He was born in Minsk.

Zaborov died on 20 January 2021 in Paris at the age of 85.

[[Mike Sadek]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, San Francisco Giants players, Sportspeople from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from lung disease

Michael George Sadek (May 30, 1946 – January 20, 2021) was a Major League Baseball catcher. He spent his entire major league career with the San Francisco Giants. His career lasted from 1975 to 1981.

Sadek died on January 20, 2021 in San Andreas, California from heart and lung disease, aged 74.

[[John Baptist Kaggwa]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Uganda, Roman Catholic bishops, Ugandan people

John Baptist Kaggwa (23 March 1943 – 20 January 2021) was a Ugandan Roman Catholic prelate. He was Bishop Emeritus of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Masaka from 10 January 1998 until his retirement on 16 April 2019. From 19 December 1994 until 10 January 1998, Bishop Kaggwa was Coadjutor Bishop of Masaka, Uganda. Kaggwa was born in Bulenga, Wakiso District, Uganda.

Kaggwa died on 20 January 2021 at a hospital in Kampala, Uganda from COVID-19 at the age of 77.

[[Lars Westman (writer)]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish journalists, 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Swedish novelists

Lars Gustaf Westman (16 April 1934 – 16 January 2021) was a Swedish writer and journalist. Westman was the grandson of architect Carl Westman and the artist Elin Westman. He was a journalist at Stockholms-Tidningen and the magazine We. In 2012, he published the book Till Saltsjöbaden.

Westman died on 16 January 2021, aged 86.

[[James D. Heiple]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, American lawyers, American judges, Politicians from Illinois, People from Peoria, Illinois, US Republican Party politicians, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage

James D. Heiple (September 13, 1933 – January 18, 2021) was an American lawyer and Republican politician. He was elected as a Justice of the Illinois Supreme Court in 1990. He was its chief justice from 1997 until his retirement 2000. Heiple was born in Peoria, Illinois.

Heiple died on January 18, 2021 at a hospital in Peoria from a cerebral hemorrhage, aged 87.

[[Tom Prebble]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Educators, People from Wellington

Thomas Kenneth Prebble NZL (November 1945 – 17 January 2021) was a New Zealand educationalist and university administrator. He was born in Wellington, New Zealand.

In the 2019 New Zealand Honours, Prebble was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit.

Prebble died on 17 January 2021 in Palmerston North, New Zealand aged 75.

[[Barbara Gronemus]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Wisconsin, US Democratic Party politicians

Barbara (née Barry) Gronemus (November 21, 1931 – January 17, 2021) was an American politician and farmer. Gronemus was born in Norwalk, Wisconsin. She was a Democratic Party member of the Wisconsin State Assembly from 1982 through 2008. 

Gronemus died in Blair, Wisconsin on January 17, 2021 at the age of 89. 

[[Norwalk, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wisconsin, Monroe County, Wisconsin

Norwalk is a village in Monroe County, Wisconsin, United States.

[[Blair, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Trempealeau County, Wisconsin

Blair is a city in Trempealeau County, Wisconsin.

[[Gerald Wiegert]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Engineers from Michigan, Businesspeople from Michigan, People from Dearborn, Michigan

Gerald Alden "Jerry" Wiegert (July 12, 1944 – January 15, 2021) was an American automotive engineer and businessman. He was the founder of two companies, Vector Motors and Aquajet. Wiegert was born in Dearborn, Michigan.

Wiegert died on January 15, 2021 at the age of 76.

[[Benjamin de Rothschild]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Bankers, French businesspeople

Benjamin de Rothschild (30 July 1963 – 15 January 2021) was a French banker. He is the owner of the Edmond de Rothschild Group from 1997 until his death. He was the son of Edmond Adolphe (1926–1997) and Nadine (born 1932). In 1972, he created the professional offshore sailing racing team Gitana Team.

On 15 January 2021 De Rothschild  suffered a heart attack and died, at his home in Pregny-Chambésy, Switzerland. He was 57.

[[Nadine de Rothschild]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, French writers, French movie actors, French stage actors

Nadine de Rothschild (née Nadine Nelly Jeannette Lhopitalier; born 18 April 1932) is a French author and former actress.

She appeared in The Sleepwalker, Women of Paris, Children of Love, Madame du Barry, Girls at Sea.

[[Socialist Republic of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s establishments in Romania, 1947 establishments in Europe, 1989 disestablishments in Europe, Former countries in Europe, Former countries in the Balkans, Former socialist republics, States and territories established in the 1940s, States and territories disestablished in the 20th century

From 1947 to 1989, Romania was a socialist republic. From 1947 to 1965, it was called Romanian People's Republic (Republica Populară Romînă, RPR). In 1965, Nicolae Ceaușescu came to power.  He succeeded Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, who died of cancer that year. To reflect the change, the state was renamed to Socialist Republic of Romania. After the fall of the Berlin wall, in 1989, there was a revolution. Protesters wanted Ceaușescu to step down. During demostrations, Romanian Secret police, Securitate used weapons. Part of the regular armed forces joined the protests. Over 1000 people were killed in the fights that resulted.  Ceaușescu was captured, and tried before a military tribunal. The tribunal sentenced him and his wife to death. Together with his wife, he was shot, on December 25, 1989. Ion Iliescu became the new president.

[[Paincourtville, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Louisiana

Paincourtville is a census-designated place (CDP) in Assumption Parish, Louisiana, United States. 911 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Devi Shetty]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Indian philanthropists, Living people

Devi Prasad Shetty, MS, FRCS, (born 8 May 1953) is an Indian cardiac surgeon.https://www.credihealth.com/doctor/devi-prasad-shetty-cardiac-surgeon/overview/ref  He is also entrepreneur. He is the chairman and founder of Narayana Health, a chain of 21 medical centers in India. He has performed more than 15,000 heart operations. In 2004 he was awarded the Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award, followed by the Padma Bhushan in 2012, the third highest civilian award by the Government of India for his contribution to the field of affordable healthcare.

[[Andy Powell]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, English guitarists, Singer-songwriters from London

Douglas Jared Powell (born 19 February 1950) is an English musician. He has been one of the lead guitarists for the band Wishbone Ash since 1969. Some have called him one of the most influencial guitarists in history, along with other Wishbone Ash guitarists Ted Turner and Laurie Wisefield.

[[Radio Data System]]

CATEGORIES: Radio technology, Everyday life

Radio Data System is a communication protocol that allows to send small amounts of digital information in a common FM radio broadcast. Aside from time and date, this commonly is the name of the station, or information about the program that is currently broadcast. First tests were done in 1983 and 1984, the standard was officially introduced in 1988. 

The following types of information can be sent:

It is possible to transmit Radio Text. In theory, it is possible to transmit 64 characters per line.

[[Papurana novaeguineae]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Oceania, Frogs

The New Guinea frog (Papurana novaeguineae) is a frog from southern New Guinea. Scientists saw it between between Yamur Lake and the Purari River.

[[Orange banana]]

CATEGORIES: Musaceae

Fe'i banana or Orange banana is a cultivar of banana that occurs on Pacific islands, the Moluccas, and in Papua New Guinea. Unlike other banana species, its sap is red, and not white. When ripe, the fruit has an orange-red color. Today, it is not clear where the banana grew originally. It might have been on Papua. Unlike the dessert banana, this kind of banana is rarely eaten raw.

[[Electrecord]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Romania, 1932 establishments in Europe, Record labels, Classical music, Jazz music, Pop music, Rock music, World music, Electronic music, Electronic music record labels

Electrecord is a Romanian record label that started in 1932. It was the only record label in Communist Romania because their government believed in centralization.

[[2003 Georgian constitutional referendum]]

CATEGORIES: Referendums

The 2003 Georgian constitutional referendum was a referendum that was held on 2 November 2003 alongside parliamentary elections. Question was: Are you for or against the reduction in the number of Georgian parliamentarians to 150 members?.

[[Dr. Julia Hoffman]]

CATEGORIES: Television characters, Movie characters, Fictional characters introduced in the 1960s

Dr. Julia Hoffman is a fictional character in the TV show Dark Shadows and the movie Dark Shadows. 

[[2013-14 Atlantic winter storms in Europe]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in weather, 2014 in weather

The 2013-14 Atlantic winter storms in Europe was a time of winter storms that happened in Europe.

[[New York's 11th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

New York's 11th congressional district is a congressional district for the United States House of Representatives in New York City. The 11th district includes all of Staten Island and areas of Brooklyn. The district is currently represented by Republican Nicole Malliotakis who was elected in 2020. The district used to be represented by Democrat Max Rose but was on of the few districts that changed to Republican in the 2020 elections.

[[New York's 23rd congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

New York's 23rd congressional district is a congressional district in the state of New York. The district is in the southwest of New York and goes on the border of the state of Pennsylvania. The west side of the district is the shore of Lake Erie. The district has the counties of Allegany, Cattaraugus, Chautauqua, Chemung, Schuyler, Seneca, Steuben, Tompkins, and Yates county along with parts of Ontario and Tioga counties. The district is currently represented by Republican Tom Reed.

[[The Heiress]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies based on books, Movies directed by William Wyler

The Heiress is a 1949 American romantic drama movie directed by William Wyler and was based on the 1947 play of same name and also adapted from the 1880 novel Washington Square by Henry James. It stars Olivia de Havilland, Montgomery Clift, Ralph Richardson, Miriam Hopkins, Vanessa Brown, Russ Brown and was distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was nominated for 8 Oscars and won 4 Academy Awards in 1950.

[[New York's 16th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New York (state)

New York's 16th congressional district is a congressional district for the United States House of Representatives  in the state of New York. The district is currently represented by Democrat Jamaal Bowman. Jamaal Bowman has been representing the district since 2021, he beat Democrat Eliot Engel in the Democratic Party primary election and won the general election. A Republican has not represented the district since 1949. The 16th district includes the northern part Bronx and the southern half of Westchester County, and also has the cities of Mount Vernon, Yonkers, New Rochelle, and Rye.

[[The Best Years of Our Lives]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, World War II movies, Best Picture Oscar, Movies based on books, Movies directed by William Wyler

The Best Years of Our Lives (also known as Glory for Me and Home Again) is a 1946 American drama movie directed by William Wyler and was based on the novella Glory for Me by MacKinlay Kantor. It stars Myrna Loy, Fredric Marsh, Dana Andrews, Teresa Wright, Virginia Mayo, Cathy O'Donnell, Hoagy Caramichael, Harold Russell, Gladys George, Steve Cochran, Howland Chamberlain and won 7 Academy Awards in 1947. It was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures.

[[Dragonwyck (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz

Dragonwyck is a 1946 American drama movie directed by first time director Joseph L. Mankiewicz and was based on the 1944 novel of the same name by Anya Seton. It stars Gene Tierney, Walter Huston, Vincent Price, Glenn Langan, Anne Revere, Spring Byington, Harry Morgan, Jessica Tandy and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Red (Pokémon)]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon characters, Anime characters

Red is the main protagonist of Pokémon Red and Blue, the first two games in the Nintendo's Pokémon franchise, as well as the Pokémon Green and Yellow sequels. 

The protagonist of the main Pokémon's anime adaptation, Ash Ketchum, was based on him.

[[List of Members of the U.S. House of Representatives]]

CATEGORIES: United States-related lists, United States House of Representatives

This is a list of all the current members of the United States House of Representatives. There are currently 435 representatives in the House. 221 representatives are part of the Democratic Party and 211 representatives are part of the Republican Party. There are also delegates from the United States territories. These delegates cannot vote but can take part in committees and other jobs. 

[[Alabama's 2nd congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Alabama

Alabama's 2nd congressional district is a United States congressional district in Alabama that elected a representative to the United States House of Representatives. It includes most of the Montgomery and into the southeastern part of the state. The district has parts of Montgomery County and all of Autauga, Barbour, Bullock, Butler, Coffee, Conecuh, Covington, Crenshaw, Dale, Elmore, Geneva, Henry, Houston and Pike counties.

The district is represented by Republican Barry Moore since 2021. Barry Moore took over from Martha Roby who retired in 2020.

[[Barry Moore (Alabama politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, United States representatives from Alabama, People from Enterprise, Alabama, US Republican Party politicians, Living people

Barry Moore (born September 26, 1966) is an American politician who is the representative for Alabama's 2nd congressional district in the House of Representatives. Barry is a Republican and has been the representative since 2021 but he first tried to get elected in 2018 but lost in the primary election. Moore was first a state senator for Alabama's 91st district in 2010. In 2014 he was arrested because he lied to police but Barry was not punished. Moore joined 147 House of Representatives Republicans to try to get rid of the 2020 United States presidential election results. 

[[Criss Cross (1949 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 movies, 1940s crime movies, 1940s drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Robert Siodmak

Criss Cross is a 1949 American crime drama movie directed by Robert Siodmak and was based on the 1934 novel of the same name by Don Tracy. It stars Burt Lancaster, Yvonne De Carlo, Dan Duryea, Stephen McNally, Tom Pedi, Percy Helton, Esy Morales, Alan Napier, Edna Holland, Tony Curtis (in his movie debut) and was distributed by Universal Pictures. It was remade as The Underneath in 1995.

[[Alabama's 3rd congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Alabama

Alabama's 3rd congressional district is a United States congressional district in the state of Alabama. The district elects a person to represent the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district has been represented by Republican Mike Rogers since 2003. 

The district is in the east and middle of Alabama and is part of Montgomery and the entirety of Calhoun, Chambers, Cherokee, Clay, Cleburne, Lee, Macon, Randolph, Russell, St. Clair, Talladega, and Tallapoosa counties.

[[Mike Rogers (Alabama politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, United States representatives from Indiana, People from Hammond, Indiana, US Republican Party politicians, Living people

Mike Rogers (born July 16, 1958) is an American politician and the U.S. Representative for Alabama, since 2003. He is a part of the Republican Party. Mike Rogers was first a part of Alabama's House of Representatives from 1994-2002 before becoming a representative. Mike Rogers does not support abortion but did support getting rid of the Environmental Protection Agency. In December 2020, Rogers and 126 Republicans agreed to stop the results of the 2020 United States presidential election. 

[[Cobra roll]]

CATEGORIES: Roller coasters

A cobra roll is a part of a roller coaster. It is a double-inversion and it looks like the shape of a striking cobra's head. A cobra roll has two half-vertical loops facing the same direction joined together by two half corkscrews that each twist in opposite directions. The coaster train enters the cobra roll' low, completes the first half loop, then turns perpendicular into a half corkscrew, completing a first inversion. This is immediately followed by another half corkscrew that twists in the opposite direction into the other half vertical loop, completing a second inversion and exiting the cobra roll traveling in the opposite direction from which it entered.

[[30 Hudson Yards]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s establishments in New York (state), 2019 establishments in the United States, Skyscrapers in New York City, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, Buildings and structures completed in the 21st century

30 Hudson Yards is the fifth tallest building in the New York City, as of 2019.  This building has 73 floors.  It is 1273 feet tall. Its observation deck, "The Edge," is the highest in New York State.  This is where CNN segments are aired LIVE and is home to Wells Fargo, Facebook, and KKR.  Aside from the business part, it is the biggest tourist attraction in New York City.

[[Keith Valigura]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Texas, US Republican Party politicians

Keith Valigura (November 6, 1957 – January 12, 2021) was an American Republican politician. He was a member of the Texas House of Representatives from the 16th district from 1985 to 1991. He was born in College Station, Texas.

Valigura died on January 12, 2021, in Conroe, Texas at age 63.

[[National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy]]

CATEGORIES: 1610s establishments in Europe, 1615 establishments, Establishments in Ukraine, Colleges and universities in Ukraine, Kiev

The National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy (NaUKMA) is a higher education institution in Ukraine founded in 1615. The university campus is in Podil in Kyiv, between Kontraktova Square and the Dnipro river. Teaching at the university is in Ukrainian and English. From 2009 to 2014 it was an autonomous research university.

NaUKMA is the successor of the historical Kyiv-Mohyla Academy which was founded on the basis of the Kyiv Brotherhood School. In 1615, this school received funds from the noblewoman Halshka Hulevychivna. Some teachers of Lviv and Lutsk brotherhood schools moved to Kyiv to teach in Kyiv Mohyla Academy. The school had the support of the Zaporozhian Cossacks, Hetman Sahaidachnyi and Hetman Mazepa.

In September 1632, the Kyiv Brotherhood School merged with the Lavra School. As a result, the Kyiv-Bratsk Collegium was established. Kyiv Metropolitan Petro Mohyla built an education system on the model of Jesuit educational institutions. Much attention in the board was paid to the study of languages, including Polish and Latin.

[[Kotoraantkari]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Georgia (country)

Kotoraantkari (კოტორაანთკარი) is a small village in Mtskheta, Georgia.

[[Peter Mogila]]

CATEGORIES: 1596 births, 1647 deaths

Petro Mohyla or Petro Mogila (Ukrainian: Петро Могила; 21 (31) December 1596, - 1 (11) January 1647) was a Ukrainian political, church and educational figure. He was a Metropolitan of Kyiv, Halych, and All Rus' (1633-1647). He was a representative of the Moldavian noble family Mohyla (in Romanian Movilă). He was born in Suceava, Romania. He is a son of the Moldavian pricne Simion Mohyla (Movilă).

He took part in the political life of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. He participated in the Khotyn War (1620-1621). He carried out a radical reform of the Orthodox Church and education in Ukraine according to Catholic and Greek Catholic models. He is the founder of Ukrainian theology. He is the author of "Trebnik" (1646), co-author of the catechism "Orthodox Confession of Faith" (1640). He died in Kyiv in 1647 and was buried in Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra. He is a local saint as he was recognized as saint by the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate) and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate in 1996.

[[William Fey]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Roman Catholic bishops, People from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Bishop William  Regis Fey, O.F.M.Cap. (November 6, 1942 – January 19, 2021) was an American Roman Catholic prelate. He was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He became a priest in 1968. Fey was appointed bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Kimbe, in Kimbe, Papua New Guinea, on June 8, 2010. 

Fey died on January 19, 2021 at the age of 78.

[[Louis Giani]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, American wrestlers, American Olympians, Sportspeople from New York City

Louis Giani (August 18, 1934 – January 19, 2021) was an American wrestler. He competed in the men's freestyle featherweight at the 1960 Summer Olympics. He was a member of the National Wrestling Hall of Fame. He was born in New York City.

Giani died on January 19, 2021 in Huntington, New York at the age of 86.

[[Meherzia Labidi Maïza]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic, Translators, Tunisian politicians

Meherzia Labidi Maïza (محرزية العبيدي معيزة;17 December 1963 – 21/22 January 2021) was a Tunisian politician and professional translator. She was a member of the Assembly of the Representatives of the People from 2011 to 2019 and from 2020 until her death. She was a member of the Ennahda Movement. Labidi Maïza was born in Hammamet, Tunisia.

Labidi Maïza died of COVID-19 in Tunis in January 2021, aged 57.

[[Imagine]]

Imagine may mean:

[[Assembly of the Representatives of the People]]

CATEGORIES: Tunisia, Politics of Tunisia

The Assembly of the Representatives of the People (مجلس نواب الشعب ar, Assemblée des représentants du peuple; ARP) is the legislature of Tunisia. The unicameral Assembly replaced the Constituent Assembly on 26 October 2014. It has 217 members. 

The current speaker of the Assembly is Rached Ghannouchi.

[[Dysautonomia]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Dysautonomia or autonomic dysfunction is a condition in which the autonomic nervous system (ANS) does not work properly. This may affect the heart, bladder, intestines, sweat glands, pupils, and blood vessels. Dysautonomia has many causes and may not be neuropathic. 

[[Bardo National Museum]]

Bardo National Museum or Musée National du Bardo may mean:

[[Mira Furlan]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2021 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Croatian actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American video game actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California, People from Zagreb, Deaths from West Nile virus

Mira Furlan (7 September 1955 – 20 January 2021) was a Croatian-American actress and singer. She played Ambassador Delenn on the science fiction television series Babylon 5 and Danielle Rousseau on Lost. 

Furlan died on 20 January 2021 in Los Angeles, aged 65. The cause of death was problems caused by the West Nile virus.

[[Babylon 5]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 American television series debuts, 1998 American television series endings, American science fiction television series

Babylon 5 is an American space opera television series created by writer and producer J. Michael Straczynski. The show premiered in the US on January 26, 1994, and ran for five seasons.

[[Maryna Poroshenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people

[[Jack London (businessman)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Businesspeople from Oklahoma

J. Phillip "Jack" London (1937 – January 2021) was an American businessman. He was born in Oklahoma. He was the executive chairman and chairman of the board of CACI International Inc.

London died in January 2021 at the age of 83.

[[John Russell (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2021 deaths

John Russell (19 December 1954 – 18 January 2021) was an American acoustic guitarist who worked in free improvisation. His career began in the 1970s. Russell was born in Kent, England. 

Russell died on 18 January 2021 from cancer, aged 66.

[[Dominic J. Squatrito]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, American judges, Politicians from Hartford, Connecticut, US Democratic Party politicians

Dominic J. Squatrito (April 9, 1938 – January 20, 2021) was an American politician and lawyer. He was nominated to the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut in 1994 by President Bill Clinton. Squatrito was born in Hartford, Connecticut.

Squatrito died on January 20, 2021 in Manchester, Connecticut at the age of 82.

[[Theme Building]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures completed in the 20th century, Buildings and structures in Los Angeles, California

The Theme Building is a Space Age structure at Los Angeles International Airport in California. It was influenced by "Populuxe" architecture. It is built in a Mid-century modern style now called "Googie".  It was built between 1957 and 1961. It was listed as a Historical-Cultural Monument by the city of Los Angeles in 1993.

[[Ted Thompson]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2021 deaths, Tennessee Titans players, Green Bay Packers, American football linebackers, Sportspeople from Texas, Deaths from autoimmune disease

Ted Thompson (January 17, 1953 – January 20, 2021) was an American professional football player and executive in the National Football League (NFL). He was born in Atlanta, Texas.

He was the general manager of the Green Bay Packers from 2005 to 2017. Thompson had a 10-year playing career in the NFL as a linebacker and special teams player with the Houston Oilers from 1975 to 1984. He won two Super Bowls in 1997 and 2011.

In May 2019, Thompson announced that he was diagnosed with dysautonomia, an autonomic disorder. He died on January 20, 2021 in Atlanta, Texas from the disease, three days after his 68th birthday.

[[José Pampuro]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2021 deaths, Cancer deaths in Argentina, Argentine politicians, People from Buenos Aires

José Juan Bautista Pampuro (28 December 1949 – 21 January 2021) was an Argentine politician. He was a member of the Justicialist Party. He was born in Buenos Aires. From 2005 to 2011, Pampuro was a Senator from Buenos Aires.

Pampuro was the Defense Minister during the Néstor Kirchner presidency from 2003 to 2005. From 2006 to 2011, he was the Provisional President of the Senate. From 2002 to 2003, he was the General Secretariat of the Presidency during the Kirchner presidency.

Pampuro died on 21 January 2021 at a Buenos Aires hospital from cancer, aged 71.

[[Edgar Kaminskyi]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people

Edgar Kaminskyi (Ukrainian: Едгар Камінський; born 27 February 1985) is a Ukrainian plastic surgeon, founder of Kaminskyi Clinic and Kaminskyi HUB, organizer and patron of the Ukrainian Medical Festival and speaker of medical conferences.

[[Orpierre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Orpierre is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Anthony Mwamba]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic, Zambian sportspeople, Olympians, Boxers

Anthony Mwamba (8 August 1960 – 21 January 2021) was a Zambian boxer. He competed in the men's light welterweight event at the 1988 Summer Olympics. 

Mwamba won a bronze medal in the welterweight (67 kg) division at the 1990 Commonwealth Games.

Mwamba died on 21 January 2021 from COVID-19 in Lusaka, aged 60.

[[Bogomolets National Medical University]]

CATEGORIES: Establishments in Ukraine, 1841 establishments in Europe, Colleges and universities in Europe, Buildings and structures in Ukraine, Kiev, Medical education

[[Space Age]]

CATEGORIES: Space, History

The Space Age is the time period in human history related to the space race, space exploration, and space technology. Most people say this started when Sputnik 1 was launched in 1957, and continues to today. This has influenced culture such as in movies, television, music, art, and architecture. 

[[Nossage-et-Bénévent]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Nossage-et-Bénévent is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Vasyl Komisarenko]]

Vasyl Pavlovych Komisarenko (January 1, 1907, Chernyakhiv - April 7, 1993, Kyiv) was a Ukrainian endocrinologist and pathophysiologist, academician of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine and academician of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, organizer and director of the Institute of Endocrinology and Metabolism. Head of the Department of Pathophysiology 1955-1960.

[[Jackson Mthembu]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa, South African politicians

Jackson Mphikwa Mthembu (5 June 1958 – 21 January 2021) was a South African politician. He was Minister in the Presidency of South Africa's government from 2019 to 2021. He was a member of the African National Congress (ANC). He was the Whip of Parliament from 2016 to 2019. Mthembu was born in Witbank, South Africa.

Mthembu died of COVID-19 on 21 January 2021 in Johannesburg, aged 62.

[[Windows Phone 7]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft operating systems, Smartphones

Windows Phone 7 is the first release of the Windows Phone mobile client operating system, released on November 8, 2010, worldwide was released on October 21, 2010. It runs on Windows CE 6.0 kernel.

They have similar to Windows 7 but received updates from Microsoft, the last being is Windows Phone 7.8, which was released on March 13, 2013. After few features backported for Windows Phone 8, such as a more customizable start screen. The succeeded is Windows Phone 8, released in 2012.

[[Jerry Kiernan]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2021 deaths, Irish Olympians

Jeremiah "Fran" Kiernan (31 May 1953 – 21 January 2021) was an Irish long-distance runner. He was born in Listowel, County Kerry. He represented his native country at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, California, where he finished in ninth place in the men's marathon.

Kiernan twice won the Dublin Marathon, in 1982 and 1992.

Kiernan died on 21 January 2021, aged 67.

[[Rémy Julienne]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in France, French movie actors, Stuntmen, Racecar drivers

Rémy Julienne (17 April 1930 – 21 January 2021) was a French stuntman, racecar driver and actor. He was a rallycross champion and 1956 French motorcross champion. He was born in Cepoy, France. He appeared in over 1,400 movies. He was known for being the stuntman on The Italian Job, The Da Vinci Code and six James Bond movies.

Julienne died on 21 January 2021 in France from COVID-19, aged 90.

[[Cepoy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Loiret

Cepoy is a commune in the Loiret department in north-central France.

[[Laragne-Montéglin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Laragne-Montéglin is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Jean Graton]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, French writers, French artists, Comics writers, Cartoonists, Comics artists

Jean Graton (10 August 1923 – 21 January 2021) was a French comic book author and cartoonist. Graton created the famous character Michel Vaillant and his comics series of the same name in 1957. Graton was born in Nantes, France. 

On 21 January 2021, Graton died in Brussels, Belgium, at the age of 97.

[[Nathalie Delon]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, French movie actors, French stage actors, French movie directors, French novelists, Autobiographers

Nathalie Delon (born Francine Canovas; 1 August 1941spnd21 January 2021) was a French actress, writer and movie director. She was known for starring in many movies with her ex-husband Alain Delon. Her best known movie roles was in Le Samouraï by Jean-Pierre Melville. 

Delon died at the age of 79, on 21 January 2021 in Paris from cancer.

[[Jean-Pierre Melville]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1973 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Movie directors from Paris, Movie producers from Paris, French screenwriters

Jean-Pierre Melville (mɛlvil; born Jean-Pierre Grumbach; 20 October 1917 – 2 August 1973) was a French filmmaker and actor.

He became well known for his noir movies, such as Le Doulos (1962), Le Samouraï (1967) and Le Cercle rouge (1970). 

[[Phouoibi]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei gods and goddesses

Phouleima   is the goddess and the female personification of the agriculture, crops, grains, paddy, rice and wealth in Meitei mythology and religion.

She is the lover of Akongjamba, a hero in ancient legend. But fate doesn't permit the lovers to unite. So, Phouoibi and Akongjamba reincarnated in the legend.

The Meitei people believe that the gleaming black stone is a personification of the goddess, which if kept inside the earthenware pot of the granary, will bring good luck and prosperity, as long as it shines.

[[Lino Ventura]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1987 deaths, Italian movie actors, French movie actors, People from Emilia-Romagna, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Angiolino Giuseppe Pasquale Ventura (14 July 1919 – 22 October 1987) was an Italian actor. He was known for playing a tough man, either a criminal or a cop. He played a cop leader of the Resistance in the Jean-Pierre Melville directed Army of Shadows.

Some of his most famous roles include the portrait of corrupt police chief Tiger Brown in The Threepenny Opera (1963) and mob boss Vito Genovese in The Valachi Papers (1972).

[[Claude Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2012 deaths, Movie directors from Paris, Movie producers from Paris, Writers from Paris, French screenwriters

Claude Miller (20 February 1942 – 4 April 2012) was a French movie director, producer and screenwriter.

He was inspired by François Truffaut. He was known for directing La meilleure façon de marcher, Les Mistons (1957) and The 400 Blows (1959). 

[[Multimedios Televisión]]

CATEGORIES: Television channels

Multimedios Television operated by Grupo Multimedios through Spectrum cable systems on November 11, 2014 Multimedios Verizon FiOS added in January 2015 DirecTV the followed May 15, 2016 on April 2, 2018 Dish Network On August 2019 AT&T TV

[[Claude Sautet]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2000 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, French screenwriters, French movie directors

Claude Sautet (23 February 1924 – 22 July 2000) was a French movie director and screenwriter.

His first movie, Hello Smile! came out in 1956. He was well known for his movie The Things of Life, which he wrote and directed.

Sautet died of liver cancer in Paris at the age of 76.

[[Michel Serrault]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2007 deaths, French movie actors, French stage actors

Michel Serrault (24 January 1928 – 29 July 2007) was a French stage and movie actor. He appeared from 1954 until 2007 in more than 130 movies.

He met and worked with Jean Poiret in the early 1950s. Their movies were Cette sacrée gamine (1956) with Brigitte Bardot and Sacha Guitry's last movie Assassins et voleurs (1957).

[[Sacha Guitry]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1957 deaths, French movie actors, French stage actors, French screenwriters, Movie directors from Paris, Actors from Paris, Writers from Paris

Alexandre-Pierre Georges "Sacha" Guitry (gitʁi; 21 February 1885spaced ndash24 July 1957) was a French stage and movie actor, director, screenwriter, and playwright.

[[Ngaleima]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei gods and goddesses

"Lemlei Ngaleima" (lem-lei ngaa-lei-ma), also spelt as "Ngareima" (ngaa-rei-ma), is the female deity and the divine personification of the fishes and the aquatic life in Meitei mythology and religion. She is a daughter of Atingkok and a sister of the goddesses, Phouoibi, Thumleima and Ereima.

[[Hank Coe]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Wyoming, US Republican Party politicians, Deaths from pancreatic cancer

Henry H. R. "Hank" Coe (April 29, 1946 – January 21, 2021) was an American politician. He was a Republican member of the Wyoming Senate from 1989 until 2021. Coe was born in Cody, Wyoming.

Coe died on January 21, 2021 in Cody from pancreatic cancer at the age of 74.

[[Henryk Chmielewski (comics)]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, Polish artists, Polish journalists, Comics artists, Writers from Warsaw

Henryk Jerzy Chmielewski (7 June 1923 – 22 January 2021), also known under his pseudonym Papcio Chmiel, was a Polish comic book artist and journalist.

He started working as a graphic artist in the Świat Młodych magazine, where he also published comics. He was known for creating the Tytus, Romek i A'Tomek comic book series, which began in 1966.

Chmielewski died on 22 January 2021 in Warsaw, aged 97.

[[Thumleima]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei gods and goddesses

"Noinu Thumleima" (ꯅꯣꯢꯅꯨ ꯊꯨꯝꯂꯩꯃ), also known as "Thumkhong Lairembi" (ꯊꯨꯝꯈꯣꯡ ꯂꯥꯢꯔꯦꯝꯕꯤ), is the goddess and the female personification of the salt and the natural salt brines in Meitei mythology and religion. She is a sister of goddesses, Phouleima, Ngaleima and Ereima. She is worshipped by the people for the prosperity of salt, which is a main composition of diet for the mankind.

She is considered to be the concubine of Pakhangba, the royal deity.

[[Pittman Center, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tennessee

Pittman Center is an incorporated town in Sevier County, Tennessee, United States. 477 people lived here at the 2000 census.

[[Sevier County, Tennessee]]

Sevier County (s "severe") is a county of the U.S. state of Tennessee. In the 2010 census, 89,889 people lived here. Its county seat and largest city is Sevierville.

[[Sevierville, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tennessee, County seats in Tennessee

Sevierville s is a city in and the county seat of Sevier County, Tennessee. 14,807 people lived here at the 2010 United States Census.

[[Pigeon Forge, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tennessee

Pigeon Forge is a mountain resort city in Sevier County, Tennessee, United States. In the 2010 census, the city had 5,875 people living here.

[[Princess Stéphanie of Monaco]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Princes and princesses of Monaco, Singers, Models

Princess Stéphanie of Monaco (Stéphanie Marie Elisabeth Grimaldi; born 1 February 1965) is the youngest child of Rainier III, Prince of Monaco, and the American actress Grace Kelly.

She is the younger sister of Albert II, Prince of Monaco, and Caroline, Princess of Hanover. She is the 14th in the line of succession to the Monegasque throne. She was also a singer, swimwear designer and fashion model.

[[Caroline, Princess of Hanover]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Princes and princesses of Monaco

Caroline, Princess of Hanover (Caroline Louise Marguerite Grimaldi; born 23 January 1957), is the oldest child of Rainier III, Prince of Monaco, and the American actress Grace Kelly. She is the oldest sister of Prince Albert II and Princess Stéphanie. 

Until the births of her niece and nephew, Princess Gabriella and Prince Jacques, in December 2014, was the heir presumptive to the throne of Monaco.

Caroline is married to Ernst August, Prince of Hanover (born 1954).

[[Prince Ernst August of Hanover (born 1954)]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Princes and princesses, People from Hanover

Ernst August, Prince of Hanover (Ernst August Albert Paul Otto Rupprecht Oskar Berthold Friedrich-Ferdinand Christian-Ludwig Prinz von Hannover Herzog zu Braunschweig und Lüneburg Königlicher Prinz von Großbritannien und Irland; born 26 February 1954), is head of the royal House of Hanover. He is the husband of Princess Caroline of Monaco. He is the brother-in-law of Albert II, Prince of Monaco.

[[Jacques, Hereditary Prince of Monaco]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 births, Living people, Princes and princesses of Monaco

Jacques, Hereditary Prince of Monaco, Marquis of Baux (Jacques Honoré Rainier Grimaldi; born 10 December 2014), is the heir apparent to the Monegasque throne. He is the son of Prince Albert II and Princess Charlene. He is the twin brother of Princess Gabriella.

The newborn prince was baptised Jacques Honoré Rainier. He received the title Marquis of Baux from his father.

[[John Garfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1952 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American stage actors, American political activists, Actors from New York City

John Garfield (born  Jacob Julius Garfinkle, March 4, 1913 – May 21, 1952) was an American actor. He was nominated for two Academy Awards for his roles in Four Daughters (1938) and Body and Soul (1947). 

[[Robert Walker (actor, born 1918)]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 1951 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, Actors from Salt Lake City, Utah

Robert Hudson Walker (October 13, 1918 – August 28, 1951) was an American actor. He was known for his role as the villain in Alfred Hitchcock's thriller Strangers on a Train (1951).

[[Claiborne Pell]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2009 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, United States senators from Rhode Island, Politicians from New York City, US Democratic Party politicians

Claiborne de Borda Pell GCC GCM (November 22, 1918 – January 1, 2009) was an American politician and writer. He was a United States Senator from Rhode Island for six terms from 1961 to 1997. He was a member of the Democratic Party. Pell is the longest serving U.S. Senator from Rhode Island.

He retired from the U.S. Senate because of bad health since he had Parkinson's disease.

[[Lady and the Tramp (2019 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 romance movies, 2010s musical movies, Disney movie remakes, American musical movies, American romance movies

Lady and the Tramp is a 2019 American live-action/CGI musical romance movie directed by Charlie Bean and written by Andrew Bujalski and Kari Granlund. It was produced by Walt Disney Pictures and Taylor Made.

The movie is a live-action and CGI version of Walt Disney’s 1955 animated movie of the same name.

The movie stars the voices of Tessa Thompson, Justin Theroux, Janelle Monáe, and Sam Elliott with the human characters played by Thomas Mann, Kiersey Clemons, Yvette Nicole Brown, F. Murray Abraham, Adrian Martinez, and Ken Jeong.

Lady and the Tramp was released on November 12, 2019 on Disney+.

[[Jim Dale]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, English comedians, English singer-songwriters, English composers, People from Northamptonshire, Drama Desk Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, Grammy Award winners

Jim Dale, GBR (born James Smith; 15 August 1935) is an English actor, singer-songwriter, director, and composer. He appeared in many of the Carry On movies. He is well known narrating all seven of the Harry Potter audiobooks in the American market.

He also starred in the Disney movie Pete's Dragon (1977). He was nominated for a BAFTA Award for playing a young Spike Milligan in Adolf Hitler: My Part in His Downfall (1973).

[[Aeneas Chigwedere]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Zimbabwean people, African politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Zimbabwe, African writers, Historians

Aeneas Soko Chigwedere (En-us-Aeneas Chigwedere from Zimbabwe pronunciation (Voice of America).ogg) (25 November 1939 – 22 January 2021) was a Zimbabwean politician, historian, educationist, and traditional leader. He was the Minister of Education, Sports, & Culture from August 2001 until his death. He became Governor of Mashonaland East Province in August 2008. 

Chigwedere died on 22 January 2021 after suffering from COVID-19 at the age of 81.

[[José Crisologo Sorra]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Roman Catholic bishops, People from Manila

José Crisologo Sorra (9 March 1929 – 21 January 2021) was a Filipino Roman Catholic bishop. Sorra was born in the Manila, Philippines. He became a priest in 1956. He was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Virac Philippines, from 1974 to 1993 and as bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Legazpi from 1993 to 2005.

Sorra died on 21 January 2021, aged 91.

[[Renita Grigoryeva]]

CATEGORIES: Russian movie directors, Russian movie actors, Russian screenwriters, 1931 births, 2021 deaths

Renita Andreevna Grigorieva (Russian: Рени́та Андре́евна Григо́рьева; July 13, 1931 – January 19, 2021) was a Russian director, actress, writer, and screenwriter. She was a 1983 winner of the USSR State Prize. She directed the 1990 movie Boys. She also starred in There Is Such a Lad. 

Grigoryeva died on January 19, 2021 at the age of 89.

[[Norodom Yuvaneath]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Cambodian people, Royalty, Disease-related deaths in California

Prince Norodom Yuvaneath (នរោត្តម យុវនាថ, October 17, 1943 – January 13, 2021) was a Cambodian royal. He was the first son of the late king of Cambodia, Norodom Sihanouk and Princess Sisowath Pongsanmoni. He is the half-brother of the current king, Norodom Sihamoni. Yuvaneath was born in Phnom Penh.

Yuvaneath died on January 13, 2021 in California, aged 77.

[[Wilbur Brotherton]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Chicago, Politicians from Michigan, US Republican Party politicians

Wilbur Vernon "Sandy" Brotherton (July 6, 1922 – January 15, 2021) was an American politician. He was a member of the Michigan House of Representatives from 1975 to 1988. Brotherton was born in Chicago, Illinois. He was a member of the Republican Party.

Brotherton died on January 15, 2021 in Farmington Hills, Michigan at the age of 98.

[[Farmington Hills, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan

Farmington Hills is a city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan. 79,740 people lived here at the 2010 census. It is a northern suburb of Metro Detroit and is the second most-populated city in Oakland County after the city of Troy.

[[Richard Wagner (judge)]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Canadian lawyers, Politicians from Montreal, Chief Justices of Canada

Richard Wagner CAN (vɑɡnɛːʁ vahg; born April 2, 1957) is a Canadian politician and lawyer. He is the 18th and current Chief Justice of Canada since 2017. 

On January 21, 2021, Wagner became Administrator of Canada after the resignation of Julie Payette as Governor General of Canada. He left office when Mary Simon became governor general.

[[Chief Justice of Canada]]

CATEGORIES: Chief Justices of Canada

The Chief Justice of Canada (Juge en Chef du Canada) is the presiding judge of the nine-member Supreme Court of Canada, the highest judicial body in Canada.

[[Beverley McLachlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Chief Justices of Canada, Politicians from Alberta

Beverley Marian McLachlin CAN CStJ (born September 7, 1943) is a Canadian jurist and author. She was the 17th chief justice of Canada from 2000 to 2017. She was the first woman to hold that position and the longest-serving chief justice in Canadian history.

[[Supreme Court of Canada]]

CATEGORIES: 1870s establishments in Canada, 1875 establishments in North America, National supreme courts, Government of Canada, Buildings and structures in Ottawa

The Supreme Court of Canada (SCC; Cour suprême du Canada, CSC) is the highest court of Canada, the final court of appeals in the Canadian justice system.

[[Sylvirana]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of Asia

Sylvirana is a genus of frogs in the family Ranidae.  They live in South and East Asia, from northeastern India in the west to China in the north, Taiwan in the east, and Thailand in the south. Sylvirana was proposed in 1992.  At first, in scientists thought Sylvirana should be a subgenus of Rana. Since then, it has been considered both a genus of its own and a synonym of Hylarana. Scientists think it should be its own genus because of molecular genetic analyses published in 2015.

[[Sabail F.K.]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century establishments in Azerbaijan, 2016 establishments in Asia, Football clubs, Sport in Azerbaijan, Baku

Sabail FK (Səbail Futbol Klubu) is an Azerbaijani football club based in Baku. The club participates in the Azerbaijan Premier League.

[[Azad Hind]]

CATEGORIES: History of India

Atad Hind was the name of an Indian government, which was established in Singapore, in 1943. Its English name is usually Provisional Government of Free India. It was very dependent on its ally, the Empire of Japan. They fought the Burma campaign together. After the Second World War, Azad Hind stopped existing.

[[Eternal return]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Religion

Eternal return is an idea that everything will repeat forever. It is also called Eternal recurrence. Eternal return can be found in different religions or philosophies.

[[Prick Up Your Ears (Family Guy)]]

CATEGORIES: Family Guy (season 5) episodes, 2006 television episodes

"Prick Up Your Ears" is the 6th episode of the 5th season of Family Guy. It was first shown on the Fox network on November 19, 2006. The episode is about Lois Griffin being a teacher for sex education. She gets fired because she teaches her students about safe sex.

The episode was written by Cherry Chevapravatdumrong. James Purdum is the director of the episode. 

[[Louis Fieser]]

CATEGORIES: Chemists

Louis Fieser was the lead scientist of a team of Harvard chemists that developed napalm in the 1940s.

[[List of television series based on Marvel Comics publications]]

CATEGORIES: Marvel Comics-related lists, Lists of works based on comics, Television shows based on Marvel Comics, Lists of television series based on works

Below is a list of television series based off of Marvel Comics.

[[Acadia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Canada, History of the United States

Acadia is the name of a territory in northeastern North America. Today, the area is mostly part of Canada. At the time, England and France fought over the territory. France said it had a legitimate claim, because Giovanni da Verrazzano and Jacques Cartier had done expeditions in the area. The British claim was founded on an expedition of Giovanni Caboto. The borders of the territory had never been defined clearly. Fights about where these borders were, were common. Historically, Acadia covered the territories of  Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island and the southern part of the Gaspé Peninsula, in Quebec. The northeastern part of Maine was also part of Acadia.

[[Terrace (agriculture)]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Terraces are small plots on water used for farming, closely relating to the New World.  People dig into a hillside or other sloping surface and build it up so it is level in places, like steps.  Terraces can be in rectangles or they can follow the natural shape of the land.  Terracing prevents the rain from washing the soil away.

[[Zaire (disambiguation)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Africa

Zaire can stand for different concepts:

[[New Police Story]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 movies, 2000s action movies, Hong Kong movies, Chinese movies

New Police Story (新警察故事) is a 2004 Hong Kong action movie produced and directed by Benny Chan, starting Jackie Chan (who also produced it). The movie was released in the Hong Kong on 24 September 2004. The movie is a reboot of the Police Story movie series and is the fifth movie. It stars Nicholas Tse, Charlie Yeung, Charlene Choi, Daniel Wu, and Ken Lo. At box office, this film did business of HK$21 million.

[[The Yearling]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, MGM movies, Movies directed by Clarence Brown

The Yearling is a 1946 American drama movie directed by Clarence Brown and was based on the 1938 novel of the same name by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings. It stars Gregory Peck, Jane Wyman, Claude Jarman Jr., Chill Wills, Forrest Tucker, Henry Travers, Clem Beavans, Margaret Wycherly and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for 7 Oscars and won 2 Academy Awards.

[[Pelleautier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Pelleautier is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Rabou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Rabou is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[The Vagabond King (1956 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies directed by Michael Curtiz

The Vagabond King is a 1956 American musical movie directed by Michael Curtiz and was based on the 1925 musical of the same name by Rudolf Friml. It stars Kathryn Grayson, Oreste Kirkop, Rita Moreno, Leslie Nielsen, Jack Lord, Vincent Prince and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Disappointment]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Disappointment is an emotion that a person feels when something has gone wrong. It is usually related to failure. Failures tend to cause disappointment.

[[Fortress chess]]

CATEGORIES: Chess variants, Chess

Fortress chess (also called Russian Four-Handed chess) is a chess variant (a kind of chess with different rules) for four players. The board has 192 squares on it.

There are four "fortresses" (the extra parts of the board) in each corner. The fortresses have 16 squares each. A rook, a knight, and a bishop are inside each fortress.

There is no evidence that this chess variant was ever generally played, or even that it was playable. Compare, for example, with the manuscript sources for the old Indo/Arabic version of chess.

[[California's 23rd congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of California

California's 23rd congressional district is a congressional district in the U.S. state of California. It made up of Kern County and parts of Los Angeles and Tulare counties. The cities in the district are Porterville, Ridgecrest, most of Bakersfield, and part of Lancaster.

House Minority Leader, Kevin McCarthy is the current representative for the district. Kevin McCarthy has been the representative since 2013. The 13th district was first created in 1943. The district is the most Republican district in California.

[[Lou Correa]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, United States representatives from California, US Democratic Party politicians

Lou Correa (born January 24, 1958) is a United States representative for California's 46th congressional district. He is a member of the Democratic Party and was first elected to the United States House of Representatives in 2016. Lou Correa was a state senator and in the California State Assembly before this.

[[Akongjamba]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei folklore, Meitei literature, Meitei mythology

Akongjamba  (Akongchampa) is one of the principal characters in ancient Moirang Kangleirol legend. He is a nobleman of the king of Ancient Moirang. He is a lover of goddess Phouoibi, and a mortal being belonging to the Thoidingjam. However, fate doesn't permit the lovers to unite, which induces both to take rebirth for the unfulfilled love.

[[Khuman Khamba]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei folklore, Meitei literature, Meitei mythology

Khuman Khamba (Khuman Khampa) or Moirang Khamba (Moilang Khampa) is one of the principal figures in the ancient Moirang Kangleirol legends. He is an orphan prince of the Khuman dynasty, brought up by his sister, Khamnu as a poor man. Later, he was married to his lady love Thoibi, the princess of the Moirang dynasty.

The term "Khamba" means ultimate or fullness.

[[Moirang Thoibi]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei folklore, Meitei literature, Meitei mythology

Moirang Thoibi (Moilang Thoipi) or Ewanglon Thoibi (Ewanglon Thoipi) is one of the principal characters in the ancient Moirang Kangleirol legends. She is a princess of the Moirang kingdom, daughter of Chingkhuba and the niece of the king of Moirang. She is a lady love of Khuman Khamba, a poor orphan prince.

The term "Thoibi" means perfection or completion of beauty and accomplishments.

[[Mexicanal]]

CATEGORIES: Television

Mexicanal cable system DirecTV added on August 23, 2005 of launch in January 2014 late AT&T U-verse removed on May 15, 2016 On April 2, 2018 Mexicanal added on Dish Network

[[Khamnu]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei folklore, Meitei literature, Meitei mythology

Khamnu is the daughter of Khuman Puremba, the prime minister of Ancient Moirang. Biologically, she is a daughter of Ngangkha Leima and King Chingkhuba of Ancient Moirang. She is a sister of Khuman Khamba, whom she brought him up, since childhood, after the demise of their parents.

[[Donna Britt]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2021 deaths, American journalists, American television personalities, Writers from Louisiana, People from Baton Rouge, Louisiana, People from Biloxi, Mississippi, Deaths from motor neurone disease

Donna Britt (July 10, 1958 – January 21, 2021) was a longtime television news anchor at WAFB in Baton Rouge. She co-anchored the station's top rated 6 PM and 10 PM news broadcasts.

As a student, she had been working for WYNK radio, and so in 1981 she decided to get a temporary job with WAFB, the local CBS affiliate. She quickly moved from weekend reporter to full-time reporter to host of morning news shows to prime time, where she anchored 9 News.

Britt was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in 2017, and retired the following year. She died at her home on January 21, 2021, at age 62.

[[Nongban]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei folklore, Meitei literature, Meitei mythology

Angom Nongban Kongyamba, better known as Nongban, is a popular villain character who is depicted as the man who always tried many unsuccessful attempts to eliminate Khuman Khamba in the ancient Moirang Kangleirol legends. He is a rich man of Angom clan. Besides having seven wives, he is a suitor of princess Moirang Thoibi, for which, he has a rivalry with Khuman Khamba.

[[Quagga mussel]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves

The Quagga mussel is a freshwater mussel. Originally it occurred in the drainage basin of the Dnieper river, mostly in Ukraine. The mussel is named after the Quagga, an extinct species of zebra. The mussels live for three to five years. Since about the 1940s, they have spread a lot outside their original range. They are considered an invasive species in most of Europe, and North America. It looks like certain species of perch have developped an appetite for thes mussels. They are now considered as a natural form of pest control.

[[Safra Catz]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Israeli businesspeople, American billionaires, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Safra A. Catz (Hebrew: צפרא כץ, born December 1, 1961) is an Israeli-American billionaire banker and technology executive. She is the CEO of Oracle Corporation.

In April 2011, she was named co-president and chief financial officer (CFO).

[[Onsi Sawiris]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 deaths, 1930 births, Egyptian businesspeople

Onsi Sawiris (also written Sawires, ⲁⲛⲥⲓ ⲥⲉⲩⲏⲣⲟⲥ, أنسي ساويرس; August 14, 1930 – June 29, 2021) was an Egyptian businessman. His net worth is $1.2 billion according to Forbes in 2017. He was the head of the Sawiris family. He founded the Orascom conglomerate.

[[Dina Powell]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American philanthropists, American diplomats, Businesspeople from New York City, Politicians from New York City, People from Cairo, US Republican Party politicians, Women diplomats

Dina Powell McCormick (Dina Habib Ⲇⲓⲛⲁ Ϩⲁⲃⲓⲃ, دينا حبيب; born June 12, 1973) is an American financial executive, philanthropist and political advisor. She is best known for having been the United States Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategy to President Donald Trump.

[[Jessica Jackley]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Pennsylvania

Jessica Erin Jackley (born October 29, 1977) is an American businesswoman. She is known for having co-founded Kiva and later ProFounder, two organizations that help the creation of businesses through microloans.

[[Franklin Park, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in Pennsylvania

Franklin Park is a borough in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, United States. 13,470 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Neffes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Neffes is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Moydans]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Moydans is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[The Dark Mirror (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s crime movies, 1940s thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies directed by Robert Siodmak

The Dark Mirror is a 1946 American crime thriller movie directed by Robert Siodmak and starring Olivia de Havilland, Lew Ayers, Thomas Mitchell, Garry Owen, Lela Bliss, Lester Allen. It was distributed by Universal Pictures and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1947.

[[Névache]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Névache is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[La Motte-en-Champsaur]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

La Motte-en-Champsaur is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Montrond, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Montrond is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Kadeng Thangjahanba]]

CATEGORIES: Legends, Meitei mythology

"Kadeng Thangjahanba" (ꯀꯗꯦꯡ ꯊꯥꯡꯖꯍꯟꯕ) is one of the principal characters in the ancient Moirang Kangleirol legends. He is a blacksmith and a minster in the court of the king of Moirang kingdom. He is a lover of Tonu Laijinglembi.

According to legend, he has no match as a skilled blacksmith.

Many scholars opined Kadeng Thangjahanba to be a real historical figure who existed during the reign of Emperor Iwang Puriklai Laijing Punsiba in Ancient Moirang.

[[Montmorin, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Hautes-Alpes

Montmorin was a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department. On 1 July 2017, it merged with Bruis and Sainte-Marie and is now part of the Valdoule commune.

[[Montmaur, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Montmaur is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Montjay, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Montjay is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[LauncherOne]]

CATEGORIES: Rockets

LauncherOne is a two-stage orbital launch vehicle developed and flown by Virgin Orbit. It was in development from 2007 to 2020. It is an air-launched rocket. It carries a smallsat payloads of up to 300 into Sun-synchronous orbit (SSO).

The first successful flight was on 17 January 2021. LauncherOne was the first all liquid-fuelled air-launched orbital rocket.  A test flight was unsuccessful on 25 May 2020, when the rocket failed to reach space. 

[[Air-launch-to-orbit]]

CATEGORIES: Rockets

Air launch to orbit is the method of launching rockets. An airplane carries the rocket which would then be launched to carry satellites to low Earth orbit.

[[Montbrand]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Montbrand is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Tonu Laijinglembi]]

CATEGORIES: Legends, Fiction, Meitei mythology

"Tonu Laijinglembi" (ꯇꯣꯅꯨ ꯂꯥꯢꯖꯤꯡꯂꯦꯝꯕꯤ) is one of the principal characters in the ancient Moirang Kangleirol legends. She is a lady love of Kadeng Thangjahanba, with whom she united after her former marriage to the king of Moirang kingdom.

But some opined Tonu Laijinglembi to be a historical figure who appeared during the reign of Emperor Iwang Puriklai Laijing Punsiba in Ancient Moirang.

[[Montclus, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Montclus is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Lettret]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Lettret is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Mitchell Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Australian cricketers, Sportspeople from Queensland

Mitchell Guy Johnson (born 2 November 1981) is an Australian former cricketer. He was a left-handed batsman and a left-handed fast bowler. He has been awarded the International Cricket Council's Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy twice (2009 and 2014). He famously took part in the Australian Test squad during the 2013–14 Ashes series. His country won the series 5–0. Johnson also won the player of the series award for taking 37 wickets in a dominant showing against the English batsmen. During his Test career, he played 73 matches and took 313 wickets from 16,001 balls bowled. He retired from all forms of cricket in 2018.

Johnson was born in Townsville, Queensland. Although he bats and bowls left-handed, Johnson writes with his right hand. In 2016, he published his autobiography Resilient.

[[Gregory Sierra]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Cancer deaths in California, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City

Gregory Sierra (January 25, 1937 – January 4, 2021)  was an American actor. He was known for his roles as Detective Sergeant Chano Amenguale on Barney Miller and as Julio Fuentes on Sanford and Son.

Sierra died on January 4, 2021 from cancer at his home in Laguna Woods, California at the age of 83.

[[Laguna Woods, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Orange County, California

Laguna Woods (l) is a city in Orange County, California, United States. 16,192 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Jeannette Wood]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Washington, Politicians from New York, US Republican Party politicians

Jeannette Wood (February 19, 1932 – January 9, 2021) was an American Republican politician. He was a member of the Washington House of Representatives from the 21st district from 1988 to 1994 and in the Washington State Senate from the 21st district from 1994 to 1999. Wood was born in Auburn, New York.

Wood died of problems caused by dementia on January 9, 2021, in Woodway, Washington at age 88.

[[Woodway, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Woodway is a city in Snohomish County, Washington, United States. 1,307 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Charlotte Cornwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2021 deaths, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Actors from London

Charlotte Cornwell (26 April 1949 – 16 January 2021) was an English actress. She was born in London. Cornwell was a leading member of the Royal Shakespeare Company for three years. She starred Rosalind in As You Like It and Beatrice in Much Ado About Nothing. 

Cornwell was in many movies such as Stardust (1974), The Brute (1977), The Krays (1990), The Russia House (1990), White Hunter Black Heart (1990), The Saint (1997), Ghosts of Mars (2001) and Dead Space: Aftermath (2010).

Cornwell died on 16 January 2021, aged 71.

[[Royal Shakespeare Company]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 establishments in England, Theatres in the United Kingdom, Companies of the United Kingdom

The Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) is a major British theatre company. It is in Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire, England. The company has over 1,000 staff and makes around 20 productions a year. Most of the plays made by the company are by William Shakespeare.

[[Maynard Wallace]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Missouri, US Republican Party politicians

Maynard Wallace (April 21, 1943 – January 17, 2021) was an American Republican politician. He was a member of the Missouri House of Representatives from the 143rd district from 2003 to 2011. He was born in Ozark County, Missouri.

Wallace died on January 17, 2021 at her home near Gainesville, Missouri at age 77.

[[Gainesville, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, County seats in Missouri

Gainesville is a city in Ozark County, Missouri, United States. 773 people lived here at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Ozark County.

[[Thorsten Johansson]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths

Thorsten Johansson (9 October 1950 – 18 January 2021) was a Swedish sprinter. He competed in the men's 200 metres at the 1976 Summer Olympics.

Johansson died on 18 January 2021, aged 70.

[[Jim Vickerman]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Minnesota, US Democratic Party politicians

James Murray Vickerman (May 1, 1931 – January 19, 2021) was an American politician. He was a member of the Minnesota Senate from 1987 to 2011. He was a member of the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party. He was born in Tracy, Minnesota.

Vickerman died on January 19, 2021 in Marshall, Minnesota at the age of 89.

[[Tracy, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota

Tracy is a city in Lyon County, Minnesota, United States. 2,163 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Bill Sheat]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, New Zealand people, New Zealand lawyers, Activists

William Newton Sheat NZL (1 May 1930 – 20 January 2021) was a New Zealand lawyer and arts activist. He was a founding member of the New Zealand Film Commission, Creative New Zealand and Downstage Theatre. Sheat was born in Hāwera, New Zealand.

Sheat died on 20 January 2021 in Lower Hutt, New Zealand at the age of 90.

[[Central American Integration System]]

CATEGORIES: Political organizations, Central America

The Central American Integration System (Sistema de la Integración Centroamericana, or SICA) has been the economic and political organization of Central American states since February 1, 1993.

In 1991, SICA's first nations to join were Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama. Belize joined in 1998 as a full member, while the Dominican Republic became an associated state in 2004 and a full member in 2013. 

Mexico, Chile and Brazil became part of the organization as regional observers, and the Republic of China, Spain, Germany and Japan became extra-regional observers. 

SICA has been an observer of the United Nations General Assembly. 

[[California's 46th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of California

California's 46th congressional district is a congressional district in the U.S. state of California. A representative is elected every two years to represent the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Democrat Lou Correa. The district is in Orange County and includes the cities of Anaheim and Santa Ana, as well as parts of Orange. It is both the most liberal and most Latino congressional district in Orange County. The district was first created in 1993 and was represented by a Republican.

[[Mauricio Herdocia Sacasa]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Nicaraguan politicians, Lawyers, Editors

Mauricio Herdocia Sacasa (1 August 1958 – 21 January 2021) was a Nicaraguan politician, lawyer and editor. He was born in León, Nicaragua. Herdocia Sacasa was a Nicaraguan representative for the International Court of Justice. He worked for the newspaper La Prensa. 

In 2000, for a short time, Herdocia Sacasa was General-Secretary of the Central American Integration System.

Herdocia Sacasa died of a heart attack on 21 January 2021 in Managua, Nicaragua at the age of 62.

[[Amanda Gorman]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, African American writers, American poets, American political activists, Writers from Los Angeles, California

Amanda S. C. Gorman (born March 7, 1998) is an American poet, writer, speaker, and political activist. She read one of her poems during the installment ceremony of the American President Joe Biden in January 2021, getting praise.

[[León, Nicaragua]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nicaragua

León (leˈon) is the second largest city in Nicaragua, after Managua. It is the capital and largest city of León Department.

[[Cecilia Mangini]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Italian movie directors, Italian screenwriters

Cecilia Mangini (31 July 1927 – 21 January 2021) was an Italian movie director and screenwriter. She was thought to be the first female documentary filmmaker in Italy. Mangini wrote the screenplay for the 1973 drama movie Black Holiday. She was born in Mola di Bari, Italy.

Mangini died on 21 January 2021 in Rome at the age of 93.

[[Mola di Bari]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Apulia

Mola di Bari, commonly referred to simply as Mola (Barese: Màule), is a town and comune of the Metropolitan City of Bari, in the region of Apulia, in Southern Italy, on the Adriatic Sea.

[[Tony Ferrer]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Filipino actors, Movie directors, Movie producers, Deaths from cardiovascular disease

Antonio Laxa (June 12, 1934 – January 23, 2021) better known by his stage name Tony Ferrer, was a Filipino actor, movie director and producer. He was called the James Bond of the Philippines for his movie role as Tony Falcon in the Agent X-44 spy movie series. Ferrer was born in Macabebe, Pampanga. He also played Inspector Ramos in The Vengeance of Fu Manchu and Ben Guevara in Blind Rage.

Ferrer died on January 23, 2021 in Quezon City from heart disease, aged 86.

[[Pampanga]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Pampanga (Lalawigan ning Pampanga; Lalawigan ng Pampanga) is a province in the Central Luzon region of the Philippines.

[[Ricardo Durão]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Portuguese sportspeople, Olympians

Ricardo Fernandes Durão (13 June 1928 – 22 January 2021) was a Portuguese modern pentathlete. He competed at the 1952 Summer Olympics.

Durão died on 22 January 2021, aged 92.

[[Feliks Gromov]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Russian military people

Fleet Admiral Feliks Nikolayevich Gromov (Феликс Николаевич Громов; August 29, 1937 – January 22, 2021) was a Russian admiral. He was the Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Navy from 1992 to 1997. Gromov was born in Vladivostok, Soviet Union.

Gromov died on January 22, 2021 at the age of 83.

[[Juan Guzmán Tapia]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Salvadoran politicians, Chilean politicians, Chilean lawyers, Judges

Juan Salvador Guzmán Tapia (22 April 1939 – 22 January 2021) was a Salvadoran-born Chilean politician and lawyer. He was the first Chilean judge to prosecute Augusto Pinochet over human rights violations during his dictatorship. Guzmán Tapia was born in San Salvador, El Salvador.

Guzmán Tapia died on 22 January 2021 in Santiago de Chile, aged 81.

[[Gianfranco Lombardi]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, Italian Olympians, Basketball players, People from Livorno, Sportspeople from Tuscany

Gianfranco "Franco" Lombardi (20 March 1941 – 22 January 2021) was an Italian professional basketball player and coach. During his playing career, his nickname was "Dado". He was born in Livorno, Italy. He played for the national team. He participated in the 1960, 1964 and 1968 Summer Olympics.

In 2006, he was honored into the Italian Basketball Hall of Fame.

Lombardi died on 22 January 2021 in Cocquio-Trevisago, Varese, Italy at the age of 79.

[[Cocquio-Trevisago]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Lombardy

Cocquio-Trevisago (ˈkɔkkwjo treviˈzaːɡo; Coeuch-Trevisagh ˈkøːk treʋiˈzɑːk) is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Varese in the Italian region of Lombardy. It is about 60 northwest of Milan and about 12 northwest of Varese.

[[F. X. Sudjasmin]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Indonesian people, Military people

Fransiskus Xaverius Sudjasmin (26 August 1943spnd22 January 2021) was an Indonesian military officer. He was the deputy chief of staff of the Indonesian Army from 1995 until 1997. Sudjasmin was born in Salatiga, Japanese Dutch East Indies. 

Sudjasmin died on 22 January 2021 in Jakarta at the age of 77.

[[Marius van Heerden]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2021 deaths, South African sportspeople, Olympians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa

Marius van Heerden (8 September 1974 – 22 January 2021) was a South African middle-distance runner. He competed in the men's 800 metres at the 1996 Summer Olympics. He was born in Clanwilliam, South Africa.

Van Heerden died on 22 January 2021 in Cape Town from COVID-19, aged 46.

[[Farah Pahlavi]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people

Farah Pahlavi (فرح پهلوی, née Farah Diba فرح دیبا; born 14 October 1938) is an Iranian royal. She is the widow of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. Pahlavi was the Shahbanu (empress) of Iran from 1961 to 1979. Pahlavi was born in Tehran.

[[Fawzia Fuad of Egypt]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2013 deaths, Princes and princesses, Egyptian people

Fawzia Fuad of Egypt (الأميرة فوزية فؤاد; شاهدخت فوزیه فؤاد; 5 November 1921 – 2 July 2013), also known as Muluk Fawzia of Iran and Fawzia Chirine, was an Egyptian princess who became Queen of Iran as the first wife of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Shah of Iran.

Fawzia died on 2 July 2013 at the age of 91.

[[Soraya Esfandiary-Bakhtiary]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2001 deaths, Kings and Queens consort, Iranian actors

Soraya Esfandiary-Bakhtiary (Sorayâ Esfandiyâri-Baxtiyâri; 22 June 1932 – 26 October 2001) was the queen consort of Iran as the second wife of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, whom she married in 1951.

Soraya died on 26 October 2001 in her apartment in Paris, France; she was 69.

[[Khuyol Haoba]]

CATEGORIES: Legends, Fiction, Meitei mythology

Khuyol Haoba (ꯈꯨꯌꯣꯜ ꯍꯥꯎꯕ) or Khuyon Haoba (ꯈꯨꯌꯣꯟ ꯍꯥꯎꯕ) is one of the principal characters in the ancient Moirang Kangleirol legends. He is the son of Khuyol Khuntoulempa, and a lover of Yaithing Konu, the fair daughter of Huiningsumba. Right from childhood, he grew up as an orphan man.

[[Shahnaz Pahlavi]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Princes and princesses, People from Tehran

Shahnaz Pahlavi (شهناز پهلوی, born 27 October 1940) is the first child of the Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, and his first wife, Princess Fawzia Fuad of Egypt.

[[Reza Pahlavi, Crown Prince of Iran]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Princes and princesses, People from Tehran

Reza Pahlavi (رضا پهلوی; born 31 October 1960) is the oldest son of Iranian Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and his wife Farah Diba. Until the Iranian Revolution in 1979, he was the crown prince and the last heir apparent to the throne of the Imperial State of Iran. 

[[Farahnaz Pahlavi]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Princes and princesses, People from Tehran

Farahnaz Pahlavi (فرحناز پهلوی; born 12 March 1963) is the eldest daughter of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi by his third wife, Farah Diba.

In a 2004 article in Los Angeles Times, she tried to work at an international aid agencies such as UNICEF, but was rejected because of her name.

[[Pilgrimage (Wishbone Ash album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 albums, Hard rock albums

Pilgrimage is the second studio album by English rock band Wishbone Ash. The album is more like folk music than the last album, which was more like blues rock. The album sold many copies and reached number 14 on the UK Albums Chart. Their next album, Argus sold more than this album, and was their most popular.

[[Ali-Reza Pahlavi]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2011 deaths, Suicides by firearm in the United States, Princes and princesses, People from Tehran

Ali-Reza Pahlavi (علیرضا پهلوی; 28 April 1966 – 4 January 2011) was a member of the Pahlavi Imperial Family of the Imperial State of Iran. He was the younger son of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the former Shah of Iran and his third wife Farah Diba. 

He was second in order of succession to the Iranian throne before the Iranian Revolution.

Pahlavi, who had depression, shot himself on 4 January 2011 in Boston, Massachusetts at the age of 44.

[[Leila Pahlavi]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2001 deaths, Drug-related deaths in the United Kingdom, Drug-related suicides, Princes and princesses, People from Tehran

Leila Pahlavi (لیلا پهلوی, 27 March 1970 – 10 June 2001) was a princess of Iran and the youngest daughter of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Shah of Iran, and his third wife, Farah Pahlavi.

On 10 June 2001, Pahlavi was found dead in her room in Leonard Hotel in London by her doctor. She was found to have more than five times the lethal dose of barbiturate and cocaine. She was found in bed and she suffered from anorexia and bulimia. 

[[Hyman G. Rickover]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1986 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Polish military people, American military personnel of World War II, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, Congressional Gold Medal recipients

Hyman G. Rickover (January 27, 1900 – July 8, 1986) was an Admiral in the U.S. Navy. He helped create nuclear powered submarines. He was director of the U.S. Naval Reactors office. Rickover is also one of four people who have been awarded two Congressional Gold Medals.

[[Moirang Shayon]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei culture, Meitei folklore, Meitei literature, Meitei mythology, Manipur

The "Moirang Shayon" (ꯃꯣꯢꯔꯥꯡ ꯁꯥꯌꯣꯟ) or "Moirang Saiyon" (ꯃꯣꯢꯔꯥꯡ ꯁꯥꯢꯌꯣꯟ)(lit. Moirang incarnations) is a genre of the seven incarnations of a God and a Goddess, induced by Lord Thangjing, in the ancient Moirang kingdom, a southern province in Ancient Manipur (Antique Kangleipak).

The list of the seven pairs of incarnations are:

[[Veynes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Veynes is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Vitrolles, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Vitrolles is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Ventavon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Ventavon is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Sylvirana cubitalis]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

The Siam frog, Siamese frog yellow stream frog, darkeared frog, or black-eared frog (Sylvirana cubitalis) is a frog from China, Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos.

[[Jean Assaad Haddad]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, Lebanese people

Jean Assaad Haddad (17 December 1926 – 22 January 2021) was a Lebanese Melkite hierarch. He was an Archbishop of the Melkite Greek Catholic Archeparchy of Tyre in Lebanon from 1988 to 2005. He was born in Beit Chabab, Lebanon. 

Haddad died on 22 January 2021 in Beirut at the age of 94.

[[Sumiko Sakamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Japanese movie actors, Japanese stage actors, Japanese singers, Deaths from cerebral infarction

Sumiko Sakamoto was a Japanese actress and singer. She was known for her roles in The Pornographers, Warm Water Under a Red Bridge, and The Ballad of Narayama. She was born in Osaka, Japan.

Sakamoto died on January 23, 2021 from a cerebral infarction in Kumamoto, Japan at the age of 84.

[[Roy Torrens]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, Irish sportspeople, Cricketers

Robert "Roy" Torrens OBE (17 May 1948 – January 2021) was an Irish cricketer and manager. He managed and played for the Ireland cricket team. He represented Ireland six times in first-class cricket between 1966 and 1982.

Torrens was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2009 Birthday Honours.

Torrens died in January 2021, aged 72.

[[Tony Jones (offensive tackle)]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2021 deaths, American football offensive tackles, Cleveland Browns players, Baltimore Ravens players, Denver Broncos players, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state)

Anthony Edward Jones (May 24, 1966 – January 22, 2021) was an American football offensive tackle in the National Football League. His career lasted from 1988 to 2000. He was a two-time Super Bowl champion winning in 1998 and 1999. He was born in Royston, Georgia. Jones played for the Cleveland Browns, Baltimore Ravens and Denver Broncos.

Jones died on January 22, 2021, at the age of 54.

[[Tholpuram Valakkamparai Muthumariamman Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Temples in Asia, Hindu temples

Tholpuram Valakkamparai Muthumariamman Temple is a Hindu temple in Valakkamparai, Tholpuram, Sri Lanka.

[[Akkrum]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Friesland, Heerenveen

Akkrum is a village that lies in the municipality of Heerenveen, which is in the province of Friesland, the Netherlands. It is in the northern part of the municipality, and had about 3,400 people in 2017.

Akkrum belonged to the former municipality of Boarnsterhim until 2014, and to the municipality of Utingeradeel until 1984.

It has a railway station that connects Akkrum with Leeuwarden in the north and Heerenveen in the south. Motorway A32 is to the right of the village.

The village of Nes is just right of Akkrum.

The lake Sneekermeer (Snitser Mar) lies in the neighbourhood, to the southwest.

[[Maruoka Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Japan, Fukui Prefecture, Museums in Japan, Buildings and structures in Fukui Prefecture

Maruoka Castle (丸岡城, Maruoka-jō) is in Sakai, Fukui Prefecture. It is also called Kasumi-ga-jō (霞ヶ城). The castle tower was built between 1624 to 1644. It is one of the 12 Existing Castle Towers in Japan (現存十二天守, genzon-jūni-tenshu), and also one of the national important cultural properties.

[[Soman]]

CATEGORIES: Nerve agents

Soman is the name of a nerve agent, which was developed in Germany, in 1944. NATO use the abbreviation GD for Soman. During the 1930s, and 1940s, three nerve agents were developed. The two others were Tabun (1936) and Sarin (1942). Soman is the most stable of the three. Sunlight does not affect it. In the air, it will slowly decompose. It cannot be dissolved in water. Under standard conditions is a colorless liquid. 

Soman is a chemical weapon. Producing, stockpiling or owning it is heavily regulated, and monitored by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.

[[Talaba SC]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Iraq, 1969 establishments in Asia, Football clubs, Sport in Iraq, Baghdad

Al-Talaba Sports Club is an Iraqi football club which plays in Baghdad.

[[La Rochette, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

La Rochette is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Devotion (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s drama movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Curtis Bernhardt

Devotion is a 1946 American biographical drama movie directed by Curtis Bernhardt and starring Ida Lupino, Paul Henreid, Olivia de Havilland, Sydney Greenstreet, Nancy Coleman, Arthur Kennedy, May Whitty, Doris Lloyd, Montagu Love, Edmund Breon. It was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[Esteghlal Ahvaz F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s establishments in Iran, 1948 establishments in Asia, Iranian football clubs

Esteghlal Ahvaz Football Club is an Iranian football club which plays in Ahvaz, Khuzestan.

[[Nejmeh SC]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Lebanon, 1945 establishments in Asia, Lebanese football clubs, Beirut

Nejmeh Sporting Club is a Lebanese football club which plays in Beirut.

[[Rosoy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Rosoy is a commune in the Yonne department.

[[The House of the Seven Gables (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Joe May

The House of the Seven Gables is a 1940 American drama movie directed by Joe May and is the second adaption of the 1851 novel of the same name by Nathaniel Hawthorne. It stars George Sanders, Margaret Lindsay, Vincent Price, Dick Foran, Nan Grey, Cecil Kellaway, Alan Napier, Gilbert Emery and was distributed by Universal Pictures. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1941.

[[Ellen's Game of Games]]

CATEGORIES: Television game shows, NBC network shows

Ellen's Game of Games is American Television Game Show presented by Ellen DeGeneres. The show premiered in 2017 on NBC and the first season  started on 2018. Stephen "tWitch" Boss serves as co-host.

[[Thousand Dollar Bee]]

Thousand Dollar Bee (or Thou$and Dollar Bee) was a game show where children are quizzed on spelling words in a variety of ways, from a traditional spelling bee format to unscrambling letters.

[[Ohio's 16th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Ohio

Ohio's 16th congressional district is a congressional district in the state of Ohio. The district is represented by Republican Anthony Gonzalez since 2019. The district includes the counties of Stark, Medina, and Ashland. The district is just outside of Cleveland, Ohio. The 16th district has only been represented by a Democrat one time since 1973.

[[Henjunaha]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei folklore, Meitei literature, Meitei mythology

Henjunaha Lairoulembi (Hensunaha Lailoulempi), or simply known as Henjunaha, is a folk tale in the ancient Moirang Kangleirol legends of Meitei Manipuri mythology and folklore. It is the love story of Henjunaha and his lady love Lairoulembi, who are the ideal lovers in the second line of reincarnation in the epic of Moirang kingdom.

The legend was first reproduced in the written form during the reign of Maharaja Bhagyachandra, the King of Medieval Manipur.

[[Moirang Kangleirol]]

CATEGORIES: History of Manipur, Meitei culture, Meitei literature, Meitei folklore, Meitei mythology, Legends

The Moirang Kangleirol (ꯃꯣꯢꯔꯥꯡ ꯀꯪꯂꯩꯔꯣꯜ), also spelt as Moilang Kangleilol, is a body of history, literature, folklore, mythology, legends and other accounts originally associated with the ancient kingdom of Kege Moirang (Keke Moilang).

In general sense, the terms Keke, Moirang and Ngangoi are used synonymously since ancient times to refer to the ancient kingdom.

[[Habutae]]

CATEGORIES: Woven fabrics

Habutae is a type of silk. There are different kinds of habutae silk such as plain or striped habutae. Habutae is traditionally used for kimono and undershirts. Recently, it is also used for general goods, works of art, and clothing. Habutae is smooth to touch, glossy, and soft. It has been said "The quality of silk fabric begins with habutae and ends with it." Fukui is a suitable region to produce habutae as the dryness and wetness of the air are well-balanced throughout the whole year.

[[National Diet Building]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Tokyo, Buildings and structures completed in the 20th century, Government buildings

The National Diet Building (国会議事堂, Kokkai-gijidō) is the building where both houses of the Japan's government, the Diet, meet. It is located at Nagatachō 1-chome 7–1, Chiyoda, Tokyo.

Sessions of the House of Representatives take place in the left wing and sessions of the House of Councillors in the right wing.

The Diet Building was completed in 1936 and is made of only Japanese materials, except for the stained glass, door locks, and pneumatic tube system.

[[Panthoibi Khongul]]

CATEGORIES: Puya, Literature, History

Panthoibi Khongul (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯢꯕꯤ ꯈꯣꯡꯒꯨꯜ)(literally, "in quest of Panthoibi" or "Panthoibi's footprint"), also spelt as Panthoipi Khongkul, is an ancient Meitei literary work (puya), narrating about the quest of goddess Panthoibi. The text highlights the love saga of Panthoibi and her ultimate lover Nongpok Ningthou, after leaving her husband's house. Many scholars believe the work to be written during the 12th century AD.

The text also talks about how the festival Lai Haraoba was begun after the union of the two lovers.

[[Khongjomnubi Nongarol]]

CATEGORIES: Puya, Literature, History

The Khongjomnubi Nongarol, also spelt as the "Khongchomnupi Nongkalol", is an ancient Meitei literary narrative work (puya) about the six girls turning into the Pleiades in the sky.

"Khongjomnubi" or "Khongchomnupi" means the Pleiades and "Nongarol" or "Nongkalol" means the ascend to the Heaven. The work is believed to be composed during the 14th century AD.

[[Harry Perry (boxer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Irish Olympians, Boxers, Sportspeople from Dublin

Harry Perry (2 December 1934 – 23 January 2021) was an Irish boxer. He participated in the 1956 and 1960 Summer Olympics. He was part of the national boxing teams.  He also competed in the European Amateur Boxing Championships in 1955 and 1959 winning the bronze medal then. He was born in Dublin.

Perry died in Dublin on 23 January 2021, aged 86.

[[Simon Crosse]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, British Olympic bronze medalists, Rowers, Sportspeople from Hampshire

Simon C. Crosse (21 May 1930 – 14 January 2021) was a British rower. He competed in the men's coxed four event at the 1960 Summer Olympics. He won a gold medal in the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Cardiff, Wales. He was born in Christchurch, Hampshire.

Crosse died on 14 January 2021, aged 90.

[[Ron Samford]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, New York Giants (NL) players, Detroit Tigers players, Minnesota Twins players, Sportspeople from Dallas, Texas

Ronald Edward Samford (February 28, 1930 – January 14, 2021) was an American shortstop in Major League Baseball. He played from 1954 to 1959 with the New York Giants, Detroit Tigers and Washington Senators. Samford was born in Dallas, Texas.

Samford died on January 14, 2021 in Dallas at the age of 90.

[[Bergens Tidende]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers, Norway, 19th century establishments in Norway, 1868 establishments in Europe

[[National Assembly (Seychelles)]]

CATEGORIES: Seychelles

The unicameral National Assembly (Assemblée nationale, Creole: Lasanble Nasyonal) is the Seychelles's legislative body.

It has a total of 35 members. 26 members are elected in single member constituencies using the simple majority (or First-past-the-post) system. The remaining up to nine members are elected through a system of proportional representation. Members serve five-year terms.

[[Joevana Charles]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 deaths, 1955 births, Seychellois people, African politicians

Joevana Charles (July 1955 – 17 January 2021) was a Seychellois politician. She was a member of the National Assembly of Seychelles.  She was a member of the Seychelles People's Progressive Front. She was first elected to the Assembly in 1993. She retired in 2015.

Charles died on 17 January 2021, aged 65.

[[Monkey Kingdom (production company)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 establishments in the United Kingdom

Monkey Kingdom is an independent British television production company based in London, United Kingdom, with offices in Los Angeles. Established by David Granger and Will Macdonald in 2000, the company was acquired by NBCUniversal International Networks in 2010. Monkey was NBC Universal's third UK production venture following the acquisition of Carnival and the launch of WTTV, NBC Universal's joint venture with Working Title Films’ Tim Bevan and Eric Fellner.

The company creates, develops, produces, and sells entertainment and factual programming in the United Kingdom and the United States, with format sales worldwide. It produces content in various genres, including live studio, structured reality, factual, documentary, entertainment and scripted comedy, as well as digital and brand-driven content.

These include BAFTA-winning structured reality show Made in Chelsea,needed'' reality/quiz hybrid The Question Jury (best Daytime Programme 2017), BAFTA-nominated iconic music entertainment show TFI Friday, Comedy Award-winning studio variety show The Charlotte Church Show, RTS-winning The Real Housewives of Cheshire, Focal Award-nominated Elton John: Me, Myself & I, Mental Health Award documentary series The House of Obsessive Compulsives, and two Rose D’Or-winners: hidden camera fixed-rig comedy show Make My Day, and comedy sketch series Swinging.

The company has received several nominations and awards from BAFTA, Rose d'Or, International Emmy, RTS Award, The Comedy Awards and Broadcast Awards for their productions. These include the award-winning structured reality TV show Made in Chelsea, TFI Friday, Elton John: Me, Myself & I, award-winning game show The Question Jury and The Real Housewives of Cheshire.

Monkey has produced shows for the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, Channel 5, Sky, E4, 5Star, ITVBe, All 4, MTV, Trouble, ABC, Bravo, E!, TBS, TruTV, GSN, The WB, TV Land, Huffington Post, Bebo, IKEA, Orange, Sony Ericcson and Amnesty International.

Prior to founding Monkey, David Granger and Will Macdonald produced International Emmy/BAFTA/Rose d'Or-winning Don't Forget Your Toothbrush, TFI Friday, The Priory, Lock, Stock..., MTV's Most Wanted and The Big Breakfast.

[[Andromeda (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television series

Andromeda (formally titled Gene Roddenberry's Andromeda) is a Canadian-American science fiction television series. Between 2000 and 2005, 110 episodes were produced. Each episode runs for about 40 minutes. The series is loosely based on a Star Trek related theme. It is based on material by  Gene Roddenberry.  His widow,  Majel Barrett, helped produce it. 

As of 2021, Andromeda is one of two TV series (the other is Earth: Final Conflict) based on ideas Roddenberry had as early as the 1960s and 1970s. Roddenberry died in 1991, nine years before the  series premiere. The name "Dylan Hunt" was used  for the hero of two TV pilots Roddenberry had produced in the mid-1970s, Genesis II, and Planet Earth. Both had a similar setting.

[[Jon Sullivan]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, Australian politicians

Jonathan Harold Sullivan (10 November 1950 – 17 January 2021) was an Australian Labor politician. He was a member of the Australian House of Representatives from 2007 to 2010. He was a member of the Legislative Assembly of Queensland from 1989 to 1998. Sullivan was born in Bulli, New South Wales.

Sullivan died on 17 January 2021 at the age of 70.

[[Anthony Gonzalez]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American football wide receivers, United States representatives from Ohio, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Cleveland, Ohio, Sportspeople from Cleveland, Ohio, Living people

Anthony Gonzalez (born September 18, 1984) is an American politician and former professional football player. A member of the Republican Party, he is serving as the U.S. Representative for OH in the United States House of Representatives since 2019 and was reelected in 2020.

Anthony Gonzalez played college football for Ohio State University and played in the National Football League (NFL) for the Indianapolis Colts.

[[Brian Hillery]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Irish politicians

Brian James Hillery (22 November 1937 – 19 January 2021) was an Irish Fianna Fáil politician and finance executive. He was a Senator from 1977 to 1982, 1983 to 1989 and 1992 to 1997 and a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Dún Laoghaire constituency from 1989 to 1992. He was born in Spanish Point, County Clare, Ireland.

Hillery died in Dublin on 19 January 2021, aged 83.

[[Felipe Quispe]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Bolivian politicians, Historians

Felipe Quispe Huanca "Mallku" (Quechua language: "condor"; 22 August 1942 – 19 January 2021) was a Bolivian historian and political leader. He was the Leader of the Pachakuti Indigenous Movement (MIP) and was general secretary of the United Union Confederation of Working Peasants of Bolivia (CSUTCB). He unsuccessfully ran for President of Bolivia in 2005.

Quispe died on 19 January 2021 in El Alto, Bolivia from cardiac arrest at the age of 78.

[[Proteopedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikis, Enzymes

Proteopedia is a wiki, 3D encyclopedia of proteins and other molecules.

The site contains a page for every entry in the Protein Data Bank (>130,000 pages). Its pages are descriptive of protein structures in general such as acetylcholinesterase, hemoglobin, and the photosystem II.  

It employs a scene-authoring tool: users do not have to learn JSmol script language to create customized molecular scenes. Custom scenes are easily attached to "green links" in descriptive text that display those scenes in JSmol. 

A web browser is all that is needed to access the site and the 3D information; no viewers need be installed.

[[Ron Campbell (animator)]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Australian artists, Animators, Australian movie directors, Australian movie producers, Television directors, Television producers, People from Victoria (Australia)

Ron Campbell (26 December 1939 – January 2021) was an Australian animator, director, and producer. Campbell was best known for his work on the 1960s The Beatles television series and Yellow Submarine. Campbell was born in Seymour, Victoria. His career lasted from 1958 to 2008.

Campbell died on 23 January 2021, aged 81.

[[José Manuel Botella Crespo]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish politicians, People from Madrid

José Manuel Botella Crespo (1949 – 22 January 2021) was a Spanish politician. He was a member of Congress of Deputies from 1986 to 1993. He was a member of Corts Valencianes from 1991 to 2003. Botella Crespo was a member of the People's Alliance. He was born in Madrid.

Botella Crespo died in Torrevieja, Spain on 22 January 2021, aged 71.

[[Torrevieja]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Valencia (autonomous community), Municipalities in Valencia (autonomous community)

Torrevieja (ˌtoreˈβjexa) or Torrevella (ˌtoreˈveʎa) is a seaside city and municipality on the Costa Blanca in the province of Alicante. It is on the southeastern Mediterranean coast of Spain.

[[Alfredo Magarotto]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Italian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops

Alfredo Magarotto (16 February 1927 – 22 January 2021) was an Italian Roman Catholic bishop. He became a priest in 1950. He was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Chioggia, Italy, from 1990 to 1997. He was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Vittorio Veneto, Italy, from 1997 to 2003.

Magarotto died on 22 January 2021, aged 93.

[[Konthoujam Nongarol]]

CATEGORIES: Literature

Konthoujam Nongarol (ꯀꯣꯟꯊꯧꯖꯝ ꯅꯣꯡꯒꯥꯔꯣꯜ), also spelt as the Konthoucham Nongkalol, is an ancient Meitei literary narrative work, about Chingphulon Konthousu, a lady from Konthou clan, ascending to the Heaven. The story describes about the love between a mortal and a deity. It also mentions about how the ancient people perform ceremony for the death.

[[Photosystem II]]

CATEGORIES: Photosynthesis, Plant physiology

Photosystem II is a large protein complex. It is the first protein complex in the light-dependent reactions of oxygenic photosynthesis.  

The complex is in the thylakoid membrane of plants, algae, and cyanobacteria. 

In the photosystem, enzymes capture photons of light to energize electrons. The electrons are then transferred by coenzymes and cofactors. The energized electrons are replaced by oxidizing water to form hydrogen ions and molecular oxygen.

By replenishing lost electrons with electrons from the splitting of water, photosystem II provides the electrons for photosynthesis to occur.

[[Sharon Kay Penman]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American novelists, Writers from New York City

Sharon Kay Penman (August 13, 1945 – January 22, 2021) was an American historical novelist. She was born in New York City. She was known for writing novels about English and Welsh royalty during the Middle Ages. 

Her best known works were The Sunne in Splendour, When Christ and His Saints Slept, Here Be Dragons, The Reckoning, Time and Chance and Devil's Brood.

Penman died from pneumonia on January 22, 2021 at the age of 75.

[[Aldis Hodge]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from North Carolina

Aldis Alexander Basil Hodge (born September 20, 1986) is an  American actor. He is known for playing Alec Hardison on Leverage, MC Ren in the 2015 biopic Straight Outta Compton, Levi Jackson in the 2016 movie Hidden Figures, and as Noah on Underground.

[[List of African countries by Human Development Index]]

CATEGORIES: Africa-related lists, Economy of Africa

The Human Development Index (HDI) is a number from 0 to 1 (higher is better) used to compare different countries. It is published by United Nations Development Programme. It is used to rank countries into different groups for example developed and developing countries.

The Human Development Index uses different measurements of a population:

[[Poireiton Khunthok]]

CATEGORIES: Puya, Literature, History

"Poireiton Khunthok" (ꯄꯣꯢꯔꯩꯇꯣꯟ ꯈꯨꯟꯊꯣꯛ) or "Poireiton Khunthokpa"  (ꯄꯣꯢꯔꯩꯇꯣꯟ ꯈꯨꯟꯊꯣꯛꯄ) (literally, immigration by Poireiton) is an ancient Meitei literary narrative work (puya), describing about the immigration of a band of colonies, led by a man, Poireiton, the prince and younger brother of Thongaren, the god of the underworld kingdom, in the plains of the Kangleipak kingdom (present day Manipur).

It is partially an allegorical work, which includes mythical elements as the integral parts of the saga. It also mentions that the knowledge of the usage of fire was also introduced to the people of Kangleipak by Poireiton.

[[Poireiton]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei folklore, Meitei literature, Meitei mythology, Meitei religion, Kings of Ancient Manipur, History of Manipur

"Chingkhong Poireiton" (ꯆꯤꯡꯈꯣꯡ ꯄꯣꯢꯔꯩꯇꯣꯟ), also known as "Poileiton" (ꯄꯣꯢꯂꯩꯇꯣꯟ), is a prince of the Khamnung (underworld kingdom) and a younger brother of Thongaren, the god of death in Meitei mythology and religion. He is best known as a cultural hero, for leading a colonial immigration to the human world (Kangleipak kingdom), as per the wish of his brother. 

He is mentioned in the Poireiton Khunthok, an ancient treatise about his immigration to the human kingdom.

[[George Robertson (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Montreal Canadiens players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Sportspeople from Winnipeg

George Thomas Robertson (May 11, 1927 – January 9, 2021) was a Canadian professional ice hockey forward. He played 31 games in the National Hockey League for the Montreal Canadiens from 1944 to 1955. Robertson was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba.

Robertson died on January 9, 2021 at the age of 93.

[[Carlos Tapia García]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, Peruvian politicians, Peruvian engineers, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Peru

Carlos Enrique Tapia García (11 July 1941 – 19 January 2021) was a Peruvian engineer and politician. He was born in Lima, Peru. From 1985 to 1990, Tapia García was a member of the Congress of the Republic. From 2001 to 2003, he was a member of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.

Tapia García died on 19 January 2021 in Lima from COVID-19, aged 79.

[[Leithak Leikharol]]

CATEGORIES: Puya

Leithak Leikharol (ꯂꯩꯊꯛ ꯂꯩꯈꯥꯔꯣꯜ) (lit. Of Heaven and netherworld), also spelt as the Leithak Leikhalol, is an ancient literary narrative work (puya), about the creation, genealogy of kings, moral teachings and mythology. It mentions some goddesses including Leimarel Sidabi, Nongthang Leima and Panthoibi. Goddess Leimarel Sidabi is said to be the omniscient. It states that goddess Panthoibi slays a demon.

[[Nikolay Chebotko]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2021 deaths, Skiers, Kazakhstani sportspeople, Olympians, Road accident deaths

Nikolay Sergeyevich Chebotko (Николай Сергеевич Чеботько, October 25, 1982 – January 24, 2021) was a Kazakhstani cross country skier. Chebotko competed in four Winter Olympics from 2002 until the 2014. He won gold medals at the Asian Games and Universiade. Chebotko was born in Shuchinsk, Kazakh SSR.

Chebotko died in a car accident in near the Borovoye Resort in Kazakhstan on January 24, 2021 at the age of 38.

[[Tom Stevens (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2021 deaths, American pop singers, American pop musicians, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, American bass guitarists, Musicians from Indiana, Singers from Indiana, Writers from Indiana, American singer-songwriters, People from Elkhart, Indiana

Thomas Howard "Tom" Stevens (September 17, 1956 – January 24, 2021) was an American pop rock bassist, guitarist and singer-songwriter. He played with the Paisley Underground and the Long Ryders. He was a member of Magi and Danny & Dusty. He was born in Elkhart, Indiana. 

Stevens died on January 24, 2021 at the age of 64.

[[Korouhanba]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei gods and goddesses

"Korouhanba"  (ꯀꯣꯔꯧꯍꯟꯕ)(ko-lou-han-pa is the master of the sky or heaven and god of the sun in ancient Meitei mythology and religion. He is also known as Taohuireng and is one of the two sun brothers in the Numit Kappa epic legend. For having the ability to removing darkness, he is also called "Ngantureng". He is described as "Songbu Chiraitangba", a physician who is bald headed.

He is also connected with Mangang Luwang Khuman, the three divine teachers in many legends.

His pantheon is mainly maintained by the Thokchom family.

He has religious association with the Maring tribes.

[[Microcredit]]

CATEGORIES: Finance

A microcredit (sometimes called a micro-loan, or microloan) is a special kind of loan given to poor business people, mostly in developing countries. Microcredits were created to support entrepreneurship, and to lessen poverty. Very often, people getting a microcredit are illiterate: they cannot fill out forms to apply for a regular loan. Microcredits also work differently: the interest ot be paid is usually much higher than with a regular loan, often it is over 20%. The interest usually also has to be paid more often. Microcredits have been criticized, because people taking them often end up in a situation where they cannot repay their debt.

[[Taoroinai]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei folklore, Meitei mythology, Meitei religion

"Taoroinai" (taau-roy-naay)(taau-loy-naay) is a serpentine dragon which lives in the moon in ancient Meitei mythology and religion.

The Shakok Lamlen mentions that the Kangla was constructed over the navel of the serpent god.

Legend says Pakhangba was brought from heaven as a nonglum (egg of clouds) by Taoroinai. According to it's general features, it is said to be equivalent to the Ananta of Hindu mythology.

[[Yumjao Leima]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei gods and goddesses

Yumjao Leima or Yumjao Lairembi or Yumjao Lairemma is the mother goddess of the house and the household in the Meitei mythology and religion. She is said to be the goddess of royalty, who assumed the human form in white attire, and blesses the ruler of the kingdom.

[[Laikhurembi]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei gods and goddesses

"Laikhurembi" (ꯂꯥꯢꯈꯨꯔꯦꯝꯕꯤ) is a primordial goddess in ancient Meitei mythology and religion. She is the chief Queen of Thongaren, the god of death and the ruler of the underworld.

She is the daughter of Lairen Humchouba. Her pantheon is maintained particularly by the Taibungjam clan of the Meitei ethnicity. 

She is said to be equivalent to Hindu goddess Durga.

[[Lainaotabi]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei gods and goddesses

"Lainaotabi" (ꯂꯥꯢꯅꯥꯎꯇꯥꯕꯤ) or "Leinaotabi" (ꯂꯩꯅꯥꯎꯇꯥꯕꯤ) is a goddess in ancient Meitei mythology and religion. She is the youngest consort of Thongalel, the god of death and the ruler of the Khamnung underworld. She was made to accompany Poireiton, her brother in law, with whom she gave birth to a son.

She is credited for making the first earthen pot in the legend.

Her pantheon is mainly maintained by the Ashangbam clan.

[[Nongban Pombi Luwaoba]]

CATEGORIES: Puya, Meitei folklore, Meitei literature, Meitei mythology, Meitei religion

"Nongban Pombi Luwaopa" (ꯅꯣꯡꯕꯥꯟ ꯄꯣꯝꯕꯤ ꯂꯨꯋꯥꯎꯕ) or "Nungpan Ponpi Luwaopa" (ꯅꯨꯡꯄꯥꯟ ꯄꯣꯟꯄꯤ ꯂꯨꯋꯥꯎꯄ) is a Meitei language literary narrative work (puya), about the legendary story of a prince of the Luwang dynasty who got back successfully the life of his wife Koubru Namoinu (Lainaotabi), from the hands of her former consort Thongalen, the God of death and the ruler of the underworld. It is the story of love, courage and perseverance. It is an old story of near tragic end. In the legend, there's a fight between the mortal and the god.

It mentions about the dowry system (Awonpot) of the then ancient times. It is, in a sense, the reverse of the Chothe Thangwai Pakhangba.

[[Tharon]]

CATEGORIES: Puya, Literature

Thāron or Tharol is an ancient Meitei literary work (puya), about the lore of the twelve lunar months of a year. It describes the changing pattern of nature in the following months. It is one of the masterpieces of the writers of the ancient times.

The terms, "Tha" means month or moon and "ron", derived from "lon" means knowledge, lore or tradition.

The names of the twelve lunar months were given in Ancient Meitei language in the manuscript. However, the following illustrates both the Ancient Meitei as well as Modern Meitei names, with their Gregorian equivalents:

[[IPhone 12 Pro]]

CATEGORIES: iPhone, Mobile phones with multiple rear cameras, Mobile phones with 4K video recording, IPhones released in 2020

Pro Max:

The iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12 Pro Max are smartphones sold by Apple Inc.  They were announced on October 13, 2020, alongside the iPhone 12 and 12 mini. The iPhone 12 Pro and 12 Pro Max contain many of the same features as the 12 and 12 mini, with the addition of one camera lens (similar to iPhone 11 Pro and 11 Pro Max) and a LiDAR scanner to allow for better photos and augmented reality experiences.

The display contains Ceramic Shield, which is meant to be tougher against drops. iPhone 12 Pro and 12 Pro Max are 5G-capable and contain a basic storage of 128 GB, with 256 GB and 512 GB options also available.  They contain flat edges first introduced with the iPhone 4 and are made of stainless steel.  These phones have a magnetic back to allow for MagSafe wireless charging and accessory use, such as a wallet.  The iPhone 12 Pro starts at US $999, while the 12 Pro Max begins at US $1,099. The models are equipped with 6 GB of RAM. The iPhone 12 Pro and 12 Pro Max are available in silver, graphite, Pacific blue, and gold.

[[Khwaja Manzar Hassan]]

CATEGORIES: Poets

Khwaja Manzar Hassan Manzar was a famous poet.  He wrote in the Urdu language. He wrote Nasheed i Tareekh. In this book, he wrote complete verses on numerical basis. This type of poetry is called Tareekh Goi. It is one of the hardest poetic style where poet uses letters and subsequently words that contain a specific numerical value. The letters and subsequently the words add up to a number which gives a specific year.

[[Español (disambiguation)]]

Español might mean:

[[AfriMusic Song Contest]]

CATEGORIES: Music competitions, 2010s establishments in Africa, 2018 establishments

The AfriMusic Song Contest is a pan-African song contest based in the ESC. Different singers representing an African country celebreted since 2018 to present.

[[Doug LaMalfa]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, United States representatives from California, US Republican Party politicians, Living people

Doug LaMalfa (born July 2, 1960) is a U.S. representative for California's 1st congressional district. He is a member of the Republican Party and has represented the California's 1st congressional district in the United States House of Representatives since 2013. LaMalfa used to be a assemblyman in the California State Assembly for California's 2nd State Assembly district from 2002 to 2008 and a state senator in the California State Senate for California's 4th State Senate district from 2010 to 2012. 

When he was a state senator, Doug LaMalfa went against a bill that would get rid of the electoral  college. As a congressman LaMalfa did not think that climate change was a problem and is against illegal immigration. In December 2020, Doug LaMalfa joined 126 Republican members of the House of Representatives who supported Texas v. Pennsylvania which was a lawsuit to get rid of the 2020 United States presidential election results in which Joe Biden defeated Donald Trump.

[[Ashkan Dejagah]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Iranian footballers, German footballers, Sportspeople from Tehran, Iranian expatriate footballers, Tractor S.C. players, Living people

Seyed Ashkan Dejagah (سید اشكان دژآگه; born 5 July 1986) is an Iranian-German footballer who currently plays as a winger for Tractor S.C. in the Persian Gulf Pro League.  

He has been member of the Iranian national team since 2012. He was part of the Iran squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil and the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia.

[[Ancient Moirang]]

CATEGORIES: History of India

Ancient Moirang, also known as Keke Moirang, was an ancient civilization that flourished in the southern plains of the present day Manipur, India. The Keke Kangla served as the capital city of the kingdom since time immemorial. The major body of accounts related to the history, literature, mythology of the kingdom are collectively called Moirang Kangleirol.

[[2021 Portuguese presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: January 2021 events, 21st century in Portugal, 2021 elections

 Presidential elections were held in Portugal on 24 January 2021. 

The incumbent President, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, was reelected in a landslide victory with 60.7% of the vote.

[[Echizen forged knives]]

CATEGORIES: Manufacturing

Echizen forged knives are traditional knives made in Echizen City, Fukui prefecture, Japan. Characteristics of these products are the two techniques, which are called Nimai hiroge (= double layering) and Mawashi hagane tsuke (= shaping the knife). Thanks to these characteristic techniques, they were chosen as the earliest traditional craft for forged knives in 1979.  

[[Gangs of New York]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 crime movies, American epic movies, American crime movies, Movies directed by Martin Scorsese, Movies based on books

Gangs of New York is a 2002 American epic historical crime movie that was directed by Martin Scorsese. It is set in the New York City. It was inspired by Herbert Asbury's 1927 nonfiction book The Gangs of New York. The movie stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Daniel Day-Lewis, and Cameron Diaz.

[[Leonard Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American critics, Writers from New York City, Actors from New York City

Leonard Harris (September 27, 1929 – August 28, 2011) was an American actor, critic and author. He was known for his roles as Senator Charles Palantine in Taxi Driver (1976) and the mayor in Hero at Large (1980).

Harris died of pneumonia on August 28, 2011 in Hartford, Connecticut at the age of 81.

[[RTBF]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Belgium, 1977 establishments in Europe, Television networks, Brussels

The Radio-télévision belge de la Communauté française (RTBF, Belgian Radio-television  of the French Community, branded as rtbf.be) is a public service broadcaster delivering radio and television services to the French-speaking Community of Belgium, in Wallonia and Brussels.

[[Windows NT 5.x]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft operating systems

Windows NT 5.x is a family of Microsoft Windows NT, starting with Windows 2000 and ending with with Server 2003. So far, All of Windows OS in this NT kernel is unsupported at all.

[[Iputhou Pakhangba Laishang]]

CATEGORIES: Temples in India, Meitei religion

"Iputhou Pakhangba Laishang" (ꯏꯄꯨꯊꯧ ꯄꯥꯈꯪꯕ ꯂꯥꯢꯁꯪ) (literally, "Iputhou Pakhangba Temple") is an ancient Meitei temple dedicated to God Pakhangba, inside the Kangla Palace in Imphal, Manipur, India.

After its reconstruction, it was consecrated in 2010.

[[Atlassian]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s establishments in Australia, 2002 establishments, Companies of Australia, Software

Atlassian Corporation is an Australian software development company for the IT industry. It is best known for its JIRA and Confluence bug tracking system. The company is headquartered in Seattle, USA. In total, the company has nine offices in six countries and serves more than 100,000 customers. 

[[Two-party system]]

CATEGORIES: Political systems

There are several states in the world, where politics is dominated by two parties. This is known as two-party system. According to Giovanni Sartori, the following is true for such as system:

The Median voter theorem describes such a system: While at first the parties have programmes that are very different from each other, over time, they will get closer. Hotelling's law also describes this in game theory. 

Note that in such systems, there may also be other parties, bur these rarely have enough influence to win majorities in elections.

Examples of states that have a two party system are the United Kingdom, and the United States.

[[Median voter theorem]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

The median voter theorem is a theroem from political economics: Suppose there are two parties: One is a left-wing party, the other is a right-wing party. Voters either vote for the left-wing party L, or the right-wing party R. In an election, L has an interest to shift its position towards the middle, so that it can get voters from the other party R. Similarly, R has an interest to shift its position towards the middle, so ir can get voters from L. 

[[California's 1st congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of California

California's 1st congressional district is a congressional district in the U.S. state of California. The district is represented by Republican Doug LaMalfa since 2013. Before LaMalfa has taken office, the district had not had a Republican congressman since 1998. The district is made up of the counties: Butte County, Lassen County, Modoc County, Plumas County, Shasta County, Sierra County, Siskiyou County, Tehama County, most of Nevada County, part of Glenn County and part of Placer County.

[[Paper Port (TV series)]]

Paper Port (Spanish: Puerto Papel) is a 2016 animated children's television series produced by Zumbastico Studios. The series blends stop-motion and 2D animation with papercraft characters and environments, in a technique called Papermotion.1

The series was co-produced by the channels Televisión Nacional de Chile (Chile), Pakapaka (Argentina), Gloob (Brazil), and Señal Colombia. Additionally, it's also produced by Pipeline Studios in Canada and distributed by Millimages in France. It first aired in 2016. It also airs on Discovery Kids (Latin America).2 Paper Port's season 2 is in production, as well as a movie.3

[[Katsuyama Castle Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Japan, Museums in Japan, Fukui Prefecture, Buildings and structures in Fukui Prefecture

Katsuyama Castle Museum (勝山城博物館, Katsuyama-jō Hakubutsukan) is a museum that is in the city of Katsuyama in Fukui Prefecture in Japan. The museum was finished on July 19, 1992. It is considered to be the tallest castle in Japan, at 57.8 meters, but it is not a castle because it does not have a tenshu or tenshukaku–a “keep tower” (tower to defend from enemies). It was built to look like the Himeji castle. The museum also stands out because it has dragons cut into its foundation stone, which is unusual for a Japanese castle.  

[[Sylvirana mortenseni]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

The Koh Chang Island frog or Mortensen's frog (Sylvirana mortenseni) is a frog from Cambodia, Thailand, and Laos.  Scientists have seen it as high as 800 meters above sea level.

[[Rabeya Khatun]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Bangladeshi writers, Short story writers, Novelists, Bangla Academy Literary Award winners, Recipients of the Ekushey Padak, Bangladeshi Muslims, Recipients of the Independence Day Award

Rabeya Khatun (27 December 1935 – 3 January 2021) was a Bangladeshi novelist. As of 2008, she wrote over 50 novels and more than 400 short stories. Her works include essays, novels, research, short stories, religious history and travelogues. She was awarded Bangla Academy Literary Award in 1973, Ekushey Padak in 1993 and Independence Day Award in 2017 by the Government of Bangladesh.

Khatun died 3 January 2021 at her residence in Gulshan, Dhaka.

[[Lyft]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s establishments in California, 2012 establishments in the United States, Companies listed on NASDAQ, American transport companies, Companies based in San Francisco

[[Ucanha]]

CATEGORIES: Maya civilization, Archaeological sites in Mexico, Yucatán (state)

Ucanha is a place in northern Yucatán, Mexico, where scientists dig up Mayan ruins.  It used to be a town where Mayans lived.  People lived in Ucanha during the Late Preclassic period (ca. 300 B.C. —  ca. A.D. 250).  It was about 2.2 square kilometers in size. There were about 400 households. It was connected  to a larger town, Uci, by a wide stone causeway.  Uci is 13 km to the west of Ucanha.

A large brightly colored stucco mask was discovered in Ucanha in 2017. It is about two meters tall and was found in a building near the center of Ucanha.  Although masks like this one have been found in other Maya sites, this is the only one known for this part of Mexico.

The mask has been repaired so it looks the way it did when it was new.  The archaeologists buried the mask again to preserve it and  because the site is not legally protected.

[[Insemination]]

CATEGORIES: Sexuality

For organisms that reproduce sexually, insemination is the transfer of male gametes (usually sperm) into the female reproductive tract, for the purpose of generating offspring. In mammals, this is the uterus, in birds, this is the oviduct. Insemination happens naturally during sexual intercourse, or copulation. It can also be done artificially, in which case it is called artificial insemination.

[[Abiu]]

CATEGORIES: Tropical fruit, Sapotaceae

The Abiu is a tropical tree from South America. The tree grows to heights between 10 and 35. It produces edible fruit. When they are ripe, the fruits are yellow.

[[Sabae, Fukui]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Fukui Prefecture

Sabae is a city in Japan. Sabae is part of Fukui Prefecture. The city had an estimated population of 69,338 as of 1 June 2018. The population density is 820 persons per km². 

[[Ted Turner (guitarist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, English guitarists, Musicians from Birmingham, English singer-songwriters

David Alan "Ted" Turner (born 2 August 1950) is an English guitarist and singer. He was one of Wishbone Ash's lead guitarists between 1969 and 1974; and again between 1987 and 1994.

[[Buissard]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Buissard is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Saint-Julien-en-Champsaur]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Saint-Julien-en-Champsaur is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Forest-Saint-Julien]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Forest-Saint-Julien is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Saint-Laurent-du-Cros]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Saint-Laurent-du-Cros is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[GeForce]]

CATEGORIES: American technology companies

GeForce is a brand name by Nvidia. It is a series of video cards.

Their main competitor is AMD with their Radeon line.

[[AMD Radeon]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware companies

AMD Radeon (ˈ) is a brand name by Advanced Micro Devices (AMD). Several computer products are sold under the brand. For example, graphics processing units (GPUs), random-access memory (RAM), and overclocking software. These products are produced by Radeon Technologies Group, a division of AMD.

Their main competitor is Nvidia with their GeForce line.

[[Cypronia]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies, Slovakia

[[California's 36th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of California

California's 36th congressional district is a U.S. congressional district in California. It is in the eastern part of Riverside County.

The district has the communities of Palm Springs, Palm Desert, Indio, Coachella, Rancho Mirage, Desert Hot Springs, Indian Wells and Cathedral City in the district.

The district is represented by Democrat Raul Ruiz.

[[Coachella, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Riverside County, California

Coachella (ˌ KOH, k koh) is a city in Riverside County, California. It is the easternmost city and the Coachella Valley is named after the city.

[[Cathedral City, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Riverside County, California

Cathedral City, colloquially known as "Cat City", is a desert resort city in Riverside County, California, United States. It is in Colorado Desert's Coachella Valley. 51,200 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Colorado Desert]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts, Geography of California

California's Colorado Desert is a part of the larger Sonoran Desert. It is about 7. It also has the irrigated Coachella and Imperial valleys. The desert is known for its many flora and fauna.

[[2021 Palmas FR plane crash]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 disasters, 2021 in South America, 2020s in Brazil, Aviation disasters in the 2020s, Disasters in South America, January 2021 events

The 2021 Tocantinense aviation disaster took place on January 24, 2021, when a plane crashed shortly after departing Palmas–Brigadeiro Lysias Rodrigues Airport in Brazil. Six people were on board, killing four people. Those killed were members of the Palmas Futebol e Regatas association football team members, the club's owner and the plane's pilot. The plane was en route to a regional cup football game between Palmas and Vila Nova, for the Brazilian Copa Verde championship.

[[Steven T. Kuykendall]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, American Presbyterians, United States representatives from California, US Republican Party politicians, Deaths from pulmonary fibrosis

Steven T. Kuykendall (January 27, 1947 – January 23, 2021) was an American Republican politician. Kuykendall was born in McAlester, Oklahoma.

Kuykendall was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from California from 1999 to 2001. Kuykendall was also a member of the California State Assembly from 1994 to 1998.

Kuykendall died of pulmonary fibrosis on January 23, 2021, in Long Beach, California at age 73.

[[Sifis Valirakis]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Greek politicians, Accidental deaths by drowning

Iosif "Sifis" Valirakis (Ιωσήφ (Σήφης) Βαλυράκης, 12 March 1943 – 24 January 2021) was a Greek politician. He was a member of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK). Valirakis was born in  Chania, Crete. From 1995 to 1996, he was Minister of Public Order.

On 24 January 2021, Valirakis fell out of a boat and drowned near Eretria, Greece, aged 78.

[[Eretria]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Greece

Eretria (ə; Ερέτρια, Eretria, literally "city of the rowers"' Ἐρέτρια) is a town in Euboea, Greece. It is across the narrow South Euboean Gulf.

[[Joseph Sonnabend]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Researchers, South African scientists, Physicians, South African writers

Joseph Adolph Sonnabend (6 January 1933 – 24 January 2021) was a South African physician, scientist and HIV/AIDS researcher. He was known for his research and awareness campaign about safe sex to prevent STDs and AIDS.

Sonnabend had a heart attack on 3 January 2021.  He died on 24 January at a London hospital at the age of 88.

[[Patrick O'Donoghue (bishop)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Irish people, Roman Catholic bishops

Patrick O'Donoghue (4 May 1934 – 24 January 2021) was an Irish Roman Catholic bishop. He was the fifth Bishop of Lancaster, who led the diocese from 2001 to 2009. He was born in Mourne Abbey, County Cork, Ireland.

O'Donoghue died on 24 January 2021 in Mallow, County Cork at the age of 86.

[[Moshe Moskowitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, Jewish Israeli politicians

Moshe Moskowitz (23 January 1925 – 24 January 2021) was an Israeli politician. He was the Head of the Shafir Regional Council from 1952 to 1979. He was also the founder of the Gush Etzion settlement.

Moskowitz died on 24 January 2021, aged 96.

[[Jean-Pierre Michel]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, French politicians

Jean-Pierre Michel (5 August 1938 – 24 January 2021) was a French politician. He was a member of the Senate of France, representing the Haute-Saône department from 2004 to 2014.  He was a member of the Socialist Party. Michel was Mayor of Héricourt, Haute-Saône from 1983 to 2004. He was born in Nîmes, France.

Michel died on 24 January 2021 in Trévenans, France at the age of 82.

[[Trévenans]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Territoire de Belfort

Trévenans is a commune in the Territoire de Belfort department in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in northeastern France.

[[Sigvard Marjasin]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Sweden, Trade unionists, Swedish politicians

Mauritz Sigvard Marjasin (24 November 1929 – 24 January 2021) was a Swedish politician and trade unionist. He was chairman of the Municipal Workers' Union from 1977 to 1988. He also was the Governor of Örebro County from 1989 to 1994. 

Marjasin died of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Sweden on 24 January 2021, aged 91.

[[Abdullahi Ibrahim]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 deaths, 1939 births, Nigerian politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria

Abdullahi Ibrahim (14 January 1939 - 24 January 2021) was a Nigerian lawyer, politician and administrator. He was Federal Minister of Justice from 1997 to 1999. He was the agent and later co-agent in the dispute between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Republic of Cameroon at the International Court of Justice at The Hague. 

Ibrahim died on 24 January 2021 of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria.

[[Nikolai Severtzov]]

Nikolai Alekseevich Severtzov was a Russian explorer and naturalist. Severtzov studied at the Moscow University and at the age of eighteen he came into contact with G.S. Karelin and took an interest in central Asia. In 1857 he joined a mission to Syr-Darya. 

[[Jóhannes Eðvaldsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, Icelandic footballers, People from Reykjavík

Jóhannes Eðvaldsson (3 September 1950 – 24 January 2021) was an Icelandic international football player. He won the Scottish league championship twice with Celtic F.C. and the Scottish Cup once.

Eðvaldsson died on 24 January 2021, aged 70.

[[Cornish Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Cornish Canadians are Canadians of Cornish descent, including those who were born in Cornwall.

[[California's 42nd congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of California

California's 42nd congressional district is a congressional district from the state of California. The district is represented by Republican Ken Calvert. The district is in Riverside County in the Inland Empire, as has the cities of Eastvale, Norco, Corona, Lake Elsinore, Menifee, Wildomar, Murrieta, as well as parts of Temecula.

[[Peter Thorburn]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Coaches, New Zealand rugby union players, Sportspeople from Auckland

Peter Robert Tyler Thorburn NZL (19 March 1939 – 26 January 2021) was a New Zealand rugby union player and coach. He was born in Auckland. He played as a flanker. He played for Auckland until 1985. He coached North Harbour in New Zealand from 1985 to 1991. He later coached Bristol (2001–03) and later the United States national team (2006–07).

Thorburn in Takapuna on 26 January 2021. He was 81.

[[P-pop]]

CATEGORIES: P-pop

P-pop or Pinoy pop, also known as Philippine pop or Filipino pop is a type of music from the (Original Pinoy Music) OPM genre. It began in the 1970s. Through the 1990s to the 2000s, live bands performed OPM pop.  

Groups such as Neocolours, Side A, Introvoys, the Teeth, Yano, True Faith, Passage and Freestyle popularized OPM pop.  These songs are sentimental.

From 2010 to 2020, Philippine pop music changed.  The quality became better, there was more variety, and people were willing to pay more money to make and listen to it. This was because the economy of the Philippines was improving and Filipinos were becoming more interested in their own culture.  This was partially because K-pop and J-pop, which are music styles from Korea and Japan, which have Asian style ballads, idol groups, EDM music, and less reliance on Western genres. Famous P-pop music artists include Sarah Geronimo, SB19, XLR8, KZ Tandingan, Erik Santos, Yeng Constantino, MNL48, Regine Velasquez, BINI, BGYO, and P-Pop Generation.

[[Hyperpower]]

CATEGORIES: Countries, Politics by issue

A hyperpower is a country that is more powerful than every other country in every aspect. It is more powerful than a superpower.

The United States was a hyperpower after the cold war because it was the only superpower after the collapse of the Soviet Union. It had a big influence in politics, science, culture and military. It also influenced the balance of power and made a new world order.

Some say that the United States is still a hyperpower because it is the only uncontested superpower (some say that China is/will be a superpower and some say it is/will not). 

According to the Asia Power Index 2020, the United States still has the lead on the military capacity, cultural influence, resilience and defense networks, but falls behind China in economic and future resources, economic relationships and diplomatic influence. This index ranks power and influence only in Asia Pacific.

It is easy to see areas where the United States is no longer so dominant. Its economy is weakened by manufacturing abroad; internal social conflicts are greater. However, it is still by far the top country on military capability, though not on size of its army. Perhaps the world no longer has a superpower.

[[Thomas Sandgaard]]

CATEGORIES: Inventors, Business people, Guitarists, Rock musicians

Thomas Sandgaard (born 1958, Denmark) is a Danish-American entrepreneur, inventor, and rock music guitarist. He founded Zynex Inc. He owns the Charlton Athletic Football Club (CAFC).

[[Fujifilm]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s establishments in Japan, 1934 establishments, Technology companies of Japan, Electronics companies

[[High-definition map]]

CATEGORIES: Cartography, Automotive technologies

A high-definition map (HD map) is a highly accurate 3D map made for self-driving cars. These maps have details not present on traditional maps. HD maps are accurate at a centimetre level.

HD maps are created using different sensors. These sensors include LiDARs, radars, digital cameras and GPS. HD maps can also be made using aerial imagery.

High-definition maps can include things like road shape, road marking, traffic signs and barriers.

[[Nataliya Resh]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1980 births

Nataliya Resh (Наталия Реш; 27 September 1980, Nezhin, Chernihiv Oblast, Ukrainian SSR) is a Russian lawyer, television presenter, entrepreneur and philanthropist. She is the founder of the Open Culture Foundation.

[[Revolving door]]

CATEGORIES: Everyday life, Architectural elements, Gates

A revolving door is a way to enter or exit  a building.  In a revolving door, several panels are fixed on a central axis. The panel can then be rotated to enter or exit the building. Buildings are usually fitted with revolving doors to save energy: Revolving doors can be made to hinder airflow. This means that less heat is lost. The first to develop revolving doors was  H. Bockhacker. In 1881, he registered a patent in Germany for a "door without airflow". Theophilus Van Kannel registered a patent for what he called "storm door", in 1888.

Revolving doors also have problems: Once they start spinning, they force the people to keep a certain walking speed. People who cannot keep up the walking speed may fall and hurt themselves. People in a wheelchair cannot use revolving doors. The same probably applies to blind people. Revolving doors cannot be used in an emergency: They cannot be passed at a fast speed. For all these reasons, many countries have rules that buildings must also have other doors. In hotels and public buildings, is usual to find "push" doors either side of a revolving door.

[[National Anthem of the Islamic Republic of Iran]]

CATEGORIES: Iran, National anthems

The "National Anthem of the Islamic Republic of Iran" (Sorude Melliye Jomhuriye Eslâmiye Irân; sʊˌɾuːde melˌlije dʒʊmhuːˌɾije eslɒːˌmije iːˈɾɒn) is the national anthem of Iran. It preceded the anthem during Khomeini times called “Payandeh Bada Iran”.

[[Sliding door]]

CATEGORIES: Everyday life, Architecture, Gates

A sliding door is a door that opens horizontally, by sliding. Very often, such doors slide along a wall. Sliding doors are commonly used, for example in the bathroom, to separate the shower. They are also used for wardrobes. Sliding doors can be mounted either on top of a track below or be suspended from a track above. Some types slide into a space in the parallel wall in the direction of travel, rather than the door sliding along the outside of the parallel wall. There are several types of sliding doors, such as pocket doors, sliding glass doors, center-opening doors, and bypass doors. Sliding doors are commonly used as shower doors, glass doors, screen doors, wardrobe doors or in vans.

Compared with bifolds, which subdivide the glass multiple times and need stacking space when open, sliding doors are far neater.

[[Hen Wlad Fy Nhadau]]

CATEGORIES: Wales, National anthems

"Hen Wlad Fy Nhadau" (heːn wlɑːd və n̥adaɪ̯) is the national anthem of Wales.

[[Masada Iosefa]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, 2021 deaths, Accidental deaths in Australia, Road accident deaths, Rugby league players

Masada Iosefa (26 January 1988 – 25 January 2021) was a Samoan professional rugby league player. He played as a hooker. He played for the Penrith Panthers and Wests Tigers in the National Rugby League (NRL). He also played for the Samoan national team.

Iosefa was born in Motoʻotua, Samoa. He moved to Australia at a young age. After his playing career, he was a youth worker in Rockhampton, Queensland.

On 25 January 2021, the day before his 33rd birthday, Iosefa died in a quad bike accident in Herbert, a rural locality of Darwin, Northern Territory.

[[Echizen Washi]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture

Echizen washiis a type of Japanese paper that is made in Echizen, Fukui Prefecture, Japan. Echizen washi is the best in Japan in terms of quality, variety, and production volume.   

The most distinctive feature of Echizen Washi is the variety. It can be roughly divided into 8 types, and the large division can be divided into very fine types. Each Echizen Washi has various uses, including everyday paper such as sliding doors and shoji paper, wrapping paper, and postcards, as well as official paper. Among them, Echizen Hoshoshi (越前奉書紙) and Echizen Torinokogami (越前鳥子紙) are Echizen washi that designated important intangible cultural properties of Japan.     

[[Ted Turner (disambiguation)]]

Ted Turner is an American media mogul and philanthropist.

Ted Turner may also mean:

[[Sylvirana guentheri]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

Gunther's Amoy frog, Guenther's Amoy frog, Günther's frog, Guenther's frog, Günther's red-and-black frog or Gunther's brown frog (Sylvirana guentheri) is a frog from Vietnam, China and Taiwan.  People have brought this frog to Guam. It can live as high as 1100 meters above sea level.

[[Wakasa Lacquerware]]

CATEGORIES: Ceramics, Japanese culture

Wakasa lacquerware (若狭塗, Wakasa-nuri) is traditional Japanese art from Obama City, Fukui Prefecture, Japan. Wakasa lacquerware can be boxes or other objects.  They are covered in decorations of eggshells, seashells, and pine needles. Wakasa lacquerware uses togidashi maki-e, a technique in which a large pattern is put on an object by adding many layers of lacquer. it takes a long time to make Wakasa laquerware. The entire process is completed by a single artisan. Wakasa lacquerware  is famous for lacquer chopsticks in Japan. Lacquer chopsticks from Obama City account for 80% of domestic production, but almost all of them are produced in factories. Wakasa lacquer chopsticks which are actually produced by artisans are less than 1 percent of the domestic production in Obama City. Artisans take at least half a year to produce a pair of chopsticks. In 2008 and 2013, a lacquer picture frame and a lacquer ballpoint pen were given to Barack Obama by Obama City.

[[António Cardoso e Cunha]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Portuguese politicians, European Union politicians

António José Baptista Cardoso e Cunha (28 January 1933 – 24 January 2021) was a Portuguese Social Democratic Party (PSD) politician. He was a government minister in the 1970s and 1980s. From 1986 to 1992, he was Portugal's first European Commissioner. He was elected to the Assembly of the Republic in 1978. 

Cardoso e Cunha died on 24 January 2021, aged 87. 

[[Kenneth Z. Altshuler]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American psychiatrists, American psychologists, American academics, Scientists from New Jersey, Scientists from Dallas, Texas, People from Paterson, New Jersey

Kenneth Z. Altshuler (April 11, 1929 – January 6, 2021) was an American psychiatrist and psychoanalyst. He was a Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry and the Chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. He was born in Paterson, New Jersey.

Altshuler died on January 6, 2021 in Dallas from problems caused by COVID-19 at aged 91.

[[Paul Kölliker]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Swiss sportspeople, Olympians, Rowers

Paul Kölliker (19 February 1932spnd11 January 2021) was a Swiss rower. He competed in the men's coxless four event at the 1960 Summer Olympics. He was born in Wolfwil, Switzerland.

Kölliker died on 11 January 2021 at the age of 88.

[[Jim MacGeorge]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American television writers, American voice actors

James A. MacGeorge (October 15, 1928 – January 16, 2021) was an American voice actor and writer. 

He was best known for his voice roles as Beany Boy, Crowy and Uncle Captain Horatio K. Huffenpuff in Beany and Cecil, Oliver Hardy in the Laurel and Hardy cartoon series, Crazy Claws in The Kwicky Koala Show, Bort in The Mighty Orbots, Wimper in Clue Club and as Dr. Wilmer Scarab in Bionic Six. 

MacGeorge died on January 16, 2021 at the age of 92.

[[Jean Dumont (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: French politicians, 1930 births, 2021 deaths

Jean Dumont (27 November 1930 – 18 January 2021) was a French politician. He was born in Thouars, France. Dumont was a member of the Republican Party. From 1986 to 1995, Dumont was a member of the Senate.

Dumont died in Parthenay, France on 18 January 2021, aged 90.

[[Thouars]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Deux-Sèvres

Thouars (twaʁ) is a commune in the Deux-Sèvres department in western France. On 1 January 2019, the former communes Mauzé-Thouarsais, Missé and Sainte-Radegonde were merged into Thouars.

[[Joyce Hearn]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Georgia (U.S. state), Politicians from South Carolina, US Republican Party politicians, Businesspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), Businesspeople from South Carolina

Joyce C. Hearn (née Camp; June 16, 1929 – January 20, 2021) was an American politician and businesswoman. She was a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives as a Republican Party. Hearn was born in Cedartown, Georgia.

Hearn died on January 20, 2021 in Columbia, South Carolina at the age of 91.

[[Jean-Pierre Baeumler]]

CATEGORIES: French mayors, 1948 births, 2021 deaths

[[Jorunn Kirkenær]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, People from Oslo, Norwegian stage actors, Ballerinas, Choreographers

Jorunn Kirkenær (4 May 1926 – 22 January 2021) was a Norwegian ballerina and choreographer. She was born in Oslo. She performed for the Malmö City Theatre, Nationaltheatret, Det Norske Teatret and Den Norske Ballett. 

Her works as choreographer include Reisen til Julestjernen and ballet versions of the children's operas Little Red Riding Hood and Ma mère l'Oye for television with the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation. 

She was awarded the King's Medal of Merit in gold in 1996.

Kirkenær died on 22 January 2021 in Oslo, aged 94.

[[National Theatre (Oslo)]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century establishments in Norway, 1899 establishments in Europe, Theatres, Buildings and structures in Norway, Oslo

The National Theatre in Oslo (Nationaltheatret) is one of Norway's largest and most well known cultural arts center for performance of dramatic arts.

The main building is centrally located between the Royal Palace, Oslo and the Parliament of Norway.

[[Assembly of the Republic (Portugal)]]

CATEGORIES: Portugal

The Assembly of the Republic (Portuguese: Assembleia da República, ɐsẽˈblɐjɐ dɐ ʁɛˈpublikɐ) is the parliament of Portugal. In the Constitution of Portugal, the unicameral parliament "is the representative assembly of all Portuguese citizens." The constitution names the assembly as one of the country's main authority. It is in a historical building in Lisbon, the Palácio de São Bento.

[[Jevrem Brković]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Montenegrin people, Poets, Journalists, Historians

Jevrem Brković (29 December 1933 — 24 January 2021) was a Montenegrin poet, writer, journalist, dissident and historian. Brković was one of the founders and member of Doclean Academy of Sciences and Arts. He was born in the Seoca village near Podgorica, Zeta Banate, Kingdom of Yugoslavia.

Brković died on 24 January 2021 at the age of 87.

[[Arik Brauer]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Austrian educators, Austrian poets, Singers from Vienna, Austrian architects, Austrian painters, Austrian historians, Writers from Vienna

Arik Brauer (אריק בראואר; 4 January 1929 – 24 January 2021) was an Austrian painter, printmaker, poet, dancer, singer, stage designer, architect and academic teacher. He was a co-founder of the Vienna School of Fantastic Realism. He taught at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna, beginning in 1985. He designed buildings in Austria and Israel in the 1990s.

On 24 January 2021, Brauer died in Vienna at age 92.

[[George Armstrong (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Canada, Canadian ice hockey centres, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Ice hockey people from Ontario

George Edward Armstrong (July 6, 1930 – January 24, 2021) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He played 21 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Toronto Maple Leafs from 1949 to 1971. Armstrong was born in Skead, Ontario. In 1975, he was elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame.

Armstrong died on January 24, 2021 in Ontario from problems caused by heart disease at the age of 90.

[[Muhanna Al-Dura]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Jordanian people, Painters

Muhanna Durra (مهنا دره), OSJ, (January 1938 – 24 January 2021) was a Jordanian painter. He was well known in the Jordanian Arts Movement. He was the first to add Cubism and abstract art into the Jordanian visual arts community. 

He was a professor at the Faculty of Fine Art and Design at University of Jordan. He was the President of the Jordan Association of Fine Arts. Al-Dura was born in Amman, Jordan.

Al-Dura died on 24 January 2021, aged 82.

[[Harthorne Wingo]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, New York Knicks players, Sportspeople from North Carolina

Harthorne Nathaniel Wingo (September 9, 1947 – January 23, 2021) was an American professional basketball player. He was born in Tryon, North Carolina. He played four seasons, from 1972 to 1976, in the National Basketball Association as a member of the New York Knicks. 

Wingo died on January 23, 2021 at the age of 73.

[[Tryon, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Carolina

Tryon is a town in Polk County, North Carolina, United States. In the 2010 census, the city had 1,646 people.

[[Columbus, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in North Carolina, Towns in North Carolina

Columbus is a town in Polk County, North Carolina, United States. 999 people lived here at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Polk County.

[[Song Yoo-jung]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, 2021 deaths, South Korean television actors, South Korean models

Song Yoo-jung (June 8, 1994 – January 23, 2021) was a South Korean actress and model. Her first role was in MBC's series Golden Rainbow (2013). She was also known for her role in the cable channel series Make a Wish (2014).

Song died on January 23, 2021 in Seoul, aged 26.

[[Abukari Gariba]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Ghanaian footballers, Olympians

Abukari Gariba (13 June 1939 – 23 January 2021) was a Ghanaian footballer. He was born in Yamale, Ghana. He competed at the 1968 Summer Olympics and the 1972 Summer Olympics. 

Gariba died at the age of 81 in Kumasi, Ghana on 23 January 2021.

[[Nilda Pedrosa]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2021 deaths, Politicians from Miami, Florida, US Republican Party politicians, Cancer deaths in Florida

Nilda Pedrosa (1974 – January 23, 2021) was an American Republican politician. She was the acting United States Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs from September 28, 2020, until a few days before her death in January 2021. She was the Assistant Dean for Development & External Affairs at Florida International University College of Law. Pedrosa was born in Miami, Florida.

Pedrosa died on January 23, 2021 in Miami from cancer, aged 46.

[[Cyril Pinder]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, American football running backs, Philadelphia Eagles players, Chicago Bears players, Dallas Cowboys players, Sportspeople from Florida, Sportspeople from Illinois, People from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, People from Urbana, Illinois

Cyril Calvin Pinder (November 13, 1946 – January 23, 2021) was an American professional football player. He was a running back in the National Football League (NFL) for the Philadelphia Eagles, Chicago Bears, and Dallas Cowboys from 1968 to 1973. He played college football for the Illinois Fighting Illini. He was born in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

Pinder died on January 23, 2021 in Urbana, Illinois at the age of 74.

[[Alberto Grimaldi]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, Italian movie producers, People from Naples

Alberto Grimaldi (28 March 1925 – 23 January 2021) was an Italian movie producer. He was born in Naples, Italy. He was known for producing the movies: For a Few Dollars More, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, Last Tango in Paris and Gangs of New York.

Grimaldi died on 23 January 2021 in Miami, Florida at the age of 95.

[[Robert Rowland]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2021 deaths, British businesspeople, MEPs for the United Kingdom, Former MEPs, People from Greater Manchester, Accidental deaths by drowning

Robert Andrew Rowland (28 February 1966 – 23 January 2021) was a British politician and businessman. He was a member of the Brexit Party. He was a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) for South East England from 2019 until the United Kingdom's exit from the EU in 2020. Rowland was born in Bowdon, Greater Manchester.

Rowland drowned on 23 January 2021 while on vacation in the Bahamas in a scuba diving accident, aged 54.

[[Unicode block]]

CATEGORIES: Unicode blocks

A Unicode block is a group of characters in Unicode. They are made by the Unicode Consortium. Many blocks are glyphs for one language or other symbols (for example, mathematics). 

[[Albert Bridge, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Nova Scotia

Albert Bridge (2001 pop.: 159) is a Canadian rural community in Nova Scotia's Cape Breton Regional Municipality.

[[Albert Bridge]]

Albert Bridge may refer to:

[[Iron Bridge]]

Iron Bridge may refer to:

[[Chabottes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Chabottes is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Self-disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

A self-disorder is also called an ipseity disturbance. It is a bad change in the minimal self of the person. The minimal self is like a solid center that someone experiences reality with. It can be disturbed in schizophrenia and similar disorders. The self-disorder can show itself in different ways.

[[Champcella]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Champcella is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Sophie Nélisse]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 births, Canadian child actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian movie actors, Actors from Ontario, Living people

Sophie Nélisse (born March 27, 2000) is a Canadian actress. Her performance in Monsieur Lazhar won a Genie Award. She played Liesel Meminger in the movie adaptation of the best-selling novel The Book Thief. 

Nélisse won a Young Artist Award for Best Leading Young Actress in an International Feature Film. She was later at the Cannes Film Festival to present the movie Mean Dreams.

Nélisse was born in Windsor, Ontario.

[[Paul Tonko]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, United States representatives from New York, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Amsterdam, New York, Living people

Paul Tonko (born June 18, 1949) is a United States representative for New York's 20th congressional district. Tonko is a Democrat and has represented the district since 2009. When Tonko became a congressman, New York's 20th congressional district was part of New York's 21st congressional district and Tonko also represented that. But the districts were changed and he became the congressman for the 20th district. Tonko was also a member of the New York State Assembly before and was the Chief executive officer of New York State Energy Research and Development Authority.

[[Bea Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 births, American singer-songwriters, American child singers, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Singers from New Jersey, Actors from New Jersey, Living people

Beatrice Annika Miller (born February 7, 1999) is an American singer-songwriter and actress. She came in ninth place on season two of The X Factor (U.S.) when she was thirteen years old. Her first extended play Young Blood was released in 2014. Her first studio album Not an Apology was released on July 24, 2015. In 2016, she released the song "Yes Girl".

Miller released "It's Not You it's Me", "That Bitch", "Feel Something" and "Never Gonna Like You" in 2019. 

In October 2020, after the success of "Feel Something", Miller released the song "Wisdom Teeth" on her EP Elated.

Miller was born in Maplewood, New Jersey.

[[Chess symbols in Unicode]]

CATEGORIES: Chess, Symbols, Typography

Unicode has characters of chess symbols. This means that chess symbols can be encoded as text instead of images. Algebraic notation (text that shows where to move a chess piece) can be typed using the symbol of the piece. For example, ♘c6 instead of Nc6. 

[[Echizen Ono Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Japan, Fukui Prefecture, Buildings and structures in Fukui Prefecture

Echizen Ono Castle is a Japanese castle that is in Ono City, Fukui Prefecture. Until the Meiji period, the administrative headquarters of the Ono Domain region was established. In 2017, it was included in "Second series Top 100 Japanese Castle". The castle which appears every conditions are met in the morning, is called "castle in the sky (天空の城)".

In 1575, Nagachika Kanamori began to build a castle on Kameyama mountain, a small mountain in Ono County. It took several years to build the castle. After the Kazunori Aoki’s era, the Echizen Matsudaira family became a shogunal property, and the castle owner changed many times until the Doi family got it. The castle burned down in 1775 and was rebuilt in 1795 with the exception of the castle tower, but it was destroyed again after the Meiji Restoration. The castle tower today was built in the Shōwa period (1968). 

[[Marius Swart]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa, South African politicians, South African businesspeople

Marius Swart (1941spnd17 January 2021) was a South African politician and businessman. He was a member of the Democratic Alliance. He was Executive Mayor of the George Local Municipality from 2000 to 2004. He was a member of the National Assembly from 2004 to 2014. Swart was born in Swellendam, South Africa.

On 8 January 2021, Swart was hospitalized in George with COVID-19 in critical condition. He died from the virus on 17 January, aged 79.

[[Justin Lekhanya]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Prime Ministers of Lesotho

General Justin Metsing Lekhanya (7 April 1938 – 20 January 2021) was a Lesotho politician. He was the Chairman of the Military Council of Lesotho from 24 January 1986 to 2 May 1991. He was born in Thaba-Tseka, Lesotho.

Lekhanya died on 20 January 2021, aged 82.

[[California grizzly bear]]

CATEGORIES: Ursidaes, Mammals of North America

The California grizzly bear (Ursus arctos californicus) is an extinct population or subspecies of the brown bear. 

The California grizzly bear was much like the Kodiak bear of the southern coast of Alaska. 

The grizzly became a symbol of the Bear Flag Republic.

[[Advance to the Rear]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 comedy movies, 1960s western movies, American western movies, American comedy movies, MGM movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by George Marshall

Advance to the Rear is a 1964 American western comedy movie directed by George Marshall and was based on the 1957 novel Company of Cowards by Jack Schaefer. It stars Glenn Ford, Stella Stevens, Melvyn Douglas, Jim Backus, Joan Blondell, Andrew Prine, Alan Hale Jr., Whit Bissell and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Dienoycus]]

Dienoycus is a genus of dinosaur.  Dienocus is a dromaeosaurid theropod dinosaur.  There are one known species in this genus: Deinonychus antirrhopus.

[[Guem]]

CATEGORIES: Algerian people, 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Singers

Guem, stage name of Abdelmajid Guemguem (9 March 1947 – 22 January 2021) was an Algerian percussionist. He composed Le Serpent, re-recorded in 1996 for the program Ça se discute on France 2. In 2011, he composed Mon Paris.

Guem died on 22 January 2021 in Paris, aged 73.

[[Paul Foytack]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Detroit Tigers players, Los Angeles Angels players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania, People from Scranton, Pennsylvania

Paul Eugene Foytack (November 16, 1930 – January 23, 2021) was an American professional baseball player and right-handed pitcher. He appeared in 312 games in Major League Baseball between 1953 and 1964 for two American League clubs, the Detroit Tigers and the Los Angeles Angels. He was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania.

Foytack died on January 23, 2021 in Spring Hill, Tennessee at the age of 90.

[[Spring Hill, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tennessee

Spring Hill is a city in Maury and Williamson counties, Tennessee. Spring Hill had 43,769 people lived here in 2019.

[[Brock, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ontario

Brock is a township in the Regional Municipality of Durham, Ontario, Canada.

[[Bruce Kirby (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

Bruce Kirby (born Bruno Giovanni Quidaciolu; April 28, 1925 – January 24, 2021) was an American character actor.

During the 1960s, he appeared in I Dream of Jeannie, The Nurses, The Defenders, Car 54, Where Are You?, and The Patty Duke Show among others.

He was known for his role as Pop Ryan, father of Officer John Ryan (played by Matt Dillon) in the 2005 movie Crash.

His son was actor Bruno Kirby (1949–2006).

Kirby died at age 95 in Los Angeles on January 24, 2021.

[[Crash (2004 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 drama movies, 2000s crime drama movies, Academy Award winning movies, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Satellite Award winners, American crime drama movies

Crash is a 2004 American crime drama movie produced, directed, and co-written by Paul Haggis.

The movie stars Sandra Bullock, Don Cheadle, Matt Dillon, Jennifer Esposito, William Fichtner,  Brendan Fraser, Terrence Howard, Chris "Ludacris" Bridges, Thandie Newton, Michael Peña, and Ryan Phillippe.

It received six Academy Award nominations. It won three for Best Picture, Best Original Screenplay, and Best Film Editing.

[[Paul Haggis]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Canadian movie directors, Canadian screenwriters, Canadian movie producers, Writers from Ontario, People from London, Ontario, Canadian television writers, Emmy Award winners, Academy Award winning writers, BAFTA Award winning writers, Satellite Award winners

Paul Edward Haggis (born March 10, 1953) is a Canadian screenwriter, movie producer, and movie director. He is best known as screenwriter and producer for the Best Picture Oscar winners: Million Dollar Baby (2004) and Crash (2005). He also directed the James Bond movies Casino Royale (2006) and Quantum of Solace (2008).

Haggis was sued for an alleged sexual assault claim in New York City in 2013.

[[Larne Borough Council]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Northern Ireland

Larne Borough Council was a Local Council in County Antrim in Northern Ireland. It merged with Ballymena Borough Council and Carrickfergus Borough Council in May 2015.

32,180 people lived here at the 2011 Northern Ireland census.

[[Marcel Uderzo]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in France, French artists, Comics artists

Marcel Uderzo (20 December 1933 – 24 January 2021) was a French comic book artist. He was the younger brother of fellow comic book artist Albert Uderzo. He made ink boards for Asterix. His last Asterix work was Asterix in Belgium.

Uderzo died on 24 January 2021 from COVID-19 in Évreux, France at the age of 87.

[[The Boy in Blue (1986 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 drama movies, 1980s biographical movies, Canadian drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Charles Jarrott

The Boy in Blue is a 1986 Canadian biographical drama movie directed by Charles Jarrott and starring Nicolas Cage, Cynthia Dale, Christopher Plummer, Sean Sullivan, David Naughton, Melody Anderson, Jeff Wincott. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Sōichi Aikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Japanese politicians, Mayors

Sōichi Aikawa was a Japanese politician. Aikawa was born in Urawa, Saitama. He was elected mayor of Urawa in 1991 until 2001. He was chosen as the first mayor of the city of Saitama. He retired in 2009.

Aikawa died of respiratory failure on 25 January 2021, aged 78.

[[David Bright (football manager)]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2021 deaths, Botswana people, Football managers, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic

David Bright (13 June 1956 – 25 January 2021) was a Botswanan football manager.

In 1992, Bright joined Mogoditshane Fighters in the Botswana First Division. He led the team to three Botswana Premier League titles between 1999 and 2001.

Bright has also managed Engen Santos, Bay United, Gaborone United and Bay United.

Bright died of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Botswana on 25 January 2021, aged 64.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Botswana]]

CATEGORIES: Botswana, COVID-19 pandemic by country

This article documents the impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic in Botswana.

On 30 March, the first three cases in the country were confirmed. On 25 March a 78-year-old woman who was suspected of having COVID-19 died in Ramotswa. A few days after her death, the results came back positive making it the fourth case of COVID-19 in Botswana.

[[Jaoid Chiguer]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, French Olympians, Boxers

Jaoid Chiguer, by some sources spelled Jaouad (11 August 1985 – 25 January 2021), was a French amateur boxer. He qualified for the 2008 Olympics at welterweight.

Chiguer died on 25 January 2021, at the age of 35 from heart attack.

[[Avelino Méndez Rangel]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, Politicians from Mexico City

Avelino Méndez Rangel (26 November 1958 – 25 January 2021) was a Mexican politician. He was a member of the Party of the Democratic Revolution. From 2009 to 2012, he was a federal deputy representing the Federal District. He also was borough mayor in Xochimilco.

Méndez Rangel died in Mexico City on 25 January 2021 after being hospitalized with COVID-19 days earlier, during the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, aged 62.

[[Vladimír Suchánek]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Czech artists

Vladimir Suchánek (12 February 1933 – 25 January 2021) was a Czech graphic artist and postage stamp designer. He was born in Nové Město nad Metují, Czechoslovakia. He was President of the Hollar Society, the leading Czech graphic art organisation. He was the designer of several stamps for the Czech Republic.

Suchánek died in Prague on 25 January 2021, aged 87.

[[Maryan Synakowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, French footballers

Maryan Synakowski (14 March 1936 – 25 January 2021) was a French footballer. He played as a centre back. 

Synakowski played for Olympique Saint-Quentin, Sedan-Torcy B, Sedan-Torcy, Stade Français, Union Saint-Gilloise, Reims and Sedan.

He played for the French national team between 1961 and 1965.

[[Enrique Tábara]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, People from Guayaquil, Painters, Educators

Luis Enrique Tábara (21 February 1930 – 25 January 2021) was an Ecuadorian painter and teacher. He was born in Guayaquil, Ecuador. He was inspired by the Constructivist Movement. He also painted many works with Joaquín Torres García and Manuel Rendón. 

Tábara died on 25 January 2021 in Guayaquil, aged 90.

[[Winfried Bölke]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, German cyclists

Winfried Bölke (25 May 1941 – 26 January 2021) was a German cyclist. In 1963 he won the national championships and a bronze medal at the world championships in the road race for amateurs. He continued competing professionally until 1973.

[[Francis Bazire]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, French cyclists, French Olympians

Francis Augustin Bazire (born 17 April 1939) is a retired French cyclist. He won a silver medal in the amateur road race at the 1963 UCI Road World Championships. He competed at the 1964 Summer Olympics and finished in 53rd place in the same event.

[[Carlos Holmes Trujillo]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Colombia, Ambassadors of Colombia, Mayors, Colombian politicians

Carlos Holmes Trujillo García (23 September 1951 – 26 January 2021) was a Colombian lawyer and politician. He was born in Cartago, Colombia. Trujillo was Mayor of Cali from 1988 to 1990. He was a member of the Democratic Center.

From 1992 to 1993, he was Minister of Education. From 1997 to 1998, he was Minister of the Interior. From 2018 to 2019, Trujillo was Minister of Foreign Affairs. From 2019 until his death, he was Minister of Defense.

Trujillo died on 26 January 2021 at a hospital in Bogota from COVID-19, aged 69.

[[Peter Vere-Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, New Zealand movie actors, New Zealand television actors, New Zealand stage actors, Actors from Cheshire

Peter Vere-Jones NZL (21 October 1939 – January 2021) was a New Zealand actor. He was known for his works with director Peter Jackson. He appeared in four of his movies. He was also known for starring in the New Zealand television series Shortland Street.

In the 2002 Queen's Birthday and Golden Jubilee Honours, Vere-Jones was appointed an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit.

Vere-Jones died in January 2021, aged 82.

[[Ron Johnson (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Kansas City Royals players, Montreal Expos players, Sportspeople from California, People from Long Beach, California

Ronald David Johnson (September 12, 1956 – January 26, 2021) was an American baseball player and minor league manager. He played for the Kansas City Royals from 1982 to 1983 and Montreal Expos in 1984. He coached the Boston Red Sox from 2010 to 2011. Johnson was born in Long Beach, California.

Johnson died on January 26, 2021 in Morrison, Tennessee from COVID-19, aged 64.

[[Sergei Eduardovich Prikhodko]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Russian politicians

Sergei Eduardovich Prikhodko (Сергей Эдуардович Приходько; 12 January 1957 – 26 January 2021) was a Russian politician. From May 2013 to May 2018, he was Deputy Prime Minister in Dmitry Medvedev's Cabinet. He was the First Deputy Head of the Russian Government Office from 2018 to 2021.

Prikhodko died on 26 January 2021 at the age of 64 from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in Moscow.

[[Lars Norén]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Sweden, Swedish playwrights, Swedish novelists, Swedish poets, Writers from Stockholm

Lars Göran Ingemar Norén (9 May 1944 – 26 January 2021) was a Swedish playwright, novelist and poet. His plays are realistic. He was born in Stockholm, Sweden. Norén was director at Folkteatern in Gothenburg between 2009 and 2011.

Norén died on 26 January 2021, at the age of 76 from COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Sweden.

[[John Mortimore (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, English footballers, English football managers, Sportspeople from Hampshire

John Mortimore (23 September 1934 – 26 January 2021) was an English football player and manager.

Mortimore played as a centre half in the Football League for Chelsea. He scored 10 goals from 279 games in all competitions between 1956 and 1965 and won the 1965 Football League Cup. He also played for Queens Park Rangers.

Mortimore died on 26 January 2021, aged 86.

[[Luc Julian Matthys]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, People from Ghent, Australian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops

Luc Julian Matthys (3 May 1935 – 26 January 2021) was a Belgian-born Australian Roman Catholic bishop. Matthys was born in Drongen, Ghent, Belgium. 

He became a priest in 1961 for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Johannesburg, South Africa. He was a priest for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Melbourne, Australia, in 1976.  

He was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Armidale, Australia from 1999 to 2011.

Matthys died on 26 January 2021, aged 85.

[[Hana Maciuchová]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 1993 deaths, Czech movie actors, Czech television actors, Czech stage actors

Hana Maciuchová (29 November 1945 – 26 January 2021) was a Czech actress. She was born in Šternberk, Czechoslovakia.

Maciuchová was known for her roles in Chalupáři (1975), Prázdniny pro psa (1980), Krkonošské pohádky (1984), In the Coat of Lioness' Arms (1994), Loners (2000), Ulice (2005–2015) and Dobrá čtvrť (2008).

Maciuchová died on 26 January 2021 in Olomouc, Czech Republic at the age of 75.

[[Billy Kenoi]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2021 deaths, American mayors, Politicians from Hawaii, US Democratic Party politicians, Deaths from myelofibrosis, Cancer deaths in the United States

William P. Kenoi (November 1968 – January 26, 2021) was an American Democratic politician. Kenoi was Mayor of Hawaii County from 2008 to 2016. He was a legislative aide in the State House and State Senate. He was born in Kalapana, Hawaii.

In 2015, Kenoi was diagnosed with myelofibrosis. He died from the disease on January 26, 2021 in Honolulu at the age of 52.

[[Aminuddin Ponulele]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, People from Palu, Governors of Central Sulawesi, Indonesian politicians

Aminuddin Ponulele (5 July 1939 – 27 January 2021) was an Indonesian academic and politician who served as Governor of Central Sulawesi from 2001 to 2006. He also served as the speaker of the Central Sulawesi Provincial House of Representatives from 2009 to 2019. He also ran as a candidate for governor in the Central Sulawesi Provincial General Election in 2011.

Aminuddin died on 27 January 2021 at the age of 81.

[[Palu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indonesia

Palu is a chartered city on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi, at the mouth of the Palu River. It is the capital of the province of Central Sulawesi. 

[[Tseng Chang]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American movie actors, American television actors, Chinese movie actors, Chinese television actors, People from Beijing

Tseng Chang (18 May 1930 – 25 January 2021) was a Chinese-American actor. He was known for his roles in Xiang xi shi Wang, Yu ya gon wu and 2012. Tseng was born in Beijing. His career lasted from 1953 to 1995.

Tseng died at a hospital in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada on 25 January 2021, aged 90.

[[Markus Söder]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, German politicians, Christian Social Union of Bavaria

Markus Thomas Theodor Söder (born 5 January 1967) is a German politician. In 2018, he became Minister President of Bavaria. In 2019, he became Leader of the Christian Social Union in Bavaria (CSU).

[[Mark Milley]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American generals, People from Winchester, Massachusetts

Mark Alexander Milley (born June 18, 1958) is a United States Army general. He is the 20th chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He was the 39th Chief of Staff of the United States Army.

[[Dundalk, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Maryland, Unincorporated communities in Maryland

Dundalk (pron DUN or ˈ DUN) is an unincorporated community and census-designated place in Baltimore County, Maryland, United States. 63,597 people lived here at the 2010 census. 

[[Laura Michelle Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, English stage actors, Actors from Hampshire, English singers, English dancers

Laura Michelle Kelly (born 4 March 1981) is an English actress and singer. She played Mary Poppins in the musical of the same name. She also played Sylvia Llewelyn Davies in Finding Neverland on Broadway.

Kelly made her movie debut in 2007 as Lucy Barker in the Tim Burton 2007 movie Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street.

[[Kaja Kallas]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Current national leaders, Former MEPs, People from Tallinn, Prime Ministers of Estonia, Women politicians

Kaja Kallas (born 18 June 1977) is an Estonian politician. She is the Prime Minister of Estonia since 26 January 2021. She is the first woman to be Prime Minister. She has been the leader of the Reform Party since 2018. She has been a Member of the Riigikogu from 2011 to 2014 and since 2019.

Kallas was a Member of the European Parliament from 2014 to 2018.

[[Siim Kallas]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Estonia, European Union politicians, People from Tallinn

Siim Kallas (born 2 October 1948) is an Estonian politician. He was the European Commissioner for Transport between 2010 and 2014. Before that he was European Commissioner for Administrative Affairs, Audit and Anti-Fraud between 2004 and 2009. 

Kallas has been Prime Minister of Estonia from 2002 to 2003.

[[Estonian Centre Party]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 establishments in Europe, Liberal parties, Estonia

The Estonian Centre Party (Eesti Keskerakond) is a centrist, social-liberal, populist political party in Estonia. It is one of the two largest political parties in Estonia and currently has 26 seats in the Estonian Parliament. 

The party is a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE).

[[A for Andromeda]]

CATEGORIES: BBC television dramas, Science fiction books, Movies set in the future

A for Andromeda is a media drama written by Fred Hoyle and John Elliott for BBC television. It was originally presented in these forms:

There are book versions of the three works in English. They are listed in the usual sources, for example https://www.goodreads.com/series/69975.

Although at first sight the authors seem to have suggested the signal is connected with the galaxy Andromeda, further thought suggests that "from the direction of Andromeda" could describe a source within our own galaxy. And so the authors avoid the implication that the message would have taken 2.5 million years in arriving,  but could come from within our own galaxy.

The message might come from as close as 420 light years away.

[[Sylvirana spinulosa]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

The Spiny frog or fine-spined frog (Hylarana (Sylvirana) spinulosa) is a frog from Hainan Island in China.  Scientists have seen it as high as 840 meters above sea level.

[[South China Morning Post]]

CATEGORIES: English-language newspapers published in Asia, Hong Kong, 1903 establishments, 1900s establishments in Asia

The South China Morning Post (SCMP) is an English-language newspaper based in Hong Kong. It has a Sunday edition called the Sunday Morning Post. It is owned by Alibaba Group.

In 2016 there is a new owner for the newspaper. After that it has been alleged to be promoting China's power.

[[WeChat]]

CATEGORIES: Social networking, 2011 establishments in Asia, 2010s establishments in China

WeChat (微信) is a Chinese mobile app with many uses, such as messaging, social media and mobile payment. It is made by Tencent. It has been the world's largest app since 2018, and has over 1 billion monthly active users. It has been called China's "app for everything" because of how many uses it has.

User information from the app is shared with the Chinese Government as part of the country's mass surveillance network. WeChat censors some political topics in China. Data from accounts outside of China is watched and analyzed and used to make censorship algorithms in China.

[[Sophia Lillis]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 births, Living people, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Brooklyn

Sophia Lillis (born February 13, 2002) is an American actress. She is known for playing the character of Beverly Marsh in the horror movies It (2017) and It: Chapter Two (2019). In 2020, she received more popularity for her main role as a teenager with telekinetic abilities in the Netflix drama series I Am Not Okay with This.

[[Aram Archer]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1977 births, People from Baku, Record producers

Aram Radikovich Ananyan (Арам Радикович Ананян; 13 December 1977, Baku, USSR), better known by his stage name Aram Archer (Арам Арчер), is a Russian producer, concert director and media manager. He is the founder and general producer of the music label Archer Music Production, producer of the Russian singer and television presenter Olga Buzova.

[[Europe (anthem)]]

CATEGORIES: Kosovo, National anthems

"Europe" is the national anthem of Kosovo. is the national anthem of Kosovo. It was adopted when Kosovo declared its independence from Serbia in 2008.

[[County of Moray]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Scotland

Moray (ˈ; Moireibh ˈmɤɾʲəv), or Elginshire, is a historic county, registration county and lieutenancy area of Scotland, bordering Nairnshire to the west, Inverness-shire to the south, and Banffshire to the east.

[[Number Forms]]

CATEGORIES: Unicode blocks

Number Forms is a Unicode block. It has symbols of fractions and roman numerals. The block Latin-1 Supplement also has fraction symbols that are not in this block.

[[Morrison, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tennessee

Morrison is a town in Warren County, Tennessee, United States. 684 people lived here at the 2000 census and 694 at the 2010 census.

[[Warren County, Tennessee]]

Warren County is a county Middle Tennessee, United States. As of the 2010 census, 39,839 people lived here. Its county seat is McMinnville.

[[McMinnville, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tennessee, County seats in Tennessee

McMinnville is the largest city in and the county seat of Warren County, Tennessee, United States. 13,605 people lived here at the 2010 census. It was named for Governor Joseph McMinn.

[[Chapultepec Peace Accords]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s treaties, 1992, El Salvador

The Chapultepec Peace Accords were a set of peace agreements signed on January 16, 1992. It ended the Salvadoran Civil War. The treaty created peace between the Salvadoran government and the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front (FMLN). It was signed in Chapultepec Castle, Mexico.

The treaty was negotiated by representatives of the Salvadoran government, the rebel movement FMLN, and political parties, with observers from the Roman Catholic Church and United Nations.

[[Margitta Gummel]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, Competitors in athletics, Female athletes, German Olympic silver medalists, German Olympic gold medalists

Margitta Gummel (née Helmbold, 29 June 1941 – 26 January 2021) was a German Olympic shot putter. She competed for the Unified German team in the 1964 Summer Olympics. She also participated at the 1972 Summer Olympics. 

Gummel had a long rivalry with Nadezhda Chizhova of the Soviet Union. She won an Olympic gold medal in 1964 and a silver medal in 1972. Gummel was born in Magdeburg, Nazi Germany. She won two silver medals (1966, 1969) and a bronze medal (1971) at the European Athletics Championships.

Gummel died on 26 January 2021 in Wietmarschen, Germany at the age of 79.

[[Nadezhda Chizhova]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Competitors in athletics, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Russian sportspeople

Nadezhda Vladimirovna Chizhova (Надежда Владимировна Чижова, born 29 September 1945) is a retired Russian shot putter who won three Olympic medals and four European titles, and set seven new world records. She retired after the 1976 Olympics

[[Alan Ashcroft]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, English rugby union players

Alan Ashcroft (21 August 1930 – 26 January 2021) was an English rugby union player. He played in the Number 8 position. Ashcroft played club rugby with Waterloo FC and was a member of the British Lions team that toured in 1959. He played for the English national rugby team from 1956 to 1959.

Ashcroft died on 26 January 2021, aged 90.

[[Chedly Ayari]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Tunisian politicians, African diplomats, Economists, People from Tunis, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic

Chedly Ayari (الشاذلي العياري) (21 August 1933 – 28 January 2021) was a Tunisian politician, economist, and diplomat. He was in many cabinet positions under the Habib Bourguiba goverment. He was President of the Central Bank of Tunisia from 24 July 2012 to 16 February 2018.

Ayari was Minister of Education from 1970 to 1971. He also was Minister of Finance from 1972 to 1974. He was a member of the Socialist Destourian Party. He was born in Tunis, Tunisia.

Ayari died on 28 January 2021 from COVID-19, aged 87.

[[Héctor Fix-Zamudio]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2021 deaths, Mexican lawyers, Politicians from Mexico City, Judges, Deaths from heart failure

Héctor Fix-Zamudio (24 September 1924 – 27 January 2021) was a Mexican politician and lawyer. From 1987 to 1997, Fix-Zamudio was Judge of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.

Fix-Zamudio was born in Mexico City. He studied at the National Autonomous University of Mexico. Fix-Zamudio died of heart failure in Mexico City on 27 January 2021, aged 96.

[[Mavis Dracula]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2012, Vampires in movies

Mavis Dracula is a fictional character  in of the Hotel Transylvania movies.  She is a 118-year-old teenage vampire daughter of Dracula. She starts a romantic relationship with Johnny, a human who enters the monster hotel. In the second movie, they have a son called Dennis.

[[Efraín Ruales]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2021 deaths, Ecuadorian entertainers, Models, Movie actors, Television actors, Television personalities, Musicians, Voice actors, Murders by firearm, People from Guayaquil

Efrain Alberto Ruales Rios (31 August 1984 – 27 January 2021) was an Ecuadorian actor, television personality, model and musician. He was born in Guayaquil, Ecuador. His career started in 2002. He played Benjamin in the black comedy series Solteros sin compromiso and Eduardo in the comedy series ¡Así pasa!. Ruales also presented the variety show En contacto.

Ruales was shot and killed while leaving a gym in Guayaquil on 27 January 2021, aged 36.

[[Tupac Huallpa]]

CATEGORIES: 15th century births, 1533 deaths, Inca rulers

Tupac Huallpa (15th century – 1533) was the fourteenth Sapa Inca. He only ruled for a few months, in the year 1533, after Atahualpa, his half-brother, had been murdered. Tupac Hualpa was the last Inca ruler. He was the son of Sapa Inca Huayna Cápac. Huayana Cápac died in 1527. After that, there was a civil war between Tupac Huallpa and Huáscar, his half-brother. This war ended in 1532, with the victory of Atahualpa. Shortly aferwards Spanish troops led by Francisco Pizarro captured Huascár. Even though a large ransom was paid, Huascar was executed. Tuupac Huallpa was Huasca's younger brother. Atahualpa was executed in 1533, and the Spanish made Tupac Huallpa king of the Incas.

[[Bokeh]]

CATEGORIES: Photography

Bokeh (from the Japanese word "boke" which means "blur") is the appreciation of the blurred backgrounds seen in photography, it is also used to describe the quality of such out-of-focus backgrounds in camera lenses.

Bokeh is not a special technique but rather a natural effect caused by what photographers (people who take pictures) call a narrow depth of field, it simply means that the more light a camera lens lets in, the more blurry the background can be, distance between the subject and lens also affects bokeh, if the subject is far enough away, there will be no bokeh.

[[Ternary numeral system]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

A ternary /ˈtɜːrnəri/ numeral system (also called base 3) has three as its base. This means that you can only count with 0, 1, and 2. The first ten numbers in ternary are 00, 01, 02, 10, 11, 20, 21, 22, 100, 101. When all the digits in the number reach 2, you add a 1 in front and change everything else to 0. There is another system with the same name more specifically called the balanced ternary system. This system is called that way because 0 is the middle digit, with the other two digits being -1 and 1. That system is used in comparison logic and ternary computers. 

Similar to a bit in binary, a ternary digit is called a trit.

[[2016 Formula One World Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One seasons, 2016 in sports

The 2016 Formula One World Championship is the 67th season of the Formula One World Championship. The motor racing championship is the highest class of competition for open-wheel racing cars. German racing driver Nico Rosberg won the title. 

The Mercedes team also won the title.

Red Bull Racing and Scuderia Toro Rosso changed drivers during the season, when Red Bull driver Daniil Kvyat switched places with Toro Rosso driver Max Verstappen. Verstappen won his first race with Red Bull at the Spanish Grand Prix.

[[Upaix]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Upaix is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Central Park Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in New York City, Buildings and structures in Manhattan

Central Park Tower is the second tallest skyscraper in the United States. Construction of the tower started in 2013 and the building was completed in June 2021.

[[Consistent life ethic]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Religion

The consistent life ethic is also known as the consistent ethic of life. It opposes abortion, capital punishment, assisted suicide, euthanasia, and war. Some people who follow this are only opposed to unjust war, and some are full pacifists. The term was made popular in 1983 by Joseph Bernardin, a Catholic Cardinal. The ideology is based on all life being important, and that it should be protected by law.

[[Mehrdad Minavand]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2021 deaths, Iranian footballers, Iranian football managers, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Iran, Sportspeople from Tehran

Mehrdad Minavand (مهرداد میناوند, 30 November 1975 – 27 January 2021) was an Iranian professional footballer and coach. He played mostly as a left midfielder, but he also was a left winger or left-back.

He played for the Iran national football team and was a participant at the 1998 FIFA World Cup.

On 21 January 2021, Minavand was hospitalised in Tehran with COVID-19. Six days later, he died from the virus on 27 January, aged 45.

[[West Bountiful, Utah]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Utah

West Bountiful is a city in Davis County, Utah, United States. It is part of the Ogden–Clearfield, Utah Metropolitan Statistical Area. 5,265 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Fundamental attribution error]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Cognitive biases

In social-psychology, fundamental attribution error is the phenomenon where people judge other people and themselves in a different way. The person tends to judge other people's good behavior as them having a good personality and the person also judges other people's bad behavior as them having a bad personality. The error comes from the fact that the person judges themselves on the context or situation and not on personality. This can lead people to assume others are bad people instead of them making a mistake.

An example of this error would be if we had a person, who we will name Alice. Alice is a driver. Bob goes in front of her and Alice assumes he has bad personal qualities such as being selfish, being a bad driver, or being a jerk. However there are possible explanations that are related to context instead of personal qualities. Bob could have almost missed his flight, or his wife could be giving birth at the hospital. If she goes in front of someone else, she will likely make the opposite mistake and explain her behavior as situational instead of being a personal flaw. This is still the same error because it is an attribution (placement) that is wrong.

[[Klymene]]

CATEGORIES: Nymphs

Klymene was an Okeanid. She was one of the daughters of Okeanos and Thethys. Some people think she was Asia. With Iapetos, she had the children  Atlas, Prometheus, Epimetheus and Menoitio.

She was married to Merops, with whom she raised Phaethon. She also raised the Heliades with him. The father of the Heliades was Helios. She is sometimes called Merope, and Phaeton's father is given as Clymenus.

[[Appointment in Honduras]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s adventure movies, 1953 drama movies, American adventure movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Jacques Tourneur

Appointment in Honduras is a 1953 American adventure drama movie directed by Jacques Tourneur and starring Glenn Ford, Ann Sheridan, Zachary Scott, Jack Elam, Stanley Andrews, Rodolfo Acosta. It was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures.

[[Ella Henderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, English singer-songwriters, English pop singers, People from Lincolnshire, Living people

Gabriella Michelle "Ella" Henderson (born 12 January 1996) is an English singer-songwriter. She competed in the ninth series of The X Factor (UK). She finished in sixth place despite being a favorite to win. Her first studio album, Chapter One (2014), reached #1 in the United Kingdom. On the album were the singles "Ghost", and the top 20 singles "Glow" and "Yours".

Henderson began singing around the age of three. She taught herself to play the piano a few years later. She began putting on shows for her family. 

Henderson was born in Tetney, Lincolnshire, England.

[[Type Ia supernova]]

CATEGORIES: Supernovae

A type Ia supernova is a type of supernova that occurs in binary systems (two stars orbiting one another) in which one of the stars is a white dwarf. The other star can be anything from a giant star to an even smaller white dwarf. Physically, carbon-oxygen white dwarfs with slow rotation are limited to below 1.44 solar masses. 

Since type Ia supernovae have a known brightness they can be used as standard candles to determine the distance to a galaxy once the stretch-factor is accounted for. 

When a runaway thermonuclear explosion rips through a white dwarf star and blows the star to bits, it is called a type 1a supernova. These explosions are incredibly violent and incredibly bright, sometimes outshining entire galaxies.

Type I (especially Ia) supernova create most of the iron and nickel found in the interstellar medium. Type 1a supernovae are several times more luminous than type Ib, Ic, and type II supernovae. They leave no core remnant behind, and happen when a low-mass star's core remnant (a white dwarf) detonates.

[[Zenith Electronics]]

CATEGORIES: American technology companies, Electronics companies, 1923 establishments in the United States

Zenith Electronics is an American research and development company. It develops Advanced Television Systems Committee (ATSC) standards and digital rights management technologies. It is owned by the South Korean company LG Electronics. Zenith was earlier an American brand of consumer electronics. The company was headquartered in Glenview, Illinois. After a series of layoffs, the consolidated headquarters moved to Lincolnshire, Illinois (north of Chicago).

Zenith-branded products were sold in North America, Vietnam, Myanmar (Burma), India, Germany, Cambodia and Thailand (until 1983)

Zenith made televisions, radios and remote controls.

Zenith Electronics was founded in Chicago, Illinois.

[[2012 Dutch general election]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 elections, 2010s in the Netherlands, Elections in the Netherlands

The 2012 Dutch general election to elect the members of the House of Representatives was held on 12 September 2012.

[[Ryzen]]

CATEGORIES: Microprocessor design

Ryzen (ˈ RY) is a brand of microprocessors by Advanced Micro Devices (AMD). They are made for the entry-level, mainstream, enthusiast, server and workstation market.

[[MIL-STD-1553]]

CATEGORIES: Computer buses, Computer protocols, Military of the United States, Standards

MIL-STD-1553 is communication that happens between the parts of most US military aircraft, but is also present on other platforms. The cabling allows the parts to be connected to the network so that removing one part doesn't impact the network. Here are some of the roles of the parts on the network:

[[Acrolith]]

CATEGORIES: Sculpture, Ancient Greek and Roman statues

An acrolith is a type of sculpture or carved art. In an acrolith, the outermost parts, for example the head, hands and feet, are made of stone, and the rest is made in a different material. The different material is usually wood or something else that can wear out or rot, so it does not survive. Museums and other collectors often have only the stone parts. They are often separated from each other. Pausanias, a Greek traveller and geographer who lived during the 2nd century A.D., talked about acroliths.

[[Sylvirana annamitica]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

Sylvirana annamitica is a frog from Vietnam and Laos.  Scientists think it might also live in China.

Scientists think this might be the same frog as Sylvirana nigrovittata.

[[2017 Dutch general election]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 elections, 2010s in the Netherlands, Elections in the Netherlands

The 2017 Dutch general election to elect the members of the House of Representatives was held on 15 March 2017.

[[Bandel]]

CATEGORIES: West Bengal, Cities in India

Bandel is a town. It is in the Hooghly district of the Indian state of West Bengal. It was founded by Portuguese settlers. It is in the Chandernagore Police Commissionerate. It is a part of the area covered by Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA). Bandel is a major rail junction station of Eastern Railway zone. It is 40 km from Howrah railway station.

[[Malda Division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of West Bengal

Malda Division is a division in the Indian state of West Bengal. It consists of 4 districts:

[[Japan (disambiguation)]]

Japan is an island country in East Asia in the Northwestern Pacific Ocean.

Japan may also refer to:

[[Medinipur Division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of West Bengal

Medinipur Division is a division in the Indian state of West Bengal. It consists of 5 districts:

[[Kote Tolordava]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Georgia (country), 1979 births, 2015 deaths

Kote Tolordava (May 13, 1979 - April 11, 2015, Moscow, Russia) was Georgian film and theater actor.  Kote's first wife was actress Mariam Jologua.  From the marriage the couple has a son, Buka.

The actor married Gano Melitauri for the second time on June 8, 2007. By the time of Kote's death, the couple already had two children - Taso (2008) and Tara (2012), while Gano was pregnant to their third child.

He has played roles in the theaters of Marjanishvili and teenagers, as well as in the theater on Atoneli. He gained special popularity as Dito Sharashenidze in the TV series "My Wife's Girlfriends". In 2014, he participated in the documentary film "Who Killed Ilia" based on the documentary film made by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, where he played the role of Ilia Chavchavadze. Along with acting, she hosted the program "Gano and Kote" on Palitra TV with her wife Gano Melitauri.

[[Nippon (disambiguation)]]

Nippon is a formal way of pronouncing the native name of Japan (日本). 

Nippon may also refer to:

[[Gaziantep University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey

Gaziantep University is a Turkish university. It is in Turkey's eight largest city, Gaziantep.

[[A Springfield Summer Christmas for Christmas]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons (season 32) episodes, 2020 television episodes

"A Springfield Summer Christmas for Christmas" is the 10th episode of the 32nd season of The Simpsons. It was first shown on the Fox network on December 13, 2020. The episode was written by Jessica Conard. Timothy Bailey is the director of the episode. Ellie Kemper and Richard Kind are guest stars for the episode.

[[David Kato]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2011 deaths, Ugandan people, Murder victims, Teachers, LGBT rights activists, Assassinated people, Gay men, Deaths by beating

David Kato Kisule (1964 – 26 January 2011) was a Ugandan teacher and LGBT rights activist, considered a father of Uganda's gay rights movement and described as "Uganda's first openly gay man". He served as advocacy officer for Sexual Minorities Uganda (SMUG).

Kato was murdered at his home in 2011, shortly after winning a lawsuit against a magazine which had published his name and photograph identifying him as gay and calling for him to be executed.

[[Hurricane Fifi–Orlene]]

CATEGORIES: Category 2 Atlantic hurricanes

Hurricane Fifi (later known as Hurricane Orlene) was a catastrophic tropical cyclone that killed over 8,210 people in Honduras in September 1974 , ranking it as the third deadliest Atlantic hurricane on record, only behind Hurricane Mitch in 1998, and the 1780 hurricane.

At the time that it hit, Fifi was the worst natural disaster to ever hit Honduras. It formed off the coast of Jamaica and made landfall as a Category 2 hurricane. It then weakened significantly and became a tropical storm, and then a tropical depression. It moved into the Pacific and regained strength. Fifi was a tropical cyclone that lasted for 18 hours and was renamed Orlene. Orlene then intensified into a hurricane and reached Category 2 status. Orlene made landfall in Mexico and became extratropical over the mountains.

[[Hurricane Ione]]

CATEGORIES: Category 4 Atlantic hurricanes, Retired tropical cyclone names, Hurricanes in North Carolina, 1950s in North Carolina, 1955 in the United States, September events

Hurricane Ione was a strong, Category 4 hurricane that affected North Carolina in September 1955, bringing high winds and significant rainfall. It came on the heels of Hurricanes Connie and Diane, and compounded problems already caused by the two earlier hurricanes.

[[Paradigm shift]]

CATEGORIES: Science-related lists, Natural sciences

A paradigm shift was first called that way by Thomas Kuhn. He is a physicist and philosopher. A paradigm shift is a big change in big concepts and practices in a model, system, or scientific discipline. It can also be known as a scientific revolution. 

[[New Mexico's 2nd congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of New Mexico

New Mexico's 2nd congressional district is a congressional district in the state of New Mexico. The district is the 5th largest congressional district in the United States of America and the largest district that is not the entire state. The district is currently represented by Republican Yvette Herrell. Yvette Herrell defeated the incumbent Democrate Xochitl Torres Small in the 2020 United States House of Representatives elections. The district was one of the 15 districts who used to have a Democrat representative but now a Republican representative in the 2020 elections.

[[Texas's 32nd congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Texas

Texas's 32nd congressional district is a congressional district in the state of Texas. This district was created in 2003 after the 2000 census and Texas got two more congressional districts. The district is in northern Dallas, Texas but after redistricting in 2011-2012 it also has eastern Dallas. The district is currently represented by Democrat Colin Allred. When the district was made Republican Pete Sessions was the congressman. He was the congressman for 16 years but lost reelection to Allred.

[[Divisions of West Bengal]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of West Bengal

The Indian state of West Bengal is divided into five administrative Divisions, namely:

A group of districts forms a division, which is administered by a 'Divisional Commissioner'. West Bengal is now divided in 23 districts, grouped under five divisions:

[[Pictureland]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 movies, American romance movies, American silent movies

Pictureland is a 1911 American silent romance movie directed by Thomas H. Ince and starring King Baggot, Isabel Rea. It was a previously lost movie until it was rediscovered in 2015 in Australia.

[[Lone Chaw]]

Lone Chaw(လုံးချော) is a retired Burmese fighter and former Open Lethwei World Champion.

[[Rivière-des-Prairies, Quebec]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms of North America, Geography of Quebec

The Rivière des Prairies (pronounced de pʁɛʁi; literally River of the Prairies, sometimes called the Back River in English) is a delta channel of the Ottawa River in southwestern Quebec, Canada. The indigenous inhabitants of what's now known as the Island of Montreal called it Skowanoti, meaning "River behind the island".

[[Night and Day (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s musical movies, American biographical movies, American musical movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Michael Curtiz

Night and Day is a 1946 American biographical musical movie directed by Michael Curtiz and starring Cary Grant, Alexis Smith, Selena Royle, Henry Stephenson, Jane Wyman, Dorothy Malone, Eve Arden, Ginny Simms, Paul Cavanagh, Victor Francen, Alan Hale Sr., Donald Woods. It was distributed by Warner Bros. and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1947.

[[Alabama's 4th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Alabama

Alabama's 4th congressional district is a congressional district from the state of Alabama which elects a representative for the United States House of Representatives. The district is in the counties of Franklin, Colbert, Marion, Lamar, Fayette, Walker, Winston, Cullman, Lawrence, Marshall, Etowah, and DeKalb. The district has been represented by Republican Robert Aderholt since 1997. 

[[Robert Aderholt]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 20th-century American politicians, 21st-century American politicians, United States representatives from Alabama, People from Hayleyville, Alabama, US Republican Party politicians, Living people

Robert Aderholt (born July 22, 1965) is an American politician and the representative for Alabama's 4th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives since 1997. He is a member of the Republican Party. Aderholt used to be a judge for Haleyville, Alabama. He was also a helped for the governor of Alabama, Rob James. He won the 1996 Republican primary election and won the general election. Robert Aderholt is pro-life and wanted other politicians to stop abortion. Adlerholt also believes in gun rights. In December 2020, Alderholt joined 126 Republicans to agree to stop completing the counting of the 2020 United States presidential election. 

[[Axel Tuanzebe]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Black British sportspeople, English footballers, Manchester United F.C. players, People from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Living people

Axel Tuanzebe (born 14 November 1997) is a English football player who plays for Manchester United. He was born in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. He moved to England as a child. He has represented England in several age groups.

[[European Portuguese]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Europe, Romance languages

European Portuguese (português europeu, puɾtuˈɣez ewɾuˈpew) also known as Portuguese of Portugal (Portuguese: português de Portugal), Iberian Portuguese (Portuguese: português ibérico), Peninsular Portuguese (Portuguese: português peninsular)

is a dialect of Portuguese language spoken in Portugal.

[[Data deficient]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy, Conservation

Data deficient is a conservation status.  Scientists say a species is data deficient when there is not enough information to figure out how many of them there are and whether they are endangered.  Very often, this means that it is unclear, where the species lives, or how often it can be found.

[[Khwairakpa Erel]]

CATEGORIES: Religion, Islands of India, Assam

"Khwairakpa Erel" (ꯈ꯭ꯋꯥꯢꯔꯥꯛꯄ ꯏꯔꯦꯜ), also known as "Khwairakpa Erel Umang Lai Nongpok Ningthou Khuvam" (ꯈ꯭ꯋꯥꯢꯔꯥꯛꯄ ꯏꯔꯦꯜ ꯎꯃꯪ ꯂꯥꯢ ꯅꯣꯡꯄꯣꯛ ꯅꯤꯡꯊꯧ ꯈꯨꯚꯝ), is a sacred island, in the middle of the Barak river, in Lakhipur region of Cachar district in Assam. Formerly known as Naraindhor Baba, the island is a pilgrimage site of the people of Assam and Manipur.

The site is dedicated to the sylvan deity, "Khwairakpa", a form of "Nongpok Ningthou". Thousands of worshippers crowd the sacred site every year to seek blessings from the presiding deity.

[[Lake Berryessa]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of the United States, Bodies of water of California, Napa County, California

Lake Berryessa is an artificial lake in Napa County, California. It is the largest lake in the county. It was formed after the construction of Monticello Dam, in the 1950s. Since the 1960s, the lake has provided electricity to the North Bay area of San Francisco. When it is full, the lake covers an area of about 25 by 5. It has a maximum depth of about 84. As of 2021, the lake has the largest spillway in the world. It also became known because it is the site of one of the murders of the Zodiac Killer.

[[GameStop short squeeze]]

CATEGORIES: January 2021 events, February 2021 events, Economic history, Video games

In January 2021, a fast and large increase of GameStop stock and other assets took place on many stock exchanges. It caused major damage to hedge funds. The stock price of GameStop went up by almost 200 times from its record low, hitting a high of nearly $500 per share on January 28, 2021.

This was caused by users of the forum r/wallstreetbets on Reddit through commission-free trading apps such as Robinhood.

On January 28, Robinhood stopped the buying of GameStop and other securities. This caused many criticisms and accusations of market manipulation from politicians and businesspeople.  People who criticized Robinhood were Senator Ted Cruz, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, and Tesla CEO Elon Musk. 

Lawsuits were also filed against Robinhood in the U.S. District Courts for the Southern District of New York and the Northern District of Illinois.

[[Henry VI (plays)]]

CATEGORIES: Plays by William Shakespeare, Plays by Christopher Marlowe, Plays based on British history

Henry VI is a series of three history plays by William Shakespeare. They are set during the lifetime of King Henry VI of England. 

Henry VI, Part 1 deals with the loss of England's French territories and the politics leading up to the Wars of the Roses. Henry VI, Part 2 shows the King's inability to deal with the quarrelling  nobles, and the armed conflict which follows. Henry VI, Part 3 deals with the horrors of that conflict.

In 2016, scholars working on the New Oxford Shakespeare editions, announced that they were crediting Shakespeare's colleague and rival, Christopher Marlowe, as the co-author of the trilogy. 

[[Their First Misunderstanding]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 movies, 1910s drama movies, American drama movies, American silent movies, Short movies

Their First Misunderstanding is a 1911 American short silent drama movie directed by Thomas H. Ince (who also stars) and also starring Mary Pickford, Owen Moore, Ben Turpin.

[[Marlovian theory]]

CATEGORIES: Theater, William Shakespeare, Controversies

The Marlovian theory is an idea about who wrote Shakespeare's plays.  The Marlovian theory says that Christopher Marlowe wrote most of those poems and plays. The theory also says Marlowe did not die in Deptford on 30 May 1593.  It says his death was faked. Like William Shakespeare, Christopher Marlowe was an Elizabethan poet and playwright.  They were both born in 1564.

Marlovian theory began in the 1800s. The idea is that the Church wanted to punish Marlowe for being an atheist, so Queen Elizabeth's government helped him fake his death, leave the country and continue writing plays by pretending those plays were Shakespeare's.

One piece of the puzzle is that the play Lust's Dominion was attributed to Marlowe when it was published in 1657. The play borrows from a pamphlet published in 1599, about the death of King Philip II of Spain in 1598. Marlowe died in 1593. The attribution has been recognized as spurious (wrong) by critics and scholars for nearly two centuries.

[[Ishak Pamumbu Lambe]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Indonesian politicians

Ishak Pamumbu Lambe (February 6, 1946 – January 1, 2021) was an Indonesian Torajan Christian pastor and politician. He was a Senator in the national Regional Representative Council from 2004 to 2009. Lambe was also the former Chairman of the Toraja Church Synod Worker's Agency from 1992 to 2001.

Lambe died on January 1, 2021 at the age of 74.

[[Batik Air]]

CATEGORIES: Establishments in Indonesia, 2012 establishments in Asia, Airlines of Asia, Transport in Indonesia

Batik Air is an Indonesian scheduled airline which was founded in 2012. It made its first flight on 3 May 2013 from Jakarta to Manado and Yogyakarta.

As of September 2019, Batik Air flies more than 45 domestic and international routes, with over 350 flights daily. International destinations, including Singapore, Bangkok, Chennai, and Perth, as well as Guilin, Nanning, Kunming and Shenzhen

in China.

[[U.S. Bancorp]]

CATEGORIES: Banks of the United States

U.S. Bancorp (stylized as us bancorp) is an American bank which is headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The bank was founded in Delaware. It is the parent company of U.S. Bank National Association. It is the fifth largest bank in the United States. 

It has 3,106 locations and 4,842 automated teller machines, mainly in the Western and Midwestern United States.

[[Chico Borja]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Ecuadorian footballers, American footballers, American football managers, People from Quito

Hernan "Chico" Borja (August 24, 1959 – January 25, 2021) was an Ecuadorian–American soccer player and coach. He made eleven appearances for the U.S. national team from 1982 to 1988.

In 1984, Borja played for the U.S. Olympic soccer team at the 1984 Summer Olympics. Borja was also on the U.S. team at the 1987 Pan American Games.

Borja died on January 25, 2021 from colon cancer at the age of 61.

[[Dick Smith (third baseman)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, Pittsburgh Pirates players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Richard Harrison Smith (July 21, 1926 – January 25, 2021) was an American professional baseball player. He appeared in 70 games over parts of five Major League Baseball seasons (1951–1955) as a member of the Pittsburgh Pirates. Smith was born in Blandburg, Pennsylvania.

Smith died on January 25, 2021 in Boalsburg, Pennsylvania at the age of 94.

[[Blandburg, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Pennsylvania, Unincorporated communities in Pennsylvania

Blandburg is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Reade Township, Cambria County, Pennsylvania, United States. 402 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Georgi Ananiev]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, Bulgarian politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Bulgaria

Georgi Gervanov Ananiev (Георги Герванов Ананиев; 12 April 1950 – 26 January 2021) was a Bulgarian politician. He was Minister of Defence between 1997 and 1999. Ananiev was born in Pernik Province, Bulgaria. 

Ananiev died on 26 January 2021 of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Bulgaria, aged 70.

[[Harry Beal]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, American military people, People from Pennsylvania

Harry Beal (August 16, 1930 – January 26, 2021) was the first US Navy Seal.

[[Gert Blomé]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Swedish Olympians, Swedish ice hockey players, Olympic silver medalists

Gert Arne Blomé (28 August 1934 – 27 January 2021) was a Swedish ice hockey player. He competed at the 1960 and 1964 Winter Olympics. He won a silver medal in 1964. Blomé was born in Gävle, Sweden. 

Blomé died on 27 January 2021 in Gothenburg, Sweden at the age of 86.

[[Blas Camacho]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain

Blas Camacho Zancada (1939 – 27 January 2021) was a Spanish politician. He was born in Tomelloso, Sweden. He was a Deputy from 1977 to 1982 and 1986 to 1993. He was a member of the People's Party.

Camacho died of COVID-19 in Madrid on 27 January 2021 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain at the age of 81.

[[Adrián Campos]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from aortic dissection, Spanish sportspeople, Formula One drivers

Adrián Campos Suñer (17 June 1960 – 27 January 2021) was a Spanish Formula One driver. He participated in 21 Grands Prix. He made his first appearance on 12 April 1987. He was the founder of the Campos Meta Formula One team (later known as HRT). Campos owned Campos Racing. He was born in Alzira, Valencia. 

Campos died on 27 January 2021 in Valencia, Spain of an aortic dissection, aged 60.

[[Corky Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American photojournalists, Journalists from New York City

Young Kwok "Corky" Lee (1947 – January 27, 2021) was an American photojournalist. He was known for taking pictures of Asian American culture which not many people paid attention to. He was known for protecting and promoting Asian American history and how it should be a part of American history. Lee was born in New York City.

Mayor of New York City David Dinkins made May 5, 1988 "Corky Lee Day". Many of his photographs appeared on Downtown Express and The Villager during the 1990s and 2000s. 

Lee died on January 27, 2021 at a hospital in New York City from problems caused by COVID-19, aged 73.

[[Lai Xiaomin]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2021 deaths, Chinese businesspeople, Chinese economists, Criminals, Executed people

Lai Xiaomin (赖小民; July 8, 1962 – January 29, 2021) was a Chinese businessman and senior economist. He was party chief and chairman of the board of China Huarong Asset Management from September 2012 to April 2018. Lai was born in Ruijin, Jiangxi, China.

In January 5, 2021, Lai was sentenced to death for bribery, embezzlement, and bigamy. He was executed on January 29, 2021 at the age of 58.

[[Tochinoumi Teruyoshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Japanese sumo wrestlers

Tochinoumi Teruyoshi was a Japanese professional sumo wrestler. He was born in Aomori, Japan. He was the sport's 49th yokozuna. He won six special prizes. He was one of the lightest yokozuna ever at just 110 kg. He was a coach at Kasugano stable, and was head coach from 1990 until his retirement in 2003.

Teruyoshi died on January 29, 2021 from pneumonia at the age of 82.

[[Juan del Río Martín]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain, Spanish Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops, Roman Catholic archbishops

Juan del Río Martín (14 October 1947 – 28 January 2021) was a Spanish Roman Catholic prelate. He was the Military Archbishop of Ordinary of Spain from 2008 until his death in 2021. From 2000 to 2008, he was Bishop of Asidonia-Jerez. del Río Martín was born in Ayamonte, Spain.

del Río Martín died on 28 January 2021 from COVID-19 in Madrid, aged 73.

[[Wismoyo Arismunandar]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Indonesian people, Generals, Asian military people

Wismoyo Arismunandar (10 February 1940 – 28 January 2021) was an Indonesian high-ranking Army officer. He was Army Chief of Staff from 1993 to 1995 and Commander of Army Strategic Command from 1990 to 1993. Arismunandar was born in Bondowoso, Dutch East Indies.

Arismunandar died on 28 January 2021 in Jakarta, Indonesia at the age of 80. 

[[Ryszard Kotys]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Polish movie actors, Polish stage actors, Polish television actors

Ryszard Kotys (20 March 1932 – 28 January 2021) was a Polish actor. He appeared in more than 140 movies and television shows during his career. His career lasted from 1953 until his death. Kotys was born in Mniów, Poland. He was best known for his roles in Operacja Himmler, Shivers and Świat według Kiepskich.

Kotys died on 28 January 2021 of a long-illness in Poznań, Poland at the age of 88.

[[César Isella]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from coronary artery disease, Argentine singers, Argentine writers, Argentine musicians, Guitarists, Songwriters, Folk singers, Folk musicians

César Isella (20 October 1938 – 28 January 2021) was an Argentinian folk singer-songwriter and guitarist. He played for Los Fronterizos from 1956 to 1966. He also wrote "Canción con todos", which is thought to be the Latin American anthem. He was born in Salta, Argentina.

Isella died on 28 January 2021 in Buenos Aires from coronary artery disease, aged 82.

[[Guillermo Galeote]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain, Spanish politicians, Spanish physicians

Guillermo Galeote Jiménez (6 May 1941 – 28 January 2021) was a Spanish politician and physician. He was a member of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Galeote was born in San Sebastián, Spain. Galeote was a member of the Congress of Deputies from 1977 to 1993.

Galeote died on 28 January 2021 in Madrid from COVID-19, aged 79.

[[Maravilha, Santa Catarina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Santa Catarina

Maravilha, Santa Catarina is a city in the state of Santa Catarina in the South region of Brazil.

[[Sylvirana faber]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

Sylvirana faber is a frog.  It lives in the hills in Cambodia and Thailand.

The adult frog is 5.9 cm long.  The head is long and narrow.  There are eight vomerine teeth in its jaw.

This frog is light brown in color on the back and dark brown on the sides and eardrum.  There are stripes of dark brown on its legs.  The belly is white and the insides of the legs are pink.  There are disks for climbing on its toes.

Scientists say this frog is related to Rana nigrovittata and ''Rana mortenseni.

[[Paul J. Crutzen]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Dutch academics, Dutch chemists, Dutch Nobel Prize winners, People from Amsterdam

Anthropocene term

ChemistryPaul Jozef Crutzen (pʌul ˈjoːzəf ˈkrɵtsə(n); 3 December 1933 – 28 January 2021) was a Dutch atmospheric chemist.  He won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1995. He was known for work on the ozone layer and climate change.

Crutzen died on 28 January 2021 at the age of 87.

[[Eddie Connachan]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Scottish footballers

Edward Devlin Connachan (27 August 1935 – 28 January 2021) was a Scottish football goalkeeper. He played for Dunfermline Athletic, Middlesbrough, Falkirk, East London Celtic and the Scotland national team.

[[Donald M. Blinken]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States, Businesspeople from New York City, Politicians from New York City, US Democratic Party politicians

Donald Mayer Blinken (born November 11, 1925) is an American politician and businessman. He was born in New York City.

Blinken was director and one of the founders of E. M. Warburg Pincus & Company. He was the board chairman of the State University of New York from 1978 to 1990. He was the American Ambassador to Hungary from 1994 to 1998 during the Bill Clinton presidency. He is the father of United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken.

[[Harriet Andersson]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish stage actors, Swedish voice actors, Actors from Stockholm

Harriet Andersson (born 14 February 1932) is a Swedish actress. She is best known for appearing in many movies directed by Ingmar Bergman and eventually being his romantic partner. Andersson appeared in several of his best-known movies, including Smiles of a Summer Night (1955), Through a Glass Darkly (1961), Cries and Whispers (1972), and Fanny and Alexander (1982).

[[Nils Eklund]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish stage actors, Swedish voice actors, Actors from Stockholm

Nils Eklund (born 17 January 1927) is a Swedish actor. He has appeared in more than 50 movies and television shows since 1952. He was born in Stockholm.

Eklund appeared in Äktenskapsbrottaren (1964), Rooftree (1967), Doctor Glas (1968), The Bookseller Gave Up Bathing (1969), Pistol (1973), Peter-No-Tail (1981), Göta kanal eller Vem drog ur proppen? (1981), The Journey to Melonia (1989), Freud's Leaving Home (1991)

He voiced dubbed Charles F. Muntz in the Swedish version of the 2009 Disney movie Up.

[[Alan Blinken]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States, Politicians from New York City, Businesspeople from New York City, US Democratic Party politicians

Alan John Blinken (born 1937) is an American businessman and politician. He was the U.S. Ambassador to Belgium from 1993 to 1997 during the Bill Clinton presidency. He was born in New York City.

Blinken was also the 2002 Democratic nominee for Idaho United States Senator, losing to Larry Craig.

He is the brother of U.S. Ambassador Donald M. Blinken and the uncle of United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken.

[[Abdellatif Kechiche]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Tunisian actors, Tunisian writers, French movie directors, French movie actors, French screenwriters, People from Tunis

Abdellatif Kechiche (abdɛlatif keʃiʃ; عبد اللطيف كشيش, born 7 December 1960) is a Tunisian-French actor, movie director and screenwriter. He is known for directing the movie Blue Is the Warmest Colour, which won the Palme d'Or at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival.

[[Ruggero Deodato]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Italian movie directors, Italian movie producers, Italian screenwriters, Italian movie actors, Living people

Ruggero Deodato (born 7 May 1939) is an Italian movie director, screenwriter and actor. His best known movie is Cannibal Holocaust, thought to be one of the most controversial and brutal in the history of cinema. It has been banned or censored in many countries. He is known as "Monsieur Cannibal" in France.

Deodato has inspired many movie directors like Oliver Stone, Quentin Tarantino and Eli Roth.

[[Michael O'Donoghue]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 1994 deaths, American television writers, American editors, Journalists from New York City, Comedians from New York City, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage

Michael O'Donoghue  (January 5, 1940 – November 8, 1994) was an American writer and performer. He was known for his dark comedy and humor. He was known for his writings for National Lampoon magazine. He was the first head writer of Saturday Night Live. He was born in Sauquoit, New York.

O'Donoghue died on November 8, 1994 in New York City of an intracerebral hemorrhage, aged 54.

[[Sauquoit, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in New York

Sauquoit is a hamlet in the Town of Paris, Oneida County, New York, United States.

[[Paris, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York

Paris is a town in Oneida County, New York, United States. The town is in the southeast part of the county and is south of Utica. 4,411 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Goddess Bunny]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2021 deaths, LGBT actors, LGBT entertainers, LGBT models, Drag queens, American movie actors, Transgender and transsexual people, Actors from Santa Monica, California, Models from California, Deaths from poliomyelitis

Sandra "Sandie" Crisp; (January 13, 1960 – January 27, 2021), also known by her stage name The Goddess Bunny, was an American entertainer, drag queen, actress, and model. She was born in Santa Monica, California.

She made her acting debut as Charlean in the 1986 movie Hollywood Vice Squad. He made an appearance in the music video for "The Dope Show" by Marilyn Manson.

Crisp was a transgender woman. She was born with polio.

Crisp ran as a write-in candidate for President of the United States in the 2020 election.

Crisp died on January 27, 2021 from problems caused by polio and HIV, at age 61.

[[The Boys (2019 TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American television series debuts, American satirical television series, DC Comics

The Boys is an American satirical superhero streaming television series. It is created by Eric Kripke for Prime Video. 

It is based on the comic book of the same name by Garth Ennis and Darick Robertson, which was originally published by DC Comics. It is about vigilantes with superpowers who abuse their abilities. 

It stars Karl Urban, Jack Quaid, Laz Alonso, Tomer Capon, Karen Fukuhara, Antony Starr, Erin Moriarty, Dominique McElligott, Chace Crawford, Jessie T. Usher and Nathan Mitchell.

The series premiered on July 26, 2019.

[[Erin Moriarty (actress)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City

Erin Elair Moriarty (born June 24, 1994) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as Annie January / Starlight in the Amazon Prime Video series The Boys (2019–present).

[[Chace Crawford]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Texas, People from Lubbock, Texas

Christopher Chace Crawford (born July 18, 1985) is an American actor. He is known for his role as Nate Archibald on The CW's teen drama series Gossip Girl. In 2019, he appeared as the Deep in the Amazon Prime Video original series The Boys.

[[Afro-Jamaicans]]

CATEGORIES: African people, Ethnic groups in Jamaica

Afro-Jamaicans are Jamaicans of predominantly or majority  Sub-Saharan African descent. They presently represent the largest ethnic group in the country.

[[Ancient Manipur]]

CATEGORIES: History of Manipur

Ancient Manipur, also known as Antique Kangleipak, was an antique civilization, concentrated along the central plains of the present day Manipur, India.

The Kangla served as the foremost capital city of Ancient Manipur (Kangleipak) from the 15th century BC upto the late 19th century AD. It has its earliest evidence of monarchy right from 15th century BC, during the reign of Emperor "Tangja Leela Pakhangba" (1445 BC-1405 BC).

[[Hurricane Anna (1961)]]

CATEGORIES: Category 2 Atlantic hurricanes

Hurricane Anna hit Central America and the Windward Islands in July 1961. Anna was the first tropical cyclone and first hurricane of the 1961 hurricane season. Anna developed on July 20 from an easterly wave in the Intertropical Convergence Zone over the Windward Islands.

[[Online encyclopedia]]

CATEGORIES: Encyclopedias

An online encyclopedia, also called an internet encyclopedia, or a digital encyclopedia, is an encyclopedia accessible through the internet. Such as Wikipedia, which is an example of an encyclopedia, just online.

[[Provisional names for elements]]

The elements RUTHERFORDIUM to OGGENESSIAN had provisional "names" and "symbols". Here is a graph with all the names wanted.And a table with the rules for what some people call "number naming" (the provisional names), mad by IUPAC.

UNUNENIUM has not been discovered-but someone made it be called LIGHTINIUM (zigzag dragons).

[[Piccadilly Incident]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s drama movies, British drama movies, Movies directed by Herbert Wilcox

Piccadilly Incident is a 1946 British drama movie directed by Herbert Wilcox and starring Anna Neagle, Michael Wilding, Coral Browne, Edward Rigby, Leslie Dwyer, Brenda Bruce, Reginald Owen, Roger Moore, Michael Medwin.

[[Bengal Fan]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Bangladesh, Landforms of India

The Bengal Fan, also known as the Ganges Fan, is the largest submarine fan on Earth. The fan is about 3,000 km (1,900 mi) long, 1,430 km (890 mi) wide. It has a maximum thickness of 16.5 km (10.3 mi). The fan was formed by the erosion of the Himalayas and the Tibetan Plateau. This happened because of the collision between the Indian Plate and the Eurasian Plate. Most of the sediment in the fan comes from the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers which supply the Lower Meghna delta in Bangladesh and the Hoogly delta in India. The oldest sediments gotten from the Bengal fan are from Early Miocene age.

The fan was first discovered by bathymetric survey in the sixties by Bruce C. Heezen and Marie Tharp which identified the abyssal cone and canyon structures. It was named by Joseph Curray and David Moore in 1968.

[[One Wild Oat]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 comedy movies, British comedy movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Charles Saunders

One Wild Oat is a 1951 British comedy movie directed by Charles Saunders and was based on the play of the same name by Vernon Sylvaine. It stars Robertson Hare, Stanley Holloway, Sam Costa, Andrew Crawford, Robert Moreton, Audrey Hepburn, Roger Moore.

[[Mirkelam]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Turkish singers

Fergan Mirkelam (born 20 May 1966, Istanbul) is a Turkish singer. He first became known with his song "Her Gece" ("Every Night") in 1995.

[[Haynesville, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana

Haynesville is a small town in Claiborne Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Secret Beyond the Door...]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 movies, 1940s thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by Fritz Lang

Secret Beyond the Door... is a 1947 American thriller movie directed by Fritz Lang and starring Michael Redgrave, Joan Bennett, Marie Harmon, Anne Revere, Barbara O'Neil, Natalie Schafer, Paul Cavanagh, Anabel Shaw, James Seay, Rosa Rey. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Merryville, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana

Merryville is a small town in Beauregard Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Hurricane Gladys (1968)]]

CATEGORIES: Category 1 Atlantic hurricanes, Hurricanes in Florida, Natural disasters in Canada, 1960s in Cuba, 1960s in Canada, 1968 in the United States, October events

Hurricane Gladys was the first Atlantic hurricane to be observed each by the Hurricane Hunters, radar imagery, and photographs from space. The seventh named storm and fifth hurricane of the 1968 season, Gladys formed on October 13 in the western Caribbean from a broad disturbance related to a tropical wave.

[[Krotz Springs, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana

Krotz Springs is a small town in St. Landry Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Sunset, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana

Sunset is a small town in St. Landry Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Arnaudville, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana

Arnaudville is a small town in St. Landry and St. Martin parishes in the U.S. state of Louisiana.

[[Grand Coteau, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana

Grand Coteau is a small town in St. Landry Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Leonville, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana

Leonville is a small town in St. Landry Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Melville, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana

Melville is a small town in St. Landry Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Port Barre, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana

Port Barre is a small town in St. Landry Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Our Town (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Sam Wood

Our Town is a 1940 American romantic drama movie directed by Sam Wood and was based on the 1938 play of the same name by Thornton Wilder. It stars William Holden, Martha Scott, Fay Bainter, Beulah Bondi, Thomas Mitchell, Guy Kibbee, Stuart Erwin, Frank Craven and was nominated for 6 Academy Awards in 1941.

[[Gleðibankinn]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 songs

"Gleðibankinn" (English translation: "Bank of Fun") is a song by ICY. Singers Eiríkur Hauksson, Helga Möller and Pálmi Gunnarsson were part of the band. It was the first Icelandic entry and the first song in Icelandic at the Eurovision Song Contest, being performed at Eurovision Song Contest 1986.

The music is positive. It talks about "the bank of fun", which is said to be where people's happiness is found, and not "your empty blues". And because happiness is stored in a bank, it can be taken out at any time when someone is feeling depressed.

Before the song was submitted, all three members performed the song. Only Pálmi Gunnarsson performed the song in the Icelandic finals.

It was the sixth song to be performed, after the United Kingdom's Ryder with "Runner In The Night" and before the Netherlands' Frizzle Sizzle with "Alles heeft ritme". When voting closed, it had 19 points, placing 16th out of 20 countries.

The next song performed for Iceland was Hægt og hljótt by Halla Margrét, which was performed at Eurovision Song Contest 1987.

[[Shunning]]

CATEGORIES: Religions, Social issues, Taxation, Punishments

Shunning is the rejection of a person. It is usual in some religious groups to cut people off if they do not believe the beliefs or follow the rules of the group. It has been used in industrial action (strikes) and as a punishment in certain societies.

[[Esparron, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Esparron is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Espinasses]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Espinasses is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Jodie Comer]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English child actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Actors from Liverpool, Living people

Jodie Marie Comer (born 11 March 1993) is an English actress. 

She is best known for her role as Villanelle in the  BBC drama spy thriller Killing Eve (2018–present). She got critical acclaim and won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series and the British Academy television award for Best Actress.

Comer's other notable roles include Chloe Gemell in the E4 comedy-drama series My Mad Fat Diary (2013–2015), Kate Parks in the BBC One drama series Doctor Foster (2015–2017), Ivy Moxam in the BBC Three drama miniseries Thirteen (2016), and Elizabeth of York in the Starz historical miniseries The White Princess (2017).

[[Sylvirana maosonensis]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

The Mao-son frog or Maoson frog (Sylvirana maosonensis) is a frog from China, Laos and Vietnam.

[[Hurricane Hilda]]

CATEGORIES: Category 4 Atlantic hurricanes, Retired tropical cyclone names, Hurricanes in Louisiana, 1960s in Louisiana, 1964 in the United States

Hurricane Hilda was an intense tropical cyclone that ravaged areas of the United States Gulf Coast, particularly Louisiana. In addition to its damage inland, the hurricane greatly disrupted offshore oil production, and at its time was the costliest tropical cyclone for Louisiana's offshore oil production.

[[Kotowice, Masovian Voivodeship]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Kotowice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Brwinów, within Pruszków County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 5 west of Brwinów, 11 west of Pruszków, and 26 west of Warsaw.

The village has a population of 100.

[[Chabestan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Chabestan is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Cervières, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Cervières is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Fouillouse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Fouillouse is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Sigoyer, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Sigoyer is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Furmeyer]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Furmeyer is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Le Glaizil]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Le Glaizil is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Charkh]]

CATEGORIES: Television programs

Charkh (چرخ lit. "wheel") is an Iranian television talk show that has aired on IRIB TV4 since 2015. Each episode focuses on scientific topics and is approximately 75 minutes in length. The series airs every working day-night (six days a week).

[[Lardier-et-Valença]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Lardier-et-Valença is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Manteyer]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Manteyer is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Praise-God Barebone]]

CATEGORIES: 1590s births, 1679 deaths, Writers from London

Praise-God Barebone (or Barbon or Barbone) about 1598–1679, was an English leather-seller, and a preacher. He was influential when Oliver Cromwell ruled Britain.

His name is recalled in the Barebone's Parliament of the English Commonwealth of 1653. The Commonwealth was the political structure from 1649 to 1660. England and Wales, later with Ireland and Scotland, were governed as a republic. This was after the end of the Second English Civil War, and the trial and execution of Charles I of England.

[[Tallard]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Tallard is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Schadenfreude]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Schadenfreude comes from the German word by the same name. It literally translates to harm joy. It is the happiness that somebody gets when somebody else is hurt. Psychologists theorize that there are three causes for this emotion. Aggression, rivalry, or justice. Aggression-based schadenfreude happens because seeing someone else's group fail makes them feel better about themselves. Rivalry-based schadenfreude happens because seeing someone else fail makes them feel better about themselves. These may seem similar, but the difference is in that aggression is related to in-group and out-group identities, and rivalry is based on individuals. The last form is justice-based schadenfreude. This happens because people feel happy that someone bad is being punished. They feel good that the bad person is getting what they deserve.

[[Kitty Foyle]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Sam Wood

Kitty Foyle (also known as The Natural History of a Woman) is a 1940 American romantic drama movie directed by Sam Wood and was based on the 1939 novel of the same name by Christopher Morley. It stars Ginger Rogers, Dennis Morgan, James Craig, Gladys Cooper, Eduardo Ciannelli, Ernest Cossart, Walter Kingsford, Cecil Cunningham, Edward Fielding, Odette Myrtil and was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures. It was nominated for 5 Oscars and won an Academy Award in 1941.

[[Action in the North Atlantic]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s drama movies, American war movies, American drama movies, World War II movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Lloyd Bacon

Action in the North Atlantic (also known as Heroes Without Uniforms) is a 1943 American World War II drama movie directed by Lloyd Bacon and starring Humphrey Bogart, Raymond Massey, Ruth Gordon, Alan Hale Sr., Julie Bishop, Sam Levene, Dane Clark, Peter Whitney. It was distributed by Warner Bros. and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1944.

[[Montgardin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Montgardin is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Spillway]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A spillway is a construction to release extra water from a dam, in a way that this water does not cause damage. Each dam has a maximum capacity. Water that is more than this capacity cannot be stored, and has to be released. A spillway allows to do this in a safe way.

[[Beal Crossing, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Winn Parish, Louisiana, Unincorporated communities in Louisiana

Beal Crossing is an unincorporated community in Winn Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Nicola Stephenson]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, English child actors, English television actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, People from Oldham, Greater Manchester, Actors from Greater Manchester, People from Lancashire

Nicola Stephenson (born 5 July 1971) is an English actress. She is known for her roles as Margaret Clemence in the Channel 4 soap opera Brookside (1990–1994), Julie Fitzjohn in the BBC One medical drama series Holby City (1999–2001), Sarah Williams in the BBC One drama series The Chase (2006–2007), Allie Westbrook in the BBC One school-based drama series Waterloo Road (2014), and Tess Harris in the long-running ITV soap opera Emmerdale (2015–2016).

[[Neil Pearson]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, English television actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, Actors from London

Neil Joshua Pearson (born 27 April 1959) is a English actor. He is known for his roles as Dave Charnley in the Channel 4 comedy series Drop the Dead Donkey (1990–1998), Tony Clark in the BBC One police drama series Between the Lines (1992–1994), Michael Caddick in the BBC One drama series All the Small Things (2009), Vaughan Fitzgerald in the BBC One school-based drama series Waterloo Road (2014–2015), and Jonathan in the BBC One drama series In the Club (2014–2016). His film appearances include all three of the Bridget Jones films (2001–2016). He is also an antiquarian book dealer who specialises in the expatriate literary movement of Paris between the World Wars.

[[Lauren Drummond]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, English child actors, English television actors, Actors from Greater Manchester

Lauren Emma Drummond (born 23 December 1987) is an English actress. She is known for her roles as Mika Grainger in the BBC One school-based drama series Waterloo Road (2006–2008) and Chantelle Lane in the BBC One medical drama series Holby City (2011–2013, 2016).

[[Adam Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, English child actors, English television actors, Actors from Greater Manchester

Adam Thomas (born 11 August 1988) is an English actor, known for his roles as Donte Charles in the BBC One school-based drama series Waterloo Road from 2006 to 2009 and Adam Barton in the long-running ITV soap opera Emmerdale from 2009 to 2018.

Thomas is of British, Indian and Caribbean heritage.

[[Ryan Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English child actors, English television actors, Actors from Greater Manchester

Ryan James Thomas (born 10 June 1984) is an English actor. He is known for portraying the role of Jason Grimshaw on the long-running ITV soap opera Coronation Street from 2000 until 2016. In 2018, he played Rafael Humphreys in the long-running Australian soap opera Neighbours, and won the twenty-second and final series of Celebrity Big Brother.

Thomas is of British, Indian and Caribbean heritage.

[[I Love You, California]]

CATEGORIES: United States state songs, 20th century songs, Music in California

"I love you, California" is the state song of California.

[[Inland Empire]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the United States, Metropolitan areas of the United States, Geography of California, San Bernardino County, California, Riverside County, California

The Inland Empire is a metropolitan area and region in Southern California, inland of and adjacent to Los Angeles. The combined land area of the Inland Empire is larger than ten U.S. states – West Virginia, Maryland, Hawaii, Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Connecticut, Delaware and Rhode Island.

At the end of the nineteenth century, the Inland Empire was a major center of agriculture, including citrus, dairy, and winemaking. Agriculture declined in the twentieth century. Since the 1970s a rapidly growing population came in search of affordable housing. This led to more residential, industrial, and commercial development. The area has a population of about four million.

[[San Bernardino Valley]]

CATEGORIES: Valleys of California, San Bernardino County, California

The San Bernardino Valley (Valle de San Bernardino) is a valley in Southern California.

[[History of California]]

CATEGORIES: History of California

The first inhabitants of California were Native Americans. Spaniards colonized the state. The state used to be apart of the country Mexico.

[[Kaho Naa... Pyaar Hai]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 movies, 2000s romance movies, 2000s thriller movies, Hindi-language movies, Indian movies, 2000s musical movies, Movies directed by Rakesh Roshan

Kaho Naa... Pyaar Hai (Say It... You're In Love) is a 2000 Indian Hindi-language musical romantic thriller movie. The movie was directed by Rakesh Roshan. This film stars his son Hrithik Roshan and Ameesha Patel in both of their debuts.

Kaho Naa... Pyaar Hai released on January 14, 2000 and it received positive reviews and became a blockbuster at the box office. It was also the most successful Bollywood film of the year 2000. As a result, this movie made Hrithik become famous and an overnight superstar. His victorious debut was dubbed as "Hrithik Mania"  and he has been known as the Millenial Superstar ever since this film got released.

[[List of companies of Kolkata]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of India, Lists, Kolkata

This list includes notable companies with primary headquarters in Kolkata. The industry and sector follow the Industry Classification Benchmark. Companies that no longer exist are included and noted as defunct.

[[Sophie (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, 2021 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, British DJs, British record producers, LGBT singers, LGBT songwriters, Musicians from Glasgow, Scottish LGBT people, Scottish singer-songwriters, Transgender and transsexual people

Sophie Xeon (born 17 September 1986 – 30 January 2021) was a Scottish musician, record producer, singer, songwriter and DJ. Her music style was a "hyperkinetic" take on pop. Her notable singles include "Bipp" (2013) and "Lemonade" (2014).

Sophie was born in Glasgow. She was a trans woman. On 30 January 2021, she died after falling in Athens, Greece. She was 34. Her death is believed to have been an accident.

[[Irene (1940 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Herbert Wilcox

Irene is a 1940 American musical movie directed by Herbert Wilcox and was based on the 1919 musical of the same name by James Montgomery. It stars Anna Neagle, Ray Milland, Roland Young, Alan Marshal, May Robson, Billie Burke, Arthur Treacher, Marsha Hunt, Isabel Jewell and was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1941.

[[Kunal Khosla]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Indian actors, 1995 births

Kunal Khosla (born 15 January 1995) is an Indian television actor. He is best known for playing the role of as Adult Aryan Rathi (Chotu) in the Star Plus series Diya Aur Baati Hum.

[[Diya Aur Baati Hum]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 Indian television series debuts

Diya Aur Baati Hum (We are the lamp and the wick) is an Indian television soap opera that aired on Star Plus from 29 August 2011 to 10 September 2016 completing 1,487 episodes. Produced under Shashi Sumeet Productions, it starred Anas Rashid and Deepika Singh.

Set against the backdrop of Pushkar, Rajasthan, Diya Aur Baati Hum focused at breaking the stereotypical image of women in rural India, by showing the inspirational journey of Sandhya Rathi  (Deepika Singh G.) whose ambition is to become an IPS officer, achieves it with the help of her husband Sooraj (Anas Rashid) by going against all odds.

A sequel series, Tu Sooraj Main, Saanjh Piyaji starring Rhea Sharma and Avinesh Rekhi began airing on 3 April 2017 and ended on 1 June 2018.

[[Richard Lee McNair]]

CATEGORIES: Criminals

Richard Lee McNair (born December 19, 1958) is an American criminal. He escaped from prison many times, but was taken back after he was spotted by a police officer in a very expensive van with homemade tinted windows.

[[Subtext]]

CATEGORIES: Literary terms, Fiction

Subtext is what is not said, but implied or suggested. It is something understood by the reader, watcher, or listener. of the work. 

Subtext suggests controversial subjects without being too obvious. This is especially true in comedy, but it is also common in science fiction. It can be easier and safer to make social critiques if it is set in another time and place.

Subtext is meaning hidden "under" ("sub")  the actual dialog or text. To understand subtext the audience must "read between the lines" and infer meaning.

[[Bahrum Daido]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2021 deaths, Indonesian politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Indonesia

Bahrum Daido (30 September 1964 – 2 January 2021) was an Indonesian politician. He was a member of People's Representative Council from 2009 to 2019. Daido was member of Democrat Party. He was born in Palopo, South Sulawesi.

Daido died on 2 January 2021 from problems caused by COVID-19 in Jakarta, aged 56.

[[Ben Nsibandze]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Prime Ministers of Swaziland

Benjamin Mshamndane Nsibandze (17 June 1931 – 13 January 2021) was a Swazi politician. He was Deputy Prime Minister. He was acting Prime Minister of Swaziland from 25 October 1979 to 23 November 1979.

Nsibandze died on 13 January 2021 at the age of 89.

[[Giles Constable]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, British historians, Writers from London

Giles Constable (1 June 1929 – 17 January 2021) was a British historian of the Middle Ages. He was mainly interested in the religion and culture of the 11th and 12th centuries. He mainly focused abbey of Cluny and its abbot Peter the Venerable. Constable was born in London. 

Constable died on 17 January 2021 in Princeton, New Jersey at the age of 91.

[[Alan J. Hoffman]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2021 deaths, American mathematicians, Scientists from New York City

Alan Jerome Hoffman (May 30, 1924 – January 18, 2021) was an American mathematician. He was the founding editor of the journal Linear Algebra and its Applications. He helped create the Hoffman–Singleton graph.

Hoffman died on January 18, 2021 at the age of 96.

[[Harold Widom]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, American mathematicians, Scientists from Newark, New Jersey

Harold Widom (September 23, 1932 – January 20, 2021) was an American mathematician. He was best known for his works to operator theory and random matrices. He was appointed to the Department of Mathematics at the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1968 and became professor emeritus in 1994. He was born in Newark, New Jersey.

In 2006, Widom became a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

Widom died on January 20, 2021 at the age of 88.

[[Mont-Dauphin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Mont-Dauphin is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

It is known for the Fortress of Mont-Dauphin. The fortress was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2008.

[[Eygliers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Eygliers is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Marie Harmon]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, Deaths from natural causes in the United States, Businesspeople from Illinois, Actors from Illinois, People from Oak Park, Illinois

Marie Harmon (October 21, 1923 – January 25, 2021) was an American actress and businesswoman. She worked mainly in the 1940s during the Golden Age of Hollywood. She was best known for her lead role in the 1946 American Western movie The El Paso Kid. Her first movie role was in the 1943 movie Hers to Hold. Harmon was born in Oak Park, Illinois.

Harmon died in Los Angeles on January 25, 2021 of natural causes at the age of 97.

[[La Faurie]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

La Faurie is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[La Fare-en-Champsaur]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

La Fare-en-Champsaur is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Windows Phone 8.1]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft operating systems

Windows Phone 8.1 is the first release for Windows Phone was released in winter 2013, Microsoft reach developed for Windows Phone 8.1 in the most for Windows 8.1, was released for public on July 15, 2014, after the end of support was until July 11, 2017. Microsoft until no support for security updates for Windows Phone 8.1, they have released in 2014, also Windows Phone 8.1 can upgrade to Windows 10 Mobile, by USB cable computer for Windows 10 Update.

[[Stephan P. Mickle]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, American lawyers, American judges, Politicians from New York City, US Democratic Party politicians

Stephan P. Mickle (June 18, 1944 – January 26, 2021) was an American politician and lawyer. He was the Judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida from 1998 until his death. He was chief justice of the court from 2009 to 2011. Mickle was nominated to the court by President Bill Clinton. Mickle was born in New York City.

Mickle died on January 26, 2021 in Gainesville, Florida at the age of 76.

[[Flavio Alfaro]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, American Olympic silver medalists, American basketball players, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California

Flavio Roman Alfaro (October 26, 1961spndJanuary 27, 2021) was an American baseball shortstop and second baseman. He played one season of Minor League Baseball.  He was known for being a member of the U.S. baseball team at the 1984 Summer Olympics that won a silver medal. Alfaro was born in Los Angeles.

Alfaro died on January 27, 2021 from pancreatic cancer, aged 59.

[[Avançon, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Avançon is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Théus]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Théus is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Carmen Vázquez]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Puerto Rican people, American LGBT rights activists, Writers from New York City

[[Miguel Celdrán]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish politicians

Miguel Ángel Celdrán Matute (4 March 1940 – 28 January 2021) was a Spanish politician. He was a member of the People's Party. Celdrán was born in Badajoz, Spain. He was a member of the Senate of Spain in 2000 and again from 2004 to 2007.

Celdrán died on 28 January 2021 in Badajoz at the age of 80.

[[Kathleen Ann Goonan]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from bone cancer, Cancer deaths in the United States, American novelists, American science fiction writers, Writers from Cincinnati, Ohio

Kathleen Ann Goonan (May 14, 1952 – January 28, 2021)  was an American science fiction writer. 

Many of her books have been nominated for the Nebula Award.  Her first novel Queen City Jazz was a New York Times Notable Book of the Year. Her novel In War Times was chosen by the American Library Association as Best Science Fiction Novel in 2008. Goonan was born in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Goonan died on January 28, 2021 from bone cancer, aged 68.

[[Wang Shouguan]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, Chinese politicians, Chinese scientists, Astronomers

Wang Shouguan (王绶琯; 15 January 1923 – 28 January 2021) was a Chinese astronomer. He was President of the Chinese Astronomical Society. He was known as one of the founders of modern astrophysics and radio astronomy in China. He was a delegate to the National People's Congress from 1977 to 1994. In 1980, he became a member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Wang was born in Fuzhou, China.

Wang died on 28 January 2021 in Beijing, aged 98.

[[Fuzhou]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Fuzhou or Foochow is the capital and one of the largest cities in Fujian province, China.

[[Meshulam Dovid Soloveitchik]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2021 deaths, Israeli rabbis, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Israel, Belarusian people

Meshulam Dovid Soloveitchik (October 21, 1921 – January 31, 2021) (משולם דוד סולובייצ'יק), also known as Reb Dovid or Rav Dovid; was a Haredi rabbi and rosh yeshiva of one of the branches of the Brisk yeshivas from 1959 until his death. He was born in Brest, Belarus. 

Soloveitchik died on January 31, 2021 from COVID-19 in Jerusalem, aged 99.

[[Beatriz Barba]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Mexican anthropologists, Archaeologists, Academics, Scientists from Mexico City

Beatriz Barba Ahuactzin (16 September 1928 – 29 January 2021) was a Mexican academic, anthropologist and archaeologist. She was a member of the National System of Researchers from 1985. She was a member of the Mexican Academy of Sciences. 

Barba died on 29 January 2021, aged 92.

[[Mexican Academy of Sciences]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s establishments in Mexico, 1959 establishments in North America, National academies of sciences, Buildings and structures in Mexico City

The Mexican Academy of Sciences (Academia Mexicana de Ciencias) is a non-profit organization made-up of over 1,800 Mexican scientists. It is in Mexico City. 

[[John Chaney (basketball, born 1932)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, African-American basketball players, College basketball coaches, Sportspeople from Jacksonville, Florida, American basketball players

John Chaney (January 21, 1932 – January 29, 2021) was an American college basketball coach. He was best known for his coaching at Temple University from 1982 through 2006. He was honored into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2001 and the National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame in 2006. Chaney was born in Jacksonville, Florida.

Chaney died on January 29, 2021, at the age of 89 after a short-illness.

[[Temple University]]

CATEGORIES: 1880s establishments in Pennsylvania, 1884 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in Pennsylvania, Buildings and structures in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Temple University (Temple or TU) is a state-related public research university in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was founded in 1884 by the Baptist minister Russell Conwell. 

On May 12, 1888, it was renamed the Temple College of Philadelphia. In 1907, it became a research university.

[[Yvon Douis]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in France, French footballers

Yvon Douis (16 May 1935 – 28 January 2021) was a French international footballer. He played as a striker. Douis was born in Les Andelys, France. During his career he played for Lille OSC, Le Havre AC, AS Monaco and AS Cannes. He made twenty appearances for the France national football team between 1957 and 1965.

Douis died of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in France in Nice, aged 85.

[[Grady Gaines]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, American saxophonists, American blues musicians, Musicians from Houston, Texas

Grady Gaines (May 14, 1934 – January 29, 2021) was an American electric and jazz blues tenor saxophonist. He performed and recorded with Little Richard in the 1950s. He played with other musicians such as Dee Clark, Little Willie John, Sam Cooke, James Brown, Jackie Wilson, and Joe Tex. He released three albums.

Gaines died on January 29, 2021 in Houston at the age of 86.

[[Aminul Islam (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: Movie editors, musicians, 1939 births, Living people, Bangladeshi people

Aminul Islam is a Bangladeshi movie editor and musician. 

[[Roy Gaines]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, American blues musicians, American guitarists, American blues singers, Musicians from Texas, Singer-songwriters from Texas

Roy James Gaines (August 12, 1934 – August 11, 2021) was an American Texas blues and electric blues guitarist and singer-songwriter. He wrote and recorded the song "A Hell of a Night" in 1982. He was the younger brother of the blues musician Grady Gaines.

Gaines died on August 11, 2021, a day before his 84th birthday.

[[Waskom, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Waskom is a city in the U.S. state of Texas with 1,887 people living here in 2018. It is located in Harrison County, Texas in the United States. It is about 19 east of the county seat, Marshall. 

[[Hilton Valentine]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, English guitarists, English songwriters, People from Northumberland

Hilton Stewart Paterson Valentine (21 May 1943spnd29 January 2021) was an English musician and songwriter. He was the original guitarist in The Animals. He was born in North Shields, Northumberland. In 1994, he was added into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. 

Valentine died on 29 January 2021 in Connecticut, aged 77.

[[József Csatári]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Olympic bronze medalists, Wrestlers, Sportspeople from Budapest

József Csatári (17 December 1943 – 30 January 2021) was a Hungarian wrestler. He was born in Budapest. He was Olympic bronze medalist in Freestyle wrestling in 1968 and in 1972. He won a silver medal at the 1970 World Wrestling Championships. 

Csatári died on 30 January 2021 at the age of 77.

[[Wilhelm Knabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, German scientists, Ecologists, Environmentalists, German politicians of Alliance '90/The Greens, Politicians from Saxony

Wilhelm Knabe (8 October 1923 – 30 January 2021) was a German ecologist and politician. He was a co-founder of the Green Party in Germany. Knabe was a Member of the Bundestag from 1987 until 1990. He was vice mayor of the city of Mülheim from 1994 to 1999. Knabe was born in Arnsdorf, Saxony.

Knabe died on 30 January 2021, aged 97.

[[Alfreda Markowska]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, Polish people, Activists, Holocaust survivors, Roma

Alfreda Noncia Markowska (May 10, 1926 – January 30, 2021) was from Poland and belonged to the Romani people activist and Holocaust survivor. During World War II, she saved about fifty Jewish and Roma children from death in the Holocaust and the Porajmos genocide. She was born in Stanisławów, Poland. 

In October 2006, Alfreda Markowska was awarded the Commander's Cross with Star of the Order of Polonia Restituta for saving Jewish and Roma children during World War II. Then-President of Poland Lech Kaczyński thanked her for her "heroism and uncommon bravery, for exceptional merit in saving human lives".

Markowska died on 30 January 2021, at the age of 94.

[[Pantelei Sandulache]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2021 deaths, Moldovan politicians

Pantelei Sandulache (1956 – 30 January 2021) was a Moldovan politician. He was a Member of Parliament between 1990 and 1994.

Sandulache died on 30 January 2021, aged 64.

[[Turki bin Nasser Al Saud]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, Saudi Arabian businesspeople, Princes and princesses, Generals, People from Riyadh

Turki bin Nasser Al Saud (14 April 1948 – 30 January 2021) was a Saudi prince, businessman and military officer. He was the head of the presidency of meteorology and environment in Saudi Arabia and a member of House of Saud. He was born in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Prince Turki began to serve as deputy commander at the Royal Saudi Air Force in 1996 and became a commander with the rank of general at the Force.

In November 2017, Saud was arrested in a corruption.

Turki bin Nasser died on 30 January 2021 in Riyadh, aged 72.

[[Alla Yoshpe]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Soviet singers, Russian singers, Pop singers, Entertainers from Moscow

Alla Yakovlevna Ioshpe (Yoshpe) (А́лла Я́ковлевна Ио́шпе (Йо́шпе); 13 June 1937 – 30 January 2021) was a Soviet-Russian pop singer. She was honored with a People's Artist of the Russian Federation in 2002. She was born in Moscow. In 1960, at a university event, she met Stakhan Rakhimov. They formed a pop duo.

Yoshpe died on 30 January 2021 in Moscow, aged 83.

[[Stahan Rakhimov]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Soviet singers, Russian singers, Uzbekistani people, Pop singers

Stahan Mamadzhanovich Rakhimov (Staxan Rahimov, Стаха́н Мамаджа́нович Рахи́мов; born in December 17, 1937) is a Soviet Uzbek and Russian singer. He was honored with the People's Artist of Russia in 2002. He was born in Andijan, Uzbekistan. He is known for forming a pop duo with singer Alla Yoshpe. 

[[Michel Murr]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Lebanon, Lebanese politicians, Business people

Michel Murr (ميشال المرّ, 29 September 1932 – 31 January 2021) was a Lebanese politician and businessman. He was born in Metn, Greater Lebanon. From 1990 to 2000, Murr was the Ministry of Interior and Municipalitie during the Elias Hrawi and Émile Lahoud presidencies.

Murr died in Beirut from COVID-19 on 31 January 2021, aged 88.

[[Elias Hrawi]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2006 deaths, Presidents of Lebanon, Business people, Lawyers, Deaths from cancer

Elias Hrawi (الياس الهراوي, 4 September 1926 – 7 July 2006) was a Lebanese politician. He was the President of Lebanon from 1989 to 1998.

Hrawi died of cancer at the American University Hospital in Beirut on 7 July 2006, aged 79.

[[Andrej Hryc]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, People from Bratislava, Movie actors

Andrej Hryc (30 November 1949 – 31 January 2021) was a Slovak actor. He appeared in more than fifty movies from 1976 until his death. He was born in Bratislava, Slovakia. He was known for his roles in Rivers of Babylon, Habermann, Příběh kmotra and Colette.

Hryc died on 31 January 2021 in Bratislava from leukaemia, aged 71.

[[René Moawad]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1989 deaths, Presidents of Lebanon, Lawyers, Assassinated people

René Moawad (رينيه معوض; 17 April 1925 – 22 November 1989) was a Lebanese politician. He was elected as the 13th President of the Lebanese Republic for 18 days in 1989, from the 5th to 22nd of November; before his assassination by unknown people.

[[Jollibee]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in the Philippines, 1978 establishments in Asia, Fast food, Companies of the Philippines

Jollibee is a fast-food chain brand in the Philippines. Jollibee has over 1,200 branches around the world. The restaurant mainly sells fried chicken and hamburgers. The company has 270 international branches in the United States, Canada, Hong Kong, Macau, Brunei, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait, Bahrain, Italy, and the United Kingdom. Jollibee is also the name of the mascot of the brand, who is a red bee.

[[Le Bersac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Le Bersac is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Savournon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Savournon is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Le Saix]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Le Saix is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Saint-Sauveur, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Saint-Sauveur is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Alabama's 5th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Alabama

Alabama's 5th congressional district is a U.S. congressional district in the state of Alabama. The people who live in the district elects a person to represent the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district has the counties of Lauderdale, Limestone, Madison, Morgan and most of Jackson. The congressional district has been represented by Republican Mo Brooks since 2010. Brooks was elected in 2010 when he defeated Parker Griffith who was a Democrat but changed to Republican.

[[The Red Shoes (1948 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s drama movies, British musical movies, British drama movies, Movies directed by Michael Powell, Movies directed by Emeric Pressburger

The Red Shoes is a 1948 British musical drama movie directed by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger and was based on the fairy tale of the same name by Hans Christian Andersen. It stars Anton Walbrook, Marius Goring, Moira Shearer, Robert Helpmann, Léonide Massine, Esmond Knight, Austin Trevor, Irene Browne and was distributed by General Film Distributors. It won 2 Academy Awards and was nominated for 3 others in 1949.

[[Dissociation (psychology)]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Dissociation in psychology is an experience that involves a detachment/separation from reality. It is different from psychosis, psychosis is a loss of reality. It can describe many things. The mildest form of it involves things such as daydreaming. A less mild form of it involves altered states of consciousness. This is non-pathological, meaning it is not considered a disorder or mental illness. These forms are often a coping mechanism or defense mechanism. This means that they protect against stress.

When it becomes disruptive in a person's life, it becomes a mental illness. These mental illnesses are known as dissociative disorders. These include dissociative fugue, depersonalization-derealization disorder (DPDR), and dissociative identity disorder. They can be triggered by trauma, stress, drugs, or no known reason. Sometimes other mental illnesses can involve dissociation. These include acute stress disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and borderline personality disorder.

[[Tennessee's 4th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Tennessee

The 4th congressional district of Tennessee is a congressional district in the state of Tennessee. The district is represented by Republican Scott DesJarlais since 2011. The district is in southern Tennessee and has the counties of, Bedford, Bledsoe, Franklin, Grundy, Lincoln, Marion, Marshall, Meigs, Moore, Rhea, Rutherford, Sequatchie, and Warren. It also contains significant portions of Bradley, Maury, and Van Buren. 

[[Darío Ripoll]]

Darío Ripoll Herrera (San Pedro Garza García; May 16 of 1970) is a actor  Mexican of  cinema, theater and television known as Luis SanRomán in the series  Neighbors and the portrayed as Cardenas in Because love commands.

[[Romance on the High Seas]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s comedy movies, American musical comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Michael Curtiz

Romance on the High Seas is a 1948 American romantic musical comedy movie directed by Michael Curtiz and starring Jack Carson, Janis Page, Don DeFore, Doris Day, Oscar Levant, Fortunio Bonanova, Eric Blore, Leslie Brooks. It was distributed by Warner Bros. and was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1949.

[[Blondie of the Follies]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 movies, 1930s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Edmund Goulding, MGM movies

Blondie of the Follies is a 1932 American comedy movie directed by Edmund Goulding and starring Marion Davies, Robert Montgomery, Billie Dove. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. 

[[Flóahreppur]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Iceland

Flóahreppur is a municipality in southern Iceland. It is part of the Southern Region. In 2019, 667 people lived there. 

[[Sabadell]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Sabadell is a municipality of 213,644 people (2019). It is found in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Tomaszów Mazowiecki]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Poland

Tomaszów Mazowiecki is a town in Łódź Voivodeship in Poland. In 2019, 61,960 people lived there.

[[Fomalhaut b]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy

Formalhaut b is an object in the vicinity of the star Formalhaut, about 25 light years away. The object was first postulated in 2008. In 2012, it could be observed for the first time. The nature of the object is unknown. While it was first thought to be an exoplanet, the opinion in 2021 is that it might be a dust cloud.

[[The Pirate]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Vincente Minnelli

italictitleThe Pirate is a 1948 American musical movie directed by Vincente Minnelli and was based on the 1942 play of the same name by S. N. Behrman. It stars Judy Garland, Gene Kelly, Walter Slezak, Gladys Cooper, Reginald Owen, George Zucco, Lester Allen, Lola Albright and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1949.

[[The Emperor Waltz]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies directed by Billy Wilder

The Emperor Waltz is a 1948 American musical movie directed by Billy Wilder and starring Bing Crosby, Joan Fontaine, Roland Culver, Lucile Watson, Richard Haydn, Sig Ruman. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures and was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1949.

[[Serial rapist]]

CATEGORIES: Rapists

A serial rapist is a person that commits several rapes. Some people rape different people, others rape the same person over and over again. 

[[Horseshoe Theory]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Philosophical concepts

Horseshoe Theory is an idea in political science. It says the Far-right is more similar to the Far-left than to the center-right and the Far-left is more similar to the Far-right than it is to the centre-left. Horseshoe Theory is often used as argument for the centrism.

The name Horseshoe Theory comes from the idea that politics is not a straight line from left to right but bent like a horseshoe so that the two ends (the far-left and the far-right) share more similarities with each other than compared to the middle (centrism).

Philosopher Jean-Pierre Faye invented Horseshoe Theory after seeing the Nazis (far right) and Soviets (far left) invade Poland near the beginning of World War II.

[[Haane Manahi]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1986 deaths, New Zealand Māori people, Military personnel of World War II

Haane Te Rauawa Manahi, DCM (28 September 1913 – 29 Marh 1986) was a Māori soldier from New Zealand. He fought in the Second World War. People wanted him to have the Victoria Cross (VC) for his work in the Tunisia campaign. He got the Distinguished Conduct Medal (DCM), which is lower than the VC. This made other soliders ask for Manahi's work to be more known. In 2007, he was given an award of an altar cloth, a sword to celebrate his work, and a letter from Queen Elizabeth II.

Manahi was born in Ohinemutu, New Zealand. He worked as a labourer (jobs that use manual labour). In November 1939, he joined the Māori Battalion. In 1941, he was part of the Battle of Greece and fought in the Battle of Crete. He was wounded in the Battle of Crete. After he was better, he fought in the Western Desert and the Tunisian campaign. Some people wanted him to get a VC because of his work at Takrouna. However, he was given a DCM in April 1943.

In June 1943, he came back to New Zealand after being gone for 3 months. He did not have to come back to the Māori Battalion if he did not want to. He was given a job as an inspector of traffic in 1946. He died in a traffic collision in 1986. After he died, a committee wanted the New Zealand Government to give him an award. This did not happen because the end of the Second World War was too long ago.

[[Austrian Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Austrian Canadians (Österreichischekanadier, ˈøːstɐʁaɪ̯çɪʃəkaˌnaːdi̯ɐ) are Canadian citizens who are of Austrian ancestry  or Austrian-born people who reside in Canada. According to the 2016 Census there were 207,050 Canadians who claimed either full or partial Austrian ancestry.

Austrian Canadian communities can be found throughout the country but with a higher number mainly in Western Canada.

[[2021 Myanmar coup d'état]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 in Asia, February 2021 events, Coups d'état, History of Myanmar, March 2021 events, April 2021 events

On 1 February 2021, there was a coup d'état in Myanmar. Important leaders including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint were detained as the military (Tatmadaw) took control of the government.

[[The Sea Hawk (1940 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s adventure movies, American adventure movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Michael Curtiz

The Sea Hawk is a 1940 American adventure movie directed by Michael Curtiz and starring Errol Flynn, Brenda Marshall, Claude Rains, Donald Crisp, Flora Robson, Henry Daniell, Una O'Connor, Montagu Love, Julien Mitchell, William Lundigan, Ellis Irving, Francis McDonald, Ian Keith, Alec Craig. It was distributed by Warner Bros and was nominated for 4 Academy Awards in 1941.

[[National Foundation Day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, Japanese culture

National Foundation Day (建国記念の日, Kenkoku Kinen no Hi) is a national holiday in Japan celebrated annually on 11 February. It celebrates the legendary foundation of Japan, and the accession of its first emperor, Emperor Jimmu, at Kashihara gū.

[[Arise, My Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Mitchell Leisen

Arise, My Love is a 1940 American romantic comedy movie directed by Mitchell Leisen and was based on the true story of Harold Edward Dahl. It stars Claudette Colbert, Ray Millard, Dennis O'Keefe, Walter Abel, Dick Purcell, George Zucco, Frank Puglia, Esther Dale, Aubrey Mather, Cliff Nazarro and was distributed by Paramount Pictures. It won an Academy Award in 1941 and was nominated for 3 others.

[[Waterloo Bridge (1940 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Mervyn LeRoy

Waterloo Bridge is a 1940 American drama movie directed by Mervyn LeRoy and is the second adaption of the 1930 play of the same name by Robert E. Sherwood. It stars Vivien Leigh, Robert Taylor, Virginia Field, C. Aubrey Smith, Janet Waldo, Steffi Duna, Lucile Watson and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1941.

[[Lincoln Aviator]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2020s automobiles, Lincoln automobiles, Sport utility vehicles

The Lincoln Aviator is a luxury three-row middle-sized sport utility vehicle. It was first manufactured from 2003 to 2005. The Aviator is based on the Ford Explorer. 

For the 2020 model year, the Aviator is a five-door crossover SUV.

The 2020 and beyond Aviator is made in Chicago, Illinois.

[[Lincoln MKX]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, 2020s automobiles, Lincoln automobiles, Sport utility vehicles

The Lincoln MKX, also called Lincoln Nautilus, is a middle-sized sport utility vehicle. It is sold and marketed under the Lincoln division of the Ford Motor Company. The MKX is a five-door crossover.

The first generation MKX was produced from 2007–2015. The second generation is in production.

Lincoln is phasing out its use of "MK" model names. Lincoln MKX adopted the Nautilus name.

[[Hit Parade of 1941]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s comedy movies, American musical comedy movies, Movies directed by John H. Auer

Hit Parade of 1941 is a 1940 American musical comedy movie directed by John H. Auer and starring Kenny Baker, Frances Langford, Hugh Herbert, Ann Miller, Patsy Kelly, Mary Boland. It was distributed by Republic Pictures and was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1941.

[[Myint Swe]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Generals, Presidents of Myanmar, Vice presidents

Myint Swe  (မြင့်ဆွေ; mjɪ̰ɰ̃ sʰwè; born 24 June 1951) is a Burmese politician. He is the Acting President of Myanmar (Burma). He is also the 3rd First Vice President of Myanmar. He was Acting President of Myanmar after the resignation of President Htin Kyaw on 21 March 2018. 

Swe was declared acting president after the coup d'état on 1 February 2021 and transferred power to Min Aung Hlaing.

[[Min Aung Hlaing]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Generals, Current national leaders, Dictators, Prime Ministers of Myanmar

Min Aung Hlaing (မင်းအောင်လှိုင်; born 3 July 1956) is a Burmese army general. He is the 13th Prime Minister of Myanmar since 2021. He is also the Chairman of the State Administration Council since 2 February 2021. He has been accused of corruption many times during his military career.

In February 2021, he removed the elected government led by de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi from power in a coup d'état on 1 February 2021.

He was Joint Chief of Staff of the Ministry of Defence from 2010 to 2011. He is also a member of the National Defence and Security Council (NDSC) chaired by the president of Myanmar. He was promoted to four-star General in 2011 and five-star General in 2013.

[[Constitutional Tribunal (Poland)]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Poland, 1982 establishments in Europe, Politics of Poland

The Constitutional Tribunal (Trybunał Konstytucyjny) is the constitutional court of the Republic of Poland. It is a judicial body create to solve issues on the constitution of the country. It was created on 26 March 1982 and judges took office on 1 January 1986.

[[Robinhood (company)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s establishments in California, 2013 establishments in the United States, Finance, Companies based in California, Menlo Park, California

Robinhood Markets, Inc. is an American financial services company headquartered in Menlo Park, California. Robinhood is a FINRA-regulated broker-dealer. It is a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.

As of 2020, Robinhood had 13 million users.

[[General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam]]

CATEGORIES: General Secretaries of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam

The General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam (Tổng Bí thư Ban Chấp hành Trung ương Đảng Cộng sản Việt Nam), known as First Secretary (Bí thư Thứ nhất) from 1951 to 1976, is the highest office within the Communist Party of Vietnam.

[[Firhad Hakim]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Indian politicians, Living people

Firhad Hakim (Bengali: ফিরহাদ হাকিম) (born 1 January 1959) is an Indian politician. He is serving as Cabinet Minister of Urban Development and Municipal Affairs, Government of West Bengal. He is also the Mayor of Kolkata.

He is a member of the All India Trinamool Congress party. Hakim was elected to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly in 2009. Two years later, he became a cabinet minister in the Mamata Banerjee ministry. In December 2018, he was elected mayor following the resignation of the incumbent Sovan Chatterjee. He is the first Muslim since the independence of India to become the mayor of that city.  They live in Chetla, a neighborhood of South Kolkata.

[[Nông Đức Mạnh]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Communist politicians, General Secretaries of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam

Nông Đức Mạnh (nəwŋm ɗɨ́k mâjŋ̟ˀ; born 11 September 1940) is a Vietnamese politician. He was General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam from 22 April 2001 to 19 January 2011.

[[Natalie Palamides]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American video game actors

Natalie Palamides (born January 6, 1990) is a voice actress, writer to the works from The Powerpuff Girls in season 8.

Notable works voicing of these shows include, Nutri Ventures, The Powerpuff Girls, The Owl House, Star Vs. The Forces of Evil, the upcoming Dexter and Dee Dee, etc. 

they voicing Buttercup since 2015, from Television shows, direct-to-video features and games.

[[Hermit]]

CATEGORIES: Religious people, People stubs, Religion stubs

A hermit is a person who lives on his own, away from society.

He lives in seclusion. Hermits occur in the history of several religions. 

[[Ken Sedd]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, English television actors, English comedians, Actors from Middlesex, Stuntmen

Kenneth Alan Seddington (26 October 1946 – 9 January 2021), better known as Ken Sedd, was an English character actor. He was best known for his comedic roles in the sketches on The Benny Hill Show from 1969 to 1984. Sedd was also a professional stuntman for Benny Hill.

Sedd died in Camberley, Surrey on 9 January 2021 at the age of 76.

[[Anthony Dawes]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from London

Anthony Cecil John Dawes (10 February 1928 – 21 January 2021) was an English character actor. Dawes was born in Felixstowe, Suffolk. His roles on television included The Avengers, Fawlty Towers, Z-Cars and The Kenny Everett Television Show.

Dawes died in London on 21 January 2021 at the age of 92. 

[[Raimo Suikkanen]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Finnish Olympians, Cyclists

Raimo Suikkanen (20 December 1942 – 22 January 2021) was a Finnish racing cyclist. He competed at the 1968 Summer Olympics and the 1972 Summer Olympics. He was born in Iitti, Finland.

Suikkanen died on 22 January 2021, aged 78.

[[Temur Tsiklauri]]

CATEGORIES: Georgian singers, 1946 births, 2021 deaths

Temur Tsiklauri (January 22, 1946, Kojori, Georgian SSR, USSR - February 1, 2021, Gori) - Georgian pop singer and actor, member of the ensemble Iveria. Honored Artist of the Georgian SSR in 1980, People's Artist of Georgia in 1990 and Honorary Citizen of Tbilisi in 2010. 

[[Sylvanus Blackman]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Weightlifters, English sportspeople, Barbadian sportspeople, Olympians

[[Rafael Heredia]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Olympians, Basketball players, Sportspeople from Mexico City

Rafael Heredia Estrella (19 February 1937 – 28 January 2021) was a Mexican basketball player. He competed in the 1964 Summer Olympics and in the 1968 Summer Olympics. He was born in Mexico City.

Heredia died on 28 January 2021 in Mexico City, aged 83.

[[Puya Mei Thaba]]

CATEGORIES: History

Puya Mei Thaba (ꯄꯨꯌꯥ ꯃꯩ ꯊꯥꯕ) (literally, the burning of puya) was a historical event of the burning of the sacred scriptures (puyas) of Sanamahism, the ancient Meitei faith under the tyrannical orders of Emperor Pamheiba on the 23rd day of the Manipuri lunar month of Wakching in 1729 AD in front of the Uttra Sanglen inside the Kangla Palace of Manipur kingdom. It was regarded as the gateway event for the Brahmanical invasion into the Manipuri society.

[[Reinaldo Paniagua Diez]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Puerto Rican people, Lawyers, Civil servants

Reinaldo Paniagua-Diez (20 July 1934 – 29 January 2021) was a Puerto Rican politician and lawyer. He was the seventh Puerto Rico Secretary of State from 1977 to 1979. From 1985 to 1989, he was a member of the Senate. Paniagua Diez was a member of the New Progressive Party. He was born in Santurce, Puerto Rico.

Paniagua Diez died on 29 January 2021 in Syracuse, New York at the age of 86.

[[Allan Burns]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Emmy Award winners, American television producers, American television writers, Screenwriters from Maryland, Writers from Baltimore, Maryland

Allan Burns (May 18, 1935spndJanuary 30, 2021) was an American screenwriter and television producer.  He was best known for creating and writing for the television sitcom The Munsters, The Mary Tyler Moore Show and Rhoda. He won three Primetime Emmy Awards in 1968, 1971 and 1977 for comedic writing. 

Burns died on January 30, 2021, at the age of 85.

[[Rafael Gallardo García]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Roman Catholic priests, Roman Catholic bishops, Mexican people

Rafael Gallardo García (28 October 1927 – 30 January 2021) was a Mexican Roman Catholic bishop. Gallardo García was born in Yuriria, Mexico. He became a priest in 1950. He was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Linares, Mexico, from 1974 to 1987. He was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Tampico, Mexico, from 1987 to 2003.

Gallardo García died on 30 January 2021, aged 93.

[[Marc Wilmore]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American television writers, American television producers, American television actors, Actors from San Bernardino, California, Writers from California, Comedians from California

Marc Edward Wilmore (May 4, 1963 – January 30, 2021) was an American television writer, producer, actor, and comedian. He was a writer and performer for shows such as In Living Color, The PJs, The Simpsons, Ed, Edd n Eddy, and F Is for Family. He was a 10-time Primetime Emmy Award nominee.

Wilmore died at the age of 57 on January 30, 2021 from COVID-19.

[[Larry Wilmore]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, American television writers, American television producers, American television actors, Comedians from Los Angeles County, California, Actors from Los Angeles County, California, Writers from Los Angeles County, California

Elister Larry Wilmore (born October 30, 1961) is an American comedian, writer, producer, and actor. Wilmore was the "Senior Black Correspondent" on The Daily Show from 2006 to 2014, and hosted The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore in 2015 and 2016. He is also the creator of the sitcom The Bernie Mac Show. 

[[Lauren Southern]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, YouTubers, Canadian activists, Political activists, Politicians from British Columbia, Canadian entertainers

Lauren Cherie Southern (born 16 June 1995) is a Canadian alt-right political activist, white nationalist and YouTuber. She was born in Surrey, British Columbia. Southern is known for making white nationalist-promoted videos on YouTube.

In 2015, Southern ran as a Libertarian Party candidate in the Canadian federal election. 

She worked for The Rebel Media until March 2017, then worked independently before announcing her retirement from political activism on 2 June 2019. 

Southern announced her return to YouTube on 19 June 2020.

[[Douglas Bravo]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Venezuela, Venezuelan politicians, Political activists

Douglas Ignacio Bravo Mora (11 March 1932 – 31 January 2021) was a Venezuelan politician and guerrilla fighter. He was born in Falcón, Venezuela. He was involved with the Communist Party of Venezuela. He was a critic of Marcos Pérez Jiménez and played a role in planning the 1950 coup d'etat that removed the dictator from power.

Bravo died of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Venezuela in Coro, Venezuela on 31 January 2021, aged 88.

[[Medieval Manipur]]

CATEGORIES: History of Manipur

Medieval Manipur refers to a long period of history of Manipur between the "ancient period" and the "modern period". It encompasses the 15th century AD to the 19th century AD.

[[Alejandro Gómez (runner)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish Olympians, Competitors in athletics, Deaths from brain cancer

Alejandro Gómez Cabral (11 April 1967 – 31 January 2021) was a Spanish long-distance runner. He ran in marathons and cross-country running. He was born in Vigo, Pontevedra. He participated in the 1988, 1992 and 1996 Summer Olympics.

Gómez was diagnosed with brain cancer in January 2020. He died a year later on 31 January 2021 from the disease in Vigo, aged 53.

[[Justo Tejada]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Barcelona

Justo Tejada Martínez (6 January 1933 – 31 January 2021) was a Spanish footballer. He played as a forward. He played for Spain eight times. 

He was born in Barcelona, Catalonia. Tejada began playing football with the youth side of CE Europa. He played professionally with FC Barcelona. He won La Liga and the Copa del Rey.

He died on 31 January 2021, aged 88.

[[Abraham J. Twerski]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Israel, American rabbis, Israeli rabbis, American psychiatrists, Israeli scientists, Scientists from Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Abraham Joshua Twerski (אֲבְרָהָם יְהוֹשֻׁע טווערסקי; 1930snd2021) was an American Hasidic rabbi. He was a psychiatrist focusing in substance abuse. He was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Rabbi Twerski died in Jerusalem on January 31, 2021 of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Israel, aged 90.

[[Victor Ziga]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Filipino politicians, Deaths from multiple organ failure

Victor "Vic" San Andres Ziga (September 30, 1945 – January 31, 2021) was a Filipino politician. He was senator in the 8th Congress from 1987 to 1992. He was an assemblyman for Albay from 1985 to 1986. He also served as Governor of Albay and cabinet minister in the Corazon Aquino administration. Ziga was born in Manila.

Ziga died on January 31, 2021 in Taguig, Philippines from multiple organ failure, aged 75.

[[Gordon McVie]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Scientists from London, British academics

John Gordon McVie BSc (Hons), MBChB, M.D., FRCP, FRCPE, FRCPSGlas, FMedSci, DSc (13 January 1945 – 20 January 2021) was a British oncologist. He was one of the best known doctors on the treatment and research of cancer. He wrote over 350 peer-reviewed articles, editorials and books. He was a professor at King's College London.

McVie died on 20 January 2021, aged 76.

[[John Grant (Scottish footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Scottish footballers, Sportspeople from Edinburgh

John Grant (16 June 1931 – January 2021) was a Scottish professional footballer. He played for Hibernian, Raith Rovers and the Scotland national football team. His career lasted from 1949 to 1965. He was born in Edinburgh, Scotland.

Grant died in January 2021, aged 89.

[[Abdul Hamid Mahmud]]

CATEGORIES: Indonesian politicians, 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from cardiovascular disease

Abdul Hamid Mahmud (January 15, 1942 – January 31, 2021) was an Indonesian politician. He was Regent of Malang from 1985 to 1990 and 1990 to 1995. He also was Deputy Governor of East Java for Government and Welfare from 1995 to 2000. 

Mahmud died on January 31, 2021 at a hospital in Malang from heart disease, aged 79. 

[[Miroslav Tuđman]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Croatian scientists, Croatian politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Croatia

Miroslav Tuđman (25 May 1946 – 31 January 2021) was a Croatian scientist and politician. He was born in Belgrade, then-Yugoslavia. He was a member of the Croatian Democratic Union. From 2011 until his death, he was a member of the Croatian Parliament.

Tuđman died on 31 January 2021 in Zagreb, Croatia from COVID-19, aged 74.

[[Ryszard Szurkowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Polish Olympic medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Polish sportspeople, Cyclists, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from pneumonia

Ryszard Jan Szurkowski (12 January 1946 – 1 February 2021) was a Polish road bicycle racer. Szurkowski was born in Świebodów, Poland. He won two Olympic silver medals at the 1972 and 1976 Summer Olympics. He won two gold medals at the UCI Road World Championships in 1973 and 1975.

Szurkowski died on 1 February 2021 at a hospital in Radom, Poland from pneumonia caused by lung cancer, aged 75.

[[Sinitic languages]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese language, Languages of China

The Sinitic languages, also called the "Chinese languages", are a branch of Sino-Tibetan languages spoken mainly in China. Some think there is a split between Sinitic languages and the rest of the family (Tibeto-Burman languages), but many researchers now do not agree with this. Because of this, the Sinitic languages are simply Sino-Tibetan languages that are seen as varieties of Chinese. Many think Chinese is one language with many  dialects, when it may be a group of different languages.

[[Simeon Nyachae]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Kenyan people, African businesspeople, African politicians

Simeon Nyachae (6 February 1932 – 1 February 2021) was a Kenyan politician and businessman. From 1998 to 1999, he was the Minister for Finance during the Daniel arap Moi presidency. He was born in Nairobi, Kenya.

Nyachae died on 1 February 2021 in Nairobi, aged 88.

[[Sykkuno]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, American YouTubers, Entertainers from California, Entertainers from Nevada, People from Las Vegas, Nevada, Twitch (service) streamers

Thomas (born June 4, 1992), better known by his online name Sykkuno is an American internet personality, Twitch streamer and YouTuber. He is known for his streams on the platform Twitch. He is known for playing with Disguised Toast, Corpse Husband, Valkyrae, Jacksepticeye and Pokimane.

Sykkuno's Twitch channel gained over 620,000 followers over a 30 days in November 2020, making him one of the fastest growing streamers on the platform.

On November 27, 2020, Sykkuno participated in an Among Us game on Twitch featuring  U.S. representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.

[[Disguised Toast]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, YouTubers, Taiwanese entertainers, Canadian entertainers, Twitch (service) streamers

Jeremy Wang (born 25 November 1991), better known by the alias Disguised Toast, is a Taiwanese-Canadian streamer, YouTuber and Internet personality. He began his career on YouTube, creating videos about the digital card game Hearthstone. He was born in Taipei, Taiwan.

Wang later began streaming on Twitch.

As of June 2020, Wang is a member of OfflineTV, an online social entertainment group of content creators.

[[San Gabriel, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

San Gabriel s is a city in Los Angeles County, California. At the 2010 census, 39,718 people lived here.

[[Sylvirana roberti]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

Sylvirana roberti is a frog from southern Myanmar.

Scientists think this frog is related to Sylvirana nigrovittata and Sylvirana malayana.

[[Danish Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Danish Canadians (Danish: Dansk-canadiere) are Canadian citizens of Danish ancestry. According to the 2006 Census, there were 200,035 Canadians with Danish background, 17,650 of whom were born in Denmark.

[[Scottish Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Scottish Canadians are people of Scottish descent or heritage living in Canada. As the third-largest ethnic group in Canada and amongst the first Europeans to settle in the country, Scottish people have made a large impact on Canadian culture since colonial times.

[[Scotch-Irish Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Scottish-Irish Canadians are those who are Ulster Scots or those who have Ulster Scots ancestry who live in or were born in Canada.

[[Moldovan Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Moldovan Canadians are Canadians of full or partial Moldovan. According to the 2011 Census, there were 8,050 Canadians who claimed Moldovan ancestry.

In 2010, the first Moldovan Orthodox church, with services in the Romanian language, has been established for the Moldovan community in Montreal, Quebec, which has over 3,500 Moldovan families.

[[List of off-season Atlantic hurricanes]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes

Off season Atlantic Hurricanes are very rare storms, but they can still happen.  These storms form between November 30 and May 31, outside of the Atlantic hurricane season.

[[Russian Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Russian Canadians comprise Canadian citizens of Russian heritage or Russians who moved to and live in Canada. According to the 2016 Census, there were 622,445 Canadians who claimed full or partial Russian ancestry.

[[Katie Griffiths]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, English child actors, English television actors, Actors from Yorkshire

Katie Griffiths (born 6 April 1989) is an English actress, known for portraying the role of Chlo Grainger on the BBC school-based drama series Waterloo Road from 2006 to 2009.

[[Belarusian Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Belarusian Canadians are Canadian citizens of Belarusian descent or Belarusian-born individuals who reside in Canada: According to the 2016 Census there were 20,710 Canadians who claimed Belarusian ancestry.

[[Romanian Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Romanian Canadians are Canadian citizens of Romanian descent or Romania-born people who reside in Canada. According to the Canadian Census data of 2016, there are about 240,000 Romanian-Canadians. Some sources estimates that this number might be as high as circa 400,000 Canadians who are fully or partially of Romanian ancestry.

[[Abdul-Karim al-Karmi]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1980 deaths, People from Tulkarm, Poets, Disease-related deaths in Washington, D.C.

Abdul-Karim al-Karmi (1909 - 11 October 1980), famously known as Abu Salma, He is a Palestinian poet and one of the Arab poets. He was born in Tulkarm city and died in Washington city. He was the recipient of several awards and he chairman of the Union of Palestinian Writers and Jouranlists Until his death.

[[Hungarian Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Hungarian Canadians (kanadai magyarok) are persons in Canada of Hungarian ancestry. According to the 2016 Census, there are 348,085 Canadians of Hungarian ancestry.

[[Jonas Gricius]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Lithuanian people, Cinematographers

Jonas Gricius (5 August 1928 – 1 February 2021) was a Lithuanian cinematographer. He was known for his work on many classic movies, beginning in the 1950s. His best known movie works were in Hamlet, The Girl and the Echo, and The Blue Bird.

Gricius died on 1 February 2021, at the age of 92.

[[La Piarre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

La Piarre is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Peter Hindley]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from dementia, English footballers, Sportspeople from Nottinghamshire

Peter Hindley  (19 May 1944 – 1 February 2021) was an English former footballer. He played in the Football League for Nottingham Forest, Coventry City and Peterborough United. He represented England at under-23 level. His playing career lasted from 1962 until the 1980s. He was born in Worksop, England.

Hindley died on 1 February 2021 from problems caused by dementia, aged 76.

[[Ðuro Savinović]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, Croatian sportspeople, Olympians, Water polo players

Ðuro Savinović (1 March 1950 – 1 February 2021) was a Croatian water polo player. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1976 Summer Olympics. He was born in Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia.

Savinović died on 1 February 2021 in Dubrovnik, aged 70.

[[Brittany Allen]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Emmy Award winning actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian composers, Canadian television producers, Actors from Toronto

Brittany Allen (born February 5, 1986) is a Canadian actress and composer. She played Marissa Chandler on All My Children from 2009 to 2010.

[[Gary Ackerman]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, United States representatives from New York, Politicians from Brooklyn, US Democratic Party politicians

Gary Leonard Ackerman (born November 19, 1942) is a retired American politician. He was a member of the U.S. Representative from New York from 1983 to 2013. He is a member of the Democratic Party.

[[Viktor Koval]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Russia, Russian poets, Russian artists, Russian movie actors, Russian voice actors, Russian singers, Actors from Moscow, Child actors

Viktor Stanislavovich Koval (29 September 1947 – 1 February 2021) was a Russian writer, artist and child actor. He was born in Moscow, Russia. His career began in 1955. His best known roles were as Sasha in the 1955 crime movie The Rumyantsev Case and as Ivanov in the 1957 drama movie An Unusual Summer. 

Koval died on 1 February 2021 in Moscow from COVID-19, aged 73.

[[Milvian bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges, Buildings and structures in Rome, Transport in Italy

The Milvian (or Mulvian) Bridge is a bridge over the Tiber in northern Rome, Italy. The bridge goes back ot antiquity. Today, the bridge is also notable for the Battle of the Milvian Bridge, which happened in the year 312.

[[Tony Christie]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, English pop musicians, English singer-songwriters, English pop singers, English rock singers, English rock musicians, Actors from Yorkshire, Musicians from Yorkshire, Writers from Yorkshire

Anthony Fitzgerald (born 25 April 1943), known professionally as Tony Christie, is an English musician, singer and actor. He is best known for his recording of "(Is This The Way To) Amarillo", a double UK chart success. 

[[Hank Marvin]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, English rock guitarists, English rock singers, English pianists, English singer-songwriters, People from Tyne and Wear

Hank Brian Marvin (born Brian Robson Rankin, 28 October 1941) is an English multi-instrumentalist, vocalist and songwriter. He is best known as the lead guitarist for the Shadows and was the backing band for Cliff Richard. He was also in Marvin, Welch & Farrar.

[[Patricia Greene]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English radio actors, Actors from Derbyshire

Patricia Honor Greene GBR (born 1931) is an English actress. She is best known as Jill Archer in the radio serial The Archers. She is the world's second longest serving actor in a soap opera.

[[Lesley Saweard]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, British movie actors, British television actors, British radio actors, Actors from Lincolnshire

Lesley Saweard (born 1934) is a British actress. She has played Christine Barford in the long-running radio soap opera, The Archers, since 1953. She was born in Lincolnshire, England.

[[Johnny Briggs (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from London

John Ernest Briggs GBR (5 September 1935 – 28 February 2021) was an English actor. He was best known for his role as Mike Baldwin in the soap opera Coronation Street, in which he appeared from 1976 to 2006 and again in 2012.

Briggs was awarded the MBE in the 2006 New Year Honours.

Briggs died on 28 February 2021 at his home in Portishead, Somerset from a long-illness, aged 85.

[[Amanda Barrie]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English LGBT people, LGBT actors, Bisexual people, Actors from Lancashire

Amanda Barrie  (born 14 September 1935) is an English actress. She appeared in two of the Carry On movies. She also starred as Alma Halliwell in ITV soap opera, Coronation Street, which she played on and off for 20 years. She also played Bev Tull in the ITV prison drama, Bad Girls.

Barrie is openly bisexual.

[[Bill Hayes (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Illinois, Singers from Illinois, American radio actors

William Foster Hayes III (born June 5, 1925) is an American actor and singer. His song, “The Ballad of Davy Crockett“ hit the top of the Billboard charts in the spring of 1955. He also played Doug Williams on NBC's Days of Our Lives.

[[Nanette Newman]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, English stage actors, English writers, People from Northampton

Nanette Newman (born 29 May 1934) is an English actress and author. She appeared in nine movies directed by her husband Bryan Forbes. She starred in Séance on a Wet Afternoon (1964), The Whisperers (1967), Deadfall (1968), The Stepford Wives (1975) and International Velvet (1978).

[[Samantha Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 1985 deaths, American child actors, American political activists, Actors from Maine, Writers from Maine, Aviation deaths in the United States

Samantha Reed Smith (June 29, 1972 – August 25, 1985) was an American schoolgirl, peace activist, and child actress. She became famous during the Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union. 

In 1982, Smith wrote a letter to Soviet Leader Yuri Andropov, and received a personal reply with a personal invitation to visit the Soviet Union, which she accepted.

Smith became a "Goodwill Ambassador" between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, becoming America's Youngest Ambassador. 

Smith died on August 25, 1985 in the Bar Harbor Airlines Flight 1808 plane crash near Auburn, Maine at the age of 13.

[[Win Min Than]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Burmese people, Australian movie actors, Naturalised citizens of Australia

Win Min Than (ဝင်းမင်းသန်း; born 30 November 1933) is a Burmese-Australian actress. She is best known for her role in the 1954 Hollywood movie The Purple Plain. Than was born in Bago, Burma. Her career lasted from 1954 to 1957.

[[Morton Ira Greenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, American lawyers, American judges, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

Morton Ira Greenberg (March 20, 1933 – January 28, 2021) was an American politician and lawyer. He was a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit from 1987 until his death. He became senior judge in 2000. He was nominated by President Ronald Reagan on February 11, 1987 to the court. Greenberg was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Greenberg died on January 28, 2021 at the age of 87. 

[[Tony Momoh]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Nigerian politicians, Nigerian writers, Journalists

Prince Tony Momoh (27 April 1939 – 1 February 2021) was a Nigerian journalist and politician. He was Nigerian Minister of Information and Culture from 1986 to 1990 during the military regime of General Ibrahim Babangida. Momoh was born in Auchi, Nigeria.

He died on 1 February 2021 in Lagos, Nigeria at the age of 81.

[[Jamie Tarses]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from stroke, American television producers, Businesspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Sara James Tarses (March 19, 1964 – February 1, 2021) was an American television producer and television studio executive. Tarses was the President of ABC Entertainment from 1996 to 1999. She was the first woman and one of the youngest people to hold such a post in an American broadcast network. She was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. She helped produced Friends, My Boys and Happy Endings.

Tarses died of cardiac arrest caused by a stroke on February 1, 2021 at the age of 56.

[[My Boys]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 American television series debuts, 2010 American television series endings, Television series set in Chicago, Illinois, 2000s American sitcoms, 2010s American sitcoms

My Boys is an American television sitcom. Its first episode came out on November 28, 2006, on TBS. The show is about a sports columnist in Chicago, Illinois, played by Jordana Spiro, and the men in her life, including her brother and her best friend. The show was canceled by TBS on September 14, 2010 after four seasons.

[[Fine-tuned universe]]

CATEGORIES: Cosmology, Intelligent design

A universe that is fine-tuned is a universe that is designed well-enough to support life. Life as we know it would be impossible if certain things in physics were slightly different. Our universe is fine-tuned for life, and this is seen as not likely. This is because many things have to come together in a certain way. One explanation for this is the anthropic principle. This means that the universe supports life because we wouldn't be here to wonder that if it didn't. This usage of the anthropic principle is tautological. This means that it is true because it is true.

Another explanation for this is the teleological argument. It is also known as argument from design. This means that an intelligent creator created the universe. It is still unknown if the universe created itself or if it was created by someone or something else.

[[Nine Inch Nails live performances]]

CATEGORIES: Nine Inch Nails, Concert tours

The rock band Nine Inch Nails started doing tours when it was first made in 1988. Trent Reznor started the band and does most of the work for the band's studio. The band has played in many festivals. For example, they played at Woodstock '94, Lollapalooza in 1991 and 2008, and the MTV Video Music Awards. Before 2013, they did 938 gigs.

Nine Inch Nails does not play the same in concerts than when they do in studios. Reznor makes and plays most of the band's music. Other people might sing or play instruments if it is needed for the song. Reznor makes groups of backing musicians (people who play for concerts). Alessandro Cortini (one of the band's keyboardists) said that how the band plays in studios and in CDs is different from how they play in concerts.

Before 2016, Reznor was the only member of the band. Nine Inch Nails' concerts have lighting effects used for the stage. The effects have been done by Reznor and Rob Sheridan starting in 1999. Three tours have been talked about in albums and documentaries.

Critics have said that the tours are good. Some critics talk about how the stage feels aggressive. They also liked the effects that the stage uses. In 2008, Reznor wanted the band to stop touring after 2009. They started touring again in 2013.

[[Data Deficient]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy, Conservation

[[Strike Up the Band (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s musical movies, American musical movies, MGM movies, Movies directed by Busby Berkeley

Strike Up the Band is a 1940 American musical movie directed by Busby Berkeley and starring Judy Garland, Mickey Rooney, Paul Whiteman and Orchestra, June Preisser, William Tracy, Margaret Early, Ann Shoemaker, Francis Pierlot, Virginia Brissac, George Lessey. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and won an Academy Award in 1941 and was nominated for 3 others.

[[Blue Skies (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies directed by Stuart Heisler, Movies directed by Mark Sandrich

Blue Skies is a 1946 American musical movie directed by Stuart Heisler and Mark Sandrich and starring Bing Crosby, Fred Astaire, Joan Caulfield, Billy De Wolfe, Olga San Juan, Mikhail Rasumny, Frank Faylen. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures and was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1947.

[[Shakti]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism, Energy

Shakti (Devanagari: शक्ति, IAST: Śakti; lit. "Energy, ability, strength, effort, power, capability") is the primordial cosmic energy and represents the dynamic forces that are thought to move through the entire universe in Hinduism, and especially Shaktism, a major tradition of Hinduism. Shakti is the personification of the energy that is creative, sustaining, as well as destructive, sometimes referred to as auspicious source energy.

As the Shakti or Creatrix, She is known as "Adi Shakti" or "Adi Para Shakti" (i.e., Primordial Inconceivable Energy). On every plane of creation, energy manifests itself in all forms of matter, thermal energy, potential energy, gravitational energy etc. These are all thought to be infinite forms of the Para Shakti. But Her true form is unknown, and beyond human understanding. She is Anaadi (with no beginning, no ending) and Nitya (forever).

In Shaktism, Adi Parashakti is worshipped as the Supreme Being.

[[G Men]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 movies, 1930s crime movies, American crime drama movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by William Keighley

G Men is a 1935 American crime drama movie directed by William Keighley and starring James Cagney, Margaret Lindsay, Ann Dvorak, Robert Armstrong, Barton MacLane, Lloyd Nolan, William Harrigan, Russell Hopton, Edward Pawley. It was distributed by Warner Bros. and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1936.

[[Peter T. Fay]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, American judges, American lawyers, Politicians from New York, Politicians from Florida, US Republican Party politicians, People from Rochester, New York

Peter Thorp Fay (January 18, 1929 – January 31, 2021) was an American lawyer and politician. He was a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit from 1981 until his death. He was nominated by President Ronald Reagan. He was the United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida from 1970 to 1976. Fay was nominated by President Gerald Ford. He was born in Rochester, New York.

Fay died on January 31, 2021 in Miami, Florida at the age of 92.

[[Andrew Brooks]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Researchers, American academics, Immunologists, Businesspeople from New York City, Scientists from New York City

Andrew Ira Brooks (February 10, 1969spndJanuary 23, 2021) was an American immunologist, academic, and businessman. He was an associate research professor at Rutgers University. He created the first FDA-approved rapid saliva test for COVID-19 diagnosis.

Brooks died on January 23, 2021 from a heart attack in New York City, aged 51.

[[Hans de Boer]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Anti-Revolutionary Party politicians, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Deputy government ministers of the Netherlands, Aldermen of the Netherlands, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch civil servants, Dutch councillors, Dutch mayors, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Politicians from North Holland

Hans Andries de Boer (born 30 May 1937) is a former Dutch politician. He was a member of the Anti-Revolutionary Party (ARP) and later the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) party. He was born in Velsen, Netherlands. De Boer was a member of the House of Representatives from 1972 to 1981 and again from 1982 to 1983. He was Minister of Culture in 1982 and Mayor of Haarlemmermeer from 1983 to 1985.

[[Kjersti Døvigen]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Norwegian movie actors, Norwegian television actors, Norwegian stage actors, Actors from Oslo

Kjersti Døvigen (27 June 1943 – 1 February 2021) was a Norwegian actress. She was born in Oslo, Norway. She acted in Elskere (1963), Douglas (1970), The Last Fleksnes (1974), Lasse & Geir (1976), Bør Børson II (1976) and Life and Death (1980).

Døvigen died on 1 February 2021 in Oslo, aged 77.

[[Jean Dubois (field hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, Belgian Olympians, Field hockey players

Jean Marie Joseph François Dubois  (4 October 1926 – 1 February 2021) was a Belgian field hockey player. He competed in four summer Olympics between 1948 and 1960. 

Dubois died on 1 February 2021 at the age of 94.

[[Ricky Powell]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American photographers, Artists from New York City

Ricky Powell (November 20, 1961 – February 1, 2021) was an American photographer. He was known for his works with the Beastie Boys. His pictures were seen in The New York Times, the New York Post, the Daily News, The Village Voice, TIME, Newsweek, VIBE, The Source and Rolling Stone. He was born in New York City.

Powell died on February 1, 2021 from heart failure in New York City, aged 59.

[[The Goon Show]]

CATEGORIES: Radio programs, BBC radio, Comedy, 1951 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1960s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1960 disestablishments

The Goon Show was a British radio comedy programme, produced and broadcast by the BBC Home Service from 1951 to 1960. Occasional repeats were on the BBC Light Programme. The first series was broadcast from 28 May to 20 September 1951. It was titled Crazy People; later series had the title The Goon Show.

The show's chief creator and main writer was Spike Milligan. 

The show was acted by Peter Sellers, Harrie Secomb and Milligan. Michael  Bentine was also a member until 1953. 

Each of the actors played several stock characters, a regular pattern in radio and theatrical comedy. By "stock characters" is meant characters whose idiosyncracies (peculiaririties) is well understood by the listening audience. This was also a feature of much music hall entertainment.

The scripts mixed ludicrous plots with surreal humour, puns, catchphrases and an array of bizarre sound effects. Some of the later episodes had electronic effects devised by the fledgling BBC Radiophonic Workshop. Many of these ideas were reused by other shows for decades. Elements of the show satirised life in Britain, parodying aspects of show business, commerce, industry, art, politics, diplomacy, the police, the military, education, class structure, literature and films.

The show was preceded by Ted Ray's Ray's a Laugh as the key comedy programme on BBC radio.

The Goon Show had an influence on the later BBC television series Monty Python. Both were absurdist comedies.

[[Tamara Rylova]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Russian sportspeople, Olympic bronze medalists

Tamara Nikolayevna Rylova (Тамара Николаевна Рылова; 1 October 1931 – 1 February 2021) was a Russian speed skater. He was born in Vologda, Soviet Union. He won a bronze medal at the 1960 Summer Olympics. 

Rylova died on 1 February 2021 in Moscow, aged 89.

[[Nick Robinson (American actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Seattle, Washington

Nicholas John Robinson (born March 22, 1995) is an American actor. He starred in Melissa & Joey (2010–2015) and played Simon in Love, Simon (2018).

[[Love, Simon]]

CATEGORIES: 2018 movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, 2010s LGBT movies, Movies based on books

Love, Simon is a 2018 American romantic comedy drama movie directed by Greg Berlanti. It stars Nick Robinson, Josh Duhamel, and Jennifer Garner.

Love, Simon premiered at the Mardi Gras Film Festival on February 27, 2018. It was released in the United States on March 16, 2018, by 20th Century Fox.

A television series titled Love, Victor, set in the same universe as the movie.

[[Port Washington (town), Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Port Washington is a town in Ozaukee County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. At the 2000 census, 1,631 people lived here.

[[Johnny Doughboy]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s comedy movies, American musical comedy movies, Movies directed by John H. Auer

Johnny Doughboy is a 1942 American musical comedy movie directed by John H. Auer and starring Jane Withers, Henry Wilcoxon, William Demarest, Ruth Donnelly, Etta McDaniel, Bobby Breen. It was distributed by Republic Pictures and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1943.

[[Stock character]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction by topic

A stock character is a stereotype fictional character. In a theatre, novel, play or film, the audience immediately knows about him or her without further explanation. All types of fiction use this device, especially comedy.

They have been used in all forms of theatre, right back to the Ancient Greek theatre. The Star Wars movie franchise offers many examples. They are archetypal characters, simplified and "flat". As a result, they may  be easy targets for parody, and criticized as clichés. Stock characters help to identify a genre or subgenre. For example, a fairy tale or fantasy is likely to have a knight-errant as hero and a witch as opposition.

One stock character often used is the low-class character(s) who warn the hero of danger to come. Examples:

It seems their function is to introduce the idea of fatalism, the idea that we are not masters of our fate. Human fame and glory is temporary. Even Achilles has his weakness.

As the hero falls, he is usually allowed a final comment. Caesar's was "Et tu, Brute?" meaning "Not you as well, Brutus?" That's known as a valediction (means a farewell comment). Shakespeare has many examples: Another famous example is Richard III's last cry of "A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse!"

[[Mount Semeru]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Indonesia, Java

Mount Semeru is a active volcano in the island of Java, Indonesia. 

Mount Semeru has a elevation of 3.676 m above sea level. The mountain is in Eastern Java, between the Lumajang and Malang regency. Its geographical position is between 8°06' SL and 120°55' EL.

[[The Lost Weekend]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Billy Wilder

The Lost Weekend is a 1945 American drama movie directed by Billy Wilder and was based on the 1944 novel of the same by Charles R. Jackson. It stars Ray Milland, Jane Wyman, Phillip Terry, Doris Dowling, Howard Da Silva, Frank Faylen, Lilian Fontaine, Frank Orth and was distributed by Paramount Pictures. It won 4 Academy Awards in 1946 and was nominated for 3 others.

[[Gabriele Patriarca (painter)]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1988 deaths, Italian painters, People from Rome

Gabriele Patriarca (10 July 1916 – 2 September 1988) was an Italian informalist painter and member of the art movement Scuola Romana.

[[Objective, Burma!]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s action movies, American action movies, World War II movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Raoul Walsh

Objective, Burma! is a 1945 American World War II action movie directed by Raoul Walsh and starring Errol Flynn, James Brown, William Prince, George Tobias, Henry Hull, Warner Anderson. It was distributed by Warner Bros. and was nominated for three Academy Awards in 1946.

[[Dative case]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar

In grammar, the dative case is the grammatical case used to show the object of an action (the thing the verb is acts on).

For example, "Maria gave Jacob a drink". In this example, Jacob is the dative as he is being given the drink, he is what the verb ("gave") is acting upon.

[[Manimuthar River]]

Manimuthar is the name of four different rivers in Tamil Nadu, India:

[[USS Somerset]]

USS ''Somerset'' may mean:

[[Puducherry]]

Puducherry or Pondicherry may mean:

[[Mire language]]

CATEGORIES: East Chadic languages

Mire, or Mulgi, is an East Chadic language spoken by around 5,000 people in southwestern Chad. It is mainly spoken in Tandjile Prefecture and Lai Prefecture. Most speakers speak Ndam or Kimré as a second language.

[[Mulgi]]

Mulgi may be:

[[Ndam language]]

CATEGORIES: East Chadic languages

Ndam, also known as Dam or Ndamm, is an East Chadic language spoken by around 6,500 people in southwestern Chad. It is spoken mainly in the Tandjilé and Lai Prefectures. There are two dialects of the language: Ndam Dik (northern), and Ndam-Ndam (southern).

[[Tumak language]]

CATEGORIES: East Chadic languages

Tumak (also known as Toumak, Tumag, Tummok, Sara Toumak, Tumac, and Dije) is an East Chadic language spoken by around 25,000 people in southwestern Chad. The language is similar to the Motun and Mawer languages. Some think they are different dialects of the same language. Blench says they are different languages.

[[Taare Zameen Par]]

CATEGORIES: Hindi-language movies, 2007 movies, Indian movies

Taare Zameen Par (titled Like Stars on Earth internationally) is a 2007 Indian Hindi-language family drama movie.  Amir Khan produced and directed it. The film stars Darsheel Safary and Aamir Khan.  It is about a child with dyslexia.

[[Grant Jackson (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, African-American baseball players, Baltimore Orioles players, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Kansas City Royals players, Montreal Expos players, National League All-Stars, New York Yankees players, Philadelphia Phillies players, Pittsburgh Pirates players, Sportspeople from Ohio

Grant Dwight Jackson (September 28, 1942 – February 2, 2021) was an American professional baseball pitcher and coach.

Jackson played in Major League baseball (MLB) from 1965 to 1982 for the Philadelphia Phillies, Baltimore Orioles, New York Yankees, Pittsburgh Pirates, Montreal Expos, and Kansas City Royals.

After Jackson’s playing career, he was a coach for the Pirates and Cincinnati Reds.

Jackson died on February 2, 2021 from problems caused by COVID-19, aged 78.

[[Chad Colley]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, American military people, American activists, American Paralympic gold medalists, Sportspeople from Arkansas

Ralph "Chad" Colley Jr (May 13, 1944 – January 30, 2021) was an American para-alpine skier, army officer and activist for disabled Americans. He won a gold medal at the 1992 Paralympic Games. Colley was born in Fort Smith, Arkansas.

Colley died on January 30, 2021 at the age of 76.

[[Airborne transmission]]

CATEGORIES: Medical emergencies

An airborne transmission is transmission of diseases through small particulates that can be passed through the air over time and distance. 

Diseases that can be infected through airborne transmission may be viruses, bacteria, or fungi, and they may be spread through breathing, talking, coughing, sneezing, raising of dust, spraying of liquids or even flushing toilets.

[[Maureen Colquhoun]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Lesbians, British economists, British LGBT people, LGBT politicians, Former Labour MPs (UK), UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1974, Politicians from London, Writers from London

Maureen Morfydd Colquhoun (k kə; (12 August 1928 – 2 February 2021) was a British economist and Labour Party politician. She was born in London. She was a Member of parliament from 1974 to 1979. Colquhoun was Britain's first openly lesbian MP.

Colquhoun died on 2 February 2021, aged 92.

[[Jacqueline Shumiatcher]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, French philanthropists, Canadian philanthropists

Jacqueline Clay Shumiatcher, CAN  (April 29, 1923 – February 1, 2021) was a French-born Canadian philanthropist, arts patron, and art collector. She and her husband Morris C. Shumiatcher began supporting the arts community in Regina, Saskatchewan.

In 2014 she donated 1,310 Inuit sculptures and paintings by the Regina Five, worth C$3 million, to the University of Regina. She was honored the Saskatchewan Order of Merit in 2001 and the Order of Canada in 2017. She was born in Vendin-le-Vieil, Pas de Calais.

Shumiatcher died on February 1, 2021 at the age of 97.

[[Joshua Hamidu]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Ghanaian people, African politicians, Diplomats, African military people

Lieutenant General Joshua Mahamadu Hamidu (1936 – 2 February 2021) was a Ghanaian soldier, politician and diplomat. He was the Chief of Defence Staff from 1978 to 1979. He was the Ghanaian High Commissioner to Zambia in 1978 for a short time. He was also High Commissioner to Zambia from 2003 to 2005. 

Hamidu died on 2 February 2021 at an Accra hospital.

[[Kawaii Monster (Blood on the Dance Floor Album)]]

''Kawaii Monster is the eighth studio album by the electronica duo Blood on the Dance Floor. The album was self-released on October 31, 2017. The album was released by the record company Dark Fantasy Records.

[[Sylvirana nigrovittata]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

The black-striped frog, black-spotted frog, black-sided wood frog, Sapgreen Stream frog, Mengla frog, dark-sided frog or Hekou frog (Sylvirana nigrovittata) is a frog from India, Nepal, Bangladesh, China,Vietnam, Laos and Thailand. It can live as high as 1100 meters above sea level.

[[The Bells of St. Mary's]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Leo McCarey

The Bells of St. Mary's is a 1945 American drama movie directed by Leo McCarey and is the sequel to the 1944 movie Going My Way. It stars Bing Crosby, Ingrid Bergman, Henry Travers, William Gargan, Ruth Donnelly, Joan Carroll, Martha Sleeper, Una O'Connor and was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures. It was nominated for 8 Oscars and won an Academy Award in 1946.

[[Belle of the Yukon]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 movies, 1940s western movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s comedy movies, American western movies, American musical comedy movies, Movies directed by William A. Seiter

Belle of the Yukon is a 1944 American musical western comedy movie directed by William A. Seiter and starring Randolph Scott, Gypsy Rose Lee, Dinah Shore, Bob Burns, Charles Winniger, Robert Armstrong, Florence Bates, Victor Kilian. It was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures and was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1946.

[[North Sea Germanic]]

CATEGORIES: West Germanic languages

North Sea Germanic, also known as Ingvaeonic ˌ, is a group of West Germanic languages that were first spoken in what is now northern Germany, the Netherlands, and Denmark. They were also spread to the British Isles in the Migration Period. The languages were Old Frisian, Old English and Old Saxon. They have become other languages since then and spread worldwide, especially the modern English language.

[[Alabama's 6th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Alabama

Alabama's 6th congressional district is a United States congressional district in the state of Alabama. The congressional district elects a representative for the United States House of Representatives. The district is made up of the counties of Jefferson County, Bibb, Blount, Chilton, Coosa, and Shelby. Parts of the city of Birmingham are in the district. The district has been represented by Republican Gary Palmer since 2014.

[[3 Idiots]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s buddy movies, 2000s comedy-drama movies, 2009 comedy movies, 2009 drama movies, Buddy movies, Education in India, English-language movies, Hindi-language movies, Indian movies, Movies about death, Movies based on books, Movies set in universities and colleges, Nonlinear narrative movies, Satirical movies, Urdu-language movies

3 Idiots is a 2009 Indian Hindi-language coming-of-age comedy-drama movie directed by Rajkumar Hirani, and also co-written by him with Abhijat Joshi. The movie stars Aamir Khan, R. Madhavan, Sharman Joshi, Kareena Kapoor, Boman Irani and Omi Vaidya. The movie talks about the friendship of three students at an Indian engineering college and is a satire about the social pressures under an Indian education system. The movie is told through equal dramas, one in the present and the other ten years earlier. The movie joined genuine Indian developments made by Remya Jose, Mohammad Idris, Jahangir Painter and Sonam Wangchuk.

Produced by Vidhu Vinod Chopra under the banner Vinod Chopra Films, and based on Chetan Bhagat's novel Five Point Someone: What not to do at IIT!, the movie joined genuine Indian developments made by Remya Jose, Mohammad Idris, Jahangir Painter and Sonam Wangchuk.  The movie released on December 25, 2009 and was a critical and commercial success. It was also the highest-grossing movie in its opening weekend in India, had the highest opening day collections for an Indian movie up until that point and also held the record for the highest net collections in the first week for a Bollywood movie. It additionally got one of only a handful few Indian movies at an opportunity to get successful in East Asian business sectors, for example, China and Japan, at last carrying its overall gross to ₹3.92 billion ($90 million) — it was the highest-grossing Indian movie ever at the time. The movie likewise socially affected perspectives to schooling in India, and also education in other Asian nations, for example, China.

The movie won six Filmfare Awards including Best Film and three National Film Awards including Best Popular Film. Overseas, it won the Grand Prize at Japan's Videoyasan Awards while it was nominated for Best Outstanding Foreign Language Film at the Japan Academy Awards and Best Foreign Film at China's Beijing International Film Festival.

[[Alabama's 7th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Alabama

Alabama's 7th congressional district is a United States congressional district in the state of Alabama that elects a representative to the United States House of Representatives. The district includes the counties of Choctaw, Dallas, Greene, Hale, Lowndes, Marengo, Pickens, Perry, Sumter and Wilcox. Parts of Clarke, Jefferson, Montgomery and Tuscaloosa counties are in the district. The district also has parts of the cities of Birmingham, Montgomery and Tuscaloosa/Northport city areas.

The 7th congressional district is the only congressional district in Alabama to be represented by a Democrat. The representative is Terri Sewell. The district was created in 1843 and has only been represented by a Republican for 6 years. When the districts were being drawn again in 2010 the Republicans in Alabama drew the district to have many of the Democratic Party counties in Alabama so there would only be one Democratic congressional district in Alabama. This is called gerrymandering.

[[Brewster's Millions (1945 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on books, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Allan Dwan

Brewster's Millions is a 1945 American comedy movie directed by Allan Dwan and is the fifth adaption of the 1902 novel of the same name by George Barr McCutcheon and the 1906 play of the same name. It stars Dennis O'Keefe, Helen Walker, June Havoc, Gail Patrick, Mischa Auer, Nana Bryant, John Litel, Joe Sawyer and was distributed by United Artists. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[Captain Kidd (1945 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s adventure movies, American adventure movies, Movies directed by Rowland V. Lee

Captain Kidd is a 1945 American adventure movie directed by Rowland V. Lee and starring Charles Laughton, Randolph Scott, Barbara Britton, John Carradine, Gilbert Roland, John Qualen, Sheldon Leonard, William Farnum, Henry Daniell, Reginald Owen. It was distributed by United Artists and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[South Carolina's 7th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: South Carolina, United States House of Representatives

South Carolina's 7th congressional district is a congressional district in the state of South Carolina. The district was created in 1803 but was removed in 1933. The district was then created again in 2013. The district includes the counties of Chesterfield, Dillon, Georgetown, Horry, Marlboro, Darlington, and Marion and parts of Florence county. The current representative for the district is Republican Tom Rice.

[[Flame of Barbary Coast]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s western movies, American western movies

Flame of Barbary Coast is a 1945 American western movie directed by Joseph Kane and starring John Wayne, Ann Dvorak, Joseph Schildkraut, William Frawley, Virginia Grey, Russell Hicks, Jack Norton, Paul Fix. It was distributed by Republic Pictures and was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1946.

[[The Story of G.I. Joe]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s war movies, American biographical movies, American war movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by William A. Wellman

The Story of G.I. Joe is a 1945 American war movie directed by William A. Wellman and starring Burgess Meredith, Robert Mitchum, Freddie Steele, Wally Cassell. It was distributed by United Artists and was nominated for 4 Academy Awards in 1946.

[[The Southerner (1945 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books

The Southerner is a 1945 American drama movie directed by Jean Renoir and was based on the 1941 novel Hold Autumn in Your Hand by George Sessions Perry. It stars Zachary Scott, Betty Field, J. Carrol Naish, Beulah Bondi, Percy Kilbride, Charles Kemper, Blanche Yurka, Norman Lloyd, Estelle Taylor and was distributed by United Artists. It was nominated for 3 Academy Awards in 1946.

[[Andy Jassy]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Amazon (company), Businesspeople from Seattle, Washington, American chief executives

Andrew R. Jassy (born January 13, 1968) is an American businessman. Jassy is the CEO of Amazon. He was the CEO of Amazon Web Services (AWS). He is also one of the minority owners of the Seattle Kraken of the National Hockey League.

Jassy replaced Jeff Bezos as CEO of Amazon on July 5, 2021.

[[Amazon Web Services]]

CATEGORIES: Amazon (company)

Amazon Web Services (AWS) is part of Amazon that gives on-demand cloud computing platforms to people, companies, and governments.

[[No. 2 (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 comedy movies, 2006 drama movies, New Zealand movies, Movies based on plays

No. 2 is a 2006 New Zealand comedy drama movie directed by Toa Fraser and was based on the 2000 play of the same name. It stars Ruby Dee, Taungaroa Emile, Tuva Novotny, Rene Naufahu, Nathaniel Lees, Antony Starr, Pio Terei, Xavier Horan and was distributed by Miramax Films.

[[A Song to Remember]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, American biographical movies, Movies directed by Charles Vidor

A Song to Remember is a 1945 American biographical movie directed by Charles Vidor and starring Cornel Wilde, Paul Muni, Merle Oberon, Nina Foch, George Coulouris, Howard Freeman, Stephen Bekassy. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures and was nominated for six Academy Awards in 1946.

[[Love Letters (1945 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by William Dieterle

Love Letters is a 1945 American romantic drama movie directed by William Dieterle and was based on the novel Pity My Simplicity by Christopher Massie. It stars Jennifer Jones, Joseph Cotten, Ann Richards, Cecil Kellaway, Gladys Cooper, Anita Louise, Reginald Denny and was distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was nominated for four Academy Awards in 1946.

[[The Man Who Walked Alone]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Christy Cabanne

The Man Who Walked Alone is a 1945 American romantic comedy movie directed by Christy Cabanne and starring Dave O'Brien, Kay Aldridge, Walter Catlett, Guinn "Big Boy" Williams, Isabel Randolph, Smith Ballew. It was distributed by PRC Pictures, Inc. and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[Koreans in China]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in China, History of China, History of Korea

The Korean ethnic group in China is an immigrant group which means people from North and South Korea stay there permanently.

The size of the ethnic group is  2,489,076 (in year 2009).1,830,929 are ethnic Koreans with Chinese citizenship (in 2010).

The languages are Mandarin, Cantonese and Korean.

[[Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity]]

CATEGORIES: UNESCO, Traditions

The Proclamation of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity is a UNESCO award which recognises the special cultural activities round the world. By "oral and intangible" is meant activities of people which leave no permanent trace.

The award was started in 2001. It hopes to "raise awareness of intangible cultural heritage, and encourage local communities to protect them and the local people who do these forms of cultural expressions". Several manifestations of intangible heritage around the world were awarded the title of Masterpieces to recognize the value of the non-material component of culture.

The list is: UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists.

[[This Love of Ours]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by William Dieterle

This Love of Ours is a 1945 American romantic drama movie directed by William Dieterle and was based on a play by Luigi Pirandello. It stars Merle Oberon, Claude Rains, Charles Korvin, Carl Esmond, Sue England, Jess Barker, Helene Thimig, Ralph Morgan, Harry Davenport, Howard Freeman and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946. It was distributed by Universal Pictures and was remade as Never Say Goodbye in 1956.

[[Obscene phone call]]

CATEGORIES: Crime

An obscene phone call is when someone uses bad, sexual or hateful language while talking to another person on a telephone.

In many U.S. states, making an obscene telephone call is a Class 1 Misdemeanor.

The victims of substandard or obscene telephone calls should hang up on the callers and report the incidents to their telephone company or local police.

Even if/when Caller IDs aren't shown, calls are logged by the telephone company. This is so the obscene caller's number can be discovered. But many obscene phone callers use payphones or mobile phones instead of regular landline phones.

Obscene phone callers are often male. However, there are many female obscene phone callers.

Some obscene phone callers have trouble forming relationships, so making obscene telephone calls is the only way they express themselves.

The usual age for making such telephone calls is the teenage years, particularly ages 12 to 16. The average age is 14.

[[Caller ID]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications

Caller identification (Caller ID) is a telephone service. It is available in analog and digital telephone systems. That includes voice over IP (voIP). 

The information received from the service is shown on a telephone display screen.

[[Sylvirana montosa]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

Sylvirana montosa is a frog from Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos.

Scientists think this frog is related to Sylvirana montenseni.

[[Treaty of Nanking]]

CATEGORIES: History of China, Treaties involving China, 1840s treaties

The British forced China to sign the Treaty of Nanking after China lost the First Opium War in 1842. The treaty stated that China had to give Britain Hong Kong, 2 billion dollars cash, and open 5 port cities. This led China to give up sovereignty to Europe.

[[Wopke Hoekstra]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Dutch businesspeople, Dutch jurists, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Members of the Senate of the Netherlands, Politicians from Gelderland, Remonstrants

Wopke Bastiaan Hoekstra (born 30 September 1975) is a Dutch politician and former consultant. He is party leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA).

Hoekstra studied law at Leiden University and obtained an MBA at INSEAD in Fontainebleau and Singapore. He worked at Shell and McKinsey & Company.

From 2011 to 2017 he was a member of the Senate. On 26 October 2017 he succeeded Jeroen Dijsselbloem as finance minister in the Third Rutte cabinet.

Succeeding Hugo de Jonge, Hoekstra has been leading the CDA party since 11 December 2020, and was therefore heading the CDA list for the general elections of 2021.

Wopke Hoekstra was born in Bennekom and is a Remonstrant. With his fiancé he has four children; they live in Bussum.

[[Dil Chahta Hai]]

Dil Chahta Hai (transl. The Heart Desires) is a 2001 Indian Hindi-language coming-of-age musical romantic comedy-drama movie, directed, produced, and written by Farhan Akhtar. It was also produced by Ritesh Sidhwani. The movie stars Aamir Khan, Saif Ali Khan, Akshaye Khanna, Preity Zinta, Sonali Kulkarni and Dimple Kapadia. The movie is set in present-day metropolitan Mumbai and Sydney, and spotlights on a significant time of progress in the romantic lives of three college-alumni friends. The music was composed by Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy.

The movie released on August 10, 2001 to positive reviews and was a success at the box office. In 2001, the movie won National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Hindi. Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy won the Best Music Director award.

[[Laistrygones]]

CATEGORIES: Greek mythology

The Laistrygones, Laestrygones or Lestrygonians are a race from ancient Greek mythology.  They are giants who eat humans.  They appear in the Odyssey by Homer.

[[Bennekom]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gelderland, Former municipalities of Gelderland

Bennekom (Low Saxon: Bennekum) is a village in the municipality of Ede, province of Gelderland, the Netherlands.

From 1812 to 1818 Bennekom also was a municipality.

About 15,000 people live in this village.

Bennekom lies south of the A24 motorway, and between the city of Ede in the north and the town of Wageningen in the south.

[[Lotophagi]]

A group of people also known as lotus eaters, who ate only lotus flowers, and were so addicted to them that they never left, they also offered these lotuses to Odysseus and his crew. The crew were very tempted to stay and eat lotus flowers, not knowing it would keep them there forever. But Odysseus pulled them back to the ship, leaving the island of the Lotophagi.

[[Edith Bunker]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Television characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1971

Edith Bunker is a fictional character from the 1970s sitcom All in the Family. She is the kind but sometimes clueless wife to Archie Bunker in the show. Edith Bunker is played by actress Jean Stapleton. Edith was first seen in the first episode of All in the Family which premiered on January 12, 1971. Edith was also in Archie Bunker's Place a little but dies of a stroke when not on the show .

[[Collective unconscious]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Collective unconscious refers to the things in the unconscious mind that are shared between beings of the same species. The term was made by Carl Jung. He said that the human collective unconscious is made up of instincts and archetypes. An archetype is a universal symbol. Some of the archetypes that Carl Jung talked about were The Great Mother, the Wise Old Man, the Shadow, Water, and the Tree of Life. He argued that the collective unconscious had a big influence on people's lives. Critics of the idea say that it is unscientific, fatalistic, or very hard to test scientifically. 

[[Tim McIntire]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 1986 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Timothy John McIntire (July 19, 1944 – April 15, 1986) was an American actor who is best known for playing the fictional character Alan Freed in the movie American Hot Wax (1978). He played Dickie in the 1968 pilot episode of All in the Family. But McIntire was replaced and the character's name was changed to "Michael Stivic". He is the son of John McIntire. McIntire had problems with alcohol and drugs and died on April 15, 1986 from congestive heart failure.

[[Surströmming]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish culture, Seafood dishes

Surströmming is a Swedish dish that is made by fermenting herring. It has been made at least since the 16th century. The herring is caught in spring, and just enough salt will be added so it does not spoil. The herring will ferment for at least six months. As a result, the dish has a strong smell, and an acidic taste. Since the 1940s, it is forbidden to sell Surströmming of the same year before the third thursday in August. While the decree is no longer valid, the producers still keep that date as begin of the sales of this year's batch. Very often, Baltic herring is used instead of Atlantic herring. Baltic herring is much smaller.

[[Girls in the Hood]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop songs, 2020 songs

"Girls in the Hood" is a hip hop song under American rapper Megan Thee Stallion. The song is off her studio album Good News (2020). Writing credits were given to Ice Cube, Eazy-E and Dr. Dre. 

The song heavily samples Eazy-E's 1987 song "Boyz-n-the-Hood". There is also a "modern" spin on the song.

The song is about misogyny (mistreatment of women by some men).

"Girls in the Hood" went to number 28 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.

[[Vincent Gardenia]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 1992 deaths, American television actors, Italian television actors

Vincent Gardenia (January 7, 1920 – December 9, 1992) was an Italian-American actor. He was born in Ercolano, Italy. In 1955, Gardenia was in Gunsmoke. Vincent Gardenia played Frank Lorenzo in the famous 1970s sitcom All in the Family. In 1990, Vincent won the Outstanding Supporting Actor award.

Gardenia died on December 9, 1992 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania at the age of 72.

[[Paris Underground (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s drama movies, American war movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Gregory Ratoff

Paris Underground, also known as Madame Pimpernel, is a 1945 American World War II drama movie directed by Gregory Ratoff and was based on the memoir of the same name by Etta Shiber. It stars Constance Bennett, Gracie Fields, Kurt Kreuger, Leslie Vincent, Eily Malyon, Gregory Gaye, George Rigaud, Vladimir Sokoloff, Richard Ryen and was distributed by United Artists. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[Gloria Stivic]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Television characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1971

Gloria Stivic is a fictional character from the American sitcom, All in the Family and Gloria. Gloria is the only child of Archie Bunker and Edith Bunker. Gloria is married to Michael Stivic in the show and they have a son. But Gloria and Michael get divorced and Gloria raises her son by herself. Gloria is played by actress Sally Struthers. Gloria is played by Kelly Jean Peters in the first pilot episode of All in the Family and the by Candice Azzara in the second pilot.

[[Michael Stivic]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Television characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1971

Michael Stivic is a fictional character from the American sitcom, All in the Family. Michael is played by actor Rob Reiner. Michael Stivic is of Polish descent and is the husband to Gloria Stivic in the show. They have one son together. Michael argues with Archie Bunker many times and Archie calls him a "Meathead." After the end of All in the Family Michael was in one episode of Archie Bunker's Place but Rob Reiner did not agree to play the character again in the show Gloria. In Gloria it is said that Michael divorces Gloria to live at a commune in California with another woman. 

[[French hood]]

CATEGORIES: Fashion, Headgear, 1500s in Europe

A French hood is a type of hat or headdress.  Women in Europe wore it in the 1500s.  It had a stiff, crescent-shaped frame that fit over the head like a headband.  The front and back sides of the frame had pearls, beads or other decoration on them.  The headband was attached to pieces of cloth called lappets that either covered the back of the head and most of the wearer's hair or were flipped forward onto the head.

Anne Boleyn, the second wife of Henry VIII, was one of the first people in the English court to wear French hoods.

[[Candice Azzara]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, American movie actors, Actors from Brooklyn, Living people

Candice Azzara (born May 18, 1945) is an American actress. She was in the movies Ocean's Twelve and Fatso. Azzara played Gloria Stivic is the second pilot episode of All in the Family.

[[Kubo and the Two Strings]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 animated movies, 2010s fantasy movies, American animated movies, American fantasy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Japan

Kubo and the Two Strings is a 2016 American animated fantasy movie set in Japan. It stars Charlize Theron, Art Parkinson, Ralph Fiennes, George Takei, Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa, Brenda Vaccaro, Rooney Mara, and Matthew McConaughey. It was released on August 13, 2016. It was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Animated Film.

[[The Woman in the Window]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 movies, 1940s crime movies, 1940s thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Fritz Lang

The Woman in the Window is a 1944 American crime thriller movie directed by Fritz Lang and was based on the novel Once Off Guard by J. H. Wallis. It stars Edward G. Robinson, Joan Bennett, Raymond Massey, Edmund Breon, Arthur Loft and was distributed by RKO Pictures. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[Rhapsody in Blue (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, American biographical movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Irving Rapper

Rhapsody in Blue is a 1945 American biographical movie directed by Irving Rapper and starring Robert Alda, Will Wright, Joan Leslie, Hazel Scott, Alexis Smith, Charles Coburn, Oscar Levant, Julie Bishop, Albert Bassermann, Al Jolson. It was distributed by Warner Bros. and was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1946.

[[Waterloo tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Bakerloo Line stations, Northern Line stations, Jubilee Line stations, London Borough of Lambeth, 1898 establishments in England

Waterloo is a London Underground station located below Waterloo National Rail station. It was opened on 8 August 1898 and is one of the busiest stations in London. 

[[Tonight and Every Night]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies based on plays

Tonight and Every Night is a 1945 American musical movie directed by Victor Saville and was based on the 1942 play Heart of the City by Lesley Storm. It stars Rita Haywood, Lee Bowman, Janet Blair, Leslie Brooks, Dusty Anderson, Jim Bannon, Florence Bates and was distributed by Columbia Pictures and was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1946.

[[Sunbonnet Sue]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s comedy movies, American musical comedy movies

Subonnet Sue is a 1945 American musical comedy movie directed by Ralph Murphy and starring Gale Storm, Phil Regan, George Cleveland, Minna Gombell, Edna Holland, Raymond Hatton, Alan Mowbray. It was distributed by Monogram Pictures and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[Samudragupta]]

CATEGORIES: Indian monarchs, 330s births, 370s deaths

Samudragupta (Gupta script:  Sa-mu-dra-gu-pta, r. c. (350-375 CE) was a ruler of the Gupta Empire of Ancient India. He was a son of the Gupta emperor Chandragupta I and the Licchavi princess Kumaradevi. He greatly expanded his dynasty's political power.

The Allahabad Pillar inscription, a prashasti (eulogy) was written by his courtier Harishena. It told of his many military conquests. It suggests that he defeated several kings of northern India. Also, that he added their territories to his empire. He also marched along the south-eastern coast of India. He advanced to move as far as the Pallava kingdom. In addition, he subjugated several frontier kingdoms and tribal oligarchies.

Samudragupta performed the Ashvamedha sacrifice to prove his imperial sovereignty. According to his coins, he remained undefeated. His gold coins and inscriptions suggest that he was an accomplished poet. He also played music. His expansionist policy was continued by his son Chandragupta II.

[[Wonder Man (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by H. Bruce Humberstone

Wonder Man is a 1945 American musical movie directed by H. Bruce Humberstone and was based on the short story by Arthur Sheekman. It stars Danny Kaye, Donald Woods, Virginia Mayo, Vera-Ellen, Allen Jenkins, Edward Brophy, Steve Cochran, Otto Kruger and won an Academy Award in 1946 and was nominated for 2 others. It was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures.

[[Why Girls Leave Home]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies

Why Girls Leave Home is a 1945 American drama movie directed by William Berke and starring Lola Lane, Sheldon Leonard, Pamela Blake, Elisha Cook Jr., Paul Guilfoyle, Constance Worth, Claudia Drake, Virginia Brissac, Fred Kohler. It was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1946.

[[Kizuna AI]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional robots, YouTubers

Kizuna AI is a Japanese virtual Youtuber. She has around 5 million followers on YouTube and Bilibili. Kizuna AI posted her first YouTube video on her “A.I. Channel” on 29 November 2016. She opened a second channel, “A.I.Games” on 29 November 2016. She opened a third channel, “A.I.Channel China” on June 2019 for people in China.

Kizuna says that she is the world's first virtual Youtuber. However the first channel to use a character made with computer graphics on YouTube was Ami Yamato. Kizuna’s videos are similar to many other YouTubers. She does discussions, Q &A videos, and “Let’s Play” videos. Kizuna only speaks Japanese, so fans write translations for her videos. Kizuna has performed at  anime gatherings, and has also worked with  game companies.

Kizuna AI was made by a company called Activ8 in 2016. She is part of a project called Project A.I. In 2018, the project was moved to a in-house agency called upd8. In 24 April 2020, the project was moved to a new company called Kizuna AI Inc. At the same time, Nozomi Kasuga, a Japanese voice actress, announced that she was the voice of Kizuna AI. Kasuga is also the advisor of the new company. Kizuna AI Inc. started business on 11 May 2020. The CEO is Eriko Matsumoto.

[[Can't Help Singing]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s western movies, American musical movies, American western movies

Can't Help Singing is a 1944 American western musical movie directed by Frank Ryan and was based on the story by John D. Klorer and Leo Townsend. It stars Deanna Durbin, Robert Paige, Akim Tamiroff, Leonid Kinskey, June Vincent, Andrew Tombes, Thomas Gomez and was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1946. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Grand Union Canal (old)]]

CATEGORIES: Canals, Buildings and structures in England, Transport in England

The Grand Union Canal was a canal in England from Foxton, Leicestershire on the Leicestershire and Northamptonshire Union Canal to Norton Junction, close to Long Buckby Wharf on the Grand Junction Canal. 

It now forms the first 23 of the Leicester Section, a branch of the much bigger modern Grand Union Canal.

The creation of the canal system in central England was hugely important to the industrial revolution. It allowed the raw materials and the products to be moved cheaply. Many factories back onto rivers or canals all over industrial England. Moving heavy loads  and coal is heavy!  is cheapest and best done on water.

[[Grand Union Canal]]

CATEGORIES: Canals, Geography of England, Transport in England, Northamptonshire, Warwickshire, Berkshire, Leicestershire, Buckinghamshire, Hertfordshire

The Grand Union Canal in England is part of the British canal system. Its main line starts in London and ends in Birmingham. It is 137 with 166 locks. It has arms to places including Leicester, Slough, Aylesbury, Wendover and Northampton.

The Grand Union Canal was also the original name for what now generally referred to as the Old Grand Union Canal to avoid ambiguity.

[[Adam Ellison]]

CATEGORIES: American scientists, Glass, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Adam J. Ellison (born August 7, 1961) is a materials scientist at Corning Glassworks.  He did most of the work of creating Gorilla Glass, which is used in cell phones.

In 2016, Ellison was elected a member of the National Academy of Engineering for the invention of advanced glasses with widespread use in mobile device displays.

[[Imus]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Philippines, 2012 establishments in Asia, Establishments in the Philippines

Imus is a de jure city in the province of Cavite, is known the official capital of the province after Trece Martires it is also knowned nicknamed as the "Christmas Capital of the Philippines". The former municipality was officially converted into a city following a referendum on June 30, 2012. Because of its location at the entrance to Cavite from Metro Manila, Imus was the site of two major Katipunero victories during the Philippine Revolution against Spanish.

[[Sylvirana lacrima]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

Sylvirana lacrima is a frog from Myanmar.

Scientists think this might be related to Sylvirana nigrovittata.

[[Chase Chrisley]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, American television actors, Actors from South Carolina, Living people

Chase Chrisley (born June 1, 1996) is an American actor. He is the son of Chrisley family of Todd and Julie. He is best known in the TV series Chrisley Known Best as himself, Chrisley started his career on the TV series of The View.

[[Dustin McNeer]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Living people, American models, Models from North Carolina

Dustin McNeer (born May 28, 1997) is a American male model, He is best known as a contestant in "America's Next Top Model (season 22)". created by Tyra Banks, McNeer got a 7th place in the elimination rank list.

[[Connor Hunter]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, Actors from Essex, Living people

Connor Hunter (born 16 April 1996) is an English model and actor. He is best known for his role in the TV series of Ex on the Beach.

[[Ali Ansarian]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, 2021 deaths, Iranian footballers, Persian Gulf Pro League players, Azadegan League players, Esteghlal F.C. players, Gostaresh Foulad F.C. players, Persepolis F.C. players, Iran international footballers, Association football defenders, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Iran, Sportspeople from Tehran

Ali Ansarian (علی انصاریان; 5 July 1977 – 3 February 2021) was an Iranian football player. He died on 3 February 2021 due to COVID-19.

[[Acasta Gneiss]]

CATEGORIES: Igneous rocks, Hadean, Geography of Canada

The Acasta Gneiss is the oldest rock in the world. It is in the Slave craton in Northwest Territories, Canada. 

The rock body is exposed on an island about 300 kilometres north of Yellowknife. The rock of the outcrop was metamorphosed 3.58 to 4.031 billion (109) years ago. It is the oldest known intact crustal fragment on Earth.

The nearby Acasta River east of Great Bear Lake gave the rock its name. It is the oldest known exposed rock in the world.

The rock, before it was metamorphized, was a granitoid that formed 4.03 billion years ago. This age is based on radiometric dating of zircon crystals at 4.031x109 years. The Acasta Gneiss is important in establishing the early history of the continental crust. 

[[Council for Mutual Economic Assistance]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 establishments, 1991 disestablishments, 20th century in Vietnam, Cold War, Economic history, Economics organizations, History of Europe, History of the Soviet Union, Politics of the Soviet Union, Socialism

The Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (COMECON) was an economic organization from 1949 to 1991 under the leadership of the Soviet Union that consisted of Eastern Bloc countries along with other socialist states all over the world.

Comecon was set up to stop countries in the Soviet sphere of influence from moving towards that of the United States. Comecon was how the Eastern Bloc responded to the Marshall Plan.

[[Nika Melia]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Members of the Parliament of Georgia, United National Movement (Georgia) politicians, Living people

Nikanor "Nika" Melia (born 21 December 1979) is a Georgian politician. He was a member of Parliament of Georgia from 2016 to 2019. He is also a member of parliament of Georgia from United National Movement since December 2020. He holds a master's degree in International Relations from Oxford Brookes University.

[[Origin of water on Earth]]

CATEGORIES: Water, Earth

The origin of water on Earth is only partly known. Life as we know it depends on water, and most types of life started in the seas. Earth is the only planet known with liquid water on its surface. The water on Earth may have come from the Solar System as it formed, or it may have formed on Earth. Both are possible.

Our planet is in the habitable zone, not so far out that all water freezes, and not so close to the Sun that all water evaporates into space. This is why liquid water, necessary for life as we know it, continues to exist on the surface of Earth.

It was long thought that Earth’s water did not come from the planet’s region of the protoplanetary disk. Instead, it was thought water must have been delivered to Earth from the outer Solar System later in its history. However, recent research suggests that hydrogen inside the Earth played a role in the formation of the ocean. The two ideas are not mutually exclusive: there is evidence water was delivered to Earth by impacts from icy planetesimals similar in composition to asteroids in the outer edges of the asteroid belt.

One problem, not yet resolved, is that the noble gas isotope ratios of Earth's atmosphere are different from those of its mantle. This suggests they were formed from different sources.

[[Untriseptium]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements

Untriseptium (), also called eka-dubniumFebruary 2021 or element 137, is a possible chemical element which has not been synthesized. Due to instabilities, it is not known if this element is possible, as the instabilities may hint that the periodic table ends soon after the island of stability at unbihexium.  Its atomic number is 137 and symbol is Uts.

The name untriseptium is a temporary name.

[[Aleksandr Nazarchuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Russian politicians

Aleksandr Nazarchuk (6 August 1939 – 1 February 2021) was a Russian politician. He was Minister of Agriculture from 1994 to 1996. He also was Chairman of the Altai Krai Legislative Assembly.

[[Héctor Epalza Quintero]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Roman Catholic bishops, Roman Catholic priests, People from Bogotá

Héctor Epalza Quintero (4 June 1940 – 2 February 2021) was a Colombian Roman Catholic bishop. Epalza Quintero was born in Bogota, Colombia. He became a priest in 1965. He was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Buenaventura, Colombia from 2004 until 2017.

Epalza Quintero died on 2 February 2021 in Buenaventura, Columbia at the age of 80.

[[Fausta Morganti]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic, Sammarinese people

Fausta Simona Morganti (20 August 1944 – 2 February 2021) was a Sammarinese politician. She was one of the two Captains Regent of San Marino. Morganti was elected for the six-months term from 1 April 2005 to 1 October 2005, with Cesare Gasperoni. Morganti was a member of the Party of Democrats.

She died of COVID-19 in San Marino on 2 February 2021, aged 76.

[[Frank Baude]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Swedish politicians, People from Gothenburg, Communist politicians, Political activists

Frank Torvald Baude (6 July 1936 – 4 February 2021) was a Swedish politician and bricklayer. He was chairman of the Communist Party Marxist-Leninists (the revolutionaries) from 1970 to 1998. He was born in Gothenburg, Sweden.

Baude died in Gothenburg from a heart attack on 4 February 2021, aged 84.

[[Lokman Slim]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2021 deaths, Lebanese people, Critics, Political activists, Political commentators, Murders by firearm, Assassinated people

Lokman Mohsen Slim (لقمان محسن سليم; 1962 – 4 February 2021) was a Lebanese publisher and independent social and political activist. He was a commentator on Lebanese and Middle East politics. He was a well known critic of the Hezbollah. 

Slim was found shot dead in a car in southern Lebanon on 4 February 2021, aged 58.

[[Samuel Vestey, 3rd Baron Vestey]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, United Kingdom Barons, Businesspeople from London

Samuel George Armstrong Vestey, 3rd Baron Vestey, GBR (19 March 1941 – February 2021) was a British peer, landowner, and businessman. Lord Vestey was Master of the Horse to The Queen. He was Chairman of the Vestey Holdings.

Vestey was appointed as a permanent Lord-in-waiting to The Queen in August 2019.

His death was announced on 4 February 2021, aged 79.

[[You're the Best Thing That Ever Happened to Me]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 songs

"You're the Best Thing That Ever Happened To Me" — also known simply as "Best Thing That Ever Happened To Me" — is a song written by Jim Weatherly, and produced by Don Law. It was first recorded in 1973 by Ray Price from his album You're the Best Thing That Ever Happened To Me. 

Many singers recorded their own versions of the song such as: Gladys Knight, Dean Martin, Steve Lawrence and Andy Williams.

[[Kris De Bruyne]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, Belgian musicians, Belgian singers, Guitarists, Singer-songwriters, Writers from Antwerp

Kristiaan “Kris” De Bruyne (20 March 1950 – 3 February 2021) was a Belgian singer-songwriter and guitarist. He was born in Antwerp, Belgium. His best known songs are Amsterdam, Vilvoorde City, Lydia d'Ile Dieu, Het Varken van de Hoge Venen, Waar ik voor leef, Lieve Jacoba, Ballerina's, De peulschil and De onverbiddelijke zoener.

De Bruyne died on 3 February 2021 in Antwerp, aged 70.

[[Jim Weatherly]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, American country singers, American pop singers, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Mississippi, Writers from Mississippi

James Dexter Weatherly (March 17, 1943spndFebruary 3, 2021) was an American singer-songwriter. He wrote mostly pop and country music. His best-known song is "Midnight Train to Georgia", recorded by Gladys Knight & the Pips.  It peaked to number 1 on the pop and R&B charts, and went on to win a Grammy Award.

He also wrote "Neither One of Us (Wants to Be the First to Say Goodbye)" and "Best Thing That Ever Happened to Me".

He played quarterback at the University of Mississippi.

Weatherly died on February 3, 2021, at his home in Brentwood, Tennessee at the age of 77.

[[Patrick Lebon]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Belgian movie directors, Belgian screenwriters, People from Antwerp

Patrick Lebon (2 January 1940 – 3 February 2021) was a Belgian movie director and screenwriter. He was born in Antwerp, Belgium. His career began in 1965 with the movie Huuh huuh. He also directed Salut en de kost, Hellegat (film), Zaman, and Paniekzaaiers (film). Many of his movies are thought to be the best Belgian movies of all time.

Lebon died on 3 February 2021 in Antwerp, aged 81.

[[Abdoul Aziz Mbaye]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2021 deaths, Senegalese politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic, People from Dakar

Abdoul Aziz Mbaye (18 October 1954 – 3 February 2021) was a Senegalese politician. He was Chief of Staff for President Macky Sall. He was appointed Minister of Culture on 29 October 2012. He was born in Dakar, French West Africa.

Mbaye died of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Senegal on 3 February 2021, at the age of 66.

[[Pong Sarasin]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Thai politicians, Thai businesspeople

Pong Sarasin (Thai:  พงส์ สารสิน; 16 July 1927 – 3 February 2021) was a Thai businessman and politician. He was a member of Major General Chatichai Choonhavan and Prem Tinsulanonda's cabinet. He was acting Deputy Prime Minister from 1986 to 1990.

Sarasin died on 3 February 2021 in Bangkok, aged 93.

[[Jean-Daniel Simon]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, French movie directors, French screenwriters

Jean-Daniel Simon (30 November 1942 – 3 February 2021) was a French movie director, screenwriter and actor. He directed eight movies between 1968 and 1985. He was known for his movies Vice and Virtue (1963), Love at Sea (1964), Adélaïde (1968) and Camp de Thiaroye (1988). Simon was born in Salon-de-Provence, Bouches-du-Rhône, France.

Simon died on 3 February 2021 in Paris, aged 78.

[[Albán Vermes]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, Hungarian sportspeople, Hungarian swimmers, Olympic silver medalists

Albán Vermes (19 June 1957 – 3 February 2021) was a Hungarian swimmer. He participated at the 1980 Summer Olympics, winning a silver medal in 200 metre breaststroke. He was born in Eger, Hungary.

Vermes died on 3 February 2021, aged 63.

[[Wayne Terwilliger]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, Chicago Cubs players, Brooklyn Dodgers players, Washington Nationals players, New York Giants (NL) players, Kansas City Athletics players, Sportspeople from Michigan, Deaths from dementia, Deaths from bladder cancer

Willard Wayne Terwilliger (June 27, 1925 – February 3, 2021), nicknamed "Twig", was an American professional baseball second baseman. He played nine seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) between 1949 and 1960. He played for the Chicago Cubs, Brooklyn Dodgers, Washington Senators, New York Giants, and Kansas City Athletics. Terwilliger was born in Clare, Michigan.

Terwilliger died on February 3, 2021 in Weatherford, Texas from problems caused by dementia and bladder cancer, aged 95.

[[Margreth Weivers]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish stage actors, Actors from Stockholm

Margreth Weivers (24 July 1926 – 3 February 2021) was a Swedish actress. She appeared in more than 100 movies and television shows. Her career began in 1943. She was born in Stockholm, Sweden. 

Weivers was known for her roles in A Swedish Love Story (1970), The Man from Majorca (1984), Det är långt till New York (1988), Lotta på Bråkmakargatan (1992), Spring of Joy (1993), Lotta flyttar hemifrån (1993), Glasblåsarns barn (1998), En häxa i familjen (2000), Jönssonligan spelar högt (2000) and The Dog Hotel (2000).

Weivers died on 3 February 2021 in Stockholm, aged 94.

[[Haya Harareet]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Israeli movie actors, Israeli stage actors, Israeli television actors, Jewish Israeli actors, People from Haifa

Haya Harareet (חיה נויברג) (20 September 1931 – 3 February 2021) was an Israeli actress. She was best known for playing Esther, Charlton Heston's love interest in the 1959 movie Ben Hur. Harareet was born in Haifa, Mandatory Palestine (present-day Israel). Her career lasted from 1955 to 1974.

Harareet died on 3 February 2021 in Marlow, Buckinghamshire at the age of 89.

[[Tony Trabert]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, American tennis players, American sports commentators, Sportspeople from Cincinnati, Ohio, French Open champions, Australian Open champions, Wimbledon champions, US Open (tennis) champions

Marion Anthony Trabert (August 16, 1930 – February 3, 2021) was an American amateur World No. 1 tennis player and commentator. He was born in Cincinnati, Ohio. He won the French Open in 1954 and 1955, the Australian Open in 1955 the Wimbledon Championships in 1955, and the US Open in 1953, 1954 and 1955.

Trabert died on February 3, 2021 at his home in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida at the age of 90.

[[Robert A. Altman]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, American lawyers, American chief executives, Businesspeople from Washington, D.C.

Robert Alan Altman (February 23, 1947 – February 4, 2021) was an American business executive and lawyer. He was the co-founder, chairman, and CEO of ZeniMax Media. He worked as a lawyer in Washington, D.C. Altman also was on the Advisory Board of The George Washington University Law School.

From 1984 until his death, Altman was married to actress Lynda Carter. They had two children.

Altman died on February 4, 2021 at a hospital in Baltimore, Maryland from problems caused by surgery, aged 73.

[[Hichem Mechichi]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1974 births, Prime Ministers of Tunisia

Hichem Mechichi (هشام المشيشي; born January 1974) is a Tunisian politician. On 2 September 2020, he became the Prime Minister of Tunisia. He was the Minister of the Interior from February to September 2020.

After a series of protests, President Kais Saied fired Mechichi as prime minister on 25 July 2021.

[[María Alejandra Muñoz]]

CATEGORIES: Vice Presidents of Ecuador, 1979 births, Living people, People from Guayaquil

María Alejandra Muñoz Seminario (born c. 1979) is an Ecuadorian politician and lawyer. She was the Vice President of Ecuador from 2020 until 2021. She is the third female to hold this position, after Rosalía Arteaga and Maria Alejandra Vicuña.

On July 17, 2020, Muñoz was elected as vice president by the National Assembly, after receiving 75 votes in favor of her election. She was sworn in on July 22, 2020.

[[Upper mantle]]

CATEGORIES: Structure of the Earth

The upper mantle is a part of the Earth's mantle. The upper mantle begins below the Earth's crust and it ends at a depth of around 410 kilometres. The upper mantle is made up of two sections, the lithosphere and the asthenosphere.

[[David Harvey]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, British anthropologists, British geographers, British economists, Marxism, Writers from Kent

David W. Harvey GBR (born 31 October 1935) is a British-born Marxist economic geographer. He is a professor of anthropology and geography at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York (CUNY). He is known for his support of the idea of the right to the city.

In 2007, Harvey was listed as the 18th most-cited author of books in the humanities and social sciences in that year.

[[D. N. Jha]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 deaths, Indian historians

Dwijendra Narayan Jha (died 4 February 2021) was an Indian historian of ancient and medieval India. He was a professor of history at Delhi University. He was a member of the Indian Council of Historical Research. He was a known critic of against Hindu nationalist ideology. 

Jha died on 4 February 2021, at age 81.

[[Adelaide João]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2021 deaths, Portuguese movie actors, People from Lisbon, Portuguese television actors, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic

Adelaide João (born Maria da Glória Pereira da Silva; 27 July 1921 – 3 February 2021) was a Portuguese actress. She was Lisbon, Portugal. Her career began in 1960. She starred in The End of the World, which was shown at the 1993 Cannes Film Festival.

João died on 3 February 2021 from COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Portugal in Lisbon, aged 99.

[[Centerville, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tennessee, County seats in Tennessee

Centerville is a town in Hickman County, Tennessee, United States. The population was 3,644 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat, and the only incorporated city or town in Hickman County. 

[[David Shepard (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Tennessee, US Democratic Party politicians

David A. Shepard (October 6, 1947 – February 4, 2021) was an American Democratic politician. He was a member of the Tennessee House of Representatives from 2001 to 2017. In November 2018, Shepard was elected Dickson County Commissioner. He was born in Centerville, Tennessee.

Shepard died on February 4, 2021 in Charlotte, Tennessee at the age of 73.

[[Arizona House of Representatives]]

CATEGORIES: State lower houses in the United States, Arizona

The Arizona House of Representatives is the lower house of the Arizona Legislature, the state legislature of the U.S. state of Arizona. 

The upper house is the Senate.  Its members are elected to two-year terms with a term limit of four terms (eight years). Members of the Republican Party currently hold a narrow majority in the House.

[[Arizona Senate]]

CATEGORIES: State upper houses in the United States, Arizona

The Arizona Senate is part of the Arizona Legislature, the state legislature of the US state of Arizona. The Senate is made up of 30 members. Members serve two-year terms with term limits that limit Senators to four terms for a total of eight years. Members of the Republican Party are currently the majority in the Senate.

[[Stellar black hole]]

CATEGORIES: Black holes

A stellar black hole (or stellar-mass black hole) is a type of black hole formed by the gravitational collapse of a star.

For one to be made, a star five to several tens the mass of our Sun must explode into a supernova.

The process is seen as a hypernova explosion, or as a gamma ray burst. These black holes are also called collapsars.

[[Putin's palace. History of world's largest bribe]]

CATEGORIES: Documentary movies, Russian movies

rightPutin's palace. History of world's largest bribe is a 2021 Russian documentary movie made by the Anti-Corruption Foundation (FBK). The documentary is about the building of "Putin's Palace".

Putin said that he didn't own the palace.

[[Bullion]]

CATEGORIES: Metals

Bullion (from the french word for "boiling") refers to coins, jewellery and bars made of a precious metal such as gold or silver, that are bought and stored simply as an investment in the prices of the metal(s) they are made of.

Unlike numismatic coins, a bullion coin is a coin, new or old, that is bought only for the price of the metal it is made of, not for its condition, age or any other value, british gold sovereigns are a common historic bullion coin, and most countries produce a coin meant solely for bullion purposes in different weights, e.g american silver eagle.

Bullion can also be in the form of bars of precious metal in different weights (and thus sizes) bars can easily be stacked and are easier to sort then coins as only the weight needs to be taken into consideration.

It may also be jewellery such as neck chains, pocket watch cases and pendants.

Typical bullion metals include:

Silver

Gold

Platinum

Palladium

Due to it's relatively small size and high value, bullion is often stolen in robberies and burglaries, as a result it is mainly stored in safes, some people who invest in bullion may choose to pay to have it stored in a safe deposit box at a local bank, rather then a safe in their own home.

"Stacking" is an informal term for the act of collecting bullion.

Low value bullion is sometimes carried in a pocket or worn as jewellery.Source

[[Texas's 13th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Texas

Texas's 13th congressional district is a congressional district from the state of Texas. The district is made up of most of the Texas Panhandle. The cities in the district are Amarillo, Gainesville and Wichita Falls. The 13th district is bigger than thirteen states. The district elects a representative to represent the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Republican Ronny Jackson. The district votes for Republicans almost every election. 

[[117th United States Congress]]

CATEGORIES: United States Congress

The 117th United States Congress is the 117th and current legislative cycle for the United States Senate and the United States House of Representatives. It started on January 3, 2021, as a result of the 2020 United States Senate elections, 2020 United States House of Representatives elections and the 2020 United States presidential election. The 117th Congress will end on January 3, 2023 and the 118th United States Congress will begin. The Democratic Party controls the Senate and the House of Representatives. In the Senate there are 50 Democratic senators and 50 Republican senators. Vice President of the United States, Kamala Harris only votes when it is a tie. She votes for the Democrats. In the House of Representatives, the Democrats have 221 people and the Republicans have 211.

[[Incendiary Blonde]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s drama movies, American biographical movies, American musical movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by George Marshall

Incendiary Blonde is a 1945 American biographical musical drama movie directed by George Marshall and starring Betty Hutton, Arturo de Córdova, Charlie Ruggles, Barry Fitzgerald, Albert Dekker, Bill Goodwin, Eduardo Ciannelli. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[Hitchhike to Happiness]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s musical movies, American musical movies

Hitchhike to Happiness is a 1945 American musical movie directed by Joseph Santley and starring Al Pearce, Dale Evans, William Frawley, Jerome Cowan, Willie Trenk, Arlene Harris, Joyce Compton, Irving Bacon. It was distributed by Republic Pictures and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[Government Seal of Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Japan, Heraldry

The Government Seal of Japan is one of the country's national seals.  It looks like a flowering plant called a paulownia.  The government of Japan and cabinet use it. It is one of many paulownia mon, collectively known as the Paulownia Seals (桐紋, kirimon) or the Paulownia Flower Seals (桐花紋, tōkamon).

The seal is the official emblem of the Japanese Prime Minister and the Cabinet.

The 5–7 Paulownia (五七桐, go-shichi (no) kiri) is used as the official emblem of the Prime Minister of Japan. It looks like a stylized paulownia plant with 5–7–5 flowers.

Before the Chrysanthemum Seal was used extensively, the Paulownia Seal originally was the private symbol of the Japanese Imperial Family, from as early as the sixteenth century. The Toyotomi clan, led by Toyotomi Hideyoshi, later adopted the Paulownia Seal to be their family crest. After the Meiji Restoration, the seal was eventually adopted as the emblem of the Japanese government.

It is now still mainly used by the Japanese government, as a contrast to the Chrysanthemum Seal which represents the Emperor as the symbol of the sovereignty of the State, and members of the Imperial Family.

[[2021 Russian protests]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 in Europe, January 2021 events, February 2021 events, History of Russia, Politics of Russia

The 2021 Russian protests are a series of street protests in support of Alexei Navalny. They were caused by his locking up and the release of Alexei Navalny's film Putin's palace. History of world's largest bribe. They began on 23 January 2021. They are taking place in Russia. People are taking themselves on the streets in support of the Russian people in other countries too.

[[Anloo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Drenthe, Former municipalities of Drenthe, Aa en Hunze

Anloo is a small village in the municipality of Aa en Hunze, province of Drenthe, the Netherlands.

As of 2020, about 450 people lived in the village.

Anloo also was a municipality until 1998.

[[Gasselte]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Drenthe, Former municipalities of Drenthe, Aa en Hunze

Gasselte is a small village in the municipality of Aa en Hunze, province of Drenthe, the Netherlands.

As of 2020, about 1,800 people lived in the village.

Gasselte also was a municipality until 1998.

[[Gieten]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Drenthe, Former municipalities of Drenthe, Aa en Hunze

Gieten is a village in the municipality of Aa en Hunze, province of Drenthe, the Netherlands.

As of 2020, about 5,000 people lived in the village.

Gieten also was a municipality until 1998.

[[Rolde]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Drenthe, Former municipalities of Drenthe, Aa en Hunze

Rolde is a village in the municipality of Aa en Hunze, province of Drenthe, the Netherlands.

As of 2020, about 3,800 people lived in the village.

Rolde also was a municipality until 1998.

[[Putin's Palace]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces in Russia

"Putin's Palace" ("Дворец Путина"), is also known as the Residence at Cape Idokopas. 

It is a palace on the Black Sea coast near Gelendzhik, Krasnodar Krai, Russia. Sergei Kolesnikov and the Anti-Corruption Foundation (FBK), led by Alexei Navalny, said the palace was built for President Vladimir Putin.

On 30 January 2021, Arkady Rotenberg said he owned the palace. Rotenberg said that he wanted the residence to be an apartment hotel.

[[Guest in the House]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 movies, 1940s thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Lewis Milestone

Guest in the House (re-release title Satan in Skirts) is a 1944 American thriller movie directed by John Brahm and was based on the play of the same name. It stars Anne Baxter, Ralph Bellamy, Aline MacMahon, Ruth Warrick, Marie McDonald, Jerome Cowan, Percy Kilbride and was distributed by United Artists. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[G. I. Honeymoon]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Phil Karlson

G. I. Honeymoon is a 1945 American comedy movie directed by Phil Karlson and starring Gale Storm, Peter Cookson, Arline Judge, Frank Jenks, Jerome Cowan. It was distributed by Monogram Pictures and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[Guest Wife]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Sam Wood

Guest Wife is a 1945 American comedy movie directed by Sam Wood and starring Claudette Colbert, Don Ameche, Dick Foran, Charles Dingle, Irving Bacon. It was distributed by United Artists and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[Windows Mobile 6.5]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft Windows software

Windows Mobile 6.5 is an officially released for Windows Mobile, was another product names is Windows Mobile 7, is the second officially released for Windows Mobile development for Microsoft, Windows Mobile 7 is an names from the development Windows Mobile 6.5, not codenamed, was released on May 11, 2009, the Windows Mobile operating system can be extended support after on July 15, 2011, at the Official from Microsoft on 2011.

[[Jacques]]

Jacques is a French male given name and surname.

[[Sophie]]

Sophie is a version of the female given name Sophia, meaning "wisdom". 

[[Hylarana malayana]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Asia, Frogs

Hylarana malayana is a frog from Myanmar and India.

Scientists think this might be related to Sylvirana nigrovittata.

[[Opekta]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 establishments in Europe, 1995 disestablishments in Europe, Food companies, Companies of the Netherlands, Companies of Germany, Amsterdam, Cologne

Opekta was a European pectin that was ran between 1928 and 1995. It became popular and renamed to Anne Frank House as the Legacy of Anne Frank grows, and her book The Diary of a Young Girl.

[[Hurricane Ethel (1960)]]

CATEGORIES: Category 3 Atlantic hurricanes, Hurricanes in Louisiana, Disasters in the 1960s, 1960 in the United States, 1960s in Louisiana, 20th century in Mississippi

Hurricane Ethel was one of two major hurricanes in the 1960 Atlantic hurricane season. The sixth known tropical cyclone, fifth named storm, and fourth hurricane of the season, Ethel was created from a disturbance in the Gulf of Mexico on September 14.

[[History of modern Manipur]]

CATEGORIES: History of Manipur

The history of modern Manipur covers the history of Manipur from the Seven Years Devastation from the Burmese Empire to the present day.

[[Debevoise Plimpton]]

Debevoise & Plimpton LLP (often shortened to Debevoise) is a global law firm based in New York City. Founded in 1931 by Harvard Law School alumnus Eli Whitney Debevoise and Oxford-trained William Stevenson, Debevoise specializes in strategic and private equity, M&A, insurance and financial services transactions, private funds, complex litigation, investigations, and international arbitration. As of 2021, the law firm is assisting the Democratic Party in the Second impeachment trial of Donald Trump.

[[Cravath Swaine Moore]]

Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP (known as Cravath) is an American law firm with its headquarters in New York City, and an additional office in London. The firm, one of the most prestigious law firms in the United States, is known for its complex and high profile litigation and mergers & acquisitions work.

[[Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison]]

Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP (known as Paul, Weiss) is an international law firm headquartered on Sixth Avenue in New York City.

[[Illinois's 7th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Abraham Lincoln, Congressional districts of Illinois

Illinois 7th congressional district is a congressional district in the state of Illinois. The district covers the towns and cities of Bellwood, Chicago, Forest Park, Oak Park, Maywood, and Westchester. The district elects a representative to represent the district is the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Democrat Danny K. Davis who has represented the district since January 1997. The 16th President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln used to represent this district from 1847 to 1849.

[[Musa]]

Musa may refer to:

[[Chahi Taret Khuntakpa]]

CATEGORIES: History

"Chahi Taret Khuntakpa" (ꯆꯍꯤ ꯇꯔꯦꯠ ꯈꯨꯟꯇꯥꯛꯄ) (literally, "Seven Years Devastation") was a dark period in the history of modern Manipur, during which Manipur was occupied by the Burmese empire, imposing chaos and anarchism to the kingdom, from 1819 AD to 1826 AD (3212 MF-3218 MF).

[[Dear Evan Hansen]]

CATEGORIES: Musicals, Tony Award winning musicals, West End musicals, Broadway musicals

[[Philosophical zombie]]

CATEGORIES: Epistemology

A philosophical zombie is a hypothetical person without qualia. Qualia is the experiences and sensations that someone feels inside. For example, if a philosophical zombie was poked by a sharp object, they would not feel pain but react as if they did. They would not have any thoughts or emotions but they act as if they do. Philosophical zombies are used as thought experiments in philosophy of mind and philosophy of perception.  

[[2020–21 United States election protests]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States presidential election, 2021 in the United States, Donald Trump, Joe Biden, Riots in the United States

[[Khamba Thoibi Jagoi]]

CATEGORIES: Dance, Jagoi

"Khamba Thoibi Jagoi" (ꯈꯝꯕ ꯊꯣꯢꯕꯤ ꯖꯒꯣꯢ) (Khamba Thoibi Dance) is a folk dance form, originated from the Ancient Moirang kingdom of Manipur. It is a duet of male and female partners, dedicated to Lord Thangjing, the presiding deity of Ancient Moirang. 

The dance form is believed to be first performed by Khuman Khamba and Moirang Thoibi, in the premise of the deity.

[[Viola Amherd]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Swiss politicians, Living people

Viola Amherd (born 7 June 1962) is a Swiss politician. She is a Member of the Swiss Federal Council since 2019. She is also a member of the Christian Democratic People's Party.

[[Rochechouart crater]]

CATEGORIES: Craters, meteorites

The Rochechouart crater is a place in France where a meteorite, a rock from outer space, hit the surface of the Earth, leaving a crater. The meteorite hit came during the Jurassic or Triassic period. Rochechouart is between the Haute-Vienne and the Charente.

The last four estimates (since 2010) are converging toward an age between 203 and 207 million years, in the Rhaetian, two to five million years older than the TriassicJurassic boundary.

Some scientists think that the Rochechouart crater is part of a group of five craters that happened at about the same time.  They think a large meteor or comet broke into pieces and many of the pieces hit the Earth.

[[Tobacco smoking]]

CATEGORIES: Smoking

Tobacco smoking or cigarette smoking is when a person breathes in and breathes out smoke from a cigarette using a lighter. Smoking is harmful to the lungs, and can cause many diseases such as cancer, pneumonia, and many others. When a user smokes, the chemicals from inside the cigarette damage the body, including the smoke, making the person more likely to get certain diseases.

In public areas such as arenas or police stations, smoking is usually not allowed. This is because the smoke from the cigarette goes into the air, and can be breathed in by other people. Signs have to be placed in public areas to stop people from smoking while there. If a man was smoking while walking near a police station and he didn’t listen to the sign, he would have questions asked to him or be arrested by police. 

Smoking can cause heart attacks, if continued for years of using tobacco or any other powders used for smoking, including marijuana. Smoking can cause mental, as well as physical health problems, such as schizophrenia, depression, mood swings and many others. If a smoker continues smoking for years, or even decades, their health will worsen. Smoking can cause coughing, or inflammation (swelling) of the throat or lungs. The alveoli are air sacs via which breathing happens, but they will become badly damaged. Once breathed in, the tobacco smoke travels down the trachea and enters the lungs. When entering the body, the smoke would damage the cilia, which are millions of small hairs that push away mucus when it enters the body. If the lungs become even more damaged, smokers may not be able to breathe on their own, and they will be put on a device to help them breathe such as a ventilator. In some cases, smoking causes the lining of the lungs to become inflamed, making the smoker unable to breathe, which leads to death.

[[Valdoule]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Valdoule is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department. The municipality was created on 1 July 2017 and consists of the former communes of Bruis (the seat), Montmorin and Sainte-Marie.

[[Sainte-Marie, Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Hautes-Alpes

Sainte-Marie is a former commune in the Hautes-Alpes department. On 1 July 2017, it was merged into the new commune of Valdoule.

[[Sevenum]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Limburg (Netherlands), Former municipalities of Limburg (Netherlands), Horst aan de Maas

Sevenum is a former municipality in the Dutch province of Limburg. Since 2010, it is part of the municipality of Horst aan de Maas.

[[Meerlo-Wanssum]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Limburg (Netherlands), Horst aan de Maas

Meerlo-Wanssum is a former municipality in the Dutch province of Limburg. Since 2010, it is made up of the municipalities of Horst aan de Maas and Venray.

[[All the Prime Minister's Men]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 movies

All the Prime Minister's Men is a 2021  English language investigative documentary on Bangladesh published by the Qatar-based international media Al Jazeera, alleging corruption against powerful people of the authority of Bangladesh. The documentary focuses on the past and present activities of the  Bangladesh Army Chief  Aziz Ahmed's family members and alleges various forms of corruption. The name of the documentary has been taken from the name of the 1974's All the President's Men, a book based on investigative journalism that revealed the Watergate scandal of America's President Richard Nixon in 1972.

[[Tasneem Khalil]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people

Tasneem Khalil is an exiled Bangladeshi journalist. He is Editor in chief of Netra News. He previously worked for The Daily Star and was a stringer for CNN and a consultant for Human Rights Watch. During the 2006–2008 Bangladesh emergency, he was detained on 11 May 2007 and tortured while in the custody of Bangladesh's intelligence service. Khalil currently lives in Örebro, Sweden, where he is publisher and editor of Independent World Report, a world news magazine focused on human rights issues.

[[Dendropsophus]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Central America, Animals of South America

Dendropsophus is a genus of frogs in the family Hylidae. They live in Central and South America, from southern Mexico to northern Argentina and Uruguay. They are sometimes called Fitzinger neotropical treefrogs or yellow treefrogs

For a while, scientists decided not to use this genus.  In 2005, they started using it again after a large revision of the family Hylidae. Some of the frogs that had been in Hyla were moved to Dendropsophus if they had 30 chromosomes.

[[Abominable (2019 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 animated movies, American animated movies, Chinese movies, DreamWorks Animation movies

 

Abominable is a computer animated movie made by DreamWorks Amimation, Pearl Studio. It stars the voices of Chloe Bennet, Albert Tsai, Tenzing Norgay Trainor, Eddie Izzard, Sarah Paulson, Tsai Chin, and Michelle Wong.

[[Samadon Ayangba]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei folklore, Meitei literature, Meitei mythology, Meitei religion

"Samadon Ayangba" (ꯁꯃꯗꯣꯟ ꯑꯌꯥꯡꯕ) is a mythical winged divine horse, and one of the most recognized creatures in Meitei Manipuri mythology. It is created by Sanamahi and sent from the moon to charge attack on Pakhangba. Later, it became the stead of Marjing, the god who invented the polo. It is also termed as "Shamadon Ayangba" (ꯁꯃꯗꯣꯟ ꯑꯌꯥꯡꯕ) or "Samaton Ayangpa" (ꯁꯃꯇꯣꯟ ꯑꯌꯥꯡꯄ) due to free variation of words in Meitei language.

Samadon Ayangba is believed to be the ancestor of the present day Manipuri Horse.

[[Unhexoctium]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements, Nuclear physics

Unhexoctium (uːnhɛksɒktiəm), also known as eka-flerovium, dvi-lead,  or element 168, is the  possible chemical element in the periodic table that has the temporary symbol Uho and has the atomic number 168. Due to instabilities, it is not known if this element is physically possible, but if possible, unhexoctium is predicted to be the last period 8 element in group 14. It should have an atomic mass around 490. 

As of February 2021, no attempt has ever been made to make unhexoctium.

[[Chanousse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hautes-Alpes

Chanousse is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department.

[[Golden Earrings]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, American spy movies, Paramount movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Mitchell Leisen

Golden Earrings is a 1947 American romantic spy drama movie directed by Mitchell Leisen and is based on the novel of the same name by Jolán Földes. It stars Ray Milland, Marlene Dietrich, Murvyn Vye, Bruce Lester, Dennis Hoey, Quentin Reynolds and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Gretchen Whitmer kidnapping plot]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 in the United States, 2020s crimes in the United States, Kidnapping, October 2020 events, Terrorist incidents in 2020

On October 8, 2020, the Federal Bureau of Investigation announced that 13 people from the Wolverine Watchman were arrested for attempting to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer, and overthrow the state government. A fourteenth suspect was arrested a week later. In addition to kidnapping Whitmer, a FBI agent said that the suspects also wanted to kidnap Virginia Governor Ralph Northam.

One of the kidnappers, Barry Croft of Delaware, also discussed South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster as a target, as well as Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, then-President Donald Trump, and former Presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton.

[[How Green Was My Valley (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Best Picture Oscar, Movies based on books, Movies directed by John Ford, 20th Century Fox movies

How Green Was My Valley is a 1941 American drama movie directed by John Ford and based on the 1939 novel of the same name by Richard Llewellyn. It stars Walter Pidgeon, Maureen O'Hara, Anna Lee, Donald Crisp, Roddy McDowall and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 5 Oscars and won 5 Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1942.

[[Maasbracht]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Limburg (Netherlands), Former municipalities of Limburg (Netherlands), Maasgouw

Maasbracht used to be a municipality in the Dutch province of Limburg. Since 2007, it has been part of the new municipality of Maasgouw. 

Football player Mark van Bommel was born here.

[[Arcen en Velden]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Limburg (Netherlands), Venlo

Arcen en Velden used to be a municipality in the Dutch province of Limburg. Since 2010, it has been a part of the municipality of Venlo.

[[Kolašin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Montenegro, Municipalities of Montenegro

Kolašin (Колашин) is a town in northern Montenegro. In 2003, 2,989 people lived there.

[[Cervelló]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Cervelló is a municipality of 9,077 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Alpens]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Alpens is a municipality of 261 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Vic]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Vic is a municipality of 47,630 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[RDS]]

RDS can mean:

[[Netra News]]

CATEGORIES: News media, News

Netra News is an investigative and public interest journalism website in Sweden. It reports on Bangladesh. Tasneem Khalil, started the website on December 26, 2019. Khalil is an exiled Bangladeshi journalist living in Sweden.

[[Australian magpie]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes, Birds of Australia

The Australian magpie (Gymnorhina tibicen) is a large black-and-white bird. It lives in most parts of Australia and in a small part of New Guinea. It is named after the European magpie, which is also black and white. In Australia, it is just called a “magpie” or “maggie”. Its scientific name is Gymnorhina tibicen.

Australian magpies are related to butcherbirds and currawongs. They live in bush land and in cities near people. They are well known in Australian culture.

[[David Bergman]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births

David Bergman (born circa 1965) is a British human rights activist and investigative journalist based in Bangladesh, who worked at the New Age, a Bangladesh national newspaper. He is known for his reportage on war crimes committed during the Bangladesh Liberation War. An investigative documentary on the subject he worked as a reporter and researcher for British television in 1995 won an award. He was convicted of contempt by Bangladesh's special war crimes tribunal in 2015 for contradicting the official death toll figures of the war.

[[Leima Jagoi]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Jagoi

Leima Jagoi (ꯂꯩꯃ ꯖꯒꯣꯢ) (literally, "Queen's dance" or "Dance of the Lairembi") is a dance form of the Meitei people of Manipur. It is adored with slow and gentle motions of the dancer. It is performed mainly in the religious festival of Lai Haraoba.

The dance form is traditionally performed in presence of royalty by noblewomen.

It is also presented by a group of village leishabis (maidens) after the Hoi Lauba ceremony.

The Leima Jagoi dance form is developed by the maibas (priests) and the maibis (priestesses) with the high level of artistic performance. Thus, it can hardly be classified as a folk dance form.

[[Juan Carlos Alvarado]]

Juan Carlos Alvarado (born December 28, 1964) is a  Christian pop singer and pastor known for his songs such as Jehová es mi guerrero, Cristo no está muerto, No basta, Soy deudor, Cristo vive, Vivo para cristo, Ante ti con gozo, El gozo, El borde de su manto, Mi mejor adoración, El poderoso de israel, Celebra victorioso, Dios el mas grande, Santo es el señor, Porque eres digno, Pues tu glorioso eres señor, El señor es mi pastor, and many others.

[[Bruce Taylor (New Zealand cricketer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, New Zealand cricketers, People from South Island

Bruce Richard Taylor (12 July 1943 – 6 February 2021) was a New Zealand cricketer. He played 30 Tests and 2 ODIs for his country between 1965 and 1973. He is the only cricketer to score a century and take a five-wicket haul in their first Test match.

Taylor was born in Timaru. He was sentenced to one year imprisonment for fraud. He served his sentence between 1993 and 1994.

Taylor died on 6 February 2021 in Boulcott, Lower Hutt. He was 77.

[[Nicholas Mevoli]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2013 deaths

Nicholas Lawrence "Nick" Mevoli III (August 22, 1981 – November 17, 2013) was an American freediver who died attempting to break the world record of becoming the first American to surpass the 100m mark. On 17 November 2013, when he reached 73m without fins or breathing gear, he came up to the surface. He signalled that he was fine, but blood began pouring from his mouth. A few hours later, he was pronounced dead.

[[Selmer, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tennessee, County seats in Tennessee

Selmer is a town in McNairy County, Tennessee, United States. 4,396 people lived here at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of McNairy County.

[[Perry County, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Tennessee counties

Perry County is a county located in the U.S. state of Tennessee. In the 2010 census, 7,915 people lived there. The county seat is Linden.

[[Turkey, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Turkey is a city in the U.S. state of Texas.

[[Pickett County, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Tennessee counties

Pickett County is a county located in the U.S. state of Tennessee. In the 2010 census, 5,077 people lived there. The county seat is Byrdstown.

[[Terrassa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Terrassa is a municipality of 220,556 people (2019). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Born to Be Loved]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 comedy movies, 1950s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Hugo Haas

Born to Be Loved is a 1959 American romantic comedy movie directed by Hugo Haas (who also stars) and starring Carol Morris, Dick Kallman, Barbara Jo Allen. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Bocholtz]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Limburg (Netherlands), Former municipalities of Limburg (Netherlands)

Bocholtz is a former municipality  in the Dutch province of Limburg. Since 1982, it became a part of the municipality of Simpelveld.

In 2007, 5,573 people lived there.

[[Delwar Hossain Sayeedi]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami politicians, Bangladeshi Muslims

Delwar Hossain Sayeedi is an Islamic speaker and politician. He was a Member of the Parliament of Bangladesh from 1996 to 2008. He was convicted of committing war crimes during and Bangladesh Liberation War, despite his denial. The International Crimes Tribunal of Bangladesh sentenced him to death in February 2013 for crimes against humanity in the war of 1971 in a disputed decision. The tribunal received support within Bangladesh, but was criticized by many international observers. In September 2014 the Supreme Court changed his sentence to life imprisonment.

[[Sigrid Kaag]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Exeter, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Democrats 66 politicians, Dutch diplomats, Dutch Roman Catholics, Dutch women politicians, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, People from Zeist, Politicians from South Holland, United Nations officials, Women diplomats

Sigrid Agnes Maria Kaag (born 2 November 1961) is a Dutch politician. She is party leader of Democrats 66 (D66). She was also foreign minister in the Third Rutte cabinet, but stepped down in September 2021 because the evacuation of Afghans who worked for the Netherlands and tried to flee from the Taliban after they conquered Afghanistan, did not quite go well. Defense minister Ank Bijleveld resigned next day.

She was born in Rijswijk and grew up in Zeist.

She studied Arabic, Middle East studies, and international relations. She studied at Utrecht University, the American University in Cairo, Oxford University, and the University of Exeter.

She worked in several positions at the United Nations, for example at UNICEF and as an Under-Secretary-General.

Kaag was minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation in the Third Rutte cabinet from October 2017 to August 2021, and has been D66 leader since 4 September 2020 (succeeded Alexander Pechtold).

She is a Catholic, and married to a Palestinian dentist. Her husband is a former diplomat and politician of the PLO. Kaag is fluent in six languages, among which Arabic, Spanish, French, and German.

[[Leela's Homeworld]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 television episodes, Futurama episodes

"Leela's Homeworld" is the second episode of Futurama season 4. It was first shown on the Fox network in the United States on February 17, 2002. It was written by Kristin Gore and directed by Mark Ervin.

[[Maibi Jagoi]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Jagoi

"Maibi Jagoi" (ꯃꯥꯢꯕꯤ ꯖꯒꯣꯢ) (literally, "Priestess' dance") is a traditional dance form performed by the maibis (priestesses) during the religious festival of Lai Haraoba. The dance form is enacted in various ways depending on the variation of the regions. The Maibi Jagoi dance form performed by the female priestesses of the Leihou tribe is one of the most remarkable one. 

Due to its unique way of performance and costume, the dance form is famous all over the Indian subcontinent and abroad.

The maibis (priestesses) also enact "Laihou Jagoi" ("Dance of invitation"), along with the performance of "pena", a traditional music instrument.

[[Road to Morocco]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by David Butler

Road to Morocco is a 1942 American comedy movie directed by David Butler and is the third movie in the Road to movies. It stars Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, Dorothy Lamour, Anthony Quinn, Dona Drake, Vladimir Sokoloff, George Givot, Leon Belasco and was distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1943.

[[The Talk of the Town (1942 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s comedy movies, 1940s drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, Columbia Pictures movies, Movies directed by George Stevens

The Talk of the Town is a 1942 American comedy drama movie directed by George Stevens and starring Cary Grant, Jean Arthur, Ronald Colman. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures and was nominated for 7 Academy Awards in 1943.

[[Helden]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Limburg (Netherlands), Former municipalities of Limburg (Netherlands), Peel en Maas

Helden was a municipality in the Dutch province of Limburg. Since 2010, it is part of the new municipality of Peel en Maas.

[[Kessel, Limburg]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Netherlands, Settlements in Limburg (Netherlands), Former municipalities of Limburg (Netherlands), Peel en Maas

Kessel was a municipality in the Dutch province of Limburg. Since 2010, it is part of the new municipality of Peel en Maas.

[[Maasbree]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Limburg (Netherlands), Former municipalities of Limburg (Netherlands), Peel en Maas

Maasbree was a municipality in the Dutch province of Limburg. Since 2010, it is part of the new municipality of Peel en Maas.

[[Swalmen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Limburg (Netherlands), Former municipalities of Limburg (Netherlands)

Swalmen is a former municipality in the Dutch province of Limburg. Since 2007, it became a part of the municipality of Roermond.

[[Panthoibi Jagoi]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Jagoi

"Panthoibi Jagoi" (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯢꯕꯤ ꯖꯒꯣꯢ) (literally, "Panthoibi's dance" or "Dance dedicated to the Divine Mother") is a duet dance form, portraying the romantic love affairs between Nongpok Ningthou and Panthoibi. It takes place in 14 sequence of hand gestures with bodily movements. It is performed in the religious festival of Lai Haraoba, depicting the weaving process. In the dance form, Marjing has been conflated with Nongpok Ningthou. Nowadays, the dance form is replaced by the Khamba Thoibi Jagoi.

[[Thougal Jagoi]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Jagoi

"Thougal Jagoi" (ꯊꯧꯒꯜ ꯖꯒꯣꯢ) (literally, "Dance of dedication") or "Jagoi Ashangbi" (ꯖꯒꯣꯢ ꯑꯁꯥꯡꯕꯤ) is a Meitei traditional dance form, performed by men and women, along with maibis (priestesses) to invoke the deities. It is performed in the religious festival of Lai Haraoba. The performance lasts for half an hour, after which the "Hoi Lauba" ceremony is enacted.

[[List of currency symbols]]

CATEGORIES: Currency, Lists

This List of currency symbols is a select list of present symbols of money by country and territory. It lists only currencies which are in circulation today. There are many more currencies than are listed here (130). These are perhaps among the most influential.

[[List of companies of Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Asia, Asia-related lists

Afghanistan is a landlocked country located within South Asia and Central Asia.

[[National anthem of Croatia]]

CATEGORIES: 1835, National anthems, Croatia

"Lijepa naša domovino" ("Our Beautiful Homeland") is the national anthem of Croatia. Croatian poet Antun Mihanović wrote the words to it in 1835. Serbian composer Josif Runjanin made the music to it in 1846. The Croatian government made it a national anthem in 1972. Before that, it was often sung by the people as an anthem. 

The anthem was first called "Horvatska domovina" ("Croatian homeland"). Some years later, people started calling it by how it's called today. The words of the anthem are also shorter today. Croatians often say the words "Lijepa naša" ("Our beautiful") instead of saying "Croatia".

The song has 4 stanzas but only the first two are usually sung.

[[Unsepttrium]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements

Unsepttrium (), also known as dvi-franciumJune 2012 or element 173, is a possible chemical element which has not been observed to occur naturally, nor has it yet been made. Due to instabilities, it is not known if this element is possible, as the instabilities may hint that the periodic table ends soon after the island of stability at unbihexium; however, if possible, it is likely the heaviest possible neutral element.  Its atomic number is 173 and its atomic symbol is Ust.

The name unsepttrium is a temporary IUPAC systematic element name.

[[Ohio's 1st congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio

Ohio's 1st congressional district is a congressional district in the state of Ohio. The district elects a representative for the district at the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Republican Steve Chabot. The district was once represented by the 9th President of the United States, William Henry Harrison. William Henry Harrison represented the district before he was president. The district includes the cities of Cheviot, Forest Park, Franklin, Harrison, Indian Hill, Springdale, St. Bernard, Mason, Lebanon, Sharonville, and Carlisle. A small part of Cincinnati is also in the district. Some people believe that the Republicans used gerrymandering when making the district so Steve Chabot could win the elections easier.

[[Kentucky's 5th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Kentucky

Kentucky's 5th congressional district is a congressional district in the state of Kentucky. The district elects a person to represent the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district is the second most poor district in the United States. The district is in Appalachia and is the most rural district in the United States. The district includes the cities of cities of Pikeville, Prestonsburg, Middlesboro, Hazard, Jackson, Morehead, London, and Somerset. During the American Civil War one area of the district liked the Republican Party and the Union and the other area liked the Confederate States of America and the Democratic Party. The district is currently represented by Harold D. "Hal" Rogers.

[[Lowell Bayles]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1931 deaths

Lowell Richard Bayles (January 24, 1900 - December 5, 1931) was an American stunt pilot who died while trying to break the world record for the fastest world speed record at the 1931 National Air Races in Detroit, Michigan. In the 1920s, he started his career performing all around the United States, leading up to his death in 1931. On 5 December that year, he was flying his Gee Bee Model Z when the fuel cap came loose, flew through the windshield, hit him in the head and knocked him out. The plane crashed and exploded into a huge ball of flame next to a railroad track, throwing Bayles’ body 300m from the cockpit.

[[Abrera]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Abrera is a municipality of 12,538 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Sant Quirze de Besora]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Sant Quirze de Besora is a municipality of 2,154 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[West Virginia's 2nd congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: United States House of Representatives, West Virginia

West Virginia's 2nd congressional district is a congressional district in the state of West Virginia. The congressional district was made on December 7, 1863. The district elects a person to represent the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Republican Alex Mooney. It includes the capital city of  West Virginia, Charleston. The district starts at the Ohio River and ends at the Potomac River.

[[Aguilar de Segarra]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Aguilar de Segarra is a municipality of 282 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain. 

[[Mataró]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Mataró is a municipality of 129,661 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Santa Coloma de Gramenet]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Santa Coloma de Gramenet is a municipality in Spain with a population of 120,443 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia.

[[Ohio's 6th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Ohio

Ohio's 6th congressional district is a congressional district in the state of Ohio. The people who live in the congressional district elects a person to represent the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Republican Bill Johnson. The district is in the southeastern part of Ohio and has a border with the states of Kentucky, West Virginia, and Pennsylvania. There are no large cities in the district but it is very rural.

[[Sant Boi de Llobregat]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Sant Boi de Llobregat is a municipality of 84,500 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Aiguafreda]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Aiguafreda is a municipality of 2,512 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Indiana's 6th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Indiana

Indiana's 6th congressional district is a congressional district in the U.S. state of Indiana. The people who live in the congressional district elect a person to represent the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Republican Greg Pence. The district is in the places of Columbus, Muncie and Richmond, as well as a few suburbs of Cincinnati and Indianapolis. The former Vice President of the United States, Mike Pence, represented the district before being the Governor of Indiana and then the Vice President of the United States.

[[Sant Cugat del Vallès]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Sant Cugat del Vallès is a municipality of 92,977 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Cerdanyola del Vallès]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Cerdanyola del Vallès is a municipality of 57,855 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Abella de la Conca]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Abella de la Conca is a municipality of 183 people (2020). It is in the province of Lleida in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Tortilla Flat (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, MGM movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Victor Fleming

Tortilla Flat is a 1942 American romantic comedy movie. Victor Fleming was the director. It was based on the 1935 novel with the same name by John Steinbeck.  Spencer Tracy, Hedy Lamarr, John Garfield, Frank Morgan, Akim Tamiroff, Sheldon Leonard, John Qualen, Donald Meek, Allen Jenkins, and Connie Gilchrist acted in the movie. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer distributed the movie.

[[Granollers]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Granollers is a municipality of 62,419 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Alella]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Alella is a municipality of 9,904 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Polk County, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Tennessee counties

Polk County is a county located in the U.S. state of Tennessee. In the 2010 census, 16,825 people lived there. The county seat is Benton.

[[Mollet del Vallès]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Mollet del Vallès is a municipality of 51,600 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Capellades]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Capellades is a municipality of 5,342 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[El Prat de Llobregat]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

El Prat de Llobregat is a municipality of 65,385 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Lomita, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Lomita is a city in Los Angeles County, California.

[[Super Bowl LV]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 in sports, February 2021 events, Super Bowl

Super Bowl LV (meaning Super Bowl 55 in Roman numerals) was an American football game that happened on February 7, 2021 between the Kansas City Chiefs and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The Buccaneers won the game, meaning they won the National Football League for the 2020 season. The Chiefs had won the American Football Conference in the 2020 season, and the Buccaneers had won the National Football Conference in the 2020 season. The game happened at the Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida.

[[Fernando Colunga]]

Fernando Colunga Olivares (feɾˈnando koˈluŋɡa oliˈβaɾes) (born 3 March 1966) is a Mexican actor best known for his work in Mexican telenovelas. He received his drama education at Centro de Educación Artística de Televisa (CEA). He is mostly known for his appeareance in different telenovelas. He also has some roles in ovies bordcast in cinemas, and had a few roles as an actor in theatre productions. 

[[Arlon Lindner]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Minnesota, Politicians from Texas, People from Beaumont, Texas, US Republican Party politicians

Arlon W. Lindner (August 3, 1935 – February 1, 2021) was an American Republican politician. He was born in Beaumont, Texas. Lindner was a member of the Minnesota House of Representatives from 1993 to 2005. 

Lindner died on February 1, 2021 in Rogers, Minnesota at the age of 85.

[[Rogers, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota

Rogers is a city in Hennepin County, Minnesota, United States. 8,597 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Kim Bo-kyung (actress)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2021 deaths, South Korean actors, People from Busan, Deaths from liver cancer

Kim Bo-kyung (3 April 1976 – 2 February 2021) was a South Korean actress. She began acting in 1995. She was known for her roles in Friend (2001), Epitaph (2007), Paju (2009) and The Day He Arrives (2011).

Kim died on 2 February 2021 from liver cancer in Busan at the age of 44. 

[[Joan Corbella]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish scientists, Psychiatrists

Joan Corbella i Roig (1945 – 3 February 2021) was a Spanish psychiatrist and science communicator. He worked for Ràdio Barcelona, Cadena COPE, TV3, Ràdio Estel, Onda Cero, and Avui. 

Corbella died in Palma de Mallorca, Spain on 3 February 2021 at the age of 76.

[[Robert C. Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Academy Award winners, Deaths from dementia with Lewy bodies, American editors, American educators, Screenwriters from Los Angeles, California

Robert Clifford Jones (March 30, 1936 – February 1, 2021) was an American movie editor, screenwriter, and educator. He won an Academy Award for the screenplay of the movie Coming Home (1978). He was also known for working with Arthur Hiller and Hal Ashby. 

Jones was nominated three times for the Academy Award for Best Film Editing: It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World (1963), Guess Who's Coming to Dinner (1967), and Bound for Glory (1976).

Jones died on February 1, 2021, at his home in Los Angeles.  He was 84, and suffered from Lewy body dementia.

[[Cortana]]

CATEGORIES: Software, Microsoft

Cortana is a virtual helper.  Microsoft made Cortana and released it on April 2, 2014 at the Moscone Center in San Francisco. Cortana can do many things. For example, it cna use Bing search. Cortana was released three years after Siri, which was released in 2011 on IOS.

[[Itsukushima Shrine]]

Itsukushima Shrine (厳島神社, Itsukushima-jinja) is a Shinto shrine on the island of Itsukushima (popularly known as Miyajima). It is best known for its “floating” torii gate. It is in the city of Hatsukaichi in Hiroshima Prefecture in Japan. The shrine is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 

Itsukushima shrine is a popular Japanese tourist spot. It is most famous for its gate, called the torii in Japanese. The shrine is made up of two main buildings: the Honsha shrine and the Sessha Marodo-jinja. There are also 17 other buildings within the shrine. The Japanese government has selected 6 buildings and items as National Treasures. 

[[Donald Campbell]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 1967 deaths

Donald Campbell (March 23, 1921 - January 4, 1967) was a British world record holder who died trying to break the world record of becoming the fastest man on water in 1967. On 4 January that year, his jet powered boat lifted into the air, and was slammed back into the water with so much force, that Campbell died immediately, but his body was not found until 34 years later. Many people have predicted that the crash would not have happened, and was a result of the boat being too light due to a lack of fuel.

[[Firouz Bagherzadeh]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Iranian writers, Archaeologists, Academics

Firouz Bagherzadeh (31 May 1930 – 4 February 2021) was an Iranian archaeologist and Islamic art scholar. He was an expert on ceramics and Islamic works. He was born in Tabriz, Iran. In June 1977, he was elected the first President of the World Committee of Cultural and Natural Heritage (UNESCO). 

Bagherzadeh died on 4 February 2021 in Paris, France at aged 90.

[[Paolo Bartolozzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, MEPs for Italy, Mayors, Former MEPs

Paolo Bartolozzi (12 September 1957 – 4 February 2021) was an Italian politician. He was a Member of the European Parliament from 1999 to 2014. From 1985 to 1987, he was Mayor of Londa. Bartolozzi was born in Ruffina, Italy. He was a member of the Forza Italia Party.

Bartolozzi died on 4 February 2021 in Florence, Italy at the age of 63.

[[Southeastern myotis]]

CATEGORIES: Bats, Mammals of North America

The southeastern myotis (Myotis austroriparius) is a small species of bat. It found throughout the Gulf Coastal Plain and the Lower Mississippi alluvial plain of the southeastern United States.

[[Nico Nicoson]]

CATEGORIES: Australian artists, Living people

Nico Nicoson is a Sydney-based contemporary artist known for his bold and highly graphic artworks. His work has been published around the world and has created street artworks throughout Australia, Europe and Asia. Nico participated in Street Art Murals Australia (SAMA) in June 2015.

[[Megha Akash]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1995 births, Indian actors, People from Chennai

Megha Akash (born 26 October 1995) is an Indian movie actress who appears in Tamil, Telugu and Hindi language movies. She made her debut in Telugu movie Lie in 2017.

[[Debattama Saha]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Living people

Debattama Saha is an Indian television actress known for playing the role of Anokhi in Shaurya Aur Anokhi Ki Kahani.

[[Subrata Bakshi]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1950 births

Subrata Bakshi (born 23 July 1950) is an Indian politician. He is the current Member of Parliament, Rajya Sabha from West Bengal. He is Deputy Leader  of the parliamentary party of Trinamool Congress in Rajya Sabha on 7 February 2021. He is the General Secretary and State President of West Bengal All India Trinamool Congress. He was the Minister for Public Works and Transport in the Government of West Bengal in 2011. He was also an MLA, elected from the Bhabanipur constituency in the 2011 West Bengal state assembly election.

He was elected to parliament from South Kolkata constituency after Mamata Banerjee resigned to become a member of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly. He was elected on 10 December 2011 with a margin of 2,30,999 votes. At 2014 Lok Sabha elections, he was re-elected again as member of parliament. Later in 2020, he was elected as a member of Rajya Sabha.

[[State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 establishments in Europe, 1918 disestablishments in Europe, Former countries in Europe, Yugoslavia, States and territories established in the 20th century, States and territories disestablished in the 20th century, History of Croatia, History of Slovenia, History of Bosnia and Herzegovina

The State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs (Država Slovencev, Hrvatov in Srbov; Država Slovenaca, Hrvata i Srba; Држава Словенаца, Хрвата и Срба) was a country that was created in October 1918, in Southeast Europe. Before that, it's land was a part of Austria-Hungary. When Austria-Hungary lost the World War I, it was broken up. Slovenes, Croats and Serbs are slavic peoples that lived in the south of Austria-Hungary. Their leaders and representatives wanted their people to come together and live in one country. In December 1918, soon after it was created, it joined the Kingdom of Serbia where many Serbs were already independent. This new country became the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes which changed it's name to Yugoslavia in 1929.

The State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs was independent for a very short time. During this time, other states didn't recognize it, but they soon recognized the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes.

[[Loam]]

CATEGORIES: Soil

Loam is soil made mostly of sand and silt: 

By weight, it is about 40–40–20% concentration of sand–silt–clay, respectively. These proportions vary, and give different types of loam soils: sandy loam, silty loam, clay loam, sandy clay loam, silty clay loam, and loam.

[[My Funny Friend and Me]]

CATEGORIES: The Emperor's New Groove, Songs about friendship, 2000s ballads, 2000 songs, Sting (musician) songs, Disney songs, Songs written for animated films, Pop ballads, Songs written by Sting (musician), Song recordings produced by Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis, Walt Disney Records singles

"My Funny Friend and Me" is a song by English musician Sting. It was written by Sting and David Hartley for Walt Disney Pictures' 40th animated feature film The Emperor's New Groove. When the film began development in 1994 under the title Kingdom of the Sun, Sting was hired to write the film's songs. Released in November 2000, the track reached 24 on the American Billboard Adult Contemporary Singles chart, and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song at the 73rd Academy Awards in 2001.

[[Lucky Number (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 songs

"Lucky Number" is a song by English recording artist Andy Franklyn-Miller. Originally released as a B-side for Franklyn-Miller's cover of "I Think We're Alone Now", the song was re-released in 1979 by Stiff Records as an A-side and became the second single of his debut studio album Stateless (1978). The song was written by Franklyn-Miller and Les Chappell, who produced the song, with Chaz Jankel.

"Lucky Number" received very positive reviews from music critics and was a commercial success, peaking at number two in Australia, number three in the Netherlands, New Zealand and the United Kingdom, and number five in Belgium. The single also charted well in Ireland and Austria. It became a defining song of the new wave genre.

[[Pedestrian scramble]]

CATEGORIES: Traffic signs

A pedestrian scramble, or 'X' crossing is also known as a  diagonal crossing, Barnes dance (US), or scramble intersection / scramble corner (Canada). 

It is a type of crossing which temporarily stops all  traffic. This lets pedestrians cross an intersection in every direction.

It was first used in Canada and the United States in the late 1940s. It fell out of favor with traffic engineers, because it gave priority to pedestrians over the flow of car traffic. Its safety and benefits to pedestrians has led to its being installed in many countries recently.

[[Leonard 6]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 movies, 1980s spy movies, American movies, American parody movies, Spy comedy movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Paul Weiland, 1987 comedy movies

Leonard Part 6 (also known as Leonard Part VI) is a 1987 American spy parody film. It was directed by Paul Weiland and starred Bill Cosby, who also produced the film and wrote its story. The film also starred Eartha Kitt as the villain, and Joe Don Baker. The film was shot in the San Francisco Bay Area. It earned several Golden Raspberry Awards;  Cosby himself denounced and disowned it in the press in the weeks leading up to its release. It is often considered to be one of the worst films ever made.

[[Made of Honor]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 romance movies, 2008 comedy movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, British romantic comedy movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Paul Weiland

Made of Honor (Made of Honour in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, and Australia) is a 2008 American romantic comedy movie directed by Paul Weiland and written by Adam Sztykiel, Deborah Kaplan, and Harry Elfont. The movie stars Patrick Dempsey, Michelle Monaghan, and William Shatner.

The plot follows a lifelong playboy who falls in love with his best friend, only to have her get engaged and ask him to be her maid of honor. It was released by Columbia Pictures in the United States on May 2, 2008. Critics gave the movie negative reviews because of its formulaic humor and script. Yet the movie earned $106.4 million worldwide against a $40 million budget making it a box office success. It was released on DVD on September 16, 2008.

[[Stray Kids]]

Stray Kids is a South Korean boy group under JYP Entertainment. They are an eight-member band producing Korean music. They debuted as nine members on 25th of March 2018 with their debut album I Am NOT. The eight current members are Bang Chan, Lee Know, Changbin, Hyunjin, Jisung, Felix, Seungmin, and I.N. Former member Woojin left the band in 2019 for personal reasons.

[[Philippine Institute of Chemical Engineers]]

CATEGORIES: Philippines

The Philippine Institute of Chemical Engineers (PIChE) is the only Professional Regulation Commission accredited and integrated professional organization for chemical engineers in the Philippines.

[[Bernard and the Genie]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Paul Weiland

Bernard and the Genie is a 1991 British fantasy comedy-drama television film directed by Paul Weiland and written by Richard Curtis. Co-produced by Attaboy and Talkback for BBC Television, the film was first shown on BBC1 on 23 December 1991. A comic fantasy that takes its inspiration from The Book of One Thousand and One Nights, it follows Alan Cumming as an art dealer who ain't not having no good day.

[[Mexican burrowing tree frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of North America, Animals of South America

The Mexican burrowing tree frog  or cross-banded tree frog (Smilisca) is a genus of frogs in the family Hylidae. They live in Mexico, southern Texas and Arizona, Central America, and northwestern South America.

Scientists studying Hylidae recently decided that two species from Pternohyla were really Smilisca.

The name "smilisca" is from the Ancient Greek grc for "little knife." The Mexican burrowing tree frogs are called Smilisca because they have pointed frontoparietal processes.

[[The Man Who Sold the World (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Songs, Nirvana songs

The Man Who Sold the World is a song by David Bowie.  The band Nirvana also sang the song. Nirvana covered (re-sang) this song in the live album, MTV Unplugged In New York.

[[List of impact craters in Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Oceania-related lists

This list includes all 27 confirmed impact craters in Australia as listed in the Earth Impact Database.

[[Acraman crater]]

CATEGORIES: Impact craters, South Australia

Acraman crater is a deeply eroded impact crater in the Gawler Ranges of South Australia. 

It is marked by Lake Acraman, a circular ephemeral dry lake about 20 in diameter. The crater and the later discovery of its ejecta were reported in the journal Science in 1986. The evidence for impact includes the presence of shatter cones and shocked quartz in shattered bedrock on islands in Lake Acraman.

[[Westerlund 1-26]]

CATEGORIES: Red giants

Westerlund 1-26 is a star.  It is a red supergiant in the Westerlund 1 super star cluster. Its radius is 1,530 - 1,580 solar radii, making it one of the largest stars.

[[Australasian strewnfield]]

CATEGORIES: Impact events, Geology

The Australasian strewnfield is the youngest and largest of the tektite strewnfields. Recent estimates suggest it may cover 10%30% of the Earth's surface. Tektites are gravel-sized bodies composed of black, green, brown, or grey natural glass. They are formed from terrestrial debris ejected by meteorite impacts.

The strewnfield is about c. 790,000-year-old. It includes most of Southeast Asia (Thailand, Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Southern China). The material from the impact stretches across the ocean to include the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Java. It also reaches far west out into the Indian Ocean, and south to Australia and Tasmania. Since the 1960s, it has been accepted that the strewn field included Hainan in southern China to Australia or about 10% of the Earth's surface. This was later extended by finds in Africa and Tasmania to 20%. Recent additional finds in northern Tibet and Guangxi increased the strewnfield to about 30% of the Earth's surface, or almost 150 million km2, or about the size of the entire world's landmass.

[[Tektite]]

CATEGORIES: Impact events, Glass, Minerals

Tektites (from Greek τηκτός grc, "molten") are gravel-sized bodies of natural glass. They come in green or brown (usually). They are formed from terrestrial debris ejected during meteorite impacts. The term was coined by Austrian geologist Franz Eduard Suess (1867–1941). They generally range in size from millimeters to centimeters. Millimeter-scale tektites are known as microtektites.

Tektites are characterized by:

[[Neapolitan language]]

CATEGORIES: Romance languages, Abruzzo, Apulia, Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Lazio, Marche, Molise

Neapolitan is the language spoken in and around Naples, in Italy. It also is the base of the other dialects of Campania.

[[Boulos Nassif Borkhoche]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Lebanese people, Syrian people, Priests

Boulos Nassif Borkhoche (born Paul Victor Borkhoche, SMSP (7 October 1932 – 4 February 2021) was a Lebanese-born Syrian Melkite Greek Catholic hierarch. He was Archbishop of the Melkite Greek Catholic Archeparchy of Bosra and Hauran in Syria from 1983 to 2011. He became a priest in 1960.

Borkhoche died on 4 February 2021 at the age of 88.

[[Hy Cohen]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Chicago Cubs players, Sportspeople from Brooklyn, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States

Hyman Cohen (January 29, 1931 – February 4, 2021) was an American baseball pitcher who played one season in Major League Baseball (MLB).  He played seven games for the Chicago Cubs in 1955.  He batted and threw right-handed and served as a relief pitcher.

Cohen died on February 4, 2021 at a hospital in Rancho Mirage, California from problems caused by COVID-19, aged 90.

[[Millie Hughes-Fulford]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from lymphoma, American astronauts, American biologists, Scientists from Texas

[[Franz Josef Kuhnle]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, German Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops

Franz Josef Kuhnle (27 April 1926 – 4 February 2021) was a German Roman Catholic auxiliary bishop. He became a priest in 1952. He was titular bishop of Sorres and as auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rottenburg-Stuttgart, Germany from 1976 to 1990.

Kuhnle died on 4 February 2021, aged 94.

[[Laiching Jagoi]]

CATEGORIES: Dance, Jagoi

"Laiching Jagoi" (ꯂꯥꯢꯆꯤꯡ ꯖꯒꯣꯢ) (literally, "Dance of summoning the deity") is a dance form performed by the maibis (priestesses) with the langthrei (a special leaf of Blumea balsamifera) held between their fingers. This sequence involves a variety of expressive movements where the spirit of the deity is invited to enter each maibi's body. It is an invocatory dance where the maibis stand with their hands in a pose symbolizing women's union. In this dance form, the maibis, after invoking the deities from water, perform leitai nongdai jagoi. This dance form is performed in front of the shrine of the deities.

[[Charles McGee (painter)]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2021 deaths, American painters, American sculptors, American educators, People from South Carolina, People from Detroit, Michigan

Charles McGee (December 15, 1924 – February 4, 2021) was an American artist and educator. He was known for creating paintings, assemblages, and sculptures. His artwork is in the collections of the Detroit Institute of Arts and the Charles H. Wright Museum of African American History. He also created many public works in the city of Detroit. McGee was born in Clemson, South Carolina.

McGee died on February 4, 2021 in Detroit, Michigan at the age of 96.

[[Clemson, South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Carolina

Clemson (ˈfn_a) is a city in Pickens and Anderson counties in the U.S. state of South Carolina. Clemson is home to Clemson University. 13,905 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Pierre-Antoine Paulo]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Haitian people, Roman Catholic bishops

Pierre-Antoine Paulo, OMI (23 March 1944 – 4 February 2021) was a Haitian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He was Bishop of Port-de-Paix from 2008 to 2020. Paulo was born in Camp-Perrin, Haiti.

Pope Francis accepted his resignation as Bishop of Port-de-Paix on 14 April 2020.

Paulo died on 4 February 2021 in Port-de-Paix, Haiti at the age of 76.

[[Ri Jae-il]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, North Korean politicians

Ri Jae-il (리재일, 1935 – 4 February 2021) was a North Korean politician. He a member of the Propaganda and Agitation Department from 2004 to 2014. He was a member of the Workers' Party of Korea and of the Supreme People's Assembly.

Ri died on 4 February 2021 of lung cancer in Pyongyang, North Korea at the age of 86.

[[Afonso Fioreze]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Brazilian people, Roman Catholic bishops

Afonso Fioreze (1 June 1942 – 6 February 2021) was a Brazilian Roman Catholic bishop. He became a priest in 1970. He was coadjutor bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Luziânia, Brazil in 2003 and 2004 and as bishop of the diocese from 2004 to 2017.

Fioreze died on 6 February 2021, aged 78.

[[Harry Fielder]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Actors from London

Harry Fielder (26 April 1940 – 6 February 2021) was an English actor. He was known for appearing in many television shows from the 1960s to the 1990s. His best known roles were on Doctor Who, Blake's 7, Shoestring, The Sweeney, Minder and The Professionals.

Fielder died on 6 February 2021 at the age of 80.

[[Santiago García (Uruguayan footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2021 deaths, Sportspeople from Montevideo, Uruguayan footballers, Suicides by firearm

Santiago Damián García Correa (14 September 1990 – 4 February 2021), nicknamed Morro, was a Uruguayan professional footballer. He played as a striker. 

His last club was Argentine club Godoy Cruz, which tenure is thought to be the most successful of his professional career. 

García was a member of the Uruguay under-20 team that participated in the 2009 FIFA U-20 World Cup, where he played three games and scored one goal.

On 6 February 2021, García was found dead in his apartment in Mendoza, Argentina, with a gunshot wound in the head, aged 30. It was confirmed that the cause of death was suicide by gunshot. 

[[Cobar Shire]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in New South Wales

Cobar Shire is a local government area in the Orana region of New South Wales, Australia. It has a total area of 44065, about two-thirds the size of Tasmania.

Lilliane Brady was the Mayor of Cobar Shire for almost 23 years, and died in 2021. 

[[Mario Osbén]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, Chilean footballers, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Mario Ignacio Osbén Méndez (14 July 1950 – 7 February 2021) was a Chilean footballer. He played as a goalkeeper. He played for Ñublense, Club de Deportes Concepción, Unión Española, Colo Colo and Cobreloa during his professional career. 

He represented the Chile national team at the 1982 FIFA World Cup. He played for the team from 1979 to 1988.

Osbén died on 7 February 2021 from a heart attack in Concepción, Chile at the age of 70.

[[Leisem Jagoi]]

CATEGORIES: Jagoi

"Leisem Jagoi " (ꯂꯩꯁꯦꯝ ꯖꯒꯣꯢ) (literally, "Dance of creation of the earth") is a dance form enacted by imitating the movements of nine gods and seven goddesses creating the earth, followed by Laibou Jagoi, depicting the creation of human body and various activities of man, like weaving of clothes.

The sequence of the dance is performed by the Ningol Macha (girls).

The six original forms of the dance are leishem, leitai, nongdai, leipekpa, leihouba and leipiba.

It is one of the early dance forms of Ancient Manipur contributing to the rich Manipur's classical wealth of culture.

[[Giuseppe Rotunno]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, Cinematographers, People from Rome, BAFTA Award winners

Giuseppe Rotunno (19 March 1923 – 7 February 2021) was an Italian cinematographer. He won a BAFTA Award in 1979 for his work in All That Jazz. Rotunno was born in Rome. His career lasted from 1955 to 1997. Rotunno was the first non-American member admitted to the American Society of Cinematographers in 1966.

Rotunno died on 7 February 2021 in Rome at the age of 97.

[[Rhoon]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in South Holland, Former municipalities of South Holland

Rhoon is a village in the Dutch province of South Holland. It is in the Albrandswaard municipality and had 16,066 inhabitants in 2020.

Rhoon used to be a municipality. It became part of the new Albrandswaard municipality on 1 January 1985.

[[Moufida Tlatli]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Tunisian politicians, Movie directors

Moufida Tlatli (مفيدة التلاتلي; 4 August 1947 – 7 February 2021) was a Tunisian movie director and politician. She was the first Arab woman to direct a full feature-length movie (The Silences of the Palace) in the Arab World. She was born in Sidi Bou Saïd, French Tunisia. Her career began in 1970. In 2011, she was the Minister of Culture. 

Tlatli died on 7 February 2021 in Tunis at the age of 73.

[[Ezzat El Alaili]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Egyptian movie actors, Egyptian television actors, Stage actors, People from Cairo

Ezzat El Alaily (عزت العلايلي) (15 September 1934 – 5 February 2021) was an Egyptian actor. He appeared in over 300 movies, TV series, and theatre plays. His career began in the 1960s. He was born in Cairo. His best known roles were in Cairo (1963), The Land (1970), Kuwait Connection (1973), Alexandria... Why? (1979), Al Qadisiyya (1981), People on the Top (1981) and War in the Land of Egypt (1991).

Alaili died on 5 February 2021 in Cairo, aged 86.

[[Isa Bellini]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2021 deaths, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, Italian voice actors, Italian singers, Actors from Rome

Isa Bellini (19 June 1922 – 5 February 2021) was an Italian actress, presenter and singer. Her best known movie roles were in Una famiglia impossibile (1940), The Happy Ghost (1941), Without Family (1972), Love and Anarchy (1973) and Camere da letto (1997).

Bellini died in Rome on 5 February 2021, aged 98.

[[Joseph Benz]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Switzerland, Swiss Olympic medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Olympic bronze medalists, Sportspeople from Zürich

Joseph "Josef" or "Sepp" Benz (20 May 1944 – 5 February 2021) was a Swiss bobsledder. He competed in two Winter Olympics, he won four medals with one gold (1980), two silvers (1976, 1980), and one bronze (1976). Benz was born in Zurich, Switzerland.

Benz died of COVID-19 on 5 February 2021 in Zurich, aged 76, during the COVID-19 pandemic in Switzerland.

[[Laurent Dona Fologo]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Ivorian people, African politicians

Laurent Dona Fologo (12 December 1939 – 5 February 2021) was an Ivorian politician. From 2000 until 2011, he was President of the Conseil économique et social (Côte d'Ivoire). He was a member of the Democratic Party. Fologo was born in Sinématiali, French West Africa.

Fologo died on 5 February 2021 in Abidjan, Ivory Coast at the age of 81.

[[Neutronium]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements

Neutronium (sometimes shortened to neutrium, also referred to as neutrite) is a possible substance composed entirely of neutrons. The word was coined by scientist Andreas von Antropoff in 1926 (before the discovery of the neutron) for the hypothetical "element of atomic number zero" (with zero protons in its nucleus) that he placed at the start of the periodic table (denoted by dash, no element symbol). However, the meaning of the term has changed over time, and since the last half of the 20th century it has been also used to refer to extremely dense substances resembling the neutron-degenerate matter speculated to exist in the cores of neutron stars. Science fiction and popular literature commonly use the term "neutronium" to refer to a very dense phase of matter composed mostly of neutrons.

[[Extended periodic table (large version)]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table

This is a large version of the extended periodic table.

[[Henri Étienne Sainte-Claire Deville]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 births, 1881 deaths, French chemists

Henri Étienne Sainte-Claire Deville (11 March 1818snd1 July 1881) was a French chemist.

He was born in the island of St Thomas in the Danish West Indies, where his father was French consul. Together with his elder brother Charles he was educated in Paris at the collège Rollin. In 1844, he graduated as a doctor of medicine and doctor of science. In that same year, he was appointed to organize the new faculty of science at Besançon, where he acted as dean and professor of chemistry from 1845 to 1851. When he returned to Paris in the 1952 he succeeded Antoine Jérôme Balard at the École Normale, and in 1859 became professor at the Sorbonne in place of J. B. A. Dumas, for whom he had begun to lecture in 1853. He died at Boulogne-sur-Seine.

In 1841, he began his experiments with investigations of oil of turpentine and tolu balsam. In 1849 he discovered anhydrous nitric acid (nitrogen pentoxide), a substance interesting as the first obtained of the so-called "anhydrides" of the monobasic acids. In 1854, he succeeded in making metallic aluminium, and he thought of a method by which the metal could be prepared on a large scale by the aid of sodium, the manufacture of which he also developed. Together with Friedrich Wöhler, he discovered silicon nitride in 1857.

Deville was elected to the American Philosophical Society in 1860. In 1885, the rue Sainte-Claire-Deville in the 12th arrondissement de Paris was named in his honour.

[[Hall–Héroult process]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical processes, Aluminium

The Hall–Héroult process is the major industrial process for smelting aluminium. It involves dissolving aluminium oxide (alumina) (mainly gotten from bauxite, aluminium's chief ore, through the Bayer process) in molten cryolite, and electrolysing the molten salt bath, usually in a purpose-built cell. The Hall–Héroult process applied at industrial scale happens at 940–980 °C and produces 99.5–99.8% pure aluminium. Recycled aluminum requires no electrolysis, thus it does not end up in this process. This process contributes to climate change through the emission of carbon dioxide in the electrolytic reaction.

[[Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 movies, 2010s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies set in the United States, Academy Award winning movies

Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is a 2017 crime drama movie written, co-produced, and directed by Martin McDonagh. The movie stars Frances McDormand, who plays a woman from Missouri who rents three billboards that bring attention to her daughter's rape and murder. Woody Harrelson, Sam Rockwell, Abbie Cornish, Lucas Hedges, John Hawkes, and Peter Dinklage are in the movie as supporting actors. It was released in the United States in November 2017 and in the United Kingdom in January 2018 by Fox Searchlight Pictures. It earned $160 million worldwide.

[[World Sudoku Championship]]

CATEGORIES: International competitions

The World Sudoku Championship (WSC) is an annual international puzzle competition organised by a member of the World Puzzle Federation. The first event was held in Lucca in 2006. 

[[Basically, Games!]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, Video game companies

Basically, Games! (stylized as BASICALLY games), is an American company founded by Micah McGonigal. It makes Baldi's Basics in Education and Learning. It began in July 2018. This company makes games that make fun of educational computer games from the 1990s. These are parodies.

[[Laihou Jagoi]]

CATEGORIES: Jagoi

"Laihou Jagoi" (ꯂꯥꯢꯍꯧ ꯖꯒꯣꯢ) (literally,"dance of invitation" or "opening dance") is a dance form performed by the maibis (priestesses) to lead a way to a pond or river, in the religious festival of Lai Haraoba. 

During the performance of the dance, the tune of the pena, a traditional musical instrument, is also shrimmed up. 

With the maibis, the sword bearing youths in two rows, the maidens with the brass vessels, the Lai bearers, the isaiphu bearers, the chong (umbrella) bearers accompany the pibas (men) holding the two pots.

[[Chukpharon Jagoi]]

CATEGORIES: Jagoi

"Chukpharon Jagoi" is a dance form performed by the maibis (priestesses) to please the lords of the four directions, Thangjing, Marjing, Wangbren, and Koubru, in the religious festival of Lai Haraoba. During the performance, the maibi takes the two ekouphus (pots) from the laipubas, holding the Lainingthou ekouphu in the right hand and the Lairembi ekouphu in the left hand. The dance performance portrays the dance of goddess Nongthang Leima, who saves the universe from destruction.

[[At the Circus]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 movies, 1930s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Edward Buzzell

At the Circus is a 1939 American comedy movie directed by Edward Buzzell and starring Groucho Marx, Chico Marx, Harpo Marx, Kenny Baker, Florence Rice, Eve Arden, Margaret Dumont, Nat Pendleton, Fritz Feld, James Burke, Jerry Maren, Barnett Parker. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Haoreima]]

CATEGORIES: Names, Meitei religion

"Haoreima" (ꯍꯥꯎꯔꯩꯃ), also spelled as "Haoleima" (ꯍꯥꯎꯂꯩꯃ) (literally, "tribal lady") is a common term used to refer to a tribal woman, carrying a traditional elongated basket ("sam" or "sham"), for which the term "Sampubi" or "Shampubi" is often suffixed.

There are many figures having the name in the history, mythology and folklore of Ancient Manipur.

Haoreima Tamheibee was the daughter of Atom Nongyai Thingkol Hanba, the king of the Khuman dynasty. She was married to Meidingu Kainou Irengba (984 AD-1074 AD), a Meitei king, after which she came to be known as "Meitei Leima" ("Meitei Queen").

[[2021 Uttarakhand glacial outburst flood]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 disasters in Asia, 2020s floods, 2020s in India, February 2021 events, Floods in India, Uttarakhand

At around 10:45 a.m. IST on 7 February 2021, a flooding disaster happened in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand in northern India along the Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers.  

It is believed that a landslide, avalanche or a glacial lake outburst flood was the cause of the incident. More than 26 were killed and more than 200 are missing.

[[Patrick Dewaere]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 1982 deaths, French movie actors

Patrick Dewaere (26 January 1947 – 16 July 1982) was a French actor. Born in Saint-Brieuc, Côtes-d'Armor, he was the son of French actress Mado Maurin. His career lasted more than 31 years, until his suicide in Paris in 1982.

He was nominated six times at the César Awards between 1976 and 1982, but never won.

He was one of the most important French actors of the 1970-1980 era, with his friend Gérard Depardieu. They won the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film in 1979 with Bertrand Blier's Get Out Your Handkerchiefs.

He is the father of French actress Lola Dewaere, and screenwriter Angèle Herry.

[[Isobar]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology

In meteorology, an isobar is a line on a map that connects areas with the same atmospheric pressure. Wind is generally perpendicular to isobars. When looking at the difference in pressure, it is also possible to estimate wind direction and speed. The first person to use isobars was Alexander Buchan (1829-1907).

[[Isobaric process]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

In thermodynamics, an isobaric process is a process, where the pressure stays constant. To get an ideal gas to a different temperature, more heat is needed, because some  heat will be used to expand the gas. This is different in an isochoric process, where the volume of the gas does not change. 

[[La Palma]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Spain, Islands of Europe

Las Palmas de Gran Canaria is the capital of the Canary Islands. It is on a different island.

La Palma (Spanish pronunciation: ˈpalma), also San Miguel de La Palma, is the most north-westerly island of the Canary Islands, Spain. La Palma has an area of 708 making it the fifth largest of the seven main Canary Islands. The total population at the start of 2019 was 82,671, of which 15,716 lived in the capital, Santa Cruz de la Palma, and about 20,467 in Los Llanos de Aridane. 

La Palma's highest mountain is the Roque de los Muchachos, at 2,423 above sea level, being second among the peaks of the Canaries only to the peaks of the Teide massif on Tenerife. La Palma is 6500 above the ocean floor.

Like all the other islands of the Canary Islands, La Palma was created by volcanoes on the bottom of the sea, and is the most active volcanic island. In 1815, the German geologist Leopold von Buch visited the Canary Islands. He had been visiting Tenerife, where he visited the Las Cañadas caldera, and then later to La Palma, where he visited the Taburiente caldera, that the Spanish word for cauldron or large cooking pot – "caldera" – became a word that geologists use. In the center of the island is the Caldera de Taburiente National Park; one of four national parks in the Canary Islands.

The Cumbre Vieja volcano erupted in 1949, 1971 and currently in 2021.

[[The Pirates! In an Adventure with Scientists!]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 British television series debuts, 2010 British television series endings, Adult animated television series, 2000s comedy television series, 2010s comedy television series

The Pirates! In an Adventure with Scientists! is a 2009-2010 British-American-Canadian adult animated television series created by British character designer and animator Rob Stevenson. 52 episodes were produced.

The show was directed and produced by Rob Stevenson and animated by Rough Draft Korea in Seoul, South Korea. The music for the series was composed by Jody Gray, Andy Ezrin and John Scott. A theatrical feature-length film directly based on the series titled The Boys!: In an Adventure with Scientists: The Movie was later released in 2015.

[[Doggerland]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms of the United Kingdom, Geography of Europe

Doggerland was an area in the North Sea.  During the last ice age, the oceans sank and it became dry land.  It connected Great Britain to the European continent. Between 6500 and 6200 BCE sea levels rose, and Doggerland was flooded. Research has suggested that Doggerland was between the east coast of England, the coast of the Netherlands, and Jutland. Doggerland is named after the Dogger Bank. It was first suspected to exist in 1931 when a fishing boat found an antler of a deer in the area. Doggerland had a surface of about 23000.

[[Mark Heatley]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, Comedians from London, English actors, 1972 births, Living people

Mark Heatley, (born 30 May 1972) is a British actor and camera operator. He was known for his roles of Young Robert Smith in Boys Don't Cry music video by The Cure, Denis in Infantile Disorders and Boy in Whoops Apocalypse.

[[Hiyang Tannaba]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals

"Hiyang Tannaba" (ꯍꯤꯌꯥꯡ ꯇꯥꯟꯅꯕ) (literally, "Boat race") is a traditional boat race ceremony performed as a part of the religious festival of Lai Haraoba. It is generally organized in the month of November at many places including Thangapat (moat). The boats called Hiyang Hiren are regarded as invested with spiritual powers and the game is associated with religious rites. The Meiteis believe that the worship of the Hiyang Hiren will bring protection from the evils.

[[Common Mexican tree frog]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of North America, Frogs

The Mexican tree frog, common Mexican tree frog, Van Vliet's frog, Mexican smilisca, Baudin's tree frog or tooter (Smilisca baudinii) is a frog that lives in Mexico and parts of Texas and Costa Rica.  Scientists have seen it as high as 1601 meters above sea level; it can live in forests, coastal areas and places that are a little dry.

[[Dhime]]

CATEGORIES: Musical instruments, Nepal

The Dhimay, Dhimaya (Nepal Bhasa: धिमय्) or Dhime (धिमे) is a drum. The drummer can hit either side of the drum.  The dhime is a traditional Newar musical instrument.

[[Hiyang Hiren]]

CATEGORIES: Art

Hiyang Hiren (ꯍꯤꯌꯥꯡ ꯍꯤꯔꯦꯟ) (literally, "large race boat") is a traditional royal race boat, used at the Hiyang Tannaba ceremony in the religious festival of Lai Haraoba.

The boat is regarded as invested with spiritual powers and is associated with religious rites. The Meitei people believe that the worship of the boat will bring protection from the evils.

The Hiyangloi Hanchapa is responsible for making the Hiyang Hiren, which is decorated with the stern (hirubak) the head of the Sangai deer.

The boat is around 54 feet long, and its racing ceremony is held annually for two days.

[[Oinam family]]

CATEGORIES: Families, Meitei surnames

"Oinam" (ꯑꯣꯢꯅꯥꯝ, ꯑꯣꯏꯅꯥꯝ) (ꫡꯏꯅꯥꯝ ꯁꯥꯀꯩ) is a family name belonging to a branch of the Khuman dynasty of the Meitei ethnicity (Manipuri ethnicity). "Oinam Apokpa" ("Oinam Pokpa") is a clan ancestral deity worshipped by the people (members) of the family, following Meitei religion (Sanamahism).

[[Faizabad district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Uttar Pradesh

Faizabad, now Ayodhya, is a district of Uttar Pradesh.

[[Chrysanthemum vestitum]]

CATEGORIES: Asteraceae, Flowers, Plants of Asia

Chrysanthemum vestitum is a plant with white flowers, a type of Chrysanthemum.  It is in the Compositae family.  It grows in Hubei Province in China.

[[SS Joseph L. Hurd]]

CATEGORIES: History of Detroit, Michigan, 1860s in the United States, 1869, Ships, Maritime disasters, Disasters in the United States

SS ''Joseph L. Hurd'' was a wooden steam ship built in Detroit, Michigan, in 1869. 

[[Intrusive thought]]

CATEGORIES: Anxiety disorders

Intrusive thoughts are obsessive (repeating) unwanted thoughts that someone has that make them feel sad, angry, annoyed, embarrassed, depressed, or even suicidal that led them to feel anxiety or sometimes, even panic attacks. It is normal for everyone to have intrusive thoughts, though some people find it very hard to move on from them because they feel so real.

Intrusive thoughts are most common in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), which is when someone with OCD gets intrusive thoughts that give them extreme anxiety and cause them to do the same ritual over and over again because they feel like bad things will happen if they don't do it. The difference between someone who has OCD and someone who does not is most people without OCD are able to ignore the thoughts, but people with OCD feel like they are holding them back and will not leave them alone. Intrusive thoughts are also associated with depression, body dysmorphic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.

[[Chinese Jamaicans]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Jamaica

Chinese Jamaicans are Jamaicans of Chinese ancestry, which include descendants of migrants from China to Jamaica. Early migrants came in the 19th century; there was another wave of migration in the 1980s and 1990s

[[Emirates Mars Mission]]

CATEGORIES: July 2020 events, February 2021 events, United Arab Emirates, Spacecraft

The Emirates Mars Mission (مشروع الإمارات لاستكشاف المريخ) is a United Arab Emirates Space Agency space exploration mission to Mars. The uncrewed Hope (مسبار الأمل, Al Amal) orbiter was launched on 19 July 2020 at 21:58:14 UTC, and reached Mars on 9 February, 2021. The spacecraft was launched from the Tanegashima Space Center in Japan with a Japanese rocket, the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries H-IIA launcher.

The mission design, development, and operations are led by the Mohammed bin Rashid Space Centre (MBRSC). The spacecraft was created by MBRSC and the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado Boulder, with support from Arizona State University (ASU) and the University of California, Berkeley.

The Emirates Mars Mission was the first of the three to arrive at Mars, performing a successful orbit entry maneuver on 9 February 2021.

[[2021 Ecuadorian general election]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 elections, 2020s in South America, April 2021 events, February 2021 events, Politics of Ecuador

A general election was held in Ecuador on 7 February 2021, the date for the first round of the presidential election, and also a vote about mining in Cuenca. 

Incumbent president Lenín Moreno, who has held the office since his victory over Guillermo Lasso in 2017, is not seeking reelection. 

Early results showed that Andrés Arauz was leading, but not enough to avoid a second round. Guillermo Lasso advanced to the run-off after coming in second place, beating Yaku Pérez Guartambel.

Former president Lucio Gutiérrez also ran in the election as a member of the Sociedad Patriótica party.

The second round was held on April 11, with Lasso defeated Arauz. Lasso will be inaugurated on May 24, 2021.

[[Andrés Arauz]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Ecuadorian politicians, People from Quito

Andrés Arauz Galarza (born 6 February 1985) is an Ecuadorian politician and economist. From 2015 to 2017 he was Minister of Knowledge and Human Talent during the presidency of Rafael Correa from 2015 to 2017. He also was Minister of Culture in March and April 2017 following the resignation of Raúl Vallejo. 

In August of 2020 he announced that he would be a candidate for President in the 2021 general election. On 7 February 2021, he won the majority of the votes in the first-round of the election and advanced to the run-off against Guillermo Lasso. In the April run-off, Lasso would go on to defeat Arauz.

He was born in Quito. He earned a Bachelor of Science from the University of Michigan and a doctorate in Economics from the National Autonomous University of Mexico.

[[Yaku Pérez Guartambel]]

CATEGORIES: Political activists, Ecuadorian politicians, 1969 births, Living people

Yaku Sacha Pérez Guartambel (born Carlos Ranulfo, 26 February 1969), often simply known as Yaku Pérez, is an Ecuadorian politician and indigenous rights activist. He unsuccessfully ran for President of Ecuador in the 2021 election. He came in third place and did not qualify for the second round.

[[White Jamaicans]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Jamaica

White Jamaicans are Jamaicans whose ancestry lies within the continent of Europe, most notably Great Britian, Ireland, Germany and Portugal.

[[Lake Sidenreng]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Asia, Geography of Indonesia

Lake Sidenreng is a lake in South Sulawesi, Indonesia. This lake is connected to Tempe Lake via a small channel. Lake Sidenreng has some water facilities. The location is surrounded by mountains.

[[Lithuanian Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Lithuanian Canadians (Lithuanian: Kanados lietuviai) are Canadians who are of full or partial Lithuanian descent. Over two-thirds of Lithuanian Canadians reside in Toronto, with other much smaller populations located around most of the Canadian provinces and territories.

[[Latvian Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Latvian Canadians (Kanādas latvieši) are Canadians of full or partial Latvian descent. At the 2011 census, there were about 27,355 people of Latvian descent in Canada.

[[Polish Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Polish Canadians (Polonia w Kanadzie, Canadiens polonais) are citizens of Canada with Polish ancestry, and Poles who immigrated to Canada from abroad. At the 2016 Census, there were 1,106,585 Canadians who claimed full or partial Polish heritage.

[[Ukrainian Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

Ukrainian Canadians (Ukrayins'ki kanadtsi, Ukrayinokanadtsi; Canadiens d'origine ukrainienne) are Canadian citizens of Ukrainian descent or Ukrainian-born people who immigrated to Canada. In 2016, there were an estimated 1,359,655 persons of full or partial Ukrainian origin living in Canada (most being Canadian-born citizens), making them Canada's eleventh largest ethnic group and giving Canada the world's third-largest Ukrainian population behind Ukraine itself and Russia.

[[Joan Maling]]

Linguist

Joan Maling is a linguist and program director at the National Science Foundation. Her primary research expertise is in the syntax of Icelandic.

Maling earned a BA from Goucher College and a PhD in linguistics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1972). She taught at Brandeis University from 1972 until she joined the National Science Foundation in 2003. She is a retired professor at Brandeis University.

Maling was co-editor (1983–1986) and then editor-in-chief (1987–2003) of the linguistics journal Natural Language and Linguistic Theory.  She is a past president of the Linguistic Society of America (2014).

[[Paukku]]

Paukku is a Finnish surname. Notable people with the surname include:

[[Börje Salming]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Ice hockey defencemen, Detroit Red Wings players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Living people, Swedish ice hockey players, Toronto Maple Leafs players

Anders Börje Salming (ˈbœ̂rjɛ ˈsâlːmɪŋ; born 17 April 1951), nicknamed "The King", is a Swedish retired professional ice hockey defenceman. He played for Brynäs IF, the Toronto Maple Leafs, the Detroit Red Wings, and AIK.

[[Malayali people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups, Indian people

[[Negrito]]

CATEGORIES: Filipino people, Malaysian people, Thai people, Ethnic groups in India

Negrito is the name for several  ethnic groups from South and  Southeast Asia. The name is the diminutive form of Negro. Like the term negro, many people consider it to be offensive. Usually, Negritos have a dark skin, curly hair, and do not grow to be very tall. With many of their features, they resemble the Pygmy people from central Africa. Traditionally, the term 'Negrito' has been used for the following groups:

The Island Negros, which is part of the Philippines today, was named after the Negritos. Because the term 'Negrito' doesn't allow a precise scientific definition, most scientists (ethnologues) no longer use the term either.

[[Kakorrhaphiophobia]]

Kakorrhaphiophobia is the fear of failing or losing fit and failure.

[[YouPorn]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 establishments, Pornography, Websites

YouPorn is a website allowing free access to pornographic video clips. It was founded in 2006, and has become one of the most accessed porn sites in the world. The site is free to access. It is financed using online advertising, such as banner ads. Users can upload their content (which are usually parts of porn movies). Each clip is reviewed, and is later released for public access. It is possible to search the site using keywords. There's also a paid subscription, where the users can access more content. 

Usually, people need to have a certain minimal age to be able to have access to pornography. The site does not verify the age of the person watching. For this reason, it has been blocked in many countries.

[[Andre Lavrillier]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1958 deaths, French sculptors

André Henri Lavrillier (May 7, 1885- January 28, 1958) was a French medalist. He won the Prix de Rome for engraving in 1914. André Lavrillier studied at the Beaux-Arts de Paris in the workshops of Jules Chaplain (1839-1909), Frédéric de Vernon (1858-1912) and Auguste Patey (1855-1930). André Lavrillier won a Second Grand Prix de Rome in 1911, and a Premier Grand Prix de Rome in 1914. He married the Romanian sculptor Margaret Cossaceanu (1893-1980). They are the parents of photographer Carol-Marc Lavrillier (born in 1933). André Lavrillier is the author of numerous French medals and coins. He is the older brother of Gaston Lavrillier.

[[Rynagh O'Grady]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2021 deaths, Irish movie actors, Irish television actors, Actors from Dublin

Rynagh O'Grady (1954 – 8 February 2021) was an Irish actress. She was born in Dublin. She was known for her roles of Mary O'Leary in the Channel 4 sitcom Father Ted and Minnie Kennedy in the 1999 movie A Love Divided. 

O'Grady died on 8 February 2021 in Dublin, aged 66.

[[History of Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: History of the Middle East

Arabia has been home to Semitic people for thousands of years. These people include the Arabs, but not all Arabs live in Arabia. People from the Arabian Desert, known as Bedouins, herded animals as nomads. They were grouped into extended families and tribes. People from other parts of Arabia lived in villages and towns.

[[Mark Jensen (luger)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2021 deaths, Canadian Olympians, Sportspeople from Toronto

Mark Jensen (12 October 1960 – 1 February 2021) was a Canadian luger. He competed in the men's singles event at the 1980 Winter Olympics. He was born in Toronto, Ontario.

Jensen died on 1 February 2021 in Toronto, aged 60.

[[Rennie Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, American political activists, People from Lansing, Michigan, Deaths from lymphoma

Rennard Cordon Davis (May 23, 1940 – February 2, 2021) was an American anti-war activist. He became known in the 1960s when he was one of the Chicago Seven protestors charged for anti-war protests at the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago. He was a critic of the Vietnam War.

Davis died on February 2, 2021, at his home in Berthoud, Colorado from lymphoma, aged 80.

[[Berthoud, Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Colorado

The Town of Berthoud is a town in Larimer and Weld counties in the U.S. state of Colorado. 5,105 people lived here at the 2010 United States Census.

[[Peter Dunn (paediatrician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, English physicians, People from Birmingham

Peter MacNaughton Dunn, FRCP, FRCOG, FRCPCH (23 June 1929 – 2 February 2021) was an English paediatrician. Dunn was known for introducing into the UK the Gregory box in 1971, that gave Continuous positive airway pressure in the treatment of infant respiratory distress syndrome of the newborn.

Dunn was also notable for being known for founding the charity association British Association of Perinatal Medicine.

[[Lilianne Ploumen]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Abortion-rights activists, Dutch activists, Dutch party chairs, Dutch Roman Catholics, Dutch women politicians, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Labour Party (Netherlands) politicians, Leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, People from Maastricht, Politicians from Limburg (Netherlands)

Elisabeth Maria Josepha "Lilianne" Ploumen (born July 12, 1962, Maastricht) is a Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA). She is involved in anti-poverty and abortion rights activities.

Ploumen studied history at Erasmus University Rotterdam, and worked at several relief and development organizations, among others as director of Cordaid.

She chaired the PvdA from 2007 to 2012, and was minister for Foreign Trade and Development Corporation in the Second Rutte cabinet (2012-2017, successor of Maxime Verhagen (only Development Cooperation), and predecessor of Sigrid Kaag).

Since 2017, she has been an MP, and since 2021, she has also been parliamentary and party leader, in both cases succeeding Lodewijk Asscher.

Lilianne Ploumen is married and lives in Amsterdam. She belongs to the Catholic Church.

[[Kentucky's 4th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Kentucky

Kentucky's 4th congressional district is a congressional district in the U.S. state of Kentucky. The district is in northern Kentucky. It is next to the Ohio River. The congressional district includes the counties Boone, Kenton, and Campbell and the towns Fort Mitchell, Covington, Florence, Newport, and Fort Thomas. A small part of Louisville is also in the district. The people who live in the district elect a representative to work for them in the United States House of Representatives. The district has been represented by Republican Thomas Massie since 2012. Massie won a special election in 2012 after Geoff Davis resigned.

[[Meitei people]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei people

The Meitei people, or Manipuri people, are the predominant ethnic group of the Indian state of Manipur. There are significant Meitei speaking population in Assam, Tripura, Myanmar and Bangladesh.

Regarding religious groups, there are Meitei Hindus, Sanamahists, Meitei Christians, Meitei Muslims and Meitei Buddhists.

[[Khamlangba]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei gods and goddesses

"Khamlangba" (kham-laang-ba), also spelt as "Khamlangpa" (kham-laang-pa), is a primordial deity in Meitei mythology and religion.  He is a great hunter, warrior and miner. Legend says he is grown out of the creator God Atingkok. His occupation is the extraction of the iron ores and the manufacture of steel. The "Khamlangba Thenlon" mentions about his skills of iron metallurgy and blacksmith in the Kakching kingdom.

[[Bulbophyllum regnellii]]

CATEGORIES: Orchids

Bulbophyllum regnellii is a species of orchid in the genus Bulbophyllum.

[[Curio muirii]]

Curio muirii is a succulent plant in the daisy family that is native to South Africa. Its particular native range is the Cape Province.

[[Wageningen University & Research]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the Netherlands, Gelderland, 1910s establishments in the Netherlands, 1918 establishments in Europe

Wageningen University & Research, shortened to WUR, is a public university in Wageningen, a town in the province of Gelderland, the Netherlands.

Wageningen University & Research was established in 1918 (its predecessor in 1876).

It has about 13,000 students.

Its focus is on biology and natural resources.

[[Sekou Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Place of death missing, Writers from Grand Rapids, Michigan

Sekou Kimathi Sinclair Smith (May 15, 1972 – January 26, 2021) was an American sportswriter who covered the National Basketball Association (NBA).

[[Mike Evans (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2006 deaths, African American actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in California, Deaths from throat cancer, Actors from North Carolina

Mike Evans (November 3, 1949 – December 14, 2006) was an American actor who is known for playing Lionel Jefferson on All in the Family and The Jeffersons. Mike Evans stopped playing Lionel Jefferson after the first season of The Jeffersons but came back to play Lionel for seasons six, seven, and eight. Evans helped write the sitcom Good Times. Evans died of throat cancer in 2006 at age 57.

[[Nika Ninua]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 births, Sportspeople from Georgia (country), Footballers, People from Tbilisi, Living people

Nika Ninua (tr; born 22 June 1999) is a Georgian professional footballer who is a midfielder of Greek club PAOK.

[[Nyenrode Business University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the Netherlands, Stichtse Vecht, Amsterdam, 1946 establishments in the Netherlands

Nyenrode Business University (Dutch: Nyenrode Business Universiteit), shortened to NBU, is a private university in Breukelen, a town in the province of Utrecht, the Netherlands. It also has a location in Amsterdam.

Nyenrode Business University was established in 1946.

It has about 4,000 students.

Its focus is on business.

[[Aeolipile]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Engineering

An aeolipile or Hero's Engine, is a simple kind of steam engine believed to have been invented by Hero of Alexandria in the 1st century AD.  It may have been the first steam engine made.

[[Norbert Owona]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2021 deaths, Cameroonian footballers

Norbert Owona (1951 – 3 February 2021) was a Cameroonian footballer. He played as a midfielder for the Cameroon national team until 1972.

Owona scored against Nigeria during the 1970 FIFA World Cup qualification campaign. 

After his football career, he was homeless and had a hernia. 

Owona was found dead on a street in Douala, on 3 February 2021. He was aged 70.

[[Dag Jostein Fjærvoll]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Norwegian politicians

Dag Jostein Fjærvoll (20 January 1947 – 5 February 2021) was a Norwegian politician. He was a member of the Christian Democratic Party. He was Minister of Defence from 1997 to 1999 and Minister of Transport and Communications from 1999 to 2000 in the Kjell Magne Bondevik cabinet. He was also a member of Storting from 1985 to 1997. Fjærvoll was born in Hadsel, Norway.

Fjærvoll died on 5 February 2021 in Oslo, aged 74.

[[Imre Furmen]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Cyclists, Olympians, Sportspeople from Budapest

Imre Furmen (14 August 1933 – 5 February 2021) was a Hungarian cyclist. He competed in two events at the 1952 Summer Olympics. He was born in Budapest, Hungary.

Furmen died on 5 February 2021 in Budapest, aged 87.

[[Rob Kane]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Connecticut, US Republican Party politicians

Rob Kane (April 30, 1967  February 5, 2021) was an American politician. He was a Republican member of the Connecticut Senate, representing the 32nd district from 2009 to 2017. He was Connecticut state auditor from 2017 until his death in 2021.

Kane was found dead in his home in Watertown, Connecticut on February 5, 2021, at age 53.

[[Watertown, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Connecticut

Watertown is a town in Litchfield County, Connecticut, United States. 22,514 people lived here at the 2010 census. 

[[Charlie Krueger]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from renal failure, American football defensive ends, American football defensive tackles, San Francisco 49ers players, Sportspeople from Texas

Charles Andrew Krueger (January 28, 1937 – February 5, 2021) was an American professional football player. He was a defensive tackle for 15 seasons in the National Football League (NFL), all with the San Francisco 49ers. He was born in Caldwell, Texas.

Krueger died on February 5, 2021 in Clayton, California from heart and kidney failure at the age of 84.

[[Clayton, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Contra Costa County, California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area

Clayton (formerly Clayton's and Claytonville) is a city in Contra Costa County, California, United States. 10,897 people lived here as of the 2010 census.

[[August 2020 Midwest derecho]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 disasters, Tornadoes in the United States, Tornado outbreaks, Derechos, 21st century in Nebraska, History of Iowa, 21st century in Illinois, History of Indiana, 21st century in Michigan, 21st century in Wisconsin, 2020 in the United States, August 2020 events

The August 2020 Midwest derecho was a strong derecho in the Midwestern United States–mostly Nebraska, Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin and Indiana. Nebraska and Iowa were already having severe droughts at the time. The derecho caused large hail, heavy rain and tornadoes.

The greatest damage happened in northern Illinois and eastern Iowa. The strongest winds took place in Iowa. They were at 126 miles per hour. Many tornadoes hit northern Illinois.

Cedar Rapids, Iowa was severely damaged by the storm.

The derecho caused more than $11 billion in damage.

[[Jake McCoy]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Sportspeople from Minneapolis, Minnesota, American ice hockey players, American Olympians

Thomas James "Jake" McCoy (January 2, 1942 – February 5, 2021) was an American Olympic ice hockey defenseman. He was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota. McCoy played with Team USA at the 1964 Winter Olympics held in Innsbruck, Austria. He later played one year for the Minnesota Nationals in the United States Hockey League.

McCoy died on February 5, 2021 in Minneapolis, aged 79.

[[John Pullin]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, English rugby union players, Sportspeople from Gloucestershire

John Vivian Pullin (1 November 1941 – 5 February 2021) was an England international rugby union player. He played club rugby for Bristol Rugby and captained the England national rugby union team for which he played 42 times between 1966 and 1976. He also played for the British Lions. He was born in Aust, Gloucestershire.

Pullin died on 5 February 2021 in Bristol, England at the age of 79.

[[Butch Reed]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American professional wrestlers, American football players, Sportspeople from Kansas City, Missouri

Bruce Franklin Reed (July 11, 1954 – February 5, 2021) was an American professional wrestler and football player, better known by the ring name Butch Reed. He played college football at the University of Central Missouri.

He appeared in Mid-South Wrestling and tag team matches in the World Wrestling Federation and World Championship Wrestling.

On February 5, 2021, he died at the age of 66 from problems caused by two heart attacks. He tested positive for COVID-19 a month before his death.

[[AWS (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Establishments in Hungary, 2006 establishments in Europe, Hungarian entertainers, Heavy metal bands, Post-hardcore bands, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, Musical groups established in 2006, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups

AWS (pronounced ah-vi-esh) is a Hungarian metal and post-hardcore band formed in 2006 by Bence Brucker, Dániel Kökényes and Áron Veress. 

They represented Hungary at the Eurovision Song Contest 2018 in Lisbon, Portugal, with the song "Viszlát nyár".

[[Atanas Skatov]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, 2021 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Mountain climbers, Ecologists, Bulgarian people

Atanas Georgiev Skatov (Атанас Георгиев Скатов; born Atanas Georgiev Dimitrov; 11 March 1978 – 5 February 2021) was a Bulgarian mountaineer, vegan, agronomist in plant protection, entomologist, and ecologist.

On 24 May 2014 he became the first known vegan to ascend Everest. He tried to become the first known vegan to summit the 14 highest summits on Earth and successfully reached the top of 10 of them.

On 20 June 2017, Skatov ascended solo in alpine style Mount Denali in Alaska and became the first Bulgarian and the world's first vegan to climb successfully the Seven Summits.

He died on the way down from K2 after his unsuccessful ascent.

[[Shen Zhonghou]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Chinese scientists, Chinese engineers

Shen Zhonghou (沈忠厚; 13 February 1928 – 5 February 2021) was a Chinese engineer. He was a professor and doctoral supervisor at China University of Petroleum (Beijing). He was an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE) from 2001 until his death. He was known as "Father of Drilling Bit". Shen was born in Dazhu County, Sichuan.

Shen died on 5 February 2021 in Beijing, aged 92.

[[R. C. Soles Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from North Carolina, US Democratic Party politicians

Robert Charles Soles Jr. (December 17, 1934 – February 5, 2021) was an American Democratic politician. He was a member of the North Carolina Senate, representing the 8th district from 1977 to 2011. Before, he was a member of the North Carolina House of Representatives from 1969 to 1976. Soles Jr. was born in Tabor City, North Carolina.

In 2009, multiple men accused Soles Jr. of sexual abuse.

Soles Jr. died on February 5, 2021 in Loris, South Carolina at the age of 86.

[[Tabor City, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Carolina

Tabor City, known as the "Yam Capital of the World", is a town in Columbus County, North Carolina, United States. 2,511 people lived here as of the 2010 census.

[[Loris, South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Carolina

Loris is a city in Horry County, South Carolina, United States. 2,396 people lived here at the 2010 census. 

[[Ángela Sureda]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2021 deaths, Argentine politicians

Ángela Gerónima Sureda de Santo (7 July 1921 — 5 February 2021) was an Argentine teacher, lawyer and politician. She was a deputy of the Unión Cívica Radical for the national district from 1981 to 1983. Sureda was born in Río Gallegos, Argentina.

Sureda died on 5 February 2021 in Río Gallegos, aged 99.

[[Ernie Tate]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, British activists, Canadian activists, Political activists

Ernie Tate (1934 – 5 February 2021) was a Northern Ireland supporter of Trotskyist groups in Canada and the United Kingdom. He was a founder in the 1960s of the International Marxist Group and Vietnam Solidarity Campaign in Britain. He was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland.

Tate died from pancreatic cancer on 5 February 2021.

[[National Parliament of Solomon Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Solomon Islands

The National Parliament of Solomon Islands has 50 members, elected for a four-year term in 50 single-seat constituencies.

It is presided by a Speaker. The current speaker is Patterson Oti.

[[Paul Tovua]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 deaths, 1947 births, Politicians, Solomon Islands

Sir Paul Joshua Tovua GBR (1947 – 5 February 2021) was a Solomon Islander politician. In 1976. he was elected to the National Parliament of Solomon Islands. He also helped start the parliament. He was the Speaker of the National Parliament of Solomon Islands from 1994 to 2001.

He was appointed Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George in the 2014 New Year Honours list, "for services to politics and to the community".

Tovua died on 5 February 2021, aged 73.

[[Han Urbanus]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Baseball players, Sportspeople from Rotterdam

Johannes Hendrikus “Han” Urbanus (22 June 1927 – 5 February 2021) was a Dutch baseball player. Urbanus was born in Rotterdam. He played for OVVO in East Amsterdam, and became five times in a row Dutch champion. He played for 12 years for the Netherlands national baseball team. He was born in Rotterdam. 

Urbanus died on 5 February 2021 in Rotterdam, aged 93.

[[Vladimir Sergeyevich Vysotsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2021 deaths, Russian military people

Vladimir Sergeyevich Vysotsky Владимир Серге́евич Высоцкий, Володимир Сергійович Висоцький Volodymyr Serhiyovych Vysotsky; (18 August 1954 – 5 February 2021) was a Russian admiral. He was Commander of the Russian Northern Fleet. On 12 September 2007, Vysotsky was appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Navy.

Vysotsky died on 5 February 2021 in Moscow, aged 66.

[[Alan Lerwill]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, British athletes, British Olympians, Long jumpers, People from Portsmouth

Alan Leslie Lerwill (15 November 1946 – 6 February 2021) was a British international long jumper. He competed in the 1968 Summer Olympics and in the 1972 Summer Olympics. He represented England and won a bronze medal in the 1970 British Commonwealth Games long jump, and gold medal in the 1974 British Commonwealth Games.

Lerwill died on 6 February 2021, aged 74.

[[Monique Yvinou]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, French Olympians, Gymnasts

Monique Yvinou (10 June 1928 – 6 February 2021) was a French gymnast. She competed in the women's artistic team all-around at the 1948 Summer Olympics.

Yvinou died on 6 February 2021, aged 92.

[[Ralph Backstrom]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Canadian ice hockey centres, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Montreal Canadiens players, Los Angeles Kings players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Stanley Cup champions

Ralph Gerald Backstrom (September 18, 1937 – February 7, 2021) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre and later a coach and hockey executive. He played in the National Hockey League with the Montreal Canadiens, Los Angeles Kings, and Chicago Black Hawks between 1956 and 1973. 

He also played in the World Hockey Association with the Chicago Cougars, Denver Spurs/Ottawa Civics, and New England Whalers from 1973 to 1977.

With the Canadiens, he won the Stanley Cup six times.

Backstrom died after a long illness on February 7, 2021, aged 83, in his Windsor, Colorado, home.

[[Windsor, Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Colorado

Windsor is a Home Rule Municipality in Larimer and Weld counties in the U.S. state of Colorado. 18,644 people lived here in 2010. It is 59 north of Denver.

[[Cheng Rongshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Chinese scientists

Cheng Rongshi (程镕时; 18 October 1927 – 7 February 2021) was a Chinese physical chemist and academician. He was a member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, being elected in 1991.

Cheng was born in Yixing, Jiangsu.

On 7 February 2021, he died of illness in Guangzhou, Guangdong, aged 93.

[[Cathy Cochran]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, American judges, Politicians from Los Angeles County, California, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Austin, Texas

Cathleen Cochran Herasimchuk, known as Cathy Cochran (November 11, 1944 – February 7, 2021), was an American lawyer and politician. She was  judge of the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals. She was appointed to the court in 2001 by Governor Rick Perry and elected by Texas voters in 2002 and 2008. She did not seek re-election to the bench in 2014. Cochran was born in Los Angeles County, California.

She died on February 7, 2021 in Austin, Texas, aged 76.

[[Pedro Gomez (journalist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2021 deaths, American sports commentators, American journalists, Writers from Miami, Florida

Pedro Gomez (August 20, 1962 – February 7, 2021) was an American sports journalist. He worked as a reporter for ESPN from 2003 to 2021. He appeared on the SportsCenter show. He was primarily a baseball reporter. He was also a member of the Baseball Writers' Association of America. He covered 25 World Series and 22 Major League Baseball All-Star Games.

Gomez died at his home in Phoenix, Arizona on February 7, 2021, at age 58.

[[Maxine Horner]]

CATEGORIES: US Democratic Party politicians, State legislators of the United States, 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Politicians from Tulsa, Oklahoma

Maxine Edwyna Cissel Horner (January 17, 1933 – February 7, 2021) was an American politician. She was one of the first African American women to serve in the Oklahoma State Senate. She was a member of the state senate from 1986 to 2004. 

Horner died on February 7, 2021, twenty one days after her 88th birthday.

[[Jean Josselin]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, French Olympians, Boxers

Jean Josselin (6 January 1940 – 7 February 2021) was a French welterweight boxer. He competed at the 1960 Olympics and won a bronze medal at the 1961 European Amateur Boxing Championships. 

Josselin died on 7 February 2021, aged 81, one month and one day after his birthday.

[[Ricardo Silva Elizondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, Mexican singers, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors

Ricardo Silva Elizondo (6 February 1954 – 7 February 2021) was a Mexican singer and actor. He was best known for his dubbing of American animated cartoons and Japanese anime into the Spanish language. 

His works include the Spanish Latin American version of the Dragon Ball Z theme, "Cha-La Head-Cha-La", and the second opening of Digimon. He also appeared in many telenovelas such as in El premio mayor, Amigas y rivales and Destilando amor. 

Elizondo died aged 67 from COVID-19 in Mexico City during the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, one day after his 67th birthday.

[[Tony Collins (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, English footballers, English football managers, Sportspeople from London, Crystal Palace F.C. players

Anthony Norman Collins (19 March 1926 – 8 February 2021) was an English football player, manager and scout. He played as a left winger. He managed Rochdale between 1960 and 1967.

Collins played professionally for Sheffield Wednesday, York City, Watford (in two spells), Norwich City, Torquay United and Crystal Palace.

Collins died on 8 February 2021, aged 94.

[[The Unbearable Lightness of Being]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 books

The Unbearable Lightness of Being (Nesnesitelná lehkost bytí) is a 1984 novel by Milan Kundera, about two women, two men, a dog and their lives in the 1968 Prague Spring period of Czechoslovak history.

The original Czech text was published the following year.

[[George Hasay]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

George C. Hasay (February 7, 1948 – February 8, 2021) was an American politician. He was a Republican member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives from 1973 to 2006. 

Hasay died on February 8, 2021, after a brief illness in Ross Township, Pennsylvania, one day after his 73rd birthday.

[[Nanticoke, Pennsylvania]]

Nanticoke is a city in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, United States. As of the 2010 census, 10,465 people lived here.

[[Ross Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in Pennsylvania

Ross Township is a township in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, United States. 2,937 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Tao Okamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Japanese models, Japanese movie actors

Tao Okamoto, known professionally as Tao, is a Japanese actress and model. She appeared as Mariko Yashida in the 2013 movie The Wolverine; and played Mercy Graves in the 2016 movie Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice. 

[[Shlomo Hillel]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, Ambassadors of Israel, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, HaAvoda politicians, Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni, Iraqi Jews, Jewish Israeli politicians, Knesset speakers, Mapai politicians, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Baghdad

Shlomo Hillel (שלמה הלל, 9 April 1923 – 8 February 2021) was an Iraqi-born Israeli politician. He was a member (1952–1959, 1969–1992) and Speaker of the Knesset (1984–1988). He was also Minister of Police (1969–1977) and Internal Affairs (1977). Hillel was born in Baghdad, Iraq. Hillel was a member of the Alignment Party.

Hillel died on 8 February 2021 in Jerusalem, aged 97.

[[Shūichirō Moriyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Japanese movie actors, Japanese television actors, Japanese voice actors

Shūichirō Moriyama was a Japanese actor. His real name was Hiroo Ōtsuka. His best known roles were in Shall We Dance? (1996), Salaryman Kintarō (1999) and Tsuribaka Nisshi Eleven (2000).

Moriyama died on 8 February 2021 in Saitama Prefecture, Japan from pneumonia at the age of 86.

[[Parliament of Lebanon]]

CATEGORIES: Lebanon

The Parliament of Lebanon (مجلس  النواب Majlis an-Nuwwab; Chambre des députés) is the national parliament of Lebanon. There are 128 members elected to a four-year term in multi-member constituencies.

[[Jean Obeid]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Lebanese politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Lebanon

Jean Obeid (8 May 1939spnd8 February 2021) was a Lebanese journalist and politician. He was the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Emigrants from 2003 to 2004. Obeid served as a member of the parliament, representing Chouf from 1991 to 1992 and Tripoli from 1992 to 2005.

Obeid was a candidate for President of Lebanon in the 2014 Lebanese presidential election.

Obeid died on 8 February 2021 in Tripoli, Lebanon from COVID-19 at the age of 81.

[[Metromedia Square]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Los Angeles, California, Television

Metromedia Square was a radio and television studio that was in Sunset Boulevard, Hollywood. The studio was known for having a statue of a white snake that was made out of ladders on the roof. The famous 1970s sitcom, All in the Family was made at Metromedia Square from 1975 to 1979.

[[Cameron ministry]]

The Cameron ministry was the Government of the United Kingdom from May 2010 to July 2016 under David Cameron. The first term of the administration was the UK’s first coalition government since World War II, it included both Conservative and Liberal Democrats ministers. The administration's second term of the was a majority Conservative government.

[[Tandem Productions]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 establishments in the United States, American entertainment companies, Movie studios

Tandem Productions was a movie and television production company created by Norman Lear and Bud Yorkin in 1958. Tandem Productions has made movies like Never Too Late and television shows like All in the Family.

[[Windows Mobile 2003]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft operating systems

Windows Mobile 2003 is an second released for Windows Mobile was released for pubilc on June 23, 2003, at the CEO 2003 on 2003. Windows Mobile 2003 was another news codenamed is Ozone was history of pubilc on January 2002. Windows Mobile 2003 was introduction based for Pocket PC 2002, they run on Windows CE.

[[Loyalakpa]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei gods and goddesses

"Loyalakpa" (ꯂꯣꯌꯥꯂꯥꯛꯄ), also spelt as "Loyarakpa" (ꯂꯣꯌꯥꯔꯥꯛꯄ), is a God in Meitei religion. He is best known for having wrestling with Khoriphaba in the mythology. He is the consort of goddess Thoudu Nungthel Leima. He is one of the ten king-gods (divine kings) in the religion.

[[Khuman Kangleirol]]

CATEGORIES: Puya, History

"Khuman Kangleirol" (ꯈꯨꯃꯟ ꯀꯪꯂꯩꯔꯣꯜ), also spelt as "Khuman Kangleiron" (ꯈꯨꯃꯟ ꯀꯪꯂꯩꯔꯣꯟ), is a chronicle (puya) of the Khuman dynasty. It is one of the most significant historical documents of Kangleipak (Manipur). It was produced during the reign of Chit Sai (1748 AD-1752 AD). It gives the information on the genealogy of the rulers of the Khuman dynasty. 

The Khuman principality was once more prosperous than the Ningthouja principality. But, by the 12th century AD, the Khuman principality gradually declined. By the reign of Meitei king Kongyamba (1324 AD-1335 AD) in the early 14th century AD, the Khuman principality was merged into that of the Ningthouja principality.

[[501.V2 variant]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic

The 501Y.V2 variant, also known as South African COVID-19 variant, is a variant of the SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. It is one of several SARS-CoV-2 variants. It was first detected in the Nelson Mandela Bay metropolitan area of the Eastern Cape province of South Africa.

On 23 December 2020, the United Kingdom health minister Matt Hancock said that two people who had travelled from South Africa to the United Kingdom were infected with the 501.V2. On 28 December, the variant was detected in two people in Switzerland and one in Finland.

The United States reported its first cases of the variant in the U.S. state of South Carolina.

[[Djenné]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mali

Djenné is a city in Mali. About 33,000 people lived there in 2009. The city lies on an island, and is known for the Great Mosque of Djenné. People have lived there since about the year 800 CE.

[[Anthony Sowell]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, American serial killers, American people convicted of murder, American rapists, Criminals from Ohio, People who died in prison custody in the United States, 2021 deaths

Anthony Edward Sowell (August 19, 1959 – February 8, 2021) was an American serial killer and rapist. He was known as the Cleveland Strangler. He was arrested in October 2009 after the bodies of eleven women were discovered by police at his home, 12205 Imperial Avenue, in the Mount Pleasant neighborhood of Cleveland, Ohio.

He was imprisoned at the Chillicothe Correctional Institution. On January 21, 2021, he began receiving end-of-life care at the Franklin Medical Center for a terminal illness. He died on February 8, in Columbus, Ohio.

[[Melanie Martinez]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, American television directors, American pop singers, American singer-songwriters, Bisexual people, LGBT singers, LGBT people from New York City, Singers from New York City, Actors from New York City, Living people

Melanie Adele Martinez (born April 28, 1995) is an American singer-songwriter, actress, director, screenwriter and visual artist. She became famous in 2012 after appearing on The Voice, a musical television show. After the show, she released her first song "Dollhouse". It was followed by her first extended play of the same name.

Martinez' first studio album, Cry Baby, was released in August 2015. It went platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America. Her songs, "Dollhouse" and "Pity Party" were certified platinum by the RIAA.

Other songs, "Sippy Cup", "Cry Baby" and "Mrs. Potato Head" were certified gold by the RIAA.

Martinez was born in Astoria, Queens, New York City.

[[Michał Szewczyk (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Polish movie actors, People from Łódź, Polish stage actors

Michał Szewczyk (29 July 1934 – 8 February 2021) was a Polish actor. He acted at the Teatr Powszechny w Łodzi and the Teatr Telewizji. He was born in Łódź, Poland. He was best known for his roles in Eroica, The Two Who Stole the Moon and The Young Magician.

Szewczyk died on 8 February 2021 in Łódź, Poland at the age of 86.

[[Els Vader]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from thyroid cancer, Dutch Olympians, People from Vlissingen, Sportspeople from Zeeland, Sprinters

Elisabeth Cornelia "Els" Vader (married Scharn) (24 September 1959 – 8 February 2021) was a Dutch track and field sprinter. She competed at the 1980, 1984 and 1988 Summer Olympics in the 100 m, 200 m and 4 × 100 m relay (in 1988 only), but failed to reach the finals in any event.

Vader died from thyroid cancer on 8 February 2021, aged 61.

[[Beatriz Yamamoto Cázarez]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, Mexican politicians

Beatriz Eugenia Yamamoto Cázarez (22 September 1957 – 8 February 2021) was a Mexican politician. She was a member of the PAN. She was Deputy representing Guanajuato from 2012 until his death.

Yamamoto Cázarez died of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico on 8 February 2021, aged 63.

[[Valeria Gagealov]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Romania, Romanian movie actors, Romanian television actors, Romanian stage actors

Valeria Gagealov (9 December 1931 – 9 February 2021) was a Romanian actress. She was born in Galați, Romania. She was known for her roles in La Moara cu noroc (1955), Columna (1968), Mihai Viteazul (1971) and Mihail, câine de circ (1979).

Gagealov died in Bucharest from COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Romania at the age of 89.

[[Ivan Izquierdo]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, People from Buenos Aires, Deaths from pneumonia, Argentine scientists, Brazilian scientists

Ivan Antonio Izquierdo (16 September 1937 – 9 February 2021) was an Argentine-Brazilian scientist.

Izquierdo taught at National University of Cordoba (UNC), in Argentina. For more than 20 years, he worked in the "Center of Memory" of the Biochemistry Department of the Health Basic Sciences Institute (ICBS) at the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS).

He died of pneumonia on 9 February 2021 at the age of 83.

[[Rajiv Kapoor]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian movie actors, Indian television actors, Indian movie directors, Indian movie producers, Actors from Mumbai

Rajiv Kapoor (25 August 1962 – 9 February 2021) was an Indian actor, producer and director.

His older brothers were Randhir Kapoor and the late Rishi Kapoor.

[[José Maranhão]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Brazilian politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil

José Targino Maranhão (6 September 1933 – 9 February 2021) was a Brazilian politician and businessman. He was born in Araruna, Paraíba. He was Governor of Paraíba from 2009 until 2011. He also was a member of the Brazilian Senate from 2015 until 2021. Maranhão was a member of the Brazilian Democratic Movement.

Maranhão died on 9 February 2021 in São Paulo from COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, aged 87.

[[Franco Marini]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Italy, Italian politicians

Franco Marini (9 April 1933 – 9 February 2021) was an Italian politician. He was a member of the Democratic Party. From 2006 to 2008. he was the president of the Italian Senate. From 1992 until 2013, he was a member of the Italian Parliament. He was born in St. Pio of the Chambers, Italy. From 1991 to 1992, he was the Minister of Labour.

Marini died on 9 February 2021 in Rome from COVID-19, aged 87.

[[Klaus Bühler]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany

Klaus Bühler (16 January 1941 – 3 February 2021) was a German politician of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU). He was member of the German Bundestag from 1976 to 2002. He was born in Bad Sachsa, West Germany.

Bühler died on 3 February 2021, aged 80.

[[Gilles Fauconnier]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, French academics, Linguists

Gilles Fauconnier (ʒil fokɔˈnje) (19 August 1944 – 3 February 2021) was a French linguist, researcher in cognitive science, and author. He worked in the U.S.  He was distinguished professor at the University of California, San Diego, in the Department of Cognitive Science.

[[Stanisław Wołodko]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, Polish sportspeople, Polish Olympians, People from Vilnius

Stanisław Wołodko (20 March 1950 – 4 February 2021) was a Polish athlete. He competed in the men's discus throw at the 1976 Summer Olympics. He was born in Vilnius, Lithuania.

Wołodko died on 4 February 2021 in Warsaw, aged 70.

[[Thomas Rutherford Brett]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, American judges, Politicians from Oklahoma City, US Democratic Party politicians

Thomas Rutherford Brett (October 2, 1931 – February 6, 2021) was an American politician and lawyer. He was a United States District Judge of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma from 1979 until 2003, after being nominated by President Jimmy Carter. Brett was born in Oklahoma City.

Brett died on February 6, 2021 in Tulsa, Oklahoma at the age of 89.

[[Andrew Fraser, Baron Fraser of Corriegarth]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Conservative Party (UK) people, Deaths from brain cancer, Members of the House of Lords

Alexander Andrew Macdonell Fraser, Baron Fraser of Corriegarth (2 December 1946 – 6 February 2021) was a treasurer of the Conservative Party of the United Kingdom. He was a member of the House of Lords. He was described variously as a  "stockbroker" or an "investment banker".

He died on 6 February 2021, from a brain tumour, at the age of 74.

[[Louise Elisabeth Coldenhoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Indonesian people, Military people

Louise Elisabeth Coldenhoff (22 March 1935 – 7 February 2021) was an Indonesian Navy colonel. She was one of the first 12 members of the Navy Women's Corps. She later was head of the Jakarta Regional Office of the Ministry of Education and Culture under Governor Soeprapto from 1983 to 1987.  

Coldenhoff died at a Central Jakarta hospital on 7 February 2021, aged 85.

[[René Victor Pilhes]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Writers from Paris

René Victor Pilhes (1 July 1934 – 7 February 2021) was a French writer and publicist. He was known for his works L'Imprécateur (Novel 1974), La Rhubarbe (1965), Le Loum (1969), La Pompéi (1985), Les Démons de la cour de Rohan (1987), and La position de Philidor (1992). Pilhes was born in Paris.

Pilhes died on 7 February 2021 in Paris, aged 86.

[[Adam Kopczyński]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, Polish ice hockey players, Polish Olympians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Poland

Adam Jakub Kopczyński (2 August 1948 – 8 February 2021) was a Polish ice hockey player. He played for Cracovia and ŁKS Łódź.

He also played for the Polish national team at the 1972 Winter Olympics.

He died from COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Poland, aged 72.

[[Yisa Sofoluwe]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2021 deaths, Nigerian footballers, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria

Yisa Sofoluwe (28 December 1967 – 9 February 2021) was a Nigerian professional footballer. He played as a defender. He won 40 caps and scored one goal for his country.

Sofoluwe died of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria on 9 February 2021, at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH). He was aged 53 years.

[[Billy Conigliaro]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Boston Red Sox players, Milwaukee Brewers players, Oakland Athletics players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts

William Michael Conigliaro (August 15, 1947 – February 10, 2021) was an American professional baseball outfielder. He played Major League Baseball for the Boston Red Sox (1969–1971), Milwaukee Brewers (1972) and Oakland Athletics (1973). 

He was the younger brother of Tony Conigliaro; Billy and Tony were Red Sox teammates in 1969 and 1970.

Conigliaro died on February 10, 2021 at the age of 73.

[[Stewart Greenleaf]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

Stewart John Greenleaf Sr. (October 4, 1939 – February 10, 2021) was an American Republican politician and attorney. He was a member of the Pennsylvania State Senate from 1979 to 2019. He also was a member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives from 1977 to 1978. Greenleaf was born in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania.

Greenleaf died on February 10, 2021 at age 81.

[[Ebbe Kops]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Danish sportspeople, Olympians, Boxers

Ebbe Kops (5 February 1930 – 10 February 2021) was a Danish boxer. He competed in the men's light middleweight event at the 1952 Summer Olympics.

Kops died on 10 February 2021, aged 91.

[[Pachín]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish footballers, Spanish football managers

Enrique Pérez Díaz (28 December 1938 – 10 February 2021), known as Pachín, was a Spanish footballer who played as a defender.

Pachín signed for Real Madrid in 1959 from Segunda División club CA Osasuna. He made his La Liga debut on 11 September 1960.

Pachín won eight caps for the Spain national team, during three years.

Pachín died on 10 February 2021, aged 82.

[[Olivia Rodrigo]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 2003 births, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Singer-songwriters from California, Actors from California

Olivia Isabel Rodrigo (born February 20, 2003) is an American actress and singer-songwriter. She is known for her roles as Paige Olvera on the Disney Channel series Bizaardvark and Nini Salazar-Roberts on the Disney+ series High School Musical: The Musical: The Series. 

She released her debut single "Drivers License" in January 2021, which reached number one in many countries worldwide, including the United States. These were followed with the top-ten hit "Deja Vu" and "Good 4 U", which became her second US and UK number-one hit. Her debut album, Sour, was released on May 21, 2021.

Rodrigo's musical style has been compared to that of alternative musicians Lorde and Billie Eilish.

[[Michael O'Keefe (Louisiana politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from New Orleans, Louisiana, US Democratic Party politicians, Deaths from melanoma

Michael Hanley O'Keefe Sr. (December 1, 1931 – January 31, 2021) was an American lawyer and politician. He was a member of the Louisiana State Senate for Orleans Parish from 1960 to 1983. He was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. He was a member of the Democratic Party.

O'Keefe died of melanoma on January 31, 2021, in Lakeview, Louisiana at age 89.

[[Jacksonville, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Jacksonville is a city located in Cherokee County, Texas, United States. 14,544 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Ida Keeling]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, Living people, American track and field athletes, American centenarians, Sportspeople from New York City, Caribbean sportspeople, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Ida Keeling (May 15, 1915 – August 28, 2021) was an American centenarian track and field athlete. Keeling held Masters records in 60 meter and 100 meter distances for women in the 95-99 and 100-plus age groups.

Her story was featured in a segment in the Carl Reiner-hosted documentary If You're Not in the Obit, Eat Breakfast, on aging over 90.

In 2015, Keeling turned 100. She died on August 28, 2021 in New York City at the age of 106.

[[Jerry M. Patterson]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, American mayors, United States representatives from California, US Democratic Party politicians, Politicians from El Paso, Texas, People from Santa Ana, California

Jerry Mumford Patterson (born October 25, 1934) is an American lawyer and Democratic politician. He was born in El Paso, Texas. From 1973 until 2015, he was Mayor of Santa Ana, California. From 1975 until 1985, Patterson was a member of the United States House of Representatives from California's 38th congressional district.

[[Nick Smith (American politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, United States representatives from Michigan, US Republican Party politicians

Nicholas H. Smith (born November 5, 1934) is an American politician. He was a Republican member of the United States House of Representatives from 1993 until 2005, representing from the 7th District of Michigan.

[[Addison, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Michigan

Addison is a village in Lenawee County of the U.S. state of Michigan.  The population was 605 at the 2010 census.

[[Adrian, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan, County seats in Michigan

Adrian is a city in the U.S. state of Michigan and the county seat of Lenawee County.  The population was 21,133 at the 2010 census.

[[Stephen L. Neal]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, United States representatives from North Carolina, People from Winston-Salem, North Carolina, US Democratic Party politicians

Stephen Lybrook "Steve" Neal (born November 7, 1934) is an American North Carolina Democratic politician. He was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1975 to 1995 representing North Carolina's 5th congressional district 

He chose not to seek re-election in 1994, and his seat was won that November by his 1992 opponent, future Senator Richard Burr.

[[Kenneth Lamar Holland]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, United States representatives from South Carolina, US Democratic Party politicians, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in Virginia

Kenneth Lamar (Ken) Holland (November 24, 1934 – February 27, 2021) was a Democratic politician. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives from South Carolina from 1975 to 1983. He represented South Carolina's 5th congressional district.

He unsuccessfully ran for Governor of South Carolina in 2006.

Holland died on February 27, 2021 in Richmond, Virginia from problems caused by Alzheimer's disease and diabetes at the age of 86.

[[Ronald A. Sarasin]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, United States representatives from Connecticut, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Massachusetts

Ronald Arthur Sarasin (born December 31, 1934) is an American politician. He served two terms in the Connecticut House of Representatives and three  terms as a U.S. Representative from 1973 to 1979. He represented Connecticut's 5th congressional district.

In 1978, he was the Republican nominee for Governor of Connecticut. He lost the election to Ella Grasso, the first woman to be elected governor. 

[[Beacon Falls, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Connecticut

Beacon Falls is a town in western New Haven County, Connecticut, United States. The population was 5,246 at the 2000 census.

[[John James (footballer, born 1948)]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, Sportspeople from Staffordshire, English footballers

John Brian James (24 October 1948 – 11 February 2021) was an English footballer. He played as a striker.

He played in the English Football League for Port Vale, Chester and Tranmere Rovers, making 381 appearances in the process, and also played in the North American Soccer League for the Chicago Sting. 

James was born in Stone, Staffordshire. He died on 11 February 2021, aged 78.

[[Dave Grusin]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Academy Award winners, Grammy Award winners, American pianists, American composers, American jazz musicians, American keyboard players, American record producers, Musicians from Colorado, Writers from Colorado

Robert David Grusin (born June 26, 1934) is an American composer, arranger, producer, and pianist. He has won an Academy Award and ten Grammy Awards. He is the co-founder of GRP Records. He won an Oscar for his score of The Milagro Beanfield War (1988).

[[Evan Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Politicians from Virginia, People from Alexandria, Virginia, US Democratic Party politicians

Evan Maureen Ryan (born 1971) is an American public servant. She is the White House Cabinet Secretary in the Joe Biden administration since January 20, 2021.  She was Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs (ECA) in the Obama Administration (2013–2017) and was assistant for intergovernmental affairs and public liaison for then-Vice President Joe Biden.

In 2002, she married Antony Blinken who is President Biden's Secretary of State.

[[Khumanlol]]

CATEGORIES: Puya, History

Khumanlol (ꯈꯨꯃꯟꯂꯣꯜ), also spelt as Khumanlon (ꯈꯨꯃꯟꯂꯣꯟ), is a chronicle (puya) of the genealogy of the rulers of the Khuman dynasty, which flourished as an independent principality in the south of Ancient Manipur, and later absorbed into the Meitei ethnicity in the fourteenth century AD.

It is categorized as one of the historical documents of the ethnic groups settling in Manipur since seventh century AD.

[[Ningthourol Lambuba]]

CATEGORIES: Puya, History of Manipur

The Ningthourol Lambuba (ꯅꯤꯡꯊꯧꯔꯣꯜ ꯂꯝꯕꯨꯕ) is an ancient historical document (puya), about the reign of the Meitei kings of Ancient Manipur (Antique Kangleipak).

It is a long roll of the monarchs with the activities of the kings of Manipur.

The scripture contains 348 leaves. It supplemented the Cheitharol Kumbaba, the state chronicle of the kingdom.

It records that Nongda Lairen Pakhangba was the first historical Meitei king of Ancient Manipur (Antique Kangleipak).

[[Shout! Factory]]

CATEGORIES: American entertainment companies

Shout! Factory is an American DVD and music company. It was made in 2002 and was named Retropolis Entertainment. Shout! Factory makes DVDs of new and old movies and television programs like All in the Family.

[[Helloi]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei culture, Meitei folklore, Meitei mythology, Meitei religion

"Helloi" (ꯍꯦꯜꯂꯣꯢ), also spelt as "Heloi" (ꯍꯦꯂꯣꯢ) (literally "nymph" or "siren"), in the Meitei religion, is a female nature spirit, often shown as a beautiful maiden. A Heloi is the most powerful among the female spirits who cause disease. Women may get sick in their sexual organs and men became insane from the attacks of the helois.

The hellois are often known with the charming beauty, ecological balance and male submission (seduction).

[[Intermediate massed black hole]]

CATEGORIES: Black holes

An intermediate massed black hole is a black hole that is between 100 to 1,000 times the mass of our Sun. It is more massive than a stellar black hole, but less massive than a supermassive black hole.

[[Veragua cross-banded tree frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The Veragua cross-banded treefrog or drab treefrog (Smilisca sordida) is a frog that lives in Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Costa Rica and Colombia. Scientists have seen it as high in the hills as 1525 meters above sea level.

The adult male frog is 3.62 cm long and the adult female frog is 5.6 cm long.  They have gray-brown skin on the back and a lighter belly.  It has purple skin where the legs meet the body.  They have light marks over their eyes and stripes on their legs.

This frog lives near streams and rivers in forests.  They lay eggs at the time of year when the streams are not so deep.

The tadpoles are 3.2 cm long.  They live at the bottom of the stream and hold onto the rocks with their mouths.

[[Liz Torres]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from the Bronx, Singers from New York City, Comedians from New York City, Living people

Liz Torres (born September 27, 1947) is a American actress, singer, and comedian from The Bronx, New York City, New York. She played Mahalia Sanchez in the comedy show The John Larroquette Show and also played Teresa Betancourt in All in the Family.

[[Tess Harper]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Arkansas, Living people, Award winning actors

Tessie Jean Washam (later Tess Harper; born August 15, 1950) is an American actress. She was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for the Best Supporting Actress for her first movie role in Tender Mercies, a 1983 movie. She was nominated for an Academy Award for the Best Supporting Actress for Crimes of the Heart, a 1986 movie.

Harper was born in Mammoth Spring, Arkansas. She was raised in Missouri.

[[Zinder]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Niger

Zinder is a city in Niger. It is the capital of the region with the same name. About 323,000 people live in Zinder. Until 1926, Zinder was the capital of Niger, since then, Niamey is the capital. Zinder is important for trade. In the region around Zinder peanuts are grown. 

[[Isthmian Games]]

CATEGORIES: Sports, Ancient Greece

The Isthmian Games were a music and athletic contest. The Isthmian Games happened in ancient Greece. The Games were played honour of the sea god Poseidon.  They were played in the spring of the second and fourth years of each Olympiad.  They were played at the holy place of Poseidon on the Isthmus of Corinth.  The Isthmian Games were played until the 4th century c.e.  Both men and women competed in the Isthmian Games.

[[Maradi, Niger]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Niger

Maradi is a city in Niger. With 267,000 people, it is the third-largest of the country, after Niamey and Zinder. Maradi is important for trade. Peanuts are grown in the area around the city.

[[Franz Joseph Denzinger]]

Franz Josef Denzinger (24 February 182114 February 1894) was a German architect and church builder. His works include numerous churches, including in Regensburg and Frankfurt am Main. He was born in Liège as the son of a university philosopher Ignacio Denzinger and Marie Thekla née Molitor. Franz Josef Denzinger was born in Liège as the son of the university professor of philosophy Ignaz Denzinger and his wife Marie Thekla née Molitor. The family moved to Würzburg in 1831, where the son attended grammar school and then studied "general" sciences at Julius Maximilians University, where his father taught as a full professor. From 1842/43 he studied engineering at the Royal Polytechnic Academy in Munich, as well as architecture at the Academy of Fine Arts. In 1846 he completed his training with the state examination as an engineer for the state building service for road, bridge and hydraulic engineering, in 1847 supplemented with the examination as an architect for civil engineering.

[[Khuman Leipaak]]

CATEGORIES: History

"Khuman Leipaak" (ꯈꯨꯃꯟ ꯂꯩꯄꯥꯛ) (literally, "Khuman kingdom or principality") was an independent powerful kingdom, ruled by the kings of the Khuman dynasty in Ancient Manipur. The principality flourished at the shores of the Loktak lake. Mayang Imphal, the capital city of the kingdom, was situated at the left banks of the Imphal River, till the middle of the 14th century AD.

The Khuman kingdom was once more extensive and prosperous than that of the Ningthoujas. However, it became dependent on the Ningthouja kingdom by the 12th century AD.

[[Allan Melvin]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2008 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Kansas City, Missouri, Cancer deaths in California

Allan Melvin (February 18, 1923 – January 17, 2008) was an American actor who was in many television programs. Melvin was born in Kansas City, Missouri.

He was in many shows like The Brady Bunch, The Dick Van Dyke Show, and All in the Family.

Melvin died from cancer on January 17, 2008 in Brentwood, California at the age of 84.

[[Christine Lahti]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Michigan, Living people

Christine Ann Lahti (born April 4, 1950) is an American actress and filmmaker. She was nominated for an Academy Award for the Best Supporting Actress for Swing Shift, a 1984 movie. For her directorial start with the 1995 short movie Lieberman in Love, she won an Academy Award for the Best Live Action Short Film.

Lahti began on Broadway as a replacement in Loose Ends. She went on to perform in the Broadway plays Present Laughter (1982) and The Heidi Chronicles (1989).

Lahti is an eight-time Golden Globe Award nominee and six-time Emmy Award nominee. She won a Golden Globe Award for the television movie No Place Like Home, a 1989 movie. She won a Golden Globe and Emmy in 1998 for her role as Kate Austin in the series Chicago Hope.

Lahti was born in Birmingham, Michigan, a Detroit suburb.

[[Yurnalis Ngayoh]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Indonesian politicians

Petrus Kanisius Yuvenalis Yurnalis Ngayoh (20 August 1942 – 8 February 2021) was an Indonesian politician. He was the Vice Governor of East Kalimantan from 2003 until 2006 and as the Governor of East Kalimantan from 2006 until 2008. Ngayoh was born in Kalimantan, Japanese Dutch East Indies.

Ngayoh died on 8 February 2021 in Samarinda, Indonesia at the age of 78.

[[Goran Daničić]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2021 deaths, Serbian actors, Movie actors

Goran Daničić (Горан Даничић; 14 December 1962 – 10 February 2021) was a Serbian actor. He appeared in more than fifty movies. His career began in 1982. He was born in Užice, SFR Yugoslavia. His best known roles were in The Meeting Point, Vukovar, jedna priča, Novogodišnje venčanje, The Robbery of the Third Reich, When I Grow Up, I'll Be a Kangaroo and Ivko's Feast.

Daničić died on 10 February 2021 in Belgrade, Serbia at the age of 58.

[[Lateef Jakande]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Nigerian politicians

Lateef Kayode Jakande (23 July 1929 – 11 February 2021) was a Nigerian journalist and politician. He became governor of Lagos State in Nigeria from 1979 to 1983. He was later Minister of Works under the Sani Abacha military regime from 1993 to 1998. Jakande was born in Lagos Island, Nigeria.

Jakande died on 11 February 2021 in Lagos, aged 91.

[[Rubén Alfonso Ramírez]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Guatemalan politicians, North American entertainers, Television presenters, Guatemalan writers

Rubén Alfonso Ramírez Enríquez (4 March 1936 – 11 February 2021) was a Guatemalan politician and television presenter. He was the Minister of Education during the Alejandro Maldonado presidency from 2015 to 2016. He was born Chicacao, Guatemala.

Alfonso Ramírez died on 11 February 2021 in Guatemala City, aged 84.

[[Jayalal Rohana]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2021 deaths, Writers, Screenwriters, Sri Lankan movie actors, Television actors, Stage actors, People from Colombo

Maha Egodage Jayalal Rohana (ජයලාල් රෝහණ;  1 November 1964 – 11 February 2021), popularly known as Jayalal Rohana, was a Sri Lankan actor and screenwriter. He was born in Colombo, Sri Lanka. His best known roles were as Rajasinghe in Tikiri Suwanda (2010), Jasomihira in Sinhawalokanaya (2011) and as James Peiris in Nidahase Piya DS (2018).

Rohana died on 11 February 2021 at a hospital in Colombo, aged 56.

[[Leslie E. Robertson]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from blood cancer, Cancer deaths in California, Engineers from California, Businesspeople from California

Leslie Earl Robertson (February 12, 1928 – February 11, 2021) was an American engineer. He was the lead structural engineer of the Twin Towers of the original World Trade Center in New York City. He was the structural engineer on other projects, including the Shanghai World Financial Center and the Bank of China Tower in Hong Kong. Robertson was born in Manhattan Beach, California.

Robertson died on February 11, 2021 in San Mateo, California from blood cancer, one day before his 93rd birthday.

[[Neville Fernando]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 deaths, 1931 births, Sri Lankan politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic

Dr. Sirikkaththuge Neville Arthur Fernando (9 March 1931 – 4 February 2021) was a Sri Lankan doctor and a politician. He was born in Panadura, Sri Lanka. He was a member of the Sri Lankan Parliament from 1977 to 1989. Fernando was a member of the United National Party. He founded the Neville Fernando Teaching Hospital.

Fernando died at a hospital in Angoda, Sri Lanka of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Sri Lanka. aged 89.

[[Richard Brake]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Welsh movie actors, Welsh television actors, Welsh stage actors, Welsh voice actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from California

Richard Colin Brake (born 30 November 1964) is a Welsh-born American actor. He is known for his roles as Joe Chill in Batman Begins (2005) and as the Night King on the fourth and fifth season of Game of Thrones.

[[QueerSportSplit]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT

Queer Sport Split (short: QSS) is a charity organization from Split, Croatia. It has a focus on the sport, culture and leisure of LGBTIQ+ community. It also works in education and research on the sports and LGBTIQ+ topics. It was registered in 2011 and is the longest running local LGBTIQ+ organization in Split and Dalmatia region. 

[[Field Spaniel]]

CATEGORIES: Spaniels

The Field Spaniel is a mid-sized spaniel dog. They were first developed to be show dogs in the late 19th and early 20th centuries because they were not as good at hunting as their cousins the English Springer Spaniels and Cocker Spaniels. Later in the 20th century they were bred to have longer legs and became good gun dogs.

[[Clionidae]]

CATEGORIES: Gastropods

Clionoidae is a family of molluscs known as "sea angels". They are in the subclass Heterobranchia, class Gastropoda. They are small pelagic gastropods.

[[Clionoidea]]

CATEGORIES: Gastropods

Clionoidea is a group of molluscs. Clionoidea is a superfamily within the subclass Heterobranchia of the class Gastropoda.

[[Potala Palace]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces, Buildings and structures in Tibet

The Potala Palace (Tibetan: ཕོ་བྲང་པོ་ཏ་ལ་) was a fortress in the city of Lhasa, in Tibet.

It was used as the Dalai Lamas' winter palace from 1649 to 1959. The palace is named after Mount Potalaka, Avalokiteśvara's home.

The 5th Dalai Lama ordered the construction for this fortress after one of his spiritual advisors showed that the site had good potential/was good as a government building.

[[Blue-collar worker]]

CATEGORIES: Employment

A blue-collar worker is a worker that does jobs that uses a lot of labour. In some blue-collar jobs need skill and some jobs do not need skill. A construction worker is a blue-collar worker.

[[Lee Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, American songwriters, Lyricists, Musicians from Ohio, Living people

Lee Adams (born August 15, 1924) is an American musician who writes the words for songs. Those are called lyrics and he is a "lyricist". He worked with Charles Strouse. Strouse made the music for All in the Family and Adams made they lyrics for the theme in the television program.

[[Zdeněk Sternberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths

Count Zdeněk Filip Maria Emanuel Jiří Ignatius Sternberg (August 15, 1923 – January 19, 2021) was a descendant of the ancient aristocratic Šternberk family and the owner of Český Šternberk Castle and Březina Castle in the Rokycany region. He was the second child and eldest son of the Count George of Sternberg (December 10, 1888 Prague - July 27, 1965 Bruneck) and his wife (married April 6, 1921 Chotělice) Countess Kunigunde of Mensdorff-Pouilly (January 11, 1899 - November 19, 1989). He died on January 19, 2021. He was a Medal of Merit recipient.

[[Charles Strouse]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, American movie score composers, Jewish American musicians, Musicians from New York City, Living people

Charles Strouse (born June 7, 1928) is a American musician who makes music for movies and television programs. He made the music for Annie and Bye Bye Birdie. He also made the music for All in the Family and Lee Adams made the lyrics for the show.

[[Miquel Ferrer i Aymamí]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish footballers

Miquel Ferrer i Aymamí (28 November 1931 – 2 January 2021) was a Spanish professional footballer. His professional career spanned through most of the 1950s, when he played as a midfielder.

Ferrer Barcelona's amateur team in 1948. From 1949 to 1951, he played for Condal. 

In 1954, Ferrer joined Real Oviedo. He retired following the 1958 season at the age of 26.

[[Telly Tjanggulung]]

CATEGORIES: Indonesian politicians, 1973 births, 2021 deaths

Telly Tjanggulung (1 June 1973 – 5 January 2021) was an Indonesian politician. She was Regent of Southeast Minahasa from 2008 to 2013.

Tjanggulung died on 5 January 2021, aged 47.

[[Roland Chassain]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, French mayors

Roland Chassain (5 February 1947 – 9 February 2021) was a French politician. He was born in Aurillac, France. Chassain was a member of the Rally for the Republic. From 2002 to 2007, he was a member of the National Assembly. From 1995 until his death, he was Mayor of Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer. 

Chassain died on 9 February 2021, aged 74.

[[Ibrahim Othman Ibrahim Idris]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2021 deaths, Sudanese people, Criminals

Ibrahim Othman Ibrahim Idris (1961 – February 10, 2021) was a Sudanese criminal. He was formerly held in extrajudicial detention in the United States' Guantanamo Bay detainment camps, in Cuba.

In July 2013, a motion was filed seeking his release because his physical and emotional health had deteriorated to the point where he could be seen as a  threat.

On February 10, 2021, Idris died at age 60 at his mother's home in Port Sudan.

[[Rusty Brooks]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Texas, People from Denton, Texas

Kurt Koski (February 7, 1958 – February 11, 2021) was an American professional wrestler, better known by his ring name Rusty Brooks. He competed in several International World Class Championship Wrestling (IWCCW), Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) and the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA). 

He also appeared in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) during the mid-1980s as a preliminary wrestler.

Brooks died on February 11, 2021, aged 63. He had surgery a few weeks before.

[[Eli Soriano]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Filipino entertainers

Eliseo "Eli" Fernando Soriano (April 4, 1947 – February 11, 2021), also known as BES ('Bro. Eli Soriano)'', Brother Eli or Kapatid na Eli', was a Filipino televangelist. He was the "Overall Servant" of the Members Church of God International (MCGI) in Pampanga, Philippines. He was the main host of radio and television program Ang Dating Daan'', which is thought to be the longest-running religious program in the Philippines. Soriano was born in Pasay, Rizal, Philippines.

Soriano died on February 11, 2021 in Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil at the age of 73.

[[Wiesław Glos]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Polish Olympians, Fencers, People from Kraków

Wiesław Glos (12 September 1936 – 6 January 2021) was a Polish fencer. He competed at the 1960 and 1964 Summer Olympics. He was born in Kraków, Poland.

Glos died on 6 January 2021 in Kraków, aged 84.

[[Khuman Pokpa]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei gods and goddesses

"Khuman Pokpa" (ꯈꯨꯃꯟ ꯄꯣꯛꯄ), also spelt as "Khuman Apokpa" (ꯈꯨꯃꯟ ꯑꯄꯣꯛꯄ), is the Apokpa (ancestral deity) of the Khuman clan. He is regarded as the progenitor god of the Khuman dynasty. He is one of the three members of the Mangang Luwang Khuman in Meitei mythology and religion. Among many, one of his foremost pantheons is located in Mayang Imphal, the ancient capital of the Khuman kingdom.

In ancient times, village people used to worship the God to get blessings of good health and prosperity.

The religious festival of Lai Haraoba dedicated to Khuman Pokpa in the land of Karang Island, is celebrated for ten conscutive days.

[[Moirang Ningthourol Lambuba]]

CATEGORIES: Puya, History

"Moirang Ningthourol Lambuba" (ꯃꯣꯢꯔꯥꯡ ꯅꯤꯡꯊꯧꯔꯣꯜ ꯂꯝꯕꯨꯕ) is a historical document (puya), which served as the court chronicle of the rulers of the kingdom in Ancient Moirang. It records the genealogy of the kings of the Moirang dynasty.

The chronicle also slightly mentioned about the history of the Zeliangrong people.

[[Otto Geisert]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, German footballers

Otto Geisert (18 November 1939 – 8 January 2021) was a German footballer. He spent seven seasons in the Bundesliga with Karlsruher SC and 1. FC Kaiserslautern. He was born in Nordhorn, Germany.

Geisert died, aged 81, in Kaiserslautern, Germany.

[[Mike Henry (American football)]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, American football linebackers, Pittsburgh Steelers players, Los Angeles Rams players, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, Deaths from chronic traumatic encephalopathy, Deaths from Parkinson's disease

Michael Dennis Henry (August 15, 1936 – January 8, 2021) was an American actor and football linebacker. He was best known for his role as Tarzan in the 1960s trilogy and as Junior in the Smokey and the Bandit movie series. He played for the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Los Angeles Rams. His playing career lasted from 1959 to 1964. Henry was born in Los Angeles.

Henry died on January 8, 2021 in Burbank, California from Parkinson's disease and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, aged 84.

[[Louis-Pierre Bougie]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, People from Quebec, Canadian artists, Deaths from pneumonia

Louis-Pierre Bougie (16 August 1946 – 10 January 2021) was a Canadian painter and printmaker. His works focused in engraving and etching. His work is regularly shown in Canadian, American, and European galleries.

Bougie died from pneumonia on 10 January 2021, aged 74.

[[Tom Gannon]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

Thomas P. Gannon (April 5, 1943 – January 10, 2021) was an American politician. He was a Republican member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives from 1979 to 2006. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Gannon died on January 10, 2021 in Upland, Pennsylvania at the age of 77.

[[Upland, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in Pennsylvania

Upland is a borough in Delaware County, Pennsylvania, United States. 3,239 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Kenneth Halverson]]

CATEGORIES: US Republican Party politicians, State legislators of the United States, 1933 births, 2021 deaths

Kenneth S. Halverson (July 24, 1933 – January 21, 2021) was an American Republican politician. He was a member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives from 1967 to 1968 and again from 1969 to 1980. Halverson was born in Somerset, Pennsylvania.

Halverson died on January 21, 2021 in Somerset, aged 87.

[[Lothar Metz]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, German Olympic gold medalists, German Olympic bronze medalists, German Olympic silver medalists, Wrestlers, Sportspeople from Saxony

Lothar Metz (16 January 1939 – 23 January 2021) was a German wrestler. He won an Olympic silver medal in Greco-Roman wrestling in 1960, and a bronze medal in 1964. He won an Olympic gold medal in 1968, competing for East Germany. He was born in Meerane, Germany.

Metz died on 23 January 2021 in Rostock, Germany at the age of 81.

[[The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 movies, 1970s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by John Huston

The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean is a 1972 American western movie directed by John Huston (who also stars) and starring Paul Newman, Anthony Perkins, Ned Beatty, Roddy McDowall, Jacqueline Bisset, Victoria Principal, Ava Gardner, Stacy Keach, Dick Farnsworth, Bill McKinney, Anthony Zerbe. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1973.

[[Margaret C. Snyder]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, American sociologists, United Nations officials, Scientists from New York, Writers from New York, People from Syracuse, New York

Margaret C. "Peg" Snyder (January 30, 1929 – January 26, 2021) was an American social scientist. Her work focused on women and economic development, particularly in Africa. 

She was the founding director of the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM), whose name was changed to UN Women in 2011. She was also a co-founder of Women's World Banking and of the African Training and Research Centre for Women.

Snyder died on January 26, 2021 in New York City from cardiac arrest, aged 91.

[[John L. Behan]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from New York, US Republican Party politicians

John L. Behan (November 11, 1944 – January 28, 2021) was an American politician. He was a member of the New York State Assembly from 1979 to 1995. He was a member of the Republican Party.

Behan died on January 28, 2021 in Montauk, New York at the age of 76.

[[Alberto Matos]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Olympians, Sprinters, Sportspeople from Lisbon

Alberto Jorge Rodrigues de Matos (6 June 1944 – 28 January 2021) was a Portuguese sprinter. He competed in the men's 4 × 400 metres relay at the 1972 Summer Olympics. He was born in Lisbon, Portugal.

Matos died on 28 January 2021 in Lisbon, aged 76.

[[Puttershoek]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in South Holland, Former municipalities of South Holland, Hoeksche Waard

Puttershoek is a town and former municipality in the western Netherlands. It is located on the banks of the Oude Maas, on the island Hoeksche Waard, in the province of South Holland.

Since 1 January 2019, it is part of the new municipality Hoeksche Waard.

[[Bert Schreuder]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Dutch mayors, Labour Party (Netherlands) politicians, People from Apeldoorn, Politicians from Gelderland

Albertus “Bert” Schreuder (4 May 1929 – 30 January 2021) was a Dutch politician. He was mayor of Puttershoek from 1963 to 1971, Gorinchem from 1971 to 1982 and of Amersfoort from 1982 to 1994. He was a member of the Partij van de Arbeid (PvdA). Schreuder was born in Apeldoorn, Netherlands.

Schreuder died on 30 January 2021 in Amersfoort, Netherlands at the age of 91.

[[Bunki Bankaitis-Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2021 deaths, American Olympians, American cyclists

[[Khoriphaba]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei gods and goddesses

"Khoriphaba" (ꯈꯣꯔꯤꯐꯥꯕ) is a God in Meitei religion. He is the son of the sky God Soraren. Legend says he came down from heaven to earth to seek his mother and a lady love. He is best known for having wrestling with Loyalakpa in the sacred festival of Lai Haraoba. During his worship, cooked foods could be offered but devotees are not allowed to offer fish. He is equivalent to Varuna of Hindu mythology.

[[Art Davis (American football)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Pittsburgh Steelers players, Sportspeople from Mississippi, Deaths from Parkinson's disease

Arthur Ganong "Art" Davis (November 29, 1934 – January 29, 2021) was an American football player. He played at Mississippi State University in 1952-55 and for one season with the Pittsburgh Steelers in the National Football League (NFL) in 1956.

He died of Parkinson's disease on January 29, 2021, in Starkville, Mississippi at age 86.

[[Mary Anne Marchino]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, American swimmers, American Olympians, Sportspeople from Indianapolis, Indiana

Mary Anne Marchino (January 27, 1938 – January 29, 2021) was an American competition swimmer. She represented the United States at the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, Australia.  Marchino competed in the qualifying heats of the women's 100-meter backstroke. Marchino wasd born in Indianapolis, Indiana.

Marchino died on January 29, 2021 at the age of 83.

[[Didier Pasgrimaud]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2021 deaths, French cyclists, French Olympians

Didier Pasgrimaud (23 February 1966 – 29 January 2021) was a French cyclist. He competed in the team pursuit event at the 1988 Summer Olympics. He was born in Châteaubriant, France.

Pasgrimaud died on 29 January 2021 in Châteaubriant at the age of 54.

[[Madeline Carroll]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, American Christians, American movie actors, American television actors, American child actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Living people

Madeline Carroll (born yes) is an American actress known for starring as Juli Baker in Flipped, as Molly Johnson in Swing Vote, as Farren in The Spy Next Door, and as Willow O'Neil The Magic of Belle Isle.

Carroll is a Christian.

[[Kevin Weisman]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Jewish American actors

Kevin Glen Weisman (born December 29, 1970) is an American actor. He is known for his role as Marshall Flinkman on the critically acclaimed, J.J. Abrams'  television series, Alias, which aired for five seasons (2001–2006) on ABC.

Weisman is Jewish.

[[Callan McAuliffe]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, Australian child actors, Actors from Sydney

Callan Ryan Claude McAuliffe (born 24 January 1995) is an Australian actor. He is known for his roles as Bryce Loski in Flipped and Sam Goode in I Am Number Four. 

He appeared as young Jay Gatsby in the 2013 movie The Great Gatsby. As of 2017, he appears on The Walking Dead as Alden.

[[John Corbett]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, American country singers, American country guitarists, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from West Virginia, Musicians from West Virginia, Singers from West Virginia, People from Wheeling, West Virginia

John Joseph Corbett (born May 9, 1961) is an American actor and country music singer. He is known for his roles as Chris Stevens on CBS' Northern Exposure and as Aidan Shaw on HBO's Sex and the City.

Corbett also played Ian Miller, in the romantic comedy movie My Big Fat Greek Wedding (2002) and its 2016 sequel.

[[Janel Parrish]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Honolulu, Singers from Hawaii

Janel Meilani Parrish Long (born October 30, 1988) is an American actress and singer. She is best known for starring as Mona Vanderwaal in the mystery-drama franchise Pretty Little Liars (2010–2017, 2019) and as Margot Covey in the To All the Boys movie series (2018–present). 

[[Dumbarton Bridge (California)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 establishments in the United States, Bridges in the San Francisco Bay Area, Steel bridges

The Dumbarton Bridge is the southernmost of the highway bridges across San Francisco Bay in California. It can carry over 70,000 vehicles and about 118 pedestrian and bicycle crossings daily. It is the shortest bridge across San Francisco Bay at 1.63. 

[[Jenny Han]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, American children's writers, American novelists, Writers from Virginia, People from Richmond, Virginia

Jenny Han (born September 3, 1980) is an American author. Many of her books are young adult fiction and children's fiction. She is best known for writing The Summer I Turned Pretty trilogy and the To All the Boys series.

[[Roger Kellaway]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Musicians

Roger Kellaway (born November 1, 1939) is an American musician who makes music for movies and television programs. He is called a composer. Roger did the music for the movie, A Star Is Born and also did the ending music for All in the Family.

[[Hitoshi Sasaki (footballer, born 1891)]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1982 deaths, Footballers from Fukushima Prefecture, Japanese football managers, Japan national football team managers

Hitoshi Sasaki was a Japanese football player and manager. He managed for Japan national team.

[[Masujiro Nishida]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan national football team managers

Masujiro Nishida was a Japanese football player and manager. He managed for Japan national team.

[[Goro Yamada]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1958 deaths, Footballers from Fukushima Prefecture, Japanese football managers, Japan national football team managers, Deaths from intracranial hemorrhage

Goro Yamada was a Japanese football player and manager. He managed for Japan national team.

[[Japan Football Association]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s establishments in Japan, 1921 establishments in Asia, Football organizations, Football in Japan

The Japan Football Association or Japan FA is the governing body responsible for the administration of football in Japan. It is responsible for the national team, as well as club competitions.

[[Snowflake, Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Arizona

Snowflake is a town in Navajo County, Arizona, United States. It was founded in 1878. 5,590 people lived here in 2010.

[[Far Eastern Championship Games]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in the Philippines, 1913 establishments in Asia, Asian Games, Multi-sport events

The Far Eastern Championship Games (also known as the Far Eastern Championships, Far Eastern Games or Far East Games) was an Asian multi-sport event considered to be a precursor to the Asian Games.

[[Show Low, Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Arizona

Show Low is a city in Navajo County, Arizona, United States. In the 2010 census, 10,660 people lived here.

[[Japan Football Hall of Fame]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in Japan, Sports halls of fame, Football in Japan

Japan Football Hall of Fame is housed at the Japan Football Museum (:ja:日本サッカーミュージアム), in JFA House in Bunkyo, Tokyo. The Hall aims to celebrate the achievements of the all-time top Japanese football players, managers, and other persons who have been significant figures in the history of the game in Japan.

[[Koichi Kudo]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1971 deaths, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture, Japanese football managers, Japan national football team managers, Deaths from heart failure

Koichi Kudo was a Japanese football player and manager. He managed for Japan national team.

[[Vahid Halilhodžić]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Bosnia and Herzegovina footballers, Bosnia and Herzegovina football managers, Japan national football team managers

Vahid Halilhodžić (born May 15, 1952) is a former Bosnian football player and manager. He played for Yugoslavia national team.

[[Younan Nowzaradan]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Surgeons, Participants in American reality television series

Younan Nowzaradan (یونان نوذرادان;April 2019 born October 11, 1944), also known as Dr. Now, is an Iranian-American surgeon, TV personality, and author. He specializes in vascular surgery and bariatric surgery. He is known for helping morbidly obese people lose weight on My 600-lb Life (2012–present).

[[Seiki Ichihara]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Japanese footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan women's national football team managers

Seiki Ichihara is a former Japanese football player and manager. He managed for Japan women's national team.

[[Takao Orii]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Japanese footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan women's national football team managers

Takao Orii is a former Japanese football player and manager. He managed for Japan women's national team.

[[Ryohei Suzuki (footballer, born 1949)]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Japanese footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan women's national football team managers

Ryohei Suzuki is a former Japanese football player and manager. He managed for Japan women's national team.

[[Nadeshiko League]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in Japan, 1980s establishments in Japan, 1989 establishments in Asia

The Japan Women's Football League, commonly known as the Nadeshiko League, is a women's association football league in Japan.

The Nadeshiko League consists of three divisions that correspond to the top three levels of the Japanese women's football pyramid respectively: the Nadeshiko League Division 1, the Nadeshiko League Division 2, and the Nadeshiko Challenge League. Teams are promoted and relegated among the three divisions, and between the Nadeshiko Challenge League and the fourth-level Japanese regional leagues, based on performance in the previous season.

Since 2008, the Nadeshiko League has been sponsored by Plenus, a fast food company based in Fukuoka.

[[Empress's Cup]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s establishments in Japan, 1979 establishments in Asia, Football in Japan, Football competitions

The Empress's Cup All-Japan Women's Soccer Championship Tournament, or The Empress's Cup, is a Japanese women's football competition. As an elimination tournament, it can be considered the female counterpart to the men's Emperor's Cup. The name "Empress's Cup" has been used since the 2012 season as the Empress's Cup trophy was founded in that year.

From 2004 to 2011 season (New Year's Day of 2005 to 2012), the final was played on New Year's Day at the National Stadium in Tokyo before the Emperor's Cup final, and was regarded as the traditional closing match of the season. Since 2012, the final has been played separately from the Emperor's Cup final.

[[Hiroshi Ohashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture, Japanese football managers, Japan women's national football team managers

Hiroshi Ohashi is a former Japanese football player and manager. He managed for Japan women's national team.

[[Bud Yorkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, American television producers, American television writers, Emmy Award winners, Movie producers from Pennsylvania

Bud Yorkin (February 22, 1926 – August 18, 2015) was an American movie and television producer. Yorkin was friends with Norman Lear and they both made Tandem Productions. He and Lear made very successful television programs like Sanford and Son and All in the Family. Yorkin left Lear to make his own company called, Bud Yorkin Productions. He died on August 18, 2015 at 89 years old.

[[JAR (file format)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats

Java ARchive (JAR) is a file format created by the Oracle Corporation that is based on the ZIP file format. The primary motivation for the creation of JAR was to allow Java applets and their files to download using a single HTTP connection instead of a new connection for each piece.  This allows webpages to load faster and the applet can begin functioning.

[[Lowland burrowing tree frog]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of North America, Frogs

The burrowing tree frog, lowland burrowing tree frog, northern casque-headed frog, or northern casquehead frog (Smilisca fodiens) is a frog that lives in northern Mexico and southern Arizona.

The adult frog is 5.4 to 6.3 cm long.  The male frogs and female frogs are about the same size.  Its hind legs are short and strong.  It has more bone in its head than most frogs do.  Its toes have discs for climbing.  Its front toes are not webbed.  It is gray-brown, green-prown, or pink-brown in color.

Scientists say this frog is related to Smilisca dentata.

This frog burrows into the ground in grasslands or scrub forests.  It can also form a cocoon to stop water from leaving its body.  It makes the cocoon by shedding its skin.

These frogs lay eggs after it rains, in bodies of water than dry up.

[[Missouri's 8th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Missouri, United States House of Representatives

Missouri's 8th congressional district is a congressional district in the state of Missouri. The people who live in this district elect a person to be a representative for the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Republican Party Jason Smith. The district is in rural southeast Missouri and has some counties in Southwest Missouri. 

[[Nongda Lairen Pakhangba]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei people, Kings of Ancient Manipur, History of Manipur

Nongda Lairen Pakhangba (ꯅꯣꯡꯗꯥ ꯂꯥꯢꯔꯦꯟ ꯄꯥꯈꯪꯕ), originally spelt as Nongta Lailen Pakhangpa (ꯅꯣꯡꯇꯥ ꯂꯥꯢꯂꯦꯟ ꯄꯥꯈꯪꯄ), is the first ruler of the Ningthouja dynasty to sit on the throne of the Kangla of Ancient Manipur (Antique Kangleipak). He ascended the throne of the kingdom in 33 AD and ruled till 154 AD.

His identity was always mingled with that of the snake God Pakhangba. So, some ancient texts also described him like a divine king. The Khaba Nganba dynasty held the power of the kingdom before Nongda Lairen Pakhangba had overcame them through fierce battle.

The Pakhangba Nongkaron recorded the fact that he had a combat with Poireiton for claiming the throne of Kangla, the ancient capital city of the kingdom.

[[1951 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s in India, 1951 in Asia, 1951 in sports, Sport in India, New Delhi, March events, Asian Games

The 1951 Asian Games, officially known as the I Asian Games, was a sports event in New Delhi, India. It occurred from 4 to March 11, 1951. There were 57 events from 8 sports and disciplines.

[[1954 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: Asian Games, 20th century in the Philippines, 1950s in Asia, 1954 in sports, Sport in the Philippines, Manila, May events

The 1954 Asian Games, officially known as the II Asian Games, was a sports event in Manila, Philippines. It occurred from May 1 to May 9, 1954. There were 77 events from 8 sports and disciplines.

[[1958 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Tokyo, 1950s in Asia, 1958 in sports, Sport in Japan, Asian Games, May events, June events

The 1958 Asian Games, officially known as the III Asian Games, was a sports event in Tokyo, Japan. It occurred from May 24 to June 1, 1958. There were 112 events from 13 sports and disciplines.

[[1962 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 in sports, 1960s in Asia, Asian Games, August events, History of Java, Jakarta, September events, Sport in Indonesia

The 1962 Asian Games, officially known as the IV Asian Games, was a sports event in Jakarta, Indonesia. It occurred from 24 August to 4 September 1962. There were 120 events from 13 sports and disciplines.

[[1966 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s in Thailand, 1966 in sports, Sport in Bangkok, Asian Games, December events

The 1966 Asian Games, officially known as the V Asian Games, was a sports event in Bangkok, Thailand. It occurred from December 9 to December 20, 1966. There were 142 events from 16 sports and disciplines.

[[1970 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s in Thailand, 1970 in sports, Sport in Bangkok, December events, Asian Games

The 1970 Asian Games, officially known as the VI Asian Games, was a sports event in Bangkok, Thailand. It occurred from December 9 to December 20, 1970. There were 135 events from 13 sports and disciplines.

[[1974 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s in Iran, 1974 in sports, Sport in Iran, Tehran, September events, Asian Games

The 1974 Asian Games, officially known as the VII Asian Games, was a sports event in Tehran, Imperial Iran. It occurred from 1 September to 16 September, 1974. There were 200 events from 16 sports and disciplines.

[[1978 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s in Thailand, 1978 in Asia, 1978 in sports, Sport in Bangkok, December events, Asian Games

The 1978 Asian Games, officially known as the VIII Asian Games, was a sports event in Bangkok, Thailand. It occurred from December 9 to December 20, 1978. There were 199 events from 19 sports and disciplines.

[[1982 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s in India, 1982 in sports, New Delhi, Sport in India, November events, December events, Asian Games

The 1982 Asian Games, officially known as the IX Asian Games, was a sports event in Delhi, India. It occurred from November 19 to December 4, 1982. There were 196 events from 21 sports and disciplines.

[[1986 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 in Asia, 1986 in sports, Seoul, Sport in South Korea, September events, October events, Asian Games

The 1986 Asian Games, officially known as the X Asian Games, was a sports event in Seoul, South Korea. It occurred from 20 September to 5 October, 1986. There were 296 events from 25 sports and disciplines.

[[1990 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s in China, 1990 in Asia, 1990 in sports, Sport in China, Beijing, September events, October events, Asian Games

The 1990 Asian Games, also known as the XI Asian Games, was a sports event in Beijing, China. It occurred from 22 September to 7 October, 1990. There were 308 events from 27 sports and disciplines.

[[1994 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s in Japan, 1994 in sports, Sport in Japan, Hiroshima, October events, Asian Games

The 1994 Asian Games, also known as the XII Asian Games, was a sports event in Hiroshima, Japan. It occurred from 2 October to 16 October, 1994. There were 337 events from 34 sports and disciplines.

[[1998 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s in Thailand, 1998 in Asia, 1998 in sports, Sport in Bangkok, December events, Asian Games

The 1998 Asian Games, also known as the XIII Asian Games, was a sports event in Bangkok, Thailand. It occurred from 6 December to 20 December, 1998. There were 377 events from 36 sports and disciplines.

[[2002 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in South Korea, 2002 in Asia, 2002 in sports, Sport in South Korea, Busan, September events, October events, Asian Games

The 2002 Asian Games, also known as the XIV Asian Games, was a sports event in Busan, South Korea. It occurred from 29 September to 14 October, 2002. There were 419 events from 38 sports and disciplines.

[[2006 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in Asia, 2006 in sports, Sport in Qatar, December events, Asian Games

The 2006 Asian Games, also known as the XV Asian Games, was a sports event in Doha, Qatar. It occurred from 1 December to 15 December, 2006. There were 424 events from 39 sports and disciplines.

[[Illinois's 12th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Illinois

Illinois 12th congressional district is a congressional district in the state of Illinois. The district is in parts of Madison county, and all of Alexander, Franklin, Jackson, Jefferson, Monroe, Perry, Pulaski, Randolph, St. Clair, Union and Williamson counties. The people who live in the district elect a person to work for the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Republican Mike Bost.

[[2018 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 2018 in Indonesia, 2018 in sports, Asian Games, Sport in Indonesia

The 2018 Asian Games, also known as the XVIII Asian Games, was a sports event in Jakarta and Palembang, Indonesia. It occurred from 18 August to 2 September, 2018. There were 465 events from 40 sports and disciplines.

[[Illinois's 15th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Illinois

Illinois's 15th congressional district is a congressional district in the state of Illinois. The people who live in the district elect a person to represent the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Republican Mary Miller. The congressional district is in parts of Bond, Champaign, Ford and Madison counties, and all of Clark, Clay, Clinton, Coles, Crawford, Cumberland, Douglas, Edgar, Edwards, Effingham, Fayette, Gallatin, Hamilton, Hardin, Jasper, Johnson, Lawrence, Marion, Massac, Moultrie, Pope, Richland, Saline, Shelby, Vermilion, Wabash, Washington, Wayne and White counties.

[[Unhexquadium]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements

Unhexquadium is a radioactive element that has not been discovered. It will have 164 protons and 318 neutrons. Interest in the chemistry of unhexquadium is largely prompted by predictions that the isotope 482Uhq (with 164 protons and 318 neutrons), would be at the center of a possible second island of stability (the first being centered on 306Ubb or 298Fl ).

[[Pingualuit crater]]

CATEGORIES: Craters, Quebec

The Pingualuit crater (Cratère des Pingualuit; from Inuit "pimple"), is a relatively young impact crater. It is on the Ungava Peninsula in the region of Nord-du-Québec, in Quebec, Canada. 

The crater is 3.44 in diameter, and is estimated to be 1.4 ± 0.1 million years old (Pleistocene). The crater and the surrounding area are now part of Pingualuit National Park. The only species of fish in the crater lake is the Arctic char.

The crater was formerly called the "Chubb Crater" and later the "New Quebec Crater" (Cratère du Nouveau-Québec),

[[Viasna Human Rights Centre]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights organizations in Europe, Belarus

The Viasna Human Rights Centre (Праваабарончы цэнтр «Вясна») is a human rights organization from Minsk, Belarus. The organization does help political prisoners and their families. Ales Bialiatski made it in 1996 as a result of the large-scale repression of demonstrations by the government  of Alexander Lukashenko.

Ales Bialiatski  and other people from the Viasna Human Rights Centre have been tried and arrested for that. For example, on November, 26, 2012, the authorities locked up Bialatski and closed the Minsk house of organization. Amnesty International said that was an open violation of what Belarus needs to do in the human rights field.

From September 2020 to January 2021, these Viasna activists were arrested: Marfa Rabkova, Leanid Sudalenka, Tatsiana Lasitsa, Andrei Chapiuk. They were named political prisoners and got the Homo Homini Award for 2020.

In July 2021, the office of Viasna and the houses of its people were looked for. Almost all representatives of Viasna who were in Belarus at that time, including Ales Bialiatski, were arrested. It was done as a part of the pogrom of NGOs in Belarus. These people were arrested on the criminal charges of getting riots ready and tax evasion. They were named political prisoners like Rabkova, Sudalenka, Lasitsa, and Chapiuk.

[[Indiana's 8th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Indiana

Indiana's 8th congressional district is a congressional district in the state of Indiana. The counties of Clay, Crawford, Daviess,Dubois, Jasper,  Gibson, Greene, Knox, Martin, Owen, Parke, Perry, Pike, Posey, Spencer, Sullivan, Vanderburgh, Vermillion, Vigo, and Warrick. The people who live in the district elect a person to represent the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Republican Larry Buschon.

[[Phouoibi Waron]]

CATEGORIES: Puya, Religion

"Phouoibi Waron" (ꯐꯧꯑꯣꯢꯕꯤ ꯋꯥꯔꯣꯟ), also spelt as "Phouoibi Warol" (ꯐꯧꯑꯣꯢꯕꯤ ꯋꯥꯔꯣꯜ), is an ancient treatise (puya) of Phouoibi, the goddess of paddy in Meitei religion. The account is believed to be written in the historical period between 13th to 14th century AD.

According to the text, the goddess is in love affairs with multiple partners, whom she always departed. She is fickle in nature. She corresponds to Hindu goddess Lakshmi.

[[Indiana's 9th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Indiana

Indiana's 9th congressional district is a congressional district in the state of Indiana. The counties are Brown, Clark, Crawford, Floyd, Harrison, Jackson, Johnson, Lawrence, Monroe, Morgan, Orange, Scott, Washington. The people who live in the district elect a person to represent the district in the United States House of Representatives. The district is currently represented by Republican Troy Hollingsworth.

[[704 Hauser]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American sitcoms, 1994 American television series debuts, 1994 American television series endings, Television series set in New York City

704 Hauser is an American situation comedy television program and a spin-off of All in the Family. It was the last spin-off from All in the Family and aired on television from April 11 to May 9, 1994 on CBS. The show is about an African American family moving into Archie Bunker's old house in the 1990s. The show was created by Norman Lear who also made All in the Family. People thought 704 Hauser was not bad but also not very good. But the show was ended early, almost a month after it started. Five episodes were shown on television and the six episode was made but not put on television.

In All in the Family Archie Bunker is the conservative parent and his daughter, Gloria Stivic and her husband, Michael Stivic were liberals. In 704 Hauser it is opposite because the parents in the show are liberal and the son in the show is a conservative.

[[1080° Snowboarding]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 video games, Nintendo 64 games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games, Video games developed in Japan, Virtual Console games, Virtual Console games for Wii U

1080° Snowboarding is a video game about snowboarding. It was made in 1998 by Nintendo EAD for the Nintendo 64. It was made again in 2008 for the Virtual Console. The person playing the game has to make a snowboarder jump and do tricks. 

Nintendo told people about the game in November 1997. It took 9 months to make the game. It got an award from the Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences. The game got a sequel named 1080° Avalanche. It was made in 2003 for the Nintendo GameCube.

[[Franz Magill]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1972 deaths, German war criminals, SS officers, War criminals, Waffen-SS people

Franz Hermann Anton Magill (August 22, 1900 - April 14, 1972) was a German riding instructor, SS officer and war criminal of the Nazi era.

[[Ali Maâloul]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1990 births, Tunisian footballers, People from Tunis

Ali Maâloul (علي معلول; born 1 January 1990) is a Tunisian football player who plays as a left back for Al Ahly and the Tunisia national team. 

He made his debut in the national team hopes April 9, 2011, against Malawi cash match for qualifying for the 2012 Olympics in London.

Maâloul made his international debut for the Tunisia on 6 July 2013 against Morocco. He played his first African Cup in 2015, he participated also in 2017 Africa Cup of Nations.

In June 2018 he was named in Tunisia’s 23-man squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia.

[[Mortadha Ben Ouanes]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, Tunisian footballers, People from Tunis

Mortadha Ben Ouanes  (born 2 July 1994 in Sousse; مرتضى بن وناس) is a Tunisian football player who plays as a left back for étoile sportive du sahel (ESS) and the Tunisia national team. 

On September 21, 2019, Ben Ouanes played his first match for the Tunisian national football team, in a friendly against Libya. This match won 1-0 is part of the qualifiers for the 2020 African Nations Championship.

[[Rubí]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Rubí is a municipality of 78,591 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Viladecans]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Viladecans is a municipality of 67,197 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Barberà del Vallès]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Barberà del Vallès is a municipality of 33,334 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Esplugues de Llobregat]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Esplugues de Llobregat is a municipality of 47,150 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Gavà]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Gavà is a municipality of 47,057 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Martorell]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Martorell is a municipality of 28,772 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Molins de Rei]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Molins de Rei is a municipality of 25,940 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Montcada i Reixac]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Montcada i Reixac is a municipality of 36,803 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Sant Andreu de la Barca]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Sant Andreu de la Barca is a municipality of 27,569 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Begues]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Begues is a municipality of 7,300 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Fosters Home For Imaginary Friends]]

CATEGORIES: British children's television series, CBeebies

[[Balenyà]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Balenyà is a municipality of 3,840 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Pineda de Mar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Pineda de Mar is a municipality of 27,984 people (2020). It is in the province of Barcelona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Billancourt, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Billancourt is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Armenians in Syria]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian diaspora, Syria

The Armenians in Syria are citizens of Syria with Armenian descent.

Syria and areas surrounding it have served as a refuge for Armenians who fled from wars and oppressions such as the Armenian genocide. However, there were Armenians in Syria and nearby regions ever since the Byzantine Era. According to the Ministry of Diaspora of Armenia, there are about 100,000 Armenians in Syria, with more than 60,000 of them are in Aleppo. Other estimations from Armenian foundations in Syria range from 70,000 to 80,000. However, since the start of the Syrian Civil War, 16,623 Syrians that are ethnically Armenian have emigrated to Armenia.

[[Maurice-Arthur-Alphonse Wemaere]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1956 deaths, French military people, Military personnel of World War II

Maurice-Arthur-Alphonse Wemaere (1879–1956) was a French colonel who commanded the French 1st Cavalry Brigade during the Battle of Belgium and the Battle of France.

[[National Assembly (Panama)]]

CATEGORIES: Panama

The National Assembly of Panama (Asamblea Nacional de Panamá), formerly the Legislative Assembly of Panama (Asamblea Legislativa de Panamá),  is the legislative branch of the government of the Republic of Panama.

It is a unicameral legislature, currently made up of 71 members, who serve five-year terms. 

[[Diógenes Vergara]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2021 deaths, Panamanian people, South American politicians, Assassinated people, Murders by firearm

Diógenes Vergara (1970 – 9 February 2021) was a Panamanian politician. He was a Deputy for Partido Revolucionario Democrático from 2014 until 2019. He was born in Panama City, Panama. 

Vergara was shot and killed in Panama City on 9 February 2021, aged 50.

[[Japan national under-23 football team]]

CATEGORIES: National football teams, Football in Japan

The Japan national under-23 football team is a national association football youth team of Japan and is controlled by the Japan Football Association. The team won the gold medal at the 2010 Asian Games and were champions in the 2016 AFC U-23 Championship.

Since 1992, it was decided that teams targeting athletes under the age of 23 will participate in the Olympics (additional provisions for overage limits have been added since 1996).

[[Religious symbol]]

CATEGORIES: Religious symbols, Symbols

A religious symbol is a symbol that is used to represent a religion. These include a star and crescent for Islam, a cross for Christianity, and the Star of David for Judaism. Religious symbols have been used by the military in many countries, including the United States military chaplain symbols.

[[Japan national under-20 football team]]

CATEGORIES: National under-20 football teams, Football in Japan

The Japan national under-20 football team is a national association football team of Japan and is controlled by the Japan Football Association.

[[Sinyo Harry Sarundajang]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Indonesian politicians, Ambassadors of Indonesia

Sinyo Harry Sarundajang (16 January 1945 – 13 February 2021) was an Indonesian politician. He was born in Minahasa, Indonesia. He was a member of the Partai Demokrat. 

From 1991 to 2000, Sarundajang was Mayor of Bitung. From 2005 to 2015, he was Governor of North Sulawesi. From 2018 until his death, he was an Ambassador to the Philippines during the Joko Widodo administration.

Sarundajang died on 13 February 2021 at a hospital in Jakarta, aged 76.

[[Japan national under-17 football team]]

CATEGORIES: National football teams, Football in Japan

The Japan national under-17 football team is a national association football youth team of Japan and is controlled by the Japan Football Association.

[[George Benneh]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Ghanaian people, African politicians, Academics

George Benneh (6 March 1934 – 11 February 2021) was a Ghanaian academic and university administrator. He was the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ghana, Legon from 1992 to 1996. 

Between 1979 and 1981, Benneh was also the Commissioner and Minister of Lands, Natural Resources, Fuel and Power. He also was the Finance minister from May to December 1981.

Benneh died of natural causes at his home in Accra on the 11 February 2021, twenty three days short from his 87th birthday.

[[Sergeant York]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 movies, 1940s war movies, American biographical movies, American war movies, Movies based on books, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Howard Hawks

Sergeant York is a 1941 American World War I biographical movie directed by Howard Hawks and was based on the diary of the same name by Alvin York. It stars Gary Cooper, Walter Brennan, Joan Leslie, George Tobias, Stanley Ridges, Margaret Wycherly, Ward Bond, Noah Beery Jr., June Lockhart, Charles Trowbridge, Harvey Stephens, Joseph Sawyer and was distributed by Warner Bros.. It was nominated for 11 Oscars and won 2 Academy Awards in 1942.

[[Japan women's national under-20 football team]]

CATEGORIES: National football teams, Football in Japan

The Japan women's national under-20 football team is a national association football youth team of Japan and is controlled by the Japan Football Association.

The nickname of Japan women's national under-20 football team is the Young Nadeshiko (ヤングなでしこ).

[[Ezhar Cezairli]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2021 deaths, Turkish politicians, German politicians

Ezhar Cezairli (1962 – February 2021) was a Turkish-born dentist and politician. She was a member of the Christian Democratic Union. In 2011, she was elected to the Frankfurt City Council. Cezairli was born in Antakya, Turkey.

Cezairli died in February 2021 in Frankfurt, aged 58.

[[Japan women's national under-17 football team]]

CATEGORIES: National football teams, Football in Japan

The Japan women's national under-17 football team is a national association football youth team of Japan and is controlled by the Japan Football Association.

[[Bukhari Daud]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2021 deaths, Indonesian politicians, Indonesian educators, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Bukhari Daud (25 October 1959 – 11 February 2021) was an Indonesian English teacher and politician. He became the Regent of Aceh Besar from 2007 until 2012. Daud was born in Aceh Besar, Indonesia.

Daud died on 11 February 2021 at a hospital in the Aceh Besar Regency from problems caused by a heart attack, aged 61.

[[Aceh Besar Regency]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Indonesia

Great Aceh Regency is a regency of the Indonesian province of Aceh. In 2010, 351,418 people lived here. The seat of the Regency government is the town of Jantho. 

[[To Have and Have Not]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s adventure movies, American romance movies, American adventure movies, World War II movies, Movies based on books, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Howard Hawks

To Have and Have Not is a 1944 American World War II romantic adventure movie directed by Howard Hawks and was based on the 1937 novel of the same name by Ernest Hemingway. It stars Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, Walter Brennan, Dolores Moran, Hoagy Carmichael, Sheldon Leonard, Walter Surovy and was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[Javier Neves]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2021 deaths, Peruvian politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Peru

Javier Neves Mujica (1953 – 11 February 2021) was a Peruvian politician. He was Minister of Labor and Promotion of Employment from 2004 to 2005 during the Alejandro Toledo administration. He was born in Lima, Peru. 

Neves died of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Peru in Lima on 11 February 2021, aged 67.

[[National Assembly (Tanzania)]]

CATEGORIES: Tanzania

The National Assembly of Tanzania (Bunge la Tanzania) and the President of the United Republic make up the Parliament of Tanzania. The current Speaker of the National Assembly is Job Ndugai. It is a unicameral assembly, meaning it is the only chamber of parliament in the country. There are 393 members.

[[Warner Records]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s establishments in California, 1958 establishments in the United States, American record labels

Warner Records Inc. (formerly Warner Bros. Records Inc.) is an American record label owned by Warner Music Group. It is headquartered in Los Angeles, California. It was founded in 1958 as part of Warner Bros.

[[The Maltese Falcon]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 movies, 1940s mystery movies, American mystery movies, Movies based on books, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by John Huston

The Maltese Falcon is a 1941 American mystery movie directed by first time director John Huston and is the third adaption of the 1930 novel of the same name by Dashiell Hammett. It stars Humphrey Bogart, Mary Astor, Gladys George, Peter Lorre, Barton MacLaine, Lee Patrick, Sydney Greenstreet, Ward Bond, Jerome Cowan and was distributed by Warner Bros.. It was nominated for three Academy Awards in 1942.

[[Atashasta Justus Nditiye]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2021 deaths, Tanzanian people, African politicians, Road accident deaths

Atashasta Justus Nditiye  (17 October 1969 – 12 February 2021) was a Tanzanian politician. He is a member of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM). At the time of his death he was the Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communication Responsible for Communication. He was a member of the National Assembly from 2015 until his death.

Nditiye was killed in a car crash on 12 February 2021 in Dodoma, Tanzania at the age of 51.

[[Celso Güity]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2021 deaths, Honduran footballers, Cancer deaths in Florida

Celso Fredy Güity Núñez (13 July 1957 – 12 February 2021) was a Honduran football forward. He played for the national team eleven times and in the 1982 FIFA World Cup. Güity played six years for Marathón and also had a season at Sula. He was born in Tegucigalpa, Honduras.

Güity died on 12 February 2021 in Miami, Florida from cancer at the age of 63.

[[Antonio Giménez-Rico]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish screenwriters, Spanish movie directors

Antonio Giménez-Rico Sáenz de Cabezón (20 November 1938 – 12 February 2021) was a Spanish movie director and screenwriter. He was born in Burgos, Spain. His best known works were Retrato de Familia (1976), El disputado voto del Sr. Cayo (1986) and Jarrapellejos (1987).

Giménez-Rico died on 12 February 2021 in Madrid, aged 82.

[[Forty-Ninth Parallel]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s drama movies, British drama movies, Canadian drama movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Michael Powell, Movies directed by Emeric Pressburger

Forty-Ninth Parallel is a 1941 British Canadian World War II drama movie directed by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger. It stars Leslie Howard, Laurence Olivier, Anton Walbrook, Raymond Massey, Glynis Johns, Eric Portman, Charles Rolfe, Charles Victor and won an Academy Award in 1943 and was nominated for 3 others.

[[Tianwen-1]]

CATEGORIES: July 2020 events, February 2021 events, Spacecraft, May 2021 events

Tianwen-1 (TW-1; 天問) is a space mission by the China National Space Administration (CNSA) to send a robotic spacecraft to Mars. It carries an orbiter, deployable camera, lander and rover. 

The mission was successfully launched from the Wenchang Spacecraft Launch Site on 23 July 2020 on a Long March 5 heavy-lift launch vehicle and is currently in orbit around Mars, having reached planetary orbit on 10 February 2021.

On 14 May 2021, the rover landed on Mars, making China the fourth country to land a spacecraft on the planet and only the second to land a rover.

[[Xander Berkeley]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Brooklyn

Alexander Harper "Xander" Berkeley (born December 16, 1955) is an American actor. He is best known for his television roles as George Mason on 24, Sheriff Thomas McAllister on The Mentalist, Percy Rose on Nikita, the Man on The Booth at the End and Gregory on The Walking Dead. 

His movie roles include Todd Voight in Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Trevor Lyle in Candyman, Ralph in Heat, Agent Gibbs in Air Force One and Dr. Lamar in Gattaca.

[[Sarah Clarke]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from St. Louis, Missouri

Sarah Clarke (born February 16, 1972) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as Nina Myers on 24, and also for her roles as Renée Dwyer in the 2008 movie Twilight and CIA Agent Lena Smith on the USA Network show Covert Affairs.

[[The Pride of the Yankees]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s drama movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Sam Wood

The Pride of the Yankees is a 1942 American biographical drama movie directed by Sam Wood and starring Gary Cooper, Teresa Wright, Walter Brennan, Babe Ruth, Bill Dickey, Dan Duryea, Pierre Watkin, Hardie Albright, Addison Richards, Edward Fielding. It was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures and was nominated for 11 Oscars and won an Academy Award in 1943.

[[Random Harvest]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, MGM movies, Movies directed by Mervyn LeRoy

Random Harvest is a 1942 American romantic drama movie directed by Mervyn LeRoy and was based on the 1941 novel of the same name by James Hilton. It stars Ronald Coleman, Greer Garson, Susan Peters, Philip Dorn, Henry Travers, Reginald Owen, Bramwell Fletcher, Alan Napier, Margaret Wycherly, Melville Cooper, Jill Esmond and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for 7 Academy Awards in 1943.

[[Bucking Broadway]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 movies, American western movies, Silent movies, Movies directed by John Ford

Bucking Broadway is a 1917 American western movie directed by John Ford and starring Harry Carey, Molly Malone, L. M. Wells, Vester Pegg, Gertrude Astor.

[[1992 King Fahd Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA Confederations Cup, 1992 in association football, 1992 in Asia, 20th century in Saudi Arabia, Sport in Saudi Arabia

1992 King Fahd Cup was the first King Fahd Cup tournament. It took place in Saudi Arabia from 15 October to 20 October. Argentina won the tournament after defeating Saudi Arabia. United States got third place.

[[1997 FIFA Confederations Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA Confederations Cup, 1997 in association football, 1997 in Asia, December events, Sport in Saudi Arabia

1997 FIFA Confederations Cup was the first FIFA Confederations Cup tournament. The tournament had previously been played in 1992 and 1995 as the King Fahd Cup. It took place in Saudi Arabia from 12 to 21 December. Brazil won the tournament after defeating Australia. Czech Republic got third place.

[[Milford Graves]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, American jazz musicians, American drummers, Deaths from heart failure, Musicians from New York City

Milford Graves, (August 20, 1941 – February 12, 2021) was an American jazz drummer and percussionist. He was born in New York City. He was known for his early avant-garde works in the 1960s with Paul Bley, Albert Ayler, and the New York Art Quartet.

Graves died of heart failure in New York City on February 12, 2021 at the age of 79.

[[1999 FIFA Confederations Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA Confederations Cup, 1999 in association football, 1990s in Mexico, July events, August events, Football in Mexico

1999 FIFA Confederations Cup was the 4th FIFA Confederations Cup tournament. It took place in Mexico from 24 July to 4 August. The host, Mexico won the tournament after defeating Brazil. United States got third place.

[[2001 FIFA Confederations Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA Confederations Cup, 2001 in association football, 2001 in Asia, 21st century in South Korea, 2000s in Japan, Football in South Korea, Football in Japan, May events, June events

2001 FIFA Confederations Cup was the 5th FIFA Confederations Cup tournament. It took place in South Korea and Japan from 30 May to 10 June. France won the tournament after defeating Japan. Australia got third place.

[[Albert Ayler]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 1970 deaths, People who committed suicide, American jazz musicians, American jazz singers, American saxophonists, American composers, Musicians from Cleveland, Ohio, Writers from Cleveland, Ohio, Singers from Cleveland, Ohio

Albert Ayler (ˈ; July 13, 1936 – November 25, 1970) was an American avant-garde jazz saxophonist, singer and composer.

His trio and quartet records of 1964, such as Spiritual Unity and The Hilversum Session were one of his best known works.

Ayler disappeared on November 5, 1970, and he was found dead in New York City's East River on November 25. His death was ruled a suicide. There were rumors that the mafia killed him.

[[2003 FIFA Confederations Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA Confederations Cup, 2003 in association football, 2003 in Europe, 2000s in France, Football in France, June events

2003 FIFA Confederations Cup was the 6th FIFA Confederations Cup tournament. It took place in France from 18 June to 29 June. The host, France won the tournament after defeating Cameroon. Turkey got third place.

[[2009 FIFA Confederations Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA Confederations Cup, 2009 in association football, 2000s in Africa, 21st century in South Africa, June 2009 events, Football in South Africa

2009 FIFA Confederations Cup was the 8th FIFA Confederations Cup tournament. It took place in South Africa from 14 June to 28 June. Brazil won the tournament after defeating United States. Spain got third place.

[[2013 FIFA Confederations Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA Confederations Cup, 2013 in association football, 2010s in Brazil, Football in Brazil, June 2013 events

2013 FIFA Confederations Cup  was the 9th FIFA Confederations Cup tournament. It took place in Brazil from 15 to 30 June. The host, Brazil won the tournament after defeating Spain. Italy got third place.

[[1999 Copa América]]

CATEGORIES: Copa América tournaments, 1999 in association football, 1990s in South America, Sport in Paraguay, June events, July events

1999 Copa América was the 39th Copa América tournament and it took place in Paraguay. Brazil won the tournament.

[[The Pied Piper (1942 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, World War II movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Irving Pichel

The Pied Piper is a 1942 American World War II drama movie directed by Irving Pichel and was based on the novel of the same name by Nevil Shute. It stars Monty Woolley, Roddy McDowall, Anne Baxter, Otto Preminger, J. Carrol Naish, Lester Matthews, Jill Esmond and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 3 Academy Awards in 1943.

[[2019 Copa América]]

CATEGORIES: Copa América tournaments, 2019 in association football, 2010s in Brazil, Football in Brazil, June 2019 events, July 2019 events

2019 Copa América was the 46th Copa América tournament and it took place in Brazil. The host, Brazil won the tournament.

[[The Magnificent Ambersons (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Robert Wise, Movies directed by Orson Welles

The Magnificent Ambersons is a 1942 American drama movie directed by Orson Welles and was based on the 1918 novel of the same name by Booth Tarkington. It stars Joseph Cotten, Dolores Costello, Anne Baxter, Tim Holt, Agnes Moorehead, Erskine Sanford and was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures. It was nominated for 4 Academy Awards in 1943.

