[[Alicia Bridges]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from North Carolina, 1953 births, Living people

Alicia Bridges (born 15 July 1953 in North Carolina) is an American singer. She was popular in the late 1970s. Her hit song I Love the Nightlife was her signature song, although Bridges had other songs.

[[Batgirl]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters

Batgirl (Barbara Gordon) is a fictional Batman character who is the female crime solving-partner for Batman. She is the daughter of police commissioner James Gordon. In some cases she is either crippled or she gets killed by the Scarecrow or by The Joker. 

She was played by Alicia Silverstone in Batman & Robin. She was voiced by Tara Strong in some animated movies such as in Batman: The Killing Joke.

[[Joan Mondale]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, People from Eugene, Oregon, People from Minnesota, Second Ladies of the United States

Joan Adams Mondale (née Adams; August 8, 1930 – February 3, 2014) was the wife of Walter Mondale, the 42nd Vice President of the United States, Presidential candidate, and United States Ambassador to Japan. She was the Second Lady of the United States from 1977 to 1981. She was an advocate for arts and has had the name 'Joan of Art'. She had studied kinds of art, such as Japanese art.

[[Dick Grayson]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics superheroes, Batman characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1940

Dick Grayson is a comic book superhero created by Bob Kane and Bill Finger for DC Comics. As a supporting character to Batman, Dick was first introduced as Batman's crime-fighting partner Robin. As he transitioned into adulthood, Dick decided to take on the persona of Nightwing.

[[Ventriloquist (comics)]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters

The Ventriloquist (Arnold Wesker) is a fictional Batman character who uses an evil wooden ventriloquist puppet Scareface the Puppet that controls him to do his evil crimes. He was born into a powerful Gotham Mafia family until his parents were assassinated. He used the ventriloquist puppet to relieve his pain.

He was voiced by George Dzundza in Batman: The Animated Series.

[[Bill Finger]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1974 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American cartoonists, American comics writers, American comics artists, Entertainers from New York City, Writers from New York City, DC Comics, Batman

William "Bill" Finger (February 8, 1914 – January 18, 1974) was an American comic book writer and artist who helped create Batman, Green Lantern, and some villains along with Bob Kane and Jerry Robinson.

[[Count Vertigo]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters

Count Werner Vertigo is a fictional Batman-Green Arrow character who is an European madman who can control the aims from guns so that no one can shot him. He also knows karate, judo, fencing, and boxing, so making him one of the hardest physical characters that Batman has to face (besides Ra's al Ghul and Bane). He is deaf and has dipolar disorder.

He was voiced by Michael York in Batman: The Animated Series.

[[Rachel Dawes]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2005, The Dark Knight Trilogy characters

Rachel Dawes was a fictional Batman character who is good friends with Bruce Wayne and is one of the few people who knows Batman's secret identity. She was the love life of Harvey Dent until she was killed in a mass explosion causes by The Joker.

She was played by Katie Holmes in Batman Begins and the tie-in video game and by Maggie Gyllenhaal in The Dark Knight.

[[Holly Robinson (comics)]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters

Holly Robinson is a fictional Batman character who is friends with Selina Kyle. She is the crime-partner of Catwoman for bank robbery. For a short while, she became Catwoman because Selina had her first baby. In some appearances, she is a lesbian.

She was played by Juno Temple as Jen in The Dark Knight Rises.

[[Pavel Datsyuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Detroit Red Wings players, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Russian ice hockey players, Stanley Cup champions, Ice hockey centres

Pavel Datsyuk was born 20 July, 1978. The city where he was born is named Yekaterinburg in Russia. He was a professional ice hockey player and played for SKA Saint Petersburg. He used to play in the NHL for the Detroit Red Wings.

[[Alison Eastwood]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Monterey County, California, 1972 births, Living people

Alison Eastwood (May 22, 1972 in California) is an American actress. She is the daughter of Clint Eastwood. Her first movie role was with her father in Tightrope (1984). She also directs movies, the first being Rails & Ties in 2007.

[[Alison Sweeney]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, 1976 births, Living people

Alison Sweeney (born September 19, 1976 in Los Angeles) is an American actress. She stars mostly on television programs. She has acted as Samantha Brady on the soap Days of Our Lives. She also does reality television programs.

[[Alberto Falcone]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters

Alberto Falcone is a fictional Batman character who is also known as the Holiday Killer. He is the son of Gotham Mafia leader Carmine Falcone. He is also a mobster, but does not have control over his dad's crime organization. It was once thought that Joseph Gordon-Levitt was to play him, but ended up playing John Blake.

[[Gérard Depardieu]]

CATEGORIES: French movie actors, French movie directors, French movie producers, French television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Russian movie actors, Russian movie directors, Television producers, 1948 births, Living people

Gérard Xavier Marcel Depardieu (born 27 December 1948) is a French actor, movie producer and director. He was born in Chateauroux, Indre. He is one of the most prolific actors in film history, having completed approximately 170 movies since 1967.

He  won the César Award for Best Actor for his performances in The Last Metro (1980). He received the Venice Film Festival Award for Best Actor in Police (1985). For Cyrano de Bergerac (1990) he won the Cannes Film Festival for Best Actor, his second César Award and his first Academy Award nomination for Best Actor. Depardieu won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor for his role in Green Card.

He lives in Belgium. In 2013 he was granted Russian citizenship.

[[Black Mask]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters

Black Mask is the name of two fictional Batman villains who have a black skull and a black suit who in some cases is a crime boss leader. The first Black Mask was Roman Sionis who hated masks, but he wore toxic make-up that made him to have the black skull. The second Black Mask was Jeremiah Arkham, the boss of Arkham Asylum, so after the death of the first Black Mask he wanted to continue his legacy, so he became the second Black Mask.

In Batman Returns, Christopher Walken's character Max Shreck was burned and the corpse had a look alike to Black Mask. He was portrayed by Ewan McGregor in the 2020 movie Birds of Prey.

[[Jeremiah Arkham]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters

Jeremiah Arkham is a fictional Batman character who was the head doctor and manager of Arkham Asylum where all of Gotham City's criminals and killers are held up. He later becomes the second Black Mask after the first one was killed by Catwoman.

[[Killer Moth]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters

Killer Moth (Cameron van Cleer) is a fictional Batman character who appears in comic books by DC Comics. He has the ability to fly because he wears a striped purple and green spandex, orange cape and a moth-like mask. He is sometimes confused with Firefly. The character has appeared in tv shows, movies, and video games too. He was once a Gotham prisoner Cameron van Cleer.

[[Jason Todd]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters

Jason Todd is a fictional Batman character who was the second Robin when the first left. Todd was founded by Batman when he tried to steal some parts from the Batmobile. Batman later trained him to become the second Robin. He was later killed by The Joker when he beat him-up and then blew him up with a time bomb. He later returned as the Red Hood.

[[Hush (comics)]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters, Fictional characters introduced in 2003

Hush (Dr. Thomas Elliot) is a fictional Batman character who is an identity thief and is also a friend of Bruce Wayne. His parents were in a car crash that he planed, but his mother lived from an operation from Thomas Wayne which made him angry.

[[Jimmy Olsen]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics characters, Superman

Jimmy Olsen is a fictional Superman character who works for the Daily Planet with Clark Kent and Lois Lane. His boss is Perry White. He thinks that Clark Kent and Lois Lane are his "heroes". He becomes The Nail in a comic book theme.

[[Jonathan and Martha Kent]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics characters, Superman

Jonathan and Martha Kent are fictional Superman characters who were the adopted parents when they found the baby Superman in the field. They cared for "Clark Kent" until he became an adult. The Kents died from a rare tropical disease with Martha dying first. Before he died, Jonathan told the Clark should use his powers for good in earth. In other cases, Jonathan dies and Martha is still alive.

Glenn Ford and Phyllis Thaxter play Jonathan and Martha in Superman and by Kevin Costner and Diane Lane in Man of Steel.

[[Jean Charest]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Premiers of Quebec, Deputy Prime Ministers of Canada, Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Quebec, Privy Councillors (Canada)

John James "Jean" Charest (born 24 June 1958) is a French Canadian politician. He was Premier of Quebec from 2003 until 2012 under the Quebec Liberal Party.

[[Martha Wayne]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1939

Martha (née Kane) Wayne was a fictional Batman character who was the mother of Bruce Wayne. She was the wife of Thomas Wayne. After her and her husband were killed, her only son, Bruce becomes Batman because of their killing. She was created by Bill Finger.

Lauren Cohan plays Martha in the DC Extended Universe first appearing in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016).

[[Thomas Wayne]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1939

Dr. Thomas Wayne is a fictional Batman character who was the father of Bruce Wayne and the husband of Martha Wayne. He was the founder of Wayne Enterprises and was one of Gotham's best doctors. He had a strong relationship with Bruce until he was killed along with his wife by Joe Chill. From his death Bruce became Batman to avenge their deaths.

Jeffrey Dean Morgan plays Thomas in the DC Extended Universe first appearing in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016) and Brett Cullen plays him in the 2019 movie Joker.

[[Bat-Signal]]

CATEGORIES: Batman

The Bat-Signal is a fictional distress signal that shines a light into the sky with a shadow in the shape of a bat to call Batman and Robin when there's a crime happening or when James Gordon has a lead on a case. Gordon, Harvey Dent, Harvey Bullock, Hamilton Hill, and Barbara Gordon have access to the machine. Many spoofs of the machine are made in many television shows.

[[Wayne Manor]]

CATEGORIES: Batman, Fictional buildings and structures

Wayne Manor is the home of Gotham City billionaire Bruce Wayne and his butler Alfred Pennyworth. The manor was the childhood home of Bruce when his parents were alive. The Manor was part of the Wayne's family for generations. Under the manor is the Batcave or Batman's lair.

[[Batcave]]

CATEGORIES: Batman, Fictional locations

The Batcave is the fictional secret lair of Batman. It is on the foundation of Wayne Manor. There are two ways into the cave, one is through a waterfall on the back of the cave and the other is a built-in elevator that leads from the library of Wayne Manor to the bridge of the cave. It holds all of Batman's secrets, gadgets, the Batmobile, and a real gorge. The cave also has millions of bats.

[[Wayne Enterprises]]

CATEGORIES: Batman

Wayne Enterprises is a fictional company that was created by Thomas Wayne. The company has three main owners Bruce Wayne, Dick Grayson, and CEO of the company Lucius Fox. The enterprises makes one the leading materials and technology in Gotham City. The company also makes and gives Batman all his gadgets and weapons he needs to save Gotham. The enterprise has about $31.6 million dollars.

[[Batboat]]

CATEGORIES: Batman

The Batboat is the fictional waterboat that Batman uses to travel to places on the sea or lakes. The boat was a product from Wayne Enterprises made by Lucius Fox. The boat holds many weapon buttons from Batman can push them to pull out a gadget and use it during and attack. The boat has enough space for two. The boat can also turn in a submarine.

The boat has appeared in Batman, Batman Returns, and in Batman Forever.

[[Batcycle]]

CATEGORIES: Batman

The Batcycle is the fictional personal motorcycle for Batman that has built-in guns. It also as a bullet proof window guard. The batcycle either comes alone or it is built into the Batmobile. The batcycle appeares in Batman and as the Bat Pod in The Dark Knight and in The Dark Knight Rises. In the Christopher Nolan movies, The Dark Knight, the cycle was built into the Batmobile, and in The Dark Knight Rises the cycle was given to Catwoman. The cycle was built in Wayne Enterprises by Lucius Fox.

[[Bonnie Tyler]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, British rock singers, Musicians from Glamorgan, Welsh Christians, Welsh pop singers, Welsh rock musicians, Welsh singer-songwriters

Bonnie Tyler (born Gaynor Hopkins; 8 June 1951) is a Welsh singer, songwriter, and philanthropist. She has had several major hit songs such as "Holding Out for a Hero". Three songs "Lost in France," "It's a Heartache" and "Total Eclipse of the Heart" became major hits in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Tyler represented the United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest 2013 in Malmö.

[[Batplane]]

CATEGORIES: Batman

The Batplane, later known as the Batwing is the personal airplane for Batman. The plane was built by Wayne Enterprises by Lucius Fox. It is part plane part helicopter or The Batcopter. The plane holds many guns and gadgets in case of an air attack. It also can air-park while up in the air. The plane appeared in Batman, Batman Forever, and as The Bat in The Dark Knight Rises.

[[Batmobile]]

CATEGORIES: Batman

The Batmobile is the personal car for Batman and Robin. The Batmobile was made from Wayne Enterprises by Lucuis Fox. The Batmobile appeared in all Batman movies ever made, but in Christopher Nolan's The Dark Knight Trilogy it was named The Tumbler throughout the trilogy. The Batmobile holds many weapons and gadgets.

[[Blackgate Prison]]

CATEGORIES: Batman, Fictional buildings and structures

Blackgate Prison is a fictional prison where normal prisoners are taken into jail. The prison is off the coast of Gotham Bay which is like Alcatraz Island. In other cases the prison is in the city such as in The Dark Knight Rises.

Blackgate Prison is unlike Arkham Asylum, in which many people like Rupert Thorne, Carmine Falcone, The Penguin, Ventriloquist, and Victor Zsasz are held. The prison was in The Dark Knight Rises when Bane used the Batmobile to shoot the prison open to free all the prisoners to occupy Gotham.

[[Arkham Asylum]]

CATEGORIES: Batman, Fictional buildings and structures

Arkham Asylum is a fictional asylum in Gotham City where the crazy Batman criminals live. This includes: The Joker, Bane, Two-Face, Harley Quinn, Poison Ivy, Mr. Freeze, Riddler, Penguin, Scarecrow, Killer Croc, and Jeremiah Arkham. The leading doctor of Arkham was Jeremiah Arkham before turning into the second Black Mask. Arkham was destroyed many times and many times the criminals escaped.

Arkham appeared in Batman Forever, Batman & Robin and in Batman Begins.

[[Laura Leighton]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Actors from Iowa City, Iowa

Laura Leighton (July 24, 1968 in Iowa City, Iowa) is an American actress. She works mainly on television programs. She plays Ashley Marin in Pretty Little Liars. She also played Sydney Andrews in the primetime soap opera Melrose Place. Leighton has also appeared in other television shows.

[[Chairlift]]

CATEGORIES: Ski lifts

A chairlift is a type of public transport. It is like a chair that runs on cables. The cable is placed over the chair to lift it from the ground and they run between two (or more) stations. The cable is moved around by motors and lifted from the ground by towers. There are many chairs on the cable so that many people can be transported.

Chairlifts are found in skiing resorts, where they make skiers go up the mountain. They are sometimes better than gondola lifts because the skier does not need to remove the skis. He/she can sit down on the chair and then leave it at the top of the mountain very quickly. Old chairlifts are small and slow. Newer ones can carry up to 8 people. They are also faster overall, but they slow down at the station, making it easier to get on and off. Sometimes they even have a glass bubble that can be closed to keep people warm inside.

[[Yasmine Bleeth]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, 1968 births, Living people

Yasmine Amanda Bleeth (June 14, 1968 in New York) is an American actress. She works mainly on television programs. She played Caroline Holden in the television soap Baywatch. She also did other television shows. She was born in New York City.

[[Gena Lee Nolin]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Minnesota, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, 1971 births, Living people, People from Duluth, Minnesota

Gena Lee Nolin (born November 29, 1971, Duluth, Minnesota) is an American actress. She performs mostly on television. She starred in the primetime television soap opera Baywatch. She also created her own show, Sheena, in 2000.

[[Louise Fletcher]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Birmingham, Alabama, 1934 births, Living people

Louise Fletcher (born July 22, 1934, Birmingham, Alabama) is an American actress. She has won many awards for her television and movie acting. She acted in the movie One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest and the television series Picket Fences. She received several awards related to the earlier. She also did other movies.

[[Gena Rowlands]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Wisconsin, American movie actors, 1930 births, Living people, People from Madison, Wisconsin, American television actors, Emmy Award winners, Golden Globe Award winners

Gena Rowlands (born June 19, 1930 in Madison, Wisconsin) is an American actress. She has gotten several Golden Globe and Emmy Awards. She starred opposite Robert Lansing in The 87th Precinct as a woman who was deaf. She also acted in the 1980 picture Gloria as the title character. She was married to director John Cassavetes until his death in 1989. They had three children.

[[Diverticulitis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases and disorders of the digestive system, Diseases

Diverticulitis is a disease of the digestive system. It is caused by inflammation of pouches (diverticula) in the walls of the bowel. It usually occurs in the large intestine. Diverticula can also be in the upper digestive tract at the level of the esophagus, stomach and small intestine.

[[Show jumping]]

CATEGORIES: Equestrian sports

Show jumping is an equestrian event that uses English riding.  

The rider and horse must complete an obstacle course under the rules of the International Federation of Equestrian sports. 

The sport was born in the 18th century by fox hunters when England introduced fencing laws.  Hunters were now obligated to jump fences and this became a very popular activity.  In 1912, show jumping made its first appearance in the Olympic Games. 

Show jumping is one of the very few sports where men and women are  equal in competitions.  This sport requires a muscular horse with a good cardiovascular endurance. Also, it must have a quick and stable temperament for the best performance. The breeds that are the most sought for this sport are Selle Français, Anglo-Arabe, Oldenburg, Warmblood (including Holsteiner and Hanoverian), Thoroughbred and Trakehner.

[[Pauline Gill]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian writers, Living people, 1942 births

Pauline Gill is a writer from Quebec, member of L’union des écrivaines et écrivains québécois. She grew up in Bas-St-Laurent and lived in Longueil for thirty-three years. She has been in Verchères since 2006.  She studied sociology, pedagogy, history and letters at university. From 1996 to 2001, Pauline Gill was a linguistic reviser for the Collège Rosemont and some publishing houses. She co-founded L’Association des auteurs de la Montérégie in 1988, so she wrote some chronicles in its newspaper by the years.  In 2001, she has been co-scenarist to produce a television series on her trilogy La Saga de la Cordonnière.  Pauline Gill has accomplished a lot of things in her life.

Before starting only writing, she taught a lot (1959-1996) in primary schools, high schools and colleges. She taught sociology, gerontology and history of Quebec. She has also been a research assistant for the INRS (Briefly, Institut national de la recherche scientifique), sector society and culture. Since 1990, she has been writing full time. She writes history books that talk about women of the past who built Quebec. She wrote the trilogy Docteure Irma, about the life of Irma LeVasseur, first French Canadian woman who has studied medicine. She also wrote La Saga de la Cordonnière, which is about Victoire Du Sault, the first lady to become a shoemaker. Other works are Marie-Antoinette la dame de la Rivière Rouge, Évangéline et Gabriel, and Gaby Bernier.

However, she not only wrote about history. She has also written for young people.

[[Islamic philosophy]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Islam

Islamic philosophy  is philosophy that is practiced in countries where Islam has a strong influence on society. The product of Islamic philosophy is an Islamic society.  Philosophy, as a "project of independent philosophical inquiry", began in Baghdad in the middle of the eighth century.

Early Islamic philosophy refers to the time period of the 8th to the 12th century. This time is often called the Islamic Golden Age. There are two main branches of philosophy, Kalam, and Falsafa. Falsafa is a word that comes from Greek; it refers to the kind of philosophy much like it was done in Ancient Greece. Kalam literally means "speech": it uses dialectic in philosophy. One of the first "discussions" was about free will, a school called "Qadar" said there was free will, another school called the Jabarites said there was not.

[[Great highland bagpipe]]

CATEGORIES: Woodwind instruments

The Great Highland bagpipe is a four-reed woodwind instrument from Scotland. The instrument is made of a leather or synthetic bag. The three drones are single-reed instruments and make harmonies. The chanter is a double-reed instrument used to play the melody. The instrument also has a blowpipe used to inflate the bag.

[[Moral equivalence]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies

Moral equivalence is a term used in political arguments or debate. It is an informal fallacy.  The phrase describes a kind of indirect proof, but the reasoning is flawed because it distorts issues.  It draws comparisons between different things to make a point that one is just as bad as the other or just as good as the other.

The user of the term imagines a kind of independent position above or beyond the two contenders.  The moral equivalence theory allows someone using the term to appear both objective and detached at the same time.

The general form of the context for the use of the trope is 

The concept of moral equivalence is not a term of philosophy; rather, it is only a logical fallacy used in arguments.

[[University of Bordeaux 1]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in France, Bordeaux

The University of Bordeaux 1 (Bordeaux 1) is a public university in Bordeaux. University of Bordeaux 1 has ten schools and colleges and gives much importance to scientific and technological research. 

[[Condenser (apparatus)]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment

A condenser is a device used in the laboratory to cool hot gases into liquids. It is usually a long, circular glass tube. Inside the tube there is another, smaller tube. The hot gas goes through the smaller, inside tube, while in the outside one cold water goes around. Water can be put in from the tap, and goes from the bottom to exit at the top. This makes sure the tube is always full of water, so that cooling is quick.

A condenser is used for example in distillation, where the hot vapour needs to be cooled down back to liquid to be collected. It is also used in reflux where it makes sure that the solvent used does not boil and go away.

[[Margaret Whiting]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2011 deaths, American singers

Margaret Whiting (July 21, 1924 - January 10, 2011) was a US pop music singer. She recorded more than 700 songs, and sold millions of records.

Whiting was born in Detroit in 1924 into a musical family. Her father, Dick Whiting, was a song writer, and her mother, Eleanor Whiting, managed several performers. She began her recording career while she was still a teenager. Her father had worked with Johnny Mercer, and Mercer wrote songs and recorded with Whiting. Their duet, Baby It's Cold Outside, was huge hit.

[[Mike Ward (comedian)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Canadian comedians, People from Quebec

Michael John Ward (born September 14, 1973, Quebec) is a Canadian comedian. He performs mostly in Quebec but has also performed in many other countries. These include France, the United States, the United Arab Emirates, Ireland and England. He has performed for the Canadian soldiers in Afghanistan. People have described his style of comedy as very "raw". This can mean that he says things that some people wouldn't say and has many strong opinions about many subjects. But it also means he says things that some people don't like. He talks about topics such as war, racism, poverty, sex and religion. 

During his career, he has had two major shows. These are "Haïssable" and "Mike Ward s'eXpose". For these two shows, he sold almost 200 000 tickets in total for his many performances. He been on many television series as comedian and animator. He has been on Cliptoman, Un gars le soir, Gala juste pour rire and  Testostérone.

He also has a podcast on iTunes. 

[[Hiroyuki Imaishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, People from Tokyo, Japanese animators

Hiroyuki Imaishi  is an animator and director from Japan. He first work in 1995 on the show Neon Genesis Evangelion. He also worked on FLCL. He also directed the movie Dead Leaves and the giant robot show Tengen Toppan Gurren Lagann. His style of animation is wild and fast.

[[Jason Voorhees]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1980, Fictional murderers, Horror movie characters, Mortal Kombat guest characters, Friday the 13th (franchise)

Jason Voorhees is a fictional character from the Friday the 13th series. He first appeared in Friday the 13th (1980) as a young boy. When he was a boy, he went to a summer camp "Camp Crystal Lake" where he was made bullied because of his appearance. He had a deformed face and body. They threw him into the lake and he drowned. It was later discovered he survived and became a killer after a teenager killed his mother, Pamela Voorhees.

In the sequel to the Friday the 13th, he wears a tan colored hood, so the nobody could see his face. It wasn't until in the third movie he wore a hockey mask and since then he wore that hockey mask throughout the series. He uses a machete to kill the teenagers who come to Camp Crystal Lake. He later had a battle with Freddy Krueger in Freddy vs. Jason. 

[[ELTon Award]]

CATEGORIES: Awards

The ELTon Award is given by the British Council for English language teaching innovation.

[[Les Colocs]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian rock bands, People from Montreal, 1990 establishments in North America, 2000 disestablishments in North America, Musical groups established in 1990, Musical groups disestablished in 2000, 1990s establishments in Canada, 2000s disestablishments in Canada

Les Colocs were a Canadian rock band. It was formed in Montreal, Quebec in 1990.  “Les Colocs” had played different kinds of music and live performances.

[[John McClane]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Movie characters

John McClane is a fictional character who is the protagonist of Die Hard movie series. He has a daughter Lucy and son Jack.

He was born in Plainfield, New Jersey. In the movies, he is played by the actor Bruce Willis.

[[Chucky (Child's Play)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1988, Fictional murderers, Movie characters, Child's Play (franchise)

Charles Lee Ray or Chucky is a killer doll in the Child's Play movie series voiced by Brad Dourif and Mark Hamill in the 2019 reboot. In the first two movies, he appeared as a young man's doll with tha ability to talk and walk. He was possessed by voodoo practicing. He has the soul of a serial killer named Charles Lee Ray.

Until he blew up or was thrown into a propeller that he appeared to have stitches and with large scares on his face. He uses any weapons, but mostly an axe or a knife to kill people who buy or sees him killing someone. He appeared in 6 movies. He has a wife, Tiffany Valentine (also a killer doll) and one daughter/son who has mental issues (also a doll).

[[Kebechet]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

In the Ancient Egyptian religion, Kebechet (also known as Qebehet, Kebhut, Kebehut, Qebehut, and Kabechet) was the goddess of freshness and purification. She was known as the "wandering goddess" or the "lost child". She was the daughter of Anubis and his wife Anput and was thought to help her father in his role as the god of embalming. She was particularly associated with embalming fluid used during mummification.

Kebechet was often depicted as a snake, sometimes with a body of stars. She was also depicted as a woman with the head of a snake. Sometimes she takes the form of an ostrich, linking her to the goddess of Ma´at who represented justice and balance in the universe and was involved in the judgement of the dead.

[[Mariloup Wolfe]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Canadian television actors, Actors from Quebec

Mariloup Wolfe (born 3 January 1978) is a Canadian actress from Montreal, Quebec. She became famous through her role as "Marianne" in the popular TV series Ramdam.

[[Khnum]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Khnum (/kəˈnuːm/; also spelled Khnemu) was an Egyptian god. He was originally the god of the source of the Nile River. He was also the ram-headed god, a minor water god, the god of fertility, and the potter god of creation. He created the first children on his potter's wheel with clay from the banks of the Nile River. Khnum also controls when the Nile will flood.

[[Spring Breakers]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 buddy movies, 2012 crime movies, 2012 drama movies, 2010s crime drama movies, 2010s satirical movies, American buddy movies, American crime drama movies, American satirical movies, English-language movies, Female buddy movies, Movies about drugs, Movies set in Florida, St. Petersburg, Florida

Spring Breakers is a 2012 American movie set in St. Petersburg, Florida. The movie is written and directed by Harmony Korine. It is about five college aged girls who rob a restaurant to pay for spring break expenses. Starring are Vanessa Hudgens, Selena Gomez, Ashley Benson, Rachel Korine and Zendaya. Spring Breakers is rated R by the MPAA.

[[Heather Morris]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Ventura County, California, American movie actors, 1987 births, Living people

Heather Elizabeth Morris (born February 1, 1987 in Thousand Oaks, California) is an American dancer actress,and singer. She played Brittany Pierce in Glee. She was also in Bedtime Stories and Ice Age: Continental Drift. She was a backup dancer for Beyoncé.

[[Topsy Tjulyata]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Australian sculptors, Woodworkers, Artists from South Australia, Artists from the Northern Territory, Indigenous Australian artists, Pitjantjatjara

Topsy Tjulyata is an Aboriginal artist from central Australia. She makes wooden objects which are known in Western Desert languages as puṉu. She makes these objects by carving the wood and then engraving patterns (walka) into its surface with a burning wire. This technique is called pokerwork. The wood she uses is sourced locally from the area around Uluṟu, where she lives. She makes both decorative sculptures and traditional tools. The patterns engraved into the objects depict Tjukurpa, spiritual stories about creation ancestors from the Dreamtime.

Topsy began working in arts and crafts at Ernabella in the late 1940s. She specialised in wood carving. While she was living there, she married Walter Pukutiwara, a shepherd who also crafted tools. They later moved to Amaṯa in South Australia.

In 1981, Topsy and Walter went to Uluṟu and set up a tent at the base of Uluṟu. From there they sold their puṉu works to tourists for over two weeks. They did this trip with other artists from Amaṯa, including Pulya Taylor and Tony Tjamiwa, and their friends Peter Yates and Pat D'Arango. In 1983, this group travelled around to artist communities in the Aṉangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands. This was to discuss the idea of setting up a new craft centre at Uluṟu that would sell artworks from around the region to tourists. The couple moved to Muṯitjulu so that they could help set up Maṟuku Arts. Topsy and Water were some of the first artists for the centre, and worked together closely until Walter's death in 2004. Topsy is still a member of the organisation's Governing Committee.

A collection of wooden bowls made by Topsy are held in the National Gallery of Australia. The patterns engraved on the surfaces depict stories about the Seven Sisters. Both the Powerhouse Museum and the National Museum of Australia contain examples of Topsy's sculptures. The sculptures are of Wati Ngiṉṯaka, the perentie man.

[[Raw milk]]

CATEGORIES: Milk

Raw milk is milk which is not pasteurized. Raw milk was consumed before the invention of pasteurizing in 1864. Medical groups strongly recommend against eating or drinking raw milk. In Asia, rules and laws about raw milk are rarely enforced; in most of the European Union raw milk products are legal; in France raw milk and its products are legal and essential as high quality food. Around the United States, however, there are restrictions and warnings about raw milk and its products.

[[Pascal's law]]

CATEGORIES: Laws of physics

Pascal's law is a law about the physics of a fluid. It says that if pressure is exerted on a non compressible fluid in an enclosed vessel, this pressure will be distributed evenly throughout the fluid. It is named after Blaise Pascal who discovered it in 1647. An example of Pascal's law is the way a fluid flows out of one syringe to another through a pipe or tube. 

Pascal took a barrel and inserted a tube in it. It caused the barrel to burst. This proved Pascal's hypothesis correct. :)

[[Walter Pukutiwara]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2004 deaths, Australian sculptors, Woodworkers, Artists from South Australia, Artists from the Northern Territory, Indigenous Australian artists, Pitjantjatjara

Walter Pukutiwara (c. 1930 – 10 November 2004) was an Aboriginal artist from central Australia. He crafted traditional tools, such as spears and spear-throwers, and wooden sculptures, known in Western Desert languages as puṉu. He made these by carving the wood and then engraving patterns (walka) into its surface with a burning wire. This technique is called pokerwork. The patterns engraved into the objects depict Tjukurpa, spiritual stories about creation ancestors from the Dreamtime. The National Museum of Australia contains many examples of Walter's works.

Walter was born just south of Uluṟu, some time around 1930. The place where he was born is associated with the Wayuṯa Tjukurpa, and so the wayuṯa (brushtail possum) is his personal totem. Walter grew up living a traditional way of life in the bush with his family. When he was a young man, he went to live at the mission in Ernabella, South Australia. He worked there with sheep, as a shepherd and shearer. He got married to Topsy Tjulyata, and the couple moved to Amaṯa. During the 1980s, Walter served as the Pitjantjatjara representative on the Aboriginal Arts Board (AAB). He lobbied the board for money to support art and crafts in Amaṯa. As a result, the craft centre at Amaṯa was established in February 1981.

Later in 1981, Walter and Topsy went to Uluṟu and set up a tent at the base of Uluṟu. From there they sold their puṉu works to tourists for over two weeks. They did this trip with other artists from Amaṯa, including Tony Tjamiwa and Pulya Taylor, and their friends Peter Yates and Patricia D'Arango. In 1983, this group travelled around to artist communities in the Aṉangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands. This was to discuss the idea of setting up a new craft centre at Uluṟu that would sell artworks from around the region to tourists. The couple moved to Muṯitjulu so that they could help set up Maṟuku Arts, in 1984. Water and Topsy were some of the first artists for the centre. Walter served on the organisation's Governing Committee for 20 years, including as chairman many times.

From 1976 to 1978, Walter also served as a member of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Arts Board. In the early 1990s, he helped to set up Aṉangu Tours, the main tour operator in Uluṟu-Kata Tjuṯa National Park. His daughter, Rene Kulitja, and son-in-law, Richard Kulitja, took over the company when Walter retired. Walter died on 10 November 2004, in Alice Springs.

[[Archedictyon]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

Archedictyon  (plural = archedictya) is the name of a hypothetical scheme of wing venation of the common ancestor of all winged insects.

[[Elytra]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

Elytra  are the modified, hardened front wings of beetles and some bugs (Heteroptera). In most true bugs, the forewings are called hemelytra, as only the basal half is thickened while the apex is membranous. 

[[Brian Griffin]]

CATEGORIES: Family Guy characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1999, Fictional dogs

Brian Griffin is one of the main characters in the American animated TV sitcom, Family Guy.

He is the 8-year-old pet dog of the Griffin family. He shows many human behaviours (he can walk upright, drink, smoke, and speak English) but he still shows many behaviours associated with dogs, such as fetching a ball, fearing the vacuum cleaner and barking at squirrels.

He is the only Family Guy character to have appeared in every episode of the series. In a 2004 interview, Seth MacFarlane (the show's creator) revealed that Brian is his favorite character.

In the 12th season episode, "Life of Brian", he gets hit by a car and dies later at the veterinarian. Before he dies, he thanked the Griffins for giving him a wonderful life and that he loves them all. He was soon brought back to life in the Christmas special "Christmas Guy".

[[Gina Lollobrigida]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Lazio, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, 1927 births, Living people

Gina Lollobrigida is an Italian actress. She was very popular in the 1950s and 1960s. She mostly acted in Italian movies. She received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the National Italian American Foundation in 2008.

In the mid-1980s, she starred in the television series Falcon Crest.  The role was first offered to Sophia Loren, who turned it down. A rivalry with Loren was often reported in the press. Lollobrigida said in a 2015 interview that "Loren and her press agent started this 'rivalry'" and that Lollobrigida was bored of it.

In 2013, Lollobrigida sold her jewelry collection through Sotheby's. She donated the nearly $5 million to benefit stem cell therapy.

[[Gina]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Gina is a female name with Italian origin. This name is very popular for girls in several countries. The name is shorthand for the name Regina. Celebrities with the name include Gina Gershon and Gina Lollobrigida.

[[Mayra Arduini]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Singer-songwriters, Living people, Brazilian singers

Mayra Arduini (born October 4, 1993) is a Brazilian singer and songwriter. She was a member of the band College 11. 

[[Kasabian]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 establishments in England, English rock bands, Leicester, Musical groups established in 1997

Kasabian is a British rock band. It was formed by Tom Meighan (singer), Sergio Pizzorno (backing vocal and guitar), bassist Chris Edwards and guitarist Chris Karloff in 1997. Then it was called Saracuse. Ian Matthews and Jay Mehler joined the band after the departure of Chris Karloff in 2006. Jay joined Liam Gallagher's band Beady Eye in 2013 and was replaced by Tim Carter. They have recorded four albums, Kasabian, Empire, West Ryder Pauper Lunatic Asylum and Velociraptor!, and are working on the fifth.

They mostly get their inspiration from Primal Scream. They got a lot of influence from the Stone Roses. They use a little electro sound joined with a bass groove mixed in a rock template.

[[Trope]]

CATEGORIES: Figures of speech, Rhetoric

Trope is a term for a figure of speech.  The term has evolved to identify an overused theme or device.  A trope may mean a convention, a plot trick, a setup, a narrative structure and a character type all at the same time.

[[Geraldine Fitzgerald]]

CATEGORIES: Irish actors, 1913 births, 2005 deaths

Geraldine Fitzgerald (November 24, 1913 around Dublin, Ireland-July 17, 2005 near New York City) was an Irish-American actress who acted in many movies and television programs. She starred in critically acclaimed movies like Wuthering Heights and Dark Victory; she also performed on television series, such as Cagney & Lacey. Fitzgerald died due to Alzheimer's in New York.

[[Leaving group]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical reactions

In chemistry, a leaving group is an atom or molecule that leaves another molecule during a reaction. This reaction can be for example a nucleophilic substitution. In this case the leaving group gets a pair of electrons. Some leaving groups are better than others. This is because some atoms or molecules like getting extra electrons. The halides are a good example of good leaving groups.

The type of leaving group can change the type of reaction that happens. For example, bad leaving groups make an SN1 reaction more difficult, while they make an SN2 reaction easier.

[[Anita Barone]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from St. Louis, Missouri, Living people

Anita Louise Barone (born September 25, 1964) is an American actress. She is best known for her role of Georgia Jones in the Disney Channel TV series Shake It Up.

[[Sigma bond]]

A sigma bond (σ bond) is a type of chemical bond. It is the strongest one of the covalent type. In a sigma bond, the atomic orbitals from two atoms which are nearby go one on top of each other. This is different from a pi bond where they touch sideways. This is why a sigma bond is stronger. Sigma bonds can involve s, p, d or f orbitals. They must however be of the right symmetry to be able to form the bond.

Since the σ bond is strong, the bonding orbital is low in energy. This also means that the antibonding orbital σ* is high in energy.

[[Diet of Japan]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 establishments, Government of Japan, National legislatures, 1880s establishments in Japan

Diet of Japan is the national bicameral legislature of Japan. The National Diet Building is in Nagatachō, Chiyoda, Tokyo.

It is made up of the House of Representatives (lower house) and the House of Councillors (upper house).  The members of both houses of the Diet are directly elected. The Diet selects the Prime Minister. 

[[Lena Dunham]]

CATEGORIES: American feminists, American television actors, Actors from New York, Jewish American writers, 1986 births, Living people

Lena Dunham (born May 13, 1986, New York City) is an American actress. She works mainly in television programs. She created and stars in the television series Girls. She has won several Golden Globe Awards for this.

[[Jillian Murray]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Pennsylvania, American movie actors, 1984 births, Living people

Jillian Leigh Murray (born June 4, 1984 in Reading, Pennsylvania) is an American actress. She acts in independent movies. She acted as Heather in An American Carol. She also starred in other movies.

[[Leatherface]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in the 1970s, Fictional murderers, Horror movie characters, Mortal Kombat guest characters, Texas in fiction, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (franchise)

Leatherface is a fictional character in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre movie series. He appeared in all seven movies and is often portrayed as either the main or secondary antagonist or sometimes even the tragic villain protagonist. He uses a chainsaw to attack his victims somewhere in his ranch in Texas. He wears a mask made out from human skin and usually eats the remains. Because he wears skin mask he is called Leatherface. He was played by Icelandic-born American actor Gunnar Hansen. He has appeared as a guest fighter in Mortal Kombat X alongside Jason Voorhees, The Predator, and The Alien.

[[Gorton's of Gloucester]]

CATEGORIES: American food companies, Companies based in Massachusetts, 1849 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Massachusetts

Gorton's of Gloucester is a company that makes fishsticks and other frozen seafood in the United States. It has been based in Gloucester, Massachusetts, since 1849.

[[Michael Myers]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in  1978, Fictional murderers, Movie characters, Halloween (franchise)

Michael Myers is a fictional character from the Halloween movie series. He first appeared in John Carpenter's Halloween. Myers only kills on Halloween day in Haddonfield, Illinois.

He first killed his sister on Halloween night of 1963 and since then he was searching to kill his last living family member, Cynthia "Laurie Strode" Myers. He was sent to a mental hospital, but during his transportation to another mental hospital, he escaped when the truck was attacked. After Halloween III: Season of the Witch (Which was the only movie he did not appear) he was searching to kill Laurie's daughter.

His psychiatrist, Dr. Samuel Loomis is trying to save Michael's victims and stop Michael from killing. Myers appeared in 9 Halloween movies. He was played by many different actors throughout the series.

[[Mothra]]

CATEGORIES: Monsters, Fictional characters introduced in 1961, Godzilla

Mothra is a kaiju, a type of fictional monster who first appeared in the book series The Luminous Fairies and Mothra by Takehiko Fukunaga, Shinichiro Nakamura, and Yoshie Hotta. The first movie she appeared in was Mothra.

[[Bradley Raymond]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American movie directors, Year of birth missing (living people)

Bradley Raymond is an American film director.  He has directed different movies including Pocahontas II: Journey to a New World, The Lion King 1½ and Tinker Bell.

[[Elizabeth Montgomery]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Hollywood, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from colorectal cancer, 1933 births, 1995 deaths

Elizabeth Montgomery (April 18, 1933—May 18, 1995) was an American actress . She acted in movies and television programs. Her father was actor Robert Montgomery. She starred as Samantha Stephens in the sitcom Bewitched. She played Lizzie Borden in The Legend of Lizzie Borden. She had other roles besides these.

Montgomery was born in Los Angeles. She died from colorectal cancer in Beverly Hills, California.

[[Elizabeth]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Elizabeth is a female given name. There are many variants of it worldwide. It was the 10th most popular in the United States, and among the top 50 in England and Wales. Famous people with the name include Elizabeth Taylor, Queen Elizabeth II and Elizabeth Arden.

In the New Testament, Elizabeth is the mother of John the Baptist and the wife of Zechariah. (Gospel of Luke chapter 1)

Elizabeth can be spelt Elisabeth, and can be shortened to Liz, Lizzie, Lisette, Lilly, Libby, Eliza, Beth and Lisa.

[[Josephine]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Josephine is a female given name. There are many variants. The name is a female version of Joseph (which is a Hebrew version of Yosef). There are many celebrities with the name Josephine and related forms, although the name is only marginally popular in the United States.

[[Ramnagar, Udhampur]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Ramnagar (تحصیل رام نگر) is a town and subdistrict of Udhampur District in Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Angkuna Kulyuru]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Australian sculptors, Australian printmakers, Woodworkers, Artists from South Australia, Indigenous Australian artists, Pitjantjatjara, Textile artists, Weavers

Angkuna Kulyuru is an Aboriginal Australian artist. She is perhaps best known for her batik and printing works. She also does weaving, basketry, and carved wooden sculptures (puṉu). Her batik designs display the fluid, abstract style that is distinctive to Ernabella Arts. There is no specific meanings to her designs, but they are inspired by the natural environment.

Kulyuru was born in 1943, at Wamitjara, a rockhole near Kenmore Park (now Yunyarinyi). This is in the far north of South Australia, near the border with the Northern Territory. Her family are Pitjantjatjara. They lived a traditional life in the bush, but settled at Ernabella soon after Kulyuru was born. When she grew up, Kulyuru started work in the community's craft centre after originally working at the school. She began learning batik methods in the 1970s, and became one of Ernabella Arts' most prolific and well-known batik artists. Kulyuru has nine children. Five of Angkuna's daughters have also become artists: Unurupa (born 1962), Amanda (1964), Karen (1969), Daisybell (1972) and Tjulyata (1978).

Kulyuru's works have been shown in many exhibitions since the 1980s. One of her early batik works was chosen as a finalist for the National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Art Award in 1987. It was bought by the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory. Other examples of her work are held in the National Gallery of Victoria, the National Gallery of Australia, and the National Museum of Australia. An example of one of her weaving work, a jug made out of palm leaves, is in the British Museum.

[[Maureen O'Sullivan]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Deaths from surgical complications, Irish movie actors, Irish stage actors, Irish television actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, 1911 births, 1998 deaths

Maureen Paula O'Sullivan (17 May 1911 – 23 June 1998) was an Irish actress best known for playing Jane in the Tarzan series of films starring Johnny Weissmüller.

[[Billy Graham (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Phoenix, Arizona, WWE Hall of Fame

Eldridge Wayne Coleman (born June 7, 1943 in Phoenix, Arizona) is a retired American professional wrestler of part Arkansas Cherokee descent who is best known for his highly dramatic and charismatic style of wrestling which he perfected with The World Wide/World Wrestling Federation under the ring name, "Superstar" Billy Graham. He is also an amateur fine artist. Graham is widely acknowledged as the individual who revolutionized modern American pro wrestling by combining it with bodybuilding, so that today professional wrestlers without bodybuilders' physiques have become a rarity.

During the steroid allegations involving WWE owner Vince McMahon Jr. in 1992, Graham went on The Phil Donahue Show, admitting that he was avid user of steroids and blamed the WWF for his addiction although these drugs were not yet illegal in the 1970s. The incident caused a rift between Graham and McMahon which lasted for over ten years. 

[[Butterfly McQueen]]

CATEGORIES: American atheists, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Tampa, Florida, 1911 births, 1995 deaths, Emmy Award winning actors

Thelma "Butterfly" McQueen (January 7, 1911 – December 22, 1995) was an American actress. She was originally a dancer. McQueen first appeared on screen in 1939, as "Prissy", Scarlett O'Hara's maid in the movie Gone with the Wind. She continued as an actress in movies through the 1940s, then moving to television acting in the 1950s.

[[Googly]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket, Sports words

In cricket, a googly is a type of way the ball is bowled. A googly is bowled by a right-arm leg spin bowler. It is occasionally called a Bosie (or Bosey) after its inventor Bernard Bosanquet.

[[Brittany Daniel]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Florida, 1976 births, Living people

Brittany Ann Daniel (born March 17, 1976) is an American actress. She works mostly in television programs. She and her twin sister Cynthia performed in many venues using the "twin gimmick." She played Jessica Wakefield in the teen sit-com Sweet Valley High. When she Sweet Valley program ended, Cynthia decided to leave acting in favor of a career as a photographer and Brittany decide to keep right on acting. She played Kelly Pitts in the comedy-drama television series The Game. 

Brittany Daniel was born in Gainesville, Florida.

[[Richard G. Morris]]

CATEGORIES: Neuroscientists, 1948 births, British scientists, Living people

Richard Graham Michael Morris (born 1948) is a British neuroscientist. He is known for developing the Morris water navigation task. This is one of the most-widely used learning tests for rodents. He is also known for investigating how the hippocampus works. He is the director of the Centre for Cognitive and Neural Systems (Edinburgh) He is also the Wolfson Professor of Neuroscience at the University of Edinburgh. He became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1997. Morris was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2007.

[[Brittany (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Brittany is a female name of French and Latin origins. It came from Brittany, a region of France. This name was first used in America in the very early 1970s. It was used the most during the 1990s. The name comes from the word Britannia, a 2nd-century Roman goddess.

[[Filibuster]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Filibuster, also known as talking out a bill, is  a tactic of parliamentary procedure.  It is a way for one person to delay or entirely prevent debate or votes on a specific proposal. 

[[Balochistan High Court]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan

The High Court of Balochistan is the highest judicial institution of Balochistan, Pakistan. The court is formally known as High Court of Balochistan. It is situated at the provincial capital Quetta.

[[Steven Moffat]]

CATEGORIES: BAFTA Award winning writers, British screenwriters, British television producers, Emmy Award winners, Scottish writers, 1961 births, Living people

Steven Moffat (born 18 November 1961) is a Scottish television writer and producer. He is the writer and director of Doctor Who. Moffat is also the director, creator, and writer of Sherlock. He has written three series for both of his projects. He created several iconic monsters, including the Weeping Angels. He has won four BAFTA Awards.

[[Satanic leaf-tailed gecko]]

CATEGORIES: Lizards

The Satanic Leaf Tailed Gecko (Uroplatus phantasticus), is a species of gecko. It is only native to the island of Madagascar. It was first described in 1888 by George Albert Boulenger.

They look a lot like a dead leaf. Its veins are showing and look just like the veins on a leaf. Its tail looks like it has been rotted or nibbled by insects. They are mostly mottled brown. They have small brown dots on their underside, which helps people tell them apart from other species. It may also be known as the eyelash leaf tailed gecko or the fantastic leaf tailed gecko.

[[Northern pygmy owl]]

CATEGORIES: Strigiformes

The Northern pygmy owl (Glaucidium gnoma) is a small owl native to North and Central America.

[[Emily Watson]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Actors from London, BAFTA Award winning actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors

Emily Margaret Watson OBE (born 14 January 1967) is an English actress. She was born in Islington, London. She acted in Breaking the Waves, Hilary and Jackie, Cradle will Rock and Angela's Ashes and Oranges and Sunshine. Her television roles include the title character in Appropriate Adult, for which she won a BAFTA Award.

[[Emily]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Emily is a female given name. It comes from the Roman name Aemilia. It is very popular in the English-speaking world. There are many famous people with the name Emily

It is also the name of a song on Joanna Newsom's album Ys.

The name has been used for Atlantic hurricanes.

[[Conor Maynard]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, English singers, Living people

Conor Maynard (born 21 November 1992) is an English singer. He comes from Brighton. His first album, Contrast, was a large success: it went top of the UK charts. He had four singles from that album: Can't Say No, Vegas Girl, Turn Around and "Animal". They all reached the top 10 in the UK charts. They also did well in Scotland, Ireland, and other countries.

[[Emma (given name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Emma is a female given name. It comes from the Germanic word ermen (which means universal or whole). The name is very popular for females in the English-speaking world. It became popular in the United States in the mid to late 20th century. This name was one of the most popular for 2008. Celebrities with the name include Emma Thompson, Emma Watson and Emma Stone.

[[Mason]]

Mason may refer to:

[[Lilyan Tashman]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American silent movie actors, American stage actors, Deaths from cancer, LGBT people from New York, LGBT actors, 1896 births, 1934 deaths

Lilyan Tashman was an American stage, silent movie, and early "talkie" actress. She was born in New York City. She won notice as a vaudevillian in the Zeigfield Follies. Her first movie was Experience in 1921. This was followed by many others. She often played the bitchy "other woman". Tashman was a lesbian and looked for sex with other women in public restrooms.  She had a long term affair with Greta Garbo. She married vaudevillian Al Lee and, later, openly gay actor Edmund Lowe. Their parties were the talk and the scandal of early Hollywood. Tashman died of cancer in 1934. Her last film, Frankie and Johnny, was released after her death in 1936.

[[National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Award]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian culture, Art awards, 1984 establishments in Australia

The National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander Art Award (NATSIAA) is a competition, exhibition and award held each year for visual arts in Australia. It is one of the most important art awards in Australia. It was first created in 1984 by the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory. Telstra has sponsored the event since 1992, so it is often known as the Telstra Award.

The competition is open to all adult Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander artists. It features artists from all over Australia. Its goal is to show the best indigenous art in the country. The works can be in any media, including paintings (on bark, canvas and paper), prints, sculpture, textiles, weaving, ceramics, glass, photography, digital media and video.

The first prize of AU$40,000 is awarded to the work considered the best in the show. Smaller prizes of AU$4,000 each are awarded in four categories.

[[Hanlon's razor]]

CATEGORIES: Metaphors

Hanlon's razor is a saying that reads:

In simpler words: some bad things happen not because of people having bad intentions, but because they did not think it through properly.

The quotation is attributed to Robert J. Hanlon of Scranton, Pennsylvania, US. According to his friend Joseph Bigler, Hanlon first used it as part of something he wrote for a compilation of various jokes related to Murphy's law. The compilation book was published in 1980 titled Murphy's Law Book Two, More Reasons Why Things Go Wrong. The name was inspired by Occam's razor.

There are many similar sayings. One example is "Never ascribe to malice that which is adequately explained by incompetence", which has been attributed to science fiction author Robert Heinlein’s short story "Logic of Empire" in 1941 and erroneously to Napoleon Bonaparte.

[[Hulk]]

Hulk may refer to:

[[Andrea Martin]]

CATEGORIES: People from Portland, Maine, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Maine, American comedians, 1947 births, Living people

Andrea Martin (born January 15, 1947 in Portland, Maine) is an American actress and comedian. She appears in movies, television programs and on stage. Her notable movies include Cannibal Girls and My Big Fat Greek Wedding. She has also been in other television series and movies.

[[Santon]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas

A santon ("little saint") is small, hand painted, terra cotta figurine manufactured in Provençal. These figurines represent characters in the "nativity scene" such as the Holy Family and the Magi. Also represented are traditional characters from 19th century French village life such as the scissors sharpener, the fishwife, the chestnut seller, and the miller. Santons had their origin in the days of the French Revolution when revolutionists forbade large nativity scenes. The production of santons today is a family affair with parents teaching the craft to their children. Santon makers gather in Marseille and other places during the Christmas season to display and sell their products.

[[Aldo Moro]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1978 deaths, Assassinated people, Deaths by firearm in Italy, Italian murder victims, Italian politicians, Italian Roman Catholics, Kidnapped people, Murders by firearm, People from Apulia, People murdered in Italy, Prime Ministers of Italy

Aldo Moro (September 23, 1916 – May 9, 1978) was an Italian politician who was the 38th Prime Minister of Italy from December 4, 1963 through June 24, 1968. He was also the Italian Minister of Justice, the Italian Minister of Education, and the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs. His political career would last from 1963 from 1974. He was a Roman Catholic.

Moro was born on September 23, 1916 in Maglie, Apulia, Italy. He studied at the University of Bari and at Sapienza University of Rome. Moro was  married and had 4 children.

He was kidnapped on March 16, 1978 by the Red Brigades (BR), a Marxist-Leninist terrorist organization. On May 9, 1978, the Red Brigades said that Moro would go free so they sent him to a car. As he began to enter the car, he was shot and killed after 55 days of captivity, aged 61. In fact, Pope Paul VI "offered himself in exchange … for Aldo Moro …".

[[Nick Clooney]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Actors from Kentucky, American historians, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television news anchors, American voice actors, Politicians from Kentucky, Writers from Kentucky

Nicholas Joseph "Nick" Clooney (born January 13, 1934) is an American journalist, anchorman, and television host. He is the brother of Rosemary Clooney and the father of George Clooney. He is also the father of Adelia Clooney.

Clooney was born on January 13, 1934 in Maysville, Kentucky. His parents had German, Irish, and English ancestry. His career would begin in California during the 1960s. Later he moved to Lexington, Kentucky and to Cleveland, Ohio. Clooney was married to Nina Bruce Warren since 1959. They had two children. He now lives in Los Angeles, California.

Clooney ran to be part of the United States House of Representatives for Kentucky for the Democrat Party in 2004. He ran against Ken Lucas. Clooney lost 44% to 54%.

[[Hope, Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Arkansas, County seats in Arkansas

Hope is a city in Arkansas. It is the birthplace of former Arkansas governors Bill Clinton, who was later U.S. President, and former Governor Mike Huckabee, who unsuccessful ran for the Republican nomination in 2008 and 2016. According to the 2010 United States Census its population is 10,095.

[[Ellen Burstyn]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Detroit, Michigan, American movie actors, 1932 births, Living people

thumb|615x767 px|right|Ellen BurstynMay 2020

Ellen Burstyn (December 7, 1932, Detroit) is an American actress who stars on the stage and in television programs and movies. She performed as Kate Bartok in the NBC television series The Doctors; her movies include Requiem for a Dream, a movie in which she performed as a drug addicted mom.

[[Sleeping Dogs]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 video games, Adventure games

Sleeping Dogs is an action-adventure video game. It was developed by United Front Games and published by Square Enix. It was released on 14 August 2012. The game is set in Hong Kong and focuses on an undercover operation to infiltrate the Triads (an underground society). The main character in the game (who the player controls) is Wei Shen. He was sent away to the United States to become a police officer and then decided to come back to Hong Kong to stop the Sun On Yee shipping company who do many illegal things. This game consist of three major parts: cops, traids, and face.

[[Kate Mulgrew]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Iowa, 1955 births, Living people, People from Dubuque, Iowa

Katherine "Kate" Mulgrew (born April 29, 1955 in Dubuque, Iowa) is an American actress. She works on stage and in movies and television programs. She starred in Star Trek: Voyager and Orange Is the New Black. She acted in Throw Momma from the Train. She has worked in other television programs and movies.

[[Warren Barfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American singers

Warren Harding Barfield, Jr. (born May 4, 1979) is an American singer of Christian music.

[[Ellen Pompeo]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, 1969 births, Living people

Ellen Katherine Pompeo (November 10, 1969) is an American actress. She works mostly in television shows. She portrayed the character Meredith Grey in Grey's Anatomy. She also does other television work. She was born in Massachusetts. She is excelent as Meredith Greys.

[[Foreign exchange market]]

CATEGORIES: Economic markets, Currency

The foreign exchange market (forex, FX, or currency market) is a form of exchange for the international trading of currencies. The foreign exchange market is also known to be the largest in the world with over $5.1 trillion being traded every day. The markets are also open 24 hours a day for 5 days a week and are some of the most active as traders from across the globe exchange currencies.

[[Crystal LED]]

CATEGORIES: Display technology

Crystal LED refers to a manufacturing technology of screens.

This technology makes use of pixels mounted on each segment RGB of the display, such that each pixel is illuminated independently.  This differs from the usual liquid crystal display which produces mixed white light by a backlight and then filters out the unwanted colors at each pixel. 

Sony unveiled Crystal LED display technology in the CES 2012.

[[Bertha]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Bertha is a female Germanic name. It comes from the Old High German word berhta, which means "the bright one". The name dates back to the 6th century. Bertha is not a popular name for girls, although it is being used for tropical storms on List 6 in the Atlantic naming list.

[[Greenwood, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Greenwood is a village in the western part of Kings County in Nova Scotia's Annapolis Valley.

[[Havre Boucher]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Nova Scotia

Havre Boucher ˈ is a Canadian community in Antigonish County, Nova Scotia.

[[List of communities in Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Nova Scotia, Lists of settlements in Canada

This is a list of communities in the Canadian province of Nova Scotia, as designated by the Union of Nova Scotia Municipalities.

Incorporated municipalities in Nova Scotia are either counties, towns or regional municipalities. There are no incorporated cities in Nova Scotia as of 1996.

== Regional municipalities == 

Nova Scotia has three regional municipalities.

== Towns == 

Nova Scotia has 27 towns.

== Municipal districts == 

Nova Scotia has 12 municipal districts.

== Villages == 

Nova Scotia has 21 villages.

[[Titan Lake In-situ Sampling Propelled Explorer]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn, Moons, Spacecraft

Titan Lake In-situ Sampling Propelled Explorer (TALISE) is a proposed space probe. It was presented at the European Planetary Science Congress on September 27, 2012. If this space probe is accepted, it will be sent to Ligeia Mare, a lake on Saturn's biggest moon named Titan. It's purpose is to study the liquid on the moon and take scientific measurements while it sails to the coast.

[[Keith Aulie]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, American Hockey League players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Edmonton Oilers players, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Living people, Tampa Bay Lightning players, Toronto Maple Leafs players

Keith Aulie (born June 11, 1989) is a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman. He played for the Edmonton Oilers of the National Hockey League (NHL) along with Toronto Maple Leafs, Edmonton Oilers, and Tampa Bay Lightning.

On July 1, 2014, Aulie signed a one-year contract with the Edmonton Oilers.

[[Natasha]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Natasha is a Russian female name. It is short for Natalia, which indicates "Natal Day". Celebrities and famous people include singer Natasha Bedingfield, Natasha Richardson and actress Natasha Lyonne.

[[Erika]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Erika or Erica is a female given name. In Old Norse, it means "ever powerful" or "ruler of people". The name is very popular in Australia, the United States, Canada and Europe. There are many famous people with this name. As Erika, the name was used for tropical cyclones in the Atlantic basin. The name was retired after Tropical Storm Erika in 2015.

[[Diana Vickers]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Actors from Lancashire, English pop singers, English singer-songwriters, Singers from Lancashire

Diana Vickers (born 30 July 1991) is a British singer-songwriter, actress and fashion designer who first came to public attention as a semi-finalist on the fifth series of British talent show The X Factor in 2008.

[[Alicia]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Alicia is a female given name. It is related to the name Alice. The name is very popular in certain countries which speak English.

It was also used for a hurricane in 1983, Hurricane Alicia.

There are several celebrities with the name:

[[Microtubule]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Plant anatomy

Microtubules are found in biological cells as a part of the cytoskeleton. They are hollow tubes whose walls consist of 13 columns of tubulin molecules. Its main functions are to maintain a cell's shape, cell motility, chromosome movement in cell division, and organelle movement. They look like hollow noodles which transmit signals to our nerves

[[Water gardens]]

CATEGORIES: Gardens, Agriculture

A water garden is a garden in which the chief thing, interest, and attraction is water and plants that live in water. The water may be put in a fountain, a pond, a waterfall, or other. Water have been built for thousands of years.  It was natural that in the hot places of Egypt and Mesopotamia refreshing water gardens should be found. As early as 1225 BC, Ramses III built water lily ponds. 

The Inca of Peru built gold and silver water channels, pools, and basins as early as 2500 BC. Their homes and palaces had water running in channels under the floors to cool the surrounding air. Their courtyards had cooling pools for tired travelers.

The Chinese and Japanese imitated nature in their water gardens. The water garden was a sign of perfection and peace. By the third century AD they had written down the essentials of a water garden. In the 15th century, they turned the water garden into an art form that used the sound and motion of water. A reflecting pool expressed the union of heaven and earth. The Japanese built a dry garden, using small rocks, sand, and other materials to represent the course of a stream or river. Nature was recreated to serve as a source of thinking.

Europeans began using water for playing in the Middle Ages. Springs and wells were made focal points in gardens. Carp pools not only provided food, but a place for thinking and resting in monasteries. In Spain, the starkness of the Alhambra was softened with canals and pools.

[[The Gondoliers]]

CATEGORIES: Operettas by Gilbert and Sullivan

The Gondoliers; or, The King of Barataria is an operetta in two acts by Gilbert and Sullivan. It is the twelfth of their fourteen operettas. It was first performed at the Savoy Theatre in London on 7 December 1889. It ran for 554 performances. It tells of two gondoliers. One appears to be the heir to the throne of Barataria, but which one?  

[[Heavy Rain]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 video games, PlayStation 3 games

Heavy Rain is an interactive action-adventure psychological thriller video game made by Quantic Dream for the PlayStation 3.

There was a patch released for the game which allowed player to use the PlayStation Move controller.

[[DragonFly BSD]]

CATEGORIES: BSD

DragonFly BSD is an open source, Unix-like operating system focused on symmetric multiprocessing (SMP). Features introduced in DragonFly BSD include Light Weight Kernel Threads and the HAMMER filesystem.

Matthew Dillon created DragonFly BSD from FreeBSD 4.8 code in 2003. Matthew Dillon was formerly a part of the FreeBSD community. Dillon disagreed with FreeBSD 5's approach to SMF. Many were disappointed with the performance and stability FreeBSD 5's early releases. Dillion split from the FreeBSD project in order to develop the FreeBSD 4 series in the direction he felt was best.

[[Body Count]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California, Speed metal bands, Thrash metal bands

Body Count are an American heavy metal band from Los Angeles, California.

The band was formed in 1990 by rapper Ice-T and some of his friends. They released their self-titled debut album, Body Count, on March 31, 1992. The album featured the controversial song "Cop Killer".

Band member Beatmaster V died in died of leukemia in 1996, Mooseman was killed in a drive-by shooting in 2001 and D-Roc the Executioner died in 2004 from lymphoma.

[[Yellowcard]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 1997 establishments in the United States, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American punk bands, American rock bands, Musical groups from Florida, 1990s establishments in Florida

Yellowcard are an American pop punk band from Jacksonville, Florida. 

The band was formed in 1997 after the members of the band met each other at the Douglas Anderson School of the Arts. They released their debut album, Midget Tossing, on April 1, 1997. The band's best known song is "Ocean Avenue" which reached #37 on the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Trapt]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 1997 establishments in California, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Alternative metal bands, American hard rock bands, Nu metal bands, Post-grunge bands, Musical groups from California

Trapt is an American hard rock band from Los Gatos, California.

[[Sick Puppies]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s music groups, 1997 establishments, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Australian hard rock bands, Nu metal bands, Post-grunge bands, Australian heavy metal bands, Musical groups from Sydney, 1990s establishments in Australia

Sick Puppies are an Australian alternative metal band from Sydney. 

The band was formed in 1997 after band members Shimon More and Emma Anzai met in the music room of Mosman High School. They released their debut album, Welcome to the Real World, on 3 September 2001. 

Their song "You're Going Down" was used as the theme song for the 2009 WWE pay per view Extreme Rules and is also included on the soundtrack to the video game WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2010.

[[Diana (given name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Diana is a female given name. It has ranked among the top 200 female names in the United States since the 1930s. Famous Dianas include the singer Diana Ross, Princess Diana and a Roman goddess who is named Diana. The name was also used for two hurricanes in the Atlantic in 1984 and 1990. The 1990 storm hit eastern Mexico. It caused more than 100 deaths. The name Diana was then retired.

[[Melinda]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Melinda is a girl name derived from Greek word meli (that means "honey"); the name is extremely popular in certain countries. However, in the United States, the name peaked at 72 in popularity, and has been on the gradual decline since the 1970s. The name was first used in the year 1815 by József Katona. Examples of the name for famous persons include Melinda Gates (who is wife for Bill Gates).

[[Melinda French Gates]]

CATEGORIES: Businesspeople from Texas, Bill Gates, 1964 births, Living people

Melinda Ann French Gates DBE (née French; August 15, 1964) is an American business woman who once worked at Microsoft. She married to Bill Gates. They met while she was working for Microsoft.

She was awarded an honorary damehood by Queen Elizabeth II in 2014 for her services to charity and international development. As an American citizen, she cannot be called "Dame Melinda", but can use the letters "DBE" after her name. Her current occupations are that she is a philanthropist and she is running the "Bill and Melinda Gates's Foundation" with her husband. She has three children : Phoebe Adele Gates, Rory John Gates, and Jennifer Katharine Gates. She got awarded for the Gates's Foundation in  May 2006.

On May 3, 2021, Gates and Melinda announced that they had decided to divorce following 27 years of marriage, and 34 years as a couple. The couple said they will keep working together on charitable efforts.

[[Bhabanipur Shaktipeeth]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladesh, Hindu temples

Bhabanipur (ভবানীপুর) is a sacred site in Hinduism. It is one of the Shakti Peethas of the Indian subcontinent.

[[Kimberly]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Kimberly is mostly a female name, though this name is sometimes used for males. There are multiple spellings of this name, although in the United States Kimberly is most prevalent. The name is taken from Kimberley, located in South Africa (which is in turn named for Lord Kimberley, a person in the 19th century). There are many celebrities having this female name, the best known being Kim Kardashian, whose actual name is Kimberly. Another famous person is singer Kimberley Locke.

[[University of Sydney]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 establishments, 1850s establishments in Australia, Colleges and universities in Australia, University of Sydney

The University of Sydney is a public university in Sydney, Australia. The main campus is in the suburbs of Camperdown and Darlington. Founded in 1850, it is the oldest university in Australia and Oceania. In 2011, it had 32,393 undergraduate and 16,627 graduate students.

The University of Sydney is organised into sixteen faculties and schools. They offer bachelor's degrees, master's degrees and doctoral degrees. The univsersity often ranks amongst the best universities in Australia and Oceania. In 2012, it was ranked 39th in the world; 3rd in Australia, behind Australian National University (24th) and the University of Melbourne (36th) in the 2012 QS World University Rankings.

[[Canary Current]]

CATEGORIES: Ocean currents

The Canary Current is a wind-driven surface current that is part of the North Atlantic Gyre. This eastern boundary current branches south from the North Atlantic Current and flows southwest about as far as Senegal where it turns west and later joins the Atlantic North Equatorial Current. The current is named after the Canary Islands. The archipelago (group of islands) partially blocks the flow of the Canary Current (Gyory, 2007).

This wide and slow-moving current is thought to have been exploited in the early Phoenician navigation and settlement along the coast of western Morocco. The ancient Phoenicians not only exploited numerous fisheries within this current zone, but also established a factory at Iles Purpuraires off present day Essaouira for extracting a Tyrian purple dye from a marine gastropod murex species (Hogan, 2007).

[[Sarah (given name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Sarah is a female given name. It comes from the Hebrew language. It refers to Sarah, the wife of Abraham in Hebrew Bible. In Hebrew, Sarah means "the woman of high rank". This name is used a lot in the United States, Europe and Canada. In the United States, the name ranked near 30 in 2010. Its alternate spelling Sara ranked near 121. An example of a famous person with the name is Sarah Jessica Parker.

[[Hall of Mirrors (Versailles)]]

CATEGORIES: Palace of Versailles, 17th century establishments in France

The Hall of Mirrors in the palace of Versailles, France (French: Grande Galerie or Galerie des Glaces) was constructed on what was once a terrace designed by Le Vau. Mansart and Le Brun designed and built the Hall between 1678 and 1684. The Hall is decorated with marble. The "French order" capitals depict a cock, Apollo, and fleur-de-lys. The walls and cornices are decorated with gilded bronze trophies by Coysevox, Tubi, Le Gros, Clérion, and Flamen. The niches contain depictions of Bacchus, Urania, Modesty, Venus in Modesty and antiques from the collections of King Louis XIV.

The ceiling depicts the War with Holland (1672-1678). The medallions and trompe l'œil paintings depict the War of Devolution (1667-1668). They also depict the administrative reforms in the early years of Louis XIV's reign. Two of the four alabaster tables are from the collections of the duc d'Antin. The vases and busts are from the Royal collections. The 1770 chandeliers and candelabra were reconstructed in 1980 after the originals and documents in the archives.

During the 17th century, the Hall of Mirrors was used by Louis XIV when he walked from his private apartment to the chapel. At this time, courtiers assembled to watch the king and members of the royal family pass. In 1745 the Hall was the scene of "The Yew Tree Ball". It was at this event that Louis XV met Madame de Pompadour. In the 19th century, the Prussian king, William I, was declared German emperor on 18 January 1871 in the Hall of Mirrors by Bismarck and the victorious German princes and lords. French Prime Minister Clemenceau chose the Hall of Mirrors to sign the Treaty of Versailles that ended World War I on 28 June 1919. The Hall of Mirrors still serves for state occasions such as receptions for visiting heads of state.

[[Campbell's dwarf hamster]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents, Mammals of Asia

Campbell's dwarf hamster (Phodopus campbelli) is a species of hamster. It is native to central Asia. The species was named after a man called W. C. Campbell, who collected the first one in Mongolia on 1 July 1902. 

[[GNU Hurd]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

GNU Hurd is a multiserver kernel with the goal of providing users with as much freedom to do as they wish with the GNU operating system as possible. It was initially intended to provide a free alternative to Unix (GNU stands for GNU's Not Unix). The Hurd was the intended implementation of the GNU operating system before Linux became the kernel of choice for GNU users. The current goal of the Hurd project is:

The Hurd kernel consists of a microkernel that provides basic kernel services and a collection (or herd) of servers / daemons that provided services that are beyond basic. This design was meant to provide developers with freedom that Unix and other Unix-like operating systems did not. For example, this design allows developers to program servers in languages other than the one used by the kernel. GNU Mach currently is the microkernel being used in the Hurd.

Richard Stallman created the GNU project in 1983 and founded the Free Software Foundation (FSF) in 1985 in order to fund and promote the development of free software and GNU. By the early 1990's, the GNU toolchain and other components besides the kernel were completed. Work began the Hurd in 1990. Stallman decided to use Carnegie Mellon University's Mach microkernel as the basis for the Hurd microkernel.

In 1991, Linus Torvalds released the Linux kernel, and free software enthusiasts ported GNU's completed components to the Linux kernel in order to create GNU/Linux. NetBSD and FreeBSD were released a couple of years later, yet the Hurd was not in a functional state. Due to the presence of functioning alternatives, interest in the Hurd waned. As the FSF moved away from GNU development and more towards free software activism, Debian became more involved in the Hurd's development.

[[Frederick]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Frederick (also spelled Frederic) is a masculine given name that means "peaceful ruler". The name is the English form of the German name Friedrich. This name ranked among the top 100 masculine names for the United States between 1880 and 1957. After that, the name became less popular. The name was number 536 in popularity in the United States in the late 2000s. At the same time it was number 99 in England. As Frederic, the name was used on a hurricane that struck the Gulf Coast of the United States in September 1979.

[[Madame de Pompadour]]

CATEGORIES: 1721 births, 1764 deaths, Deaths from tuberculosis, Infectious disease deaths in France, People from Paris

Jeanne Antoinette Poisson was  better known as Madame de Pompadour. The Marquise of Pompadour (29 December 1721 – 15 April 1764) was courtier and the official chief mistress of Louis XV from 1745 until her death. She was born in Paris, Kingdom of France, and died there from tuberculosis at 42. She was presented to the royal court by a cousin of the King, the Princess of Conti. 

[[Emina Jahović]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Serbian singers, Turkish singers

Emina Jahović Sandal (born 15 January 1982) is a well-known Serbian-Turkish singer-songwriter, model, and actress.

She is of Bosniak origin and is married to Mustafa Sandal, the leading Turkish pop star.

[[The Fleece Inn]]

CATEGORIES: National Trust properties, Pubs, Inns, Buildings and structures in England

The Fleece Inn is a pub (public house) located in Bretforton, Worcestershire in the Vale of Evesham. The building is a half-timbered one.  It is over six hundred years old. It has been a pub since 1848. It is now owned by the National Trust. The Fleece Inn is distinguished by its homely character. Pewter mugs, brass and copper utensils, pottery and china, oak settles and benches, a spinning wheel, all contribute to the homely atmosphere. The inn was damaged by fire on 27 February 2004. Repairs and rebuilding began on 1 November 2004. The Fleece officially reopened on 18 June 2005 with a new roof and other upgrades.

[[Tamil nationalism]]

CATEGORIES: Nationalism, Politics of Sri Lanka, Separatist movements of India, Tamils

Tamil nationalists in both Sri Lanka and the Indian state of Tamil Nadu attempted to create an independent state (Tamil Eelam) amid the increasing political and physical violence against ordinary Tamils by the Sri Lankan government since the pogroms of 1983, known as Black July. After the island's independence from Britain, the Sri Lankan government passed the Citizenship Act of 1948, which made more than a million Tamils of Indian origin stateless.

[[Ski resort]]

CATEGORIES: Ski areas and resorts

A ski resort is a place where people go skiing or to do other winter sports. Usually, these places are towns or villages in the mountains. This is because a lot of snow is needed for these sports. Ski lifts and slopes down the mountain are also needed. The lifts are usually cable cars, gondola lifts and chairlifts. Ski resorts also have hotels and restaurants for tourists. 

There are many ski resorts around the world. The Alps in Europe have a lot, and so do the United States and Canada. There are very few in Africa because it does not snow a lot there.

[[Charlecote Park]]

CATEGORIES: National Trust properties, Buildings and structures in England

Charlecote Park is a house and park owned by the National Trust. It is located 4 miles east of Stratford-upon-Avon, and 6 miles south of Warwick on the B4086 Stratford/Banbury road. The house and park were owned by the Lucy family from the 13th century to 1945, when they were presented to the National Trust.

Sir Thomas Lucy tore down an earlier structure to make way for the present house in 1558. He was a man of wealth. He entertained Queen Elizabeth I at breakfast in 1572 as she made her way to Kenilworth. Lucy is better known for having fined the young William Shakespeare over a poaching incident in 1583. This incident prompted Shakespeare to flee Warwickshire for London.

Charlecote was inherited in the direct male line until George Lucy died in 1786. This man improved the house. He hired Capability Brown to improve the park about 1769. In the early years of the 19th century, another George Lucy continued improvements, leaving little unchanged except for the gatehouse.

[[Elimination reaction]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical reactions

In organic chemistry, an elimination reaction is when some atoms or group of atoms are taken away from a bigger molecule. Usually, a double or a triple bond are made by this reaction.

There are two main ways to do an elimination reaction. The first is called E1. It happens in two steps. If there is a good leaving group in the molecule, it can leave on its own. Then, a base or another substance can take away the other group. The second way is called E2. This happens only in one step. In this case, the base takes away one group while at the same time the leaving group goes away.

A common elimination reaction happens with alcohols. If there is strong acid around, a molecule of water can be eliminated to form the double bond.

[[Reaction mechanism]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical reactions

A reaction mechanism is writing step by step how a chemical reaction works. Usually, only the overall change can be seen in a reaction. The things made in between react too quickly to be seen. These are called intermediates, and in going from one intermediate to another a transition state is crossed. However, it is important to understand all the steps that make the total change. This is because then one can understand more difficult reactions or try to make a reaction work in a certain way.

There are many type of reaction mechanisms. In organic chemistry, the more common ones are nucleophilic substitution, elimination and addition. People sometimes use arrow pushing to draw how electrons move around during a reaction. This makes it easy to see which bonds are formed and which are broken during the process.

[[Deborah]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Deborah (also spelled Debra) is a female name. It is used a lot in some countries. The name comes from a Hebrew word for the bee. This name was used by a prophet woman inside the Old Testament Book of Judges. In the United States, Deborah itself was most popular for females born between 1950 and 1970. It ranked number 25 for 1990, although it is now less popular. Its variant forms Debra, Debby and Debbie have been used for Atlantic tropical cyclones. Famous people with the name include Debbie Allen and Debbie Gibson.

[[List of national flowers]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols, Lists of plants, Flowers, Lists of countries

A floral emblem is a flower or plant that is chosen by a country as a symbol or emblem for that country.

[[Pauline Phillips]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American columnists, American radio personalities, Jewish American writers, People from Sioux City, Iowa, Writers from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Writers from Iowa, Twin people from the United States

Pauline Esther Friedman Phillips (writing as Abigail Van Buren) (July 4, 1918 – January 16, 2013) was an American advice columnist and radio show host who was known for her radio show Dear Abby during the 1950s.

Phillips was born on July 4, 1918 in Sioux City, Iowa. Her parents were Jewish-Russian immigrants. She studied at Morningside College. Her twin sister, Esther "Eppie" Pauline Friedman Lederer, was also a well-known advice columnist. She used the name Ann Landers.

Phillips was married to Morton Phillips from 1939 until her death in 2013. They had two children. She had Alzheimer's disease since 2002. Phillips died on January 16, 2013 in Minneapolis, Minnesota from the disease, aged 94.

[[Fountain of Apollo]]

CATEGORIES: Fountains of Versailles

The Fountain of Apollo (Bassin d'Apollon) is a fountain at the Palace of Versailles. It depicts the Greek sun god Apollo rising from the sea at daybreak in his four-horse chariot. He is accompanied by Tritons. In 1639, Louis XIII had a pond dug on the site of the fountain called the Pond of the Swans. In 1671, Louis XIV enlarged the pond. Le Brun suggested it be dedicated to Apollo based on its east-west orientation. The parallels drawn between Louis and the sun god also entered into the decision. Le Brun's Apollo is seen sitting in his four-horse chariot. He rises from the grotto of Thetys where he has spent the night. This theme was popular in the arts at the time. The gilded statue was made by Tuby of Rome. It was installed in 1671. Beyond the fountain lies the Grand Canal. The Fountain of Apollo incorrectly depicts Apollo rising in the west rather than the east.

In 2014, a same-scale replica was unveiled in Tainan, Taiwan, at the entrance of the Chimei Museum. The museum commissioned French artist Gills Perrault in 2008 to reproduce the Fountain of Apollo, same as the one in Palace of Versailles. It took three years for modern laser measuring and the mold to be made in France for the reproduction sculpture, and another three years to carve the marble in Italy. This Fountain of Apollo in Chimei Museum, however, correctly depicts Apollo rising from the east. 

[[Frank Gehry]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, American architects, American Jews, Businesspeople from California, Canadian businesspeople, Canadian Jews, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Santa Monica, California, People from Toronto, Pritzker Prize winners

Frank Owen Gehry (born Frank Owen Goldberg; February 28, 1929) is a Canadian-American architect who won the Pritzker Prize in 1989. He is known for his buildings such as 8 Spruce Street, Dancing House, Port Olímpic, Jay Pritzker Pavilion, and the Walt Disney Concert Hall. He built buildings across the United States and across South America.

[[Queen's apartment at Versailles]]

CATEGORIES: Palace of Versailles

The Queen's apartment at Versailles (Fr: Grand appartement de la reine) consists of several rooms: The Queen's Bedchamber; The Queen's Private Cabinets; The Room of the Queen's Gentlemen; The Queen's Antechamber; The Room of the Queen's Guard. The apartment overlooks the Parterre du Midi, and parallels the King's Apartment. When the King's Apartment was abandoned at the end of Louis XIV's reign, the Queens continued to occupy the Queen's Apartment.

[[Madame du Barry's apartment]]

CATEGORIES: Palace of Versailles

Madame du Barry's apartment at Versailles was the apartment that belonged to Madame du Barry. It was here that King Louis XV had suppers with Du Barry, warming the coffee himself at the stove. The library sofa was designed by Delafosse. The parrot cage is embellished with porcelain flowers and is indicative of Du Barry's taste. The apartment and bedchamber are on the site of the small gallery. This gallery was decorated with "exotic hunting scenes" by Boucher, Lancret, and others. They are at this time in the Amiens museum. 

[[Ricegrowers Limited]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Australia, Rice, 1950 establishments, 1950s establishments in Australia

Ricegrowers Limited, trading as SunRice, is claimed to be the "world's fifth largest ricefood exporter", and have historically been one of Australia's largest exporters of processed branded food products.

SunRice's main production is still based in regional New South Wales, Australia, with a main office in Leeton, and Rice Mills in the New South Wales towns of Leeton, Deniliquin, and Coleambally (with the Coleambally mill operational again after being temporarily "moth balled" during the last major Australian drought). RunRice also operates CopRice stockfeed plants in Leeton and Tongala, Victoria.

[[Bois-d'Arcy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Bois-d'Arcy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Les Bordes, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Les Bordes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Branches, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Branches is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Brannay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Brannay is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Brienon-sur-Armançon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Brienon-sur-Armançon is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Brion, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Brion is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Brosses]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Brosses is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Bussières, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Bussières is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Bussy-en-Othe]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Bussy-en-Othe is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Bussy-le-Repos, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Bussy-le-Repos is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Butteaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Butteaux is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Carisey]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Carisey is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[La Celle-Saint-Cyr]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

La Celle-Saint-Cyr is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Censy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Censy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Cérilly, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Cérilly is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Cerisiers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Cerisiers is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Cézy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Cézy is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chablis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chablis is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chailley]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chailley is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chambeugle]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Chambeugle is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Chamoux, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chamoux is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Champcevrais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Champcevrais is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Champignelles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Champignelles is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Champigny, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Champigny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Champlay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Champlay is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Champlost]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Champlost is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Champs-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Champs-sur-Yonne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Champvallon]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Champvallon is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune of Montholon.

[[Chamvres]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chamvres is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[La Chapelle-sur-Oreuse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

La Chapelle-sur-Oreuse is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[La Chapelle-Vaupelteigne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

La Chapelle-Vaupelteigne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Charbuy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Charbuy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Charentenay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Charentenay is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Charmoy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Charmoy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Yrouerre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Yrouerre is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Charny, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Charny is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Voutenay-sur-Cure]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Voutenay-sur-Cure is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Volgré]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Volgré is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune of Montholon.

[[Voisines, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Voisines is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chassignelles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chassignelles is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chassy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chassy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chastellux-sur-Cure]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chastellux-sur-Cure is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Châtel-Censoir]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Châtel-Censoir is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Châtel-Gérard]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Châtel-Gérard is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chaumont, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chaumont is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chaumot, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chaumot is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chemilly-sur-Serein]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chemilly-sur-Serein is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chemilly-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chemilly-sur-Yonne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chêne-Arnoult]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Chêne-Arnoult is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Cheney, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Cheney is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Cheny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Cheny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chéroy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chéroy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chéu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chéu is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chevannes, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chevannes is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the middle of France.

[[Chevillon, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Chevillon is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Pisy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Pisy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Poilly-sur-Serein]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Poilly-sur-Serein is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Poilly-sur-Tholon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Poilly-sur-Tholon is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Pontaubert]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Pontaubert is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chichée]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chichée is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Viviers, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Viviers is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vireaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vireaux is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vinneuf]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vinneuf is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vincelottes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vincelottes is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chichery]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chichery is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Chigy]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Chigy is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Les Vallées-de-la-Vanne.

[[Chitry]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Chitry is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Cisery]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Cisery is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Guillon-Terre-Plaine.

[[Les Clérimois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Les Clérimois is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Collan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Collan is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Collemiers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Collemiers is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Compigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Compigny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Cornant]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Cornant is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Coulangeron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Coulangeron is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. 

[[Coulanges-la-Vineuse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Coulanges-la-Vineuse is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Coulanges-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Coulanges-sur-Yonne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Coulours]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Coulours is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Courgenay, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Courgenay is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Courgis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Courgis is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Courlon-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Courlon-sur-Yonne is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Courson-les-Carrières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Courson-les-Carrières is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Courtoin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Courtoin is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Courtois-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Courtois-sur-Yonne is a commune in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Coutarnoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Coutarnoux is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Crain, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Crain is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Cravant, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Cravant is a former commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune of Deux Rivières.

[[Cruzy-le-Châtel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Cruzy-le-Châtel is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Cry, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Cry is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Cudot]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Cudot is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Cussy-les-Forges]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Cussy-les-Forges is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Cuy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Cuy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Dannemoine]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Dannemoine is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Dicy]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Dicy is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Diges]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Diges is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Dissangis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Dissangis is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Dixmont, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Dixmont is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[NASCAR Hall of Fame]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR, Sports halls of fame, Sports in Charlotte, North Carolina, Buildings and structures in North Carolina, 2010 establishments in the United States

The NASCAR Hall of Fame showcases drivers who have given large contributions to the sport of NASCAR. It also shows people who have been great grew chiefs, car owners, and others who have made big positive changes to NASCAR. Construction on the Hall of Fame began on January 26, 2007, and it officially opened on May 11, 2010. The City of Charlotte built and owns the NASCAR Hall of Fame. The Hall is run by the Charlotte Regional Visitors Authority. Winston Kelley is the NASCAR Hall of Fame Executive Director. The first class of people who were inducted in the hall of fame were inducted the day after the 2010 NASCAR Sprint All-Star Race. Richard Petty and Dale Inman helped unviel the first display at the Hall of Fame, which was the Plymouth Belvedere that Petty drove to 27 race wins in 1967.

[[Ruddigore]]

CATEGORIES: Operettas by Gilbert and Sullivan

Ruddigore; or, The Witch's Curse is a two-act operetta by Gilbert and Sullivan. It was premiered by the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company on 22 January 1887 at the Savoy Theatre in London, England. It ran for 288 performances over 8 months. It is the tenth of the fourteen operettas written by Gilbert and Sullivan. 

[[Mia]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Mia is a female name taken from the Slavic terminology mila (which represents "darling"). The name is strongly prevalent throughout Europe, the United States, England and Germany; in central Europe, Mia is a pet name version for Maria, Amelia and Emilia. There are many celebrities with the name, including Mia Hamm, Mia Rose and Mia Farrow.

[[La Ferté-Hauterive]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

La Ferté-Hauterive is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Fleuriel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Fleuriel is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Fourilles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Fourilles is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Franchesse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Franchesse is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Gannat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Gannat is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

The D116 road passes through Gannat.

[[Gannay-sur-Loire]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Gannay-sur-Loire is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Garnat-sur-Engièvre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Garnat-sur-Engièvre is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Gennetines]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Gennetines is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Gipcy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Gipcy is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Givarlais]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Allier

Givarlais is a former commune in the Allier department in central France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune Haut-Bocage.

[[Gouise]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Gouise is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[La Guillermie]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

La Guillermie is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Hauterive, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Hauterive is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Dollot]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Dollot is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Domats]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Domats is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Domecy-sur-Cure]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Domecy-sur-Cure is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Domecy-sur-le-Vault]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Domecy-sur-le-Vault is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Dracy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Dracy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Druyes-les-Belles-Fontaines]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Druyes-les-Belles-Fontaines is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Dyé]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Dyé is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Égleny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Égleny is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Égriselles-le-Bocage]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Égriselles-le-Bocage is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Épineau-les-Voves]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Épineau-les-Voves is a commune that is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Épineuil]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Épineuil is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Escamps, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Escamps is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Escolives-Sainte-Camille]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Escolives-Sainte-Camille is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Esnon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Esnon is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Étais-la-Sauvin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Étais-la-Sauvin is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Étaule]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Étaule is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Étigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Étigny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Étivey]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Étivey is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Évry, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Évry is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the centre of France.

[[La Ferté-Loupière]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

La Ferté-Loupière is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Festigny, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Festigny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Flacy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Flacy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fleury-la-Vallée]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fleury-la-Vallée is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fleys]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fleys is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Flogny-la-Chapelle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Flogny-la-Chapelle is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Foissy-lès-Vézelay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Foissy-lès-Vézelay is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Foissy-sur-Vanne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Foissy-sur-Vanne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fontaine-la-Gaillarde]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fontaine-la-Gaillarde is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fontaines, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fontaines is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fontenailles, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Fontenailles is a former commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune of Les Hauts de Forterre.

[[Fontenay-près-Chablis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fontenay-près-Chablis is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fontenay-près-Vézelay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fontenay-près-Vézelay is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fontenay-sous-Fouronnes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fontenay-sous-Fouronnes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fontenouilles]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Fontenouilles is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Fontenoy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fontenoy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fouchères, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fouchères is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fournaudin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fournaudin is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fouronnes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fouronnes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fresnes, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fresnes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Fulvy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Fulvy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Pimelles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Pimelles is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Piffonds]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Piffonds is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Pierre-Perthuis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Pierre-Perthuis is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Perrigny-sur-Armançon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Perrigny-sur-Armançon is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Pontigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Pontigny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Pont-sur-Vanne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Pont-sur-Vanne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Pont-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Pont-sur-Yonne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[La Postolle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

La Postolle is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Pourrain]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Pourrain is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Précy-le-Sec]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Précy-le-Sec is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vincelles, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vincelles is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villon, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villon is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. 

[[Villiers-Vineux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villiers-Vineux is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Germigny, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Germigny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Gigny, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Gigny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Girolles, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Girolles is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Gisy-les-Nobles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Gisy-les-Nobles is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Givry, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Givry is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villiers-sur-Tholon]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Villiers-sur-Tholon is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune of Montholon.

[[Jeshorehwari Kali Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples

Jeshoreshwari Kali Temple (যশোরেশ্বরী কালী মন্দির) is a famous Hindu temple in Bangladesh, dedicated to the goddess Kali.

[[Shri Shail]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples

Shri Shail (শ্রীশৈল) is a Hindu temple in Bangladesh. It is dedicated to Shakti. It is in Joinpur village, Dakshin Surma, near Gotatikar, 3 km north-east of Sylhet town.

[[Sugandha Shaktipeeth]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples

Sugandha Shaktipeeth (সুগন্ধা শক্তিপীঠ), is a Hindu temple of the Goddess Sunanda, in Bangladesh. It is in the village of Shikarpur, 10 miles north of Barisal.

[[Karen]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Karen is a female given name, and a Danish short version of Katherine. It ranked in the top 10 during 1950s and 1960s, peaking at the #3 in 1965. There are multiple celebrities with the name. In addition, the name is currently being used for Atlantic tropical cyclones.

'Karren' is also a surname. Notable people with the name include:

Karen has also became a derogatory term for middle-aged white women.

[[Pattan]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Pattan (تحصیل پتن) is a unit and a subdistrict of Baramulla District in Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Ganderbal]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Ganderbal (تحصیل گاندربل) is unit and a sub-district of Ganderbal District, Jammu and Kashmir State of India. It used to be part of Srinagar District.

[[Kangan]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Kangan (تحصیل کنگن) is town and a sub-district of Ganderbal District, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It used to be part of Srinagar District.

[[Electoral college]]

CATEGORIES: Elections

An electoral college is a group of people who are chosen to elect a candidate to a particular office (job). The electors usually have one vote each. Often each elector represents a particular organization or entity. Many times, though, the electors are simply important people whose wisdom would ideally make a better choice than a larger group of people. The electoral college can ignore the wishes of a general membership.

A similar concept existed in the former Holy Roman Empire, in which the Holy Roman Emperor was elected by the rulers of various provinces of the Empire, or their representatives. These rulers were referred to as Electors. For instance, King George III of Great Britain was also Duke and prince-elector of Brunswick-Lüneburg ("Hanover") and later became King of Hanover, though he never visited Hanover.   

[[Katherine]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Katherine is a female name that is very popular in multiple countries, and especially so in Christian countries. The name and its related variants have ranked on the 100 most popular girls names in the United States since around 1880. There are many celebrities with the name itself and its variants. Its variants Kate, Katrina and Karen have been used on Atlantic tropical cyclones.

[[Rangamati District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

thumb|Location of Rangamati District in Bangladesh Rangamati (রাঙ্গামাটি পার্বত্য জেলা) is a district in south-eastern Bangladesh. It is a part of the Chittagong Hill Tracts.

[[Khagrachari District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Khagrachari (খাগড়াছড়ি) is a district in southeastern Bangladesh. It is a part of the Chittagong Division and the Chittagong Hill Tracts. it has many tourist area, Such as sajek velly, Richang Jhorna, Alu Tila etc.

[[Cox's Bazar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Cox's Bazar (কক্সবাজার জেলা) is a district in the Chittagong Division of Bangladesh.

[[Hugo]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Hugo is a male given name of Germanic origin Hugo, which means "bright in mind and spirit". The English spelling for Hugo is Hugh. The name can also be used for surnames. The popularity of Hugo is very high in Europe. A devastating hurricane with the name struck the Caribbean Islands and South Carolina in September 1989.

[[Gazipur District]]

CATEGORIES: Dhaka Division

Gazipur (গাজীপুর জেলা) is a district of central Bangladesh. It is part of the Dhaka Division.

[[Manikganj District]]

CATEGORIES: Dhaka Division

Manikganj (মানিকগঞ্জ) is a district in central Bangladesh. It is a part of the Dhaka Division.

[[Narsingdi District]]

CATEGORIES: Dhaka Division

Narsingdi (নরসিংদী, bn) is a district in central Bangladesh. It is 50 km north-east of Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh. It is part of the Dhaka Division.

[[Munshiganj District]]

CATEGORIES: Dhaka Division

Munshiganj (মুন্সীগঞ্জ) is a district in central Bangladesh. It is a part of the Dhaka Division.

[[Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica]]

CATEGORIES: Art museums in Italy, National museums

The Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica, or National Gallery of Ancient Art, is an art gallery in Rome, Italy, located on two sites: the Palazzo Barberini and the Palazzo Corsini. The Palazzo Barberini was designed for Pope Urban VIII, a member of the Barberini family, by Italian architect Carlo Maderno (1556–1629) on the old location of Villa Sforza. Its central salon ceiling was decorated by Pietro da Cortona with the visual panegyric of the Allegory of Divine Providence and Barberini Power to glorify the papal Barberini family. The Palazzo Corsini, formerly known as Palazzo Riario, is a 15th century palace that was rebuilt in the 18th century by architect Ferdinando Fuga for Cardinal Neri Maria Corsini.  For a partial list of artworks, see Palazzo Corsini entry.

The gallery's collection includes works by Gian Lorenzo Bernini, Caravaggio, Giovanni Baglione, Hans Holbein, Perugino, Nicolas Poussin, Giulio Romano, Raphael, Carlo Saraceni Tiepolo, Tintoretto and Tiziano.

[[Guilford Native American Association]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 establishments in the United States, Organizations based in the United States, 20th-century establishments in North Carolina

The Guilford Native American Association is a Native American community association in Guilford County, North Carolina. It is a North Carolina State-recognized American Indian Organization, 

and is a United Way referral agency.

Started in September 1975 by local parents as a non-profit education advocacy group, the association has grown to include child care, employment, and age-based community programs. It is the oldest American Indian urban association in North Carolina and one of the oldest organizations of its kind in the United States.

Its stated main goal is to "assist Indian people in achieving social and economic self-sufficiency". It serves over 5,000 Native Americans in Guilford and the surrounding counties. One of its major events since 1976 is an annual pow-wow and cultural festival.The association also operates the Guilford Native American Art Gallery in Greensboro, North Carolina.

[[Prudery]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Prudery is being very modest, especially about sex. A person with such an attitude is a prude. Synonyms and hyponyms for this term include celibacist, anti-sexualist, erotophobe, anti-sexualist and genophobe.

[[Adaptive replacement cache]]

CATEGORIES: Algorithms

Adaptive replacement cache (often abbreviates ARC) is a page replacement algorithm which was developed by IBM. It has a better performance than the frequently used LRU cache algorithm.

[[Golden Triangle (UK universities)]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the United Kingdom

The Golden Triangle is an unofficial name for a set of leading universities in the southern English cities of Oxford, Cambridge and London.

The University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge ('Oxbridge') form two corners of the triangle. The third is London: Imperial College, University College London, King's College London and the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE). The last three are independent colleges of the University of London.  The universities within the triangle (with the exception of the LSE) attract the highest research incomes of all British universities.

However, it has been argued that it should be replaced by a term like "Brilliant Diamond", to include the University of Manchester. The figures below suggest that both the universities of Manchester and Edinburgh belong in the same class. That might better reflect the geographical spectrum of the UK higher education.

Oxford, Cambridge and some of the London institutions collaborate in research. The Global Medical Excellence Cluster (GMEC) for biomedical research was formed by Oxford, Cambridge, Imperial College, University College London, King's College London and Queen Mary University of London.

[[Anna]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Anna is a female given name with multiple variants. In Hebrew, it means "favor" or "grace". The variant Anne was originally French, although it has been in use in English for hundreds of years. The variant spelling Ann was originally English. There are countless famous people, queens and saints under this name and its variants. The Spanish variant Ana has been used for Atlantic tropical cyclones. There are also many composite variants of Anna, including Annabelle (which is French) and Annabella (which is Italian).

[[Sovereign's Orb]]

CATEGORIES: Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom, Symbols

The Sovereign's Orb is a piece of coronation regalia. It was created for the coronation of Charles II in 1661 from the royal goldsmith Robert Viner. It is made of gold, sapphires, rubies, emeralds, amethyst, diamonds, pearls, and enamel. It has been used at all coronations and events after the one of Charles II. 

In 1671, it was damaged in Colonel Thomas Blood's attempt to steal the regalia. The Orb shows Christian sovereignty over the earth. It was set with 12 large diamonds, 30 rubies, sapphires, and emeralds for the coronation of George I in 1714. 

During the coronation ceremony, the Archbishop of Canterbury places the orb in the right hand of the Monarch. It is put back on the altar. The Monarch leaves the coronation wearing the Crown, carrying the Scepter, and holding the Orb.

William and Mary came to the throne in 1689 as King and Queen, each in their own right. An orb was made for Mary II. It is called Queen Mary's Orb. It was used once and never used again. Both orbs were placed on Queen Victoria's coffin at her funeral.

The orbs are hollow balls of gold. The Sovereign's Orb is 6.5" in diameter. It weighs 42oz 7dwt. Queen Mary's orb is smaller: it measures 5.75" in diameter. It weighs 34oz 6dwt. Queen Mary's orb was originally set with hired jewels. Today it is set with imitations for display purposes. The Sovereign's Orb is currently set with over 600 precious stones and pearls.

[[Haiku (operating system)]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

Haiku (initially OpenBeOS) is an open source operating system in development aimed at personal desktop computing and inspired by Be Inc.'s BeOS. It is designed to be fast and easy to use. Haiku is written in C++ and uses a kernel based on the NewOS kernel. Haiku is licensed under the MIT License.

Haiku uses the Be File System (BFS). Features of this filesystem include a 64-bit address space, journaling, and extensible attributes. Haiku's version of the BFS is optimized for speed and performance.

Michael Phipps started the Haiku project in 2001 as Palm, Inc. was purchasing Be, Inc.. In 2003, Phipps founded the non-profit Haiku, Inc. in order to support Haiku and its development.

[[Lucy]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Lucy is a French and English female given name. It is feminine for the male name Lucius (which means "as of light"). There are several celebrities with this name. Fictional characters having the name include Lucy McClane from Die Hard.

Lucy is a beautiful, happy, cheerful name.

[[Henrietta]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Henrietta is a female given name. It comes from the male given name Henry. Henrietta is the English form of the French name Henriette. The short version of this name is Harriet. In some English-speaking areas, Henrietta is not used as much as it used to be. Harriet, however, is popular for certain countries. Both Henrietta and Harriet were most popular in the 1960s in United States. Henrietta itself ranked 446th in popularity in the 1990 census.

[[Sebastian Shaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1994 deaths, English movie actors, English radio actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Writers from Norfolk

Sebastian Lewis Shaw (May 29, 1905 – December 23, 1994) was an English actor, director, novelist, playwright and poet. Shaw is known for his role in Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi, The Spy in Black, It Happened Here, Men Are Not Gods, and in A Midsummer Night's Dream. 

Shaw was born on May 29, 1905 in Holt, Norfolk, England. He was raised in Holt. Shaw stuided at Slade School and at the Royal Academy of the Dramatic Arts. He was married to Margaret Delamere from 1929 until they divorced in 1956. They had daughter, Drusilla. Shaw died on December 23, 1994 in Brighton, East Sussex, England from natural causes, aged 89.

[[Ian Richardson]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2007 deaths, Actors from Edinburgh, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Drama Desk Award winners, Scottish movie actors, Scottish stage actors, Scottish television actors, Scottish voice actors

Ian William Richardson (7 April 1934 – 9 February 2007) was a Scottish actor who was well known for his role as Francis Urquhart in House of Cards. He won a Drama Desk Award in 1976.

Richardson was born on 7 April 1934 in Edinburgh, Scotland. He was raised in Balgreen, Edinburgh. Richardson studied at Balgreen Primary School, at Tynecastle High School, at the George Heriot's School, and at the College of Dramatic Arts. He was married to Maroussia Frank from 1961 until his death in 2007. They had a son, Miles. Richardson died on 9 February 2007 in London, England from a heart attack, aged 72.

[[Lady Elizabeth Delmé and Her Children]]

CATEGORIES: 1770s paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, British paintings, Paintings by Joshua Reynolds, 1779

Lady Elizabeth Delmé and Her Children (1779) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. It hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC. The sitters in the picture are Lady Elizabeth Delmé and her children John and Isabella Elizabeth. They sat for their portraits in April and June 1777. Reynolds was paid three hundred pounds for the work in 1780, and touched up and re-varnished the picture in 1789.

Reynolds believed in the what was called the "Grand Manner". The two years involved in completing the portrait would have aged the children. "But Reynolds worked from abstract principles of design rather than observation of nature," the National Gallery of Art writes, "One of his conceptions for Grand Manner likenesses was: Each person should have the expression which men of his rank generally exhibit. Reynolds therefore suppressed psychological individuality to gain a grandeur appropriate for these aristocrats."

Reynolds alluded to the Madonnas of Raphael (such as the Madonna of the Goldfinch) in the triangular configuration of the sitters.  This was another attempt to evoke the Grand Manner. Rembrandt and Titian are hinted at in the browns of the background.  

Cynthia Saltzman writes in Old Masters, New Worlds (2009) that "Lady Delmé has a long, elegant face, heavy-lidded eyes, and towering powdered hair. She wears a white dress and a cloak that covers her knees in a cascade of rose-colored satin that speaks both to her beauty and to the luxury at her command." Saltzman writes that Lady Delmé is one of the finest representatives of Reynolds's intent to raise portraiture to the level of history painting. English portraiture of the period "flattered the sitter", Saltzman explains, by depicting the sitter as a member of a powerful ruling class whose very existence made the world a better place.

[[Cookie (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies set in New Jersey, Movies directed by Susan Seidelman‏‎

Cookie is a 1989 comedy movie released on August 23, 1989 by Warner Brothers. 

[[Mrs. Winterbourne]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 movies, American movies

Mrs. Winterbourne is a 1996 romantic comedy and drama starring Shirley MacLaine, Ricki Lake, and Brendan Fraser.  It is kindly based on Cornell Woolrich's book I Married a Dead Man, which has already been filmed in Hollywood as No Man of Her Own (1950) starring Barbara Stanwyck, and in Hindi as Kati Patang (1970). The movie was filmed on location in and around Toronto, Ontario including Eaton Hall in King City, Ontario.

[[St. Edward's Crown]]

CATEGORIES: Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom, Symbols

St. Edward's Crown is a part of the coronation regalia. The crown was commissioned for the Coronation of Charles II on 23 April 1661 from the Crown Jeweller, Robert Viner. After the 1689 coronation of William III, its importance diminished. It was often carried in procession and set on the altar rather than placed on the Monarch's head. The Imperial State Crown was used instead for the actual crowning. It was not until George V's coronation in 1911 that the crown resumed its traditional place.

The present St Edward's Crown contains much of the crown made in 1661 for the coronation of King Charles II. The crown is made of gold. It weighs 71oz 14dwt. It was set with hired stones for the coronations and then reset with imitations for display purposes. In 1911 it was fitted with 444 semi-precious stones. The crown frame dates to 1661 but it is possible that it (or parts of it) were constructed from a pre-Restoration crown. Materials used include gold, silver, platinum, enamel, tourmalines, topazes, rubies, amethysts, sapphires, garnet, peridot, zircons, spinel, aquamarines, velvet, and ermine.

At a coronation, the Archbishop of Canterbury takes the crown from the altar and places it reverently upon the Monarch's head. "God save the King/Queen" is heard. The princes and princesses, the peers and peeresses put on their coronets and caps. The trumpets sound and a royal salute is fired at the Tower of London. After the crowning, the Monarch is enthroned and receives the homage of the clergy, princes, and peers.

[[Cry-Baby]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 comedy movies, 1990 romance movies, 1990s musical movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s teen comedy movies, 1990s teen romance movies, American musical comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, American teen romance movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Baltimore, Maryland, Movies set in the 1950s, Universal Pictures movies

Cry-Baby is a 1990 American romantic teen musical movie written and directed by John Waters. It stars Johnny Depp as 1950s teen rebel "Cry-Baby" Wade Walker, and also features a large ensemble cast that includes Amy Locane, Iggy Pop, Traci Lords, Ricki Lake, Kim McGuire, David Nelson, Susan Tyrrell, and Patty Hearst. The film did not achieve high audience numbers in its initial release, but has subsequently become a cult classic and spawned a Broadway musical of the same name which was nominated for four Tony Awards.

The movie is a parody of teen musicals (particularly Grease) and centers on a group of delinquents that refer to themselves as "drapes" and their interaction with the rest of the town and its other subculture, the "squares", in 1954 Baltimore, Maryland. "Cry-Baby" Walker, a drape, and Allison, a square, create upheaval and turmoil in their little town of Baltimore by breaking the subculture taboos and falling in love. The film shows what the young couple have to overcome to be together and how their actions affect the rest of the town.

Part of the movie takes place at the now-closed Enchanted Forest amusement park in Ellicott City, Maryland. Others take place in the historic towns of Reisterstown, Jessup, Milford Mill and Sykesville, Maryland.

[[Methuselah]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament people

Methuselah was the son of Enoch and the father of Lamech in Genesis chapter 5. He is stated as having lived to the age of 969 (verse 27) and so his name in English is proverbial for great age.

[[Baby Cakes (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 movies

Baby Cakes is a 1989 television movie starring Ricki Lake and Craig Sheffer.  It was released on Valentine's Day in 1989 and is currently aired sporadically on Lifetime and Lifetime Movie Network.

[[Kashmir conflict]]

CATEGORIES: Kashmir, Territorial disputes

The Jammu and Kashmir conflict (कश्मीर विवाद, مسئلہ کشمیر) is a dispute over the territory of Kashmir. The dispute is between India, Pakistan and China. India claims all of the region that was once a princely state. It currently controls about 43% of the territory, including most of Jammu, the Kashmir Valley, Ladakh, and the Siachen Glacier. India's claims are disputed by Pakistan, which controls about 45% of Jammu and Kashmir, including Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan. Pakistan says there should be a referendum in Kashmir on whether the people want to join India or Pakistan, or become independent.

[[The Mikado]]

CATEGORIES: Operettas by Gilbert and Sullivan

The Mikado, or The Town of Titipu is a two-act operetta. The book and lyrics were written by W. S. Gilbert. The music was written by Arthur Sullivan. The operetta premiered 14 March 1885 at the Savoy Theatre, London, with the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company. 

The Mikado is the ninth of the fourteen Gilbert and Sullivan operettas. It had 672 performances in its original run. This was the longest original run of any Gilbert and Sullivan operetta.

At the time of the operetta's creation, London was overwhelmed with all things Japanese: tea shops, kimonos, fans, etc. Gilbert reported that he got the idea for The Mikado when a Japanese sword fell from the wall of his study.

[[Roxanne]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Roxanne is a female given name. The name is based on the Greek name Roxane. Roxane comes from the Persian word Roschana, which means "dawn of day". The name was ranked 389 in the 1990 U.S. Census. It fell out of the top 1000 girls names in the 21st century. The name has been popular in Australia and Canada, however. This name was used for a damaging hurricane in 1995. It was also the title of a single from music group The Police in the 1980s.

[[The Ballet of the Nuns]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets

The Ballet of the Nuns is the first ballet blanc and the first romantic ballet. It is an episode in Act III of Giacomo Meyerbeer's grand opera, Robert le Diable. It premiered in November 1831 at the Paris Opéra. The choreography (now lost) was created by either Filippo Taglioni or Jean Coralli. 

The short ballet tells of deceased nuns rising from their tombs in a ruined cloister to seduce the knight, Robert le Diable. At the end of the ballet, the white-clad nuns return to their tombs.  The ballet was created because officials at the Paris Opéra wanted to demonstrate the building's newly installed gas lighting. The lighting was capable of creating ghastly effects.   

The Ballet of the Nuns starred Marie Taglioni as the Abbess Helena. Although opening night was marred with a few mishaps, Taglioni made her indelible mark on the ballet world in the role. She became known for her ethereal qualities and her moral purity, and is one of the most celebrated ballerinas in history.

[[Dietrich Bonhoeffer]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1945 deaths, Christian ministers, Executed German people, German Lutherans, German people of World War II, German theologians, People executed by hanging, People from former German territories, People from Wrocław, Victims of Nazism

Dietrich Bonhoeffer (4 February 1906 in Breslau – 9 April 1945 in Flossenbürg concentration camp) was an important Lutheran pastor from Germany who was killed by the Nazis during World War II. He is known partly for his belief that killing Adolf Hitler was a moral act. In his early life he believed that all Jews should turn into Christians, but supported them anyway. He disagreed with the general anti-semitism and so created a theological college. He wrote a book called The Cost of Discipleship about following Christianity.  

Two days after Hitler became Chancellor, Bonhoeffer made a radio speech against him. Later, with Martin Niemöller and others, he started the anti-Nazi Confessing Church. Eventually he became part of the attempt by Claus Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg to assassinate Hitler, but was arrested and executed, three weeks before Hitler killed himself. He was hanged days before the liberation of the POW camp where he was imprisoned.

[[Mia Sara]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, 1967 births, Living people

Mia Sara (born 19 June 1967, Brooklyn, New York) is an American actress. She appears mostly in movies. She was in Timecop (1994) and Legend (1985). She received a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress.

[[Tiffany (given name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Tiffany is a female given name. There are several different ways to spell it. The name is English for the Greek name Theophania. Tiffany was formerly given to children who were born near Epiphany. There are several celebrities under the name, including singer Tiffany Darwish.

[[Geraldine]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Geraldine is a female given name. It is a female version of the name Gerald. The name means "ruler of spear". There are many famous people having the name, such as Geraldine Ferraro, Geri Halliwell and Geraldine James.

[[Imperial State Crown]]

CATEGORIES: Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom

The Imperial State Crown is one of the Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom and symbolises the sovereignty of the monarch.  The crown has existed in several versions since the 15th century.  

The modern version of the Imperial State Crown is of a design somewhat similar to that of St Edward's Crown, but shorter and encrusted with jewels: it includes a base of four crosses alternating with four fleurs-de-lis, above which are four half-arches surmounted by a cross. Inside is a purple velvet cap with an ermine border. The Imperial State Crown includes many precious gems, including 2,868 diamonds, 273 pearls, 17 sapphires, 11 emeralds, and 5 rubies.

The crown includes several famous jewels. The cross at the top is set with a stone known as St. Edward's Sapphire, a sapphire taken from the ring (or possibly coronet) of Edward the Confessor. The Black Prince's Ruby (actually a spinel) is set on the front cross pattée; the famous Cullinan II, or Lesser Star of Africa, is set on the front; and the back band contains the 104 Stuart Sapphire. The crown also contains Queen Elizabeth’s Pearls.

When not in use, it is kept with the other Crown Jewels on display at the Jewel House in the Tower of London.

[[James (son of Alphaeus)]]

CATEGORIES: Twelve Apostles

James (Son Of Alphaeus') was one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus. Levi is also called son of Alphaeus in the Gospel of Mark 2:14 so tradition has them as brothers but the New Testament does not state this, unlike the sons of Zebedee, Saint James and John.

[[Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom

The collective term Crown Jewels denotes the regalia and vestments worn by the sovereign of the United Kingdom during the coronation ceremony and at other state functions. The term refers to the following objects: the crowns, sceptres (with either the cross or the dove), orbs, swords, rings, spurs, the royal robe or pall, and several other objects connected with the ceremony.

Many of these descend directly from the pre-Reformation period and have a religious and sacral connotation.

[[Bird feet]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

Bird feet are adapted to the life they lead, and the patterns are often use in avian classification. They are derived from the basic limb of ancestral tetrapods, the pentadactyl limb. Humans (and other primates) have the original five fingers and five toes. Birds have no more than four toes, inherited together with over a hundred anatomical features from theropod dinosaurs. These four toes are arranged into four main patterns.

[[Nancy (given name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Nancy is a female given name. It comes off Hannah, meaning "grace". The name was originally a nickname for girls. However, from the 18th century onward, Nancy became a proper name. Many famous people have the name, including Nancy Pelosi and Nancy Kerrigan.

[[Narayanganj District]]

CATEGORIES: Dhaka Division

Narayanganj (নারায়ণগঞ্জ জেলা, bn) is a district in central Bangladesh. It is part of the Dhaka Division. The main city of the district is Narayanganj.

[[Addition reaction]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical reactions

In organic chemistry an addition reaction happens when two molecules come together to make a bigger one. This can only happen when one of the molecules already has a double or triple bond. These can be carbon-carbon bonds or even carbon-oxygen, carbon-nitrogen and others. One of the two molecules is called the nucleophile, and this is the one that gives the electrons to the other to make the new bond. The other molecule is called the electrophile, and this is the one that gets the electrons.

An addition reaction is the opposite of an elimination reaction. Common examples of addition reactions are the addition of water across a double bond and the nucleophilic attack on a carbonyl.

[[Heo Jong-suk]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1991 deaths, Feminists, Journalists, Korean politicians, Autobiographers

Heo Jong-suk (Korean:허정숙, hanja:許貞淑, 16 July, 1902 - 5 June, 1991) was a Korean politician, journalist and independence activist. One of her main topics of interest was feminism. Her courtesy name was Jongja(정자, 貞子) and her pen name was Sukayi(수가이, 秀嘉伊).

[[Electrophile]]

CATEGORIES: Physical organic chemistry

In chemistry, an electrophile is a molecule or an atom that is happy to take electrons from another one. Many electrophiles have a positive charge. They are also called Lewis acids. Some examples of electrophiles are molecules where the atoms have a big difference in electronegativity, like HCl or a carbonyl, or also oxidizing agents.

Electrophiles get attacked by a nucleophile, which is the opposite kind of molecule. This happens for example in addition reactions.

[[Feni District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Feni  (ফেনী জেলা) is a small district in southeastern Bangladesh. It is part of the Chittagong Division.

[[Noakhali District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Noakhali (নোয়াখালী জিলা) is a district in south-eastern Bangladesh. It is in the Chittagong Division.

[[Lakshmipur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

March 2013

Lakshmipur or Laxmipur District (লক্ষ্মীপুর জেলা, Lakshmipur Jela also Lakshmipur Zila)  with an area of 1455.96 km², is a district of Bangladesh. It is bordered by Chandpur District to the north, Bhola and Noakhali districts to the south, Noakhali District to the east, and Barisal and Bhola districts to the west.

[[Shatkhira District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Shatkhira (সাতক্ষীরা জেলা) is a district in south-western Bangladesh. It is part of Khulna Division.

[[Bagerhat District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Bagerhat (বাগেরহাট জেলা) is a district in south-western Bangladesh. It is a part of the Khulna Division.

[[Augustinians]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic religious orders

The Augustinians were Roman Catholic monastic order.  Martin Luther became an Augustinian monk at St. Augustine's Monastery in the German city of Erfurt in 1505. He later started the Reformation.

The name comes from Augustine of Hippo.

[[Erin]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Erin is an Irish and English female name. It comes from the ancient name for Ireland. The name first became popular around the United States. Erin is one of the twenty most-often used female names in Wales. There are many famous people with this name. It is being used on Atlantic tropical cyclones.

[[Berthe Morisot]]

CATEGORIES: French painters, Impressionist painters

Berthe Morisot (14 January 1841 - 2 March 1895) was an Impressionist painter. She was born in Bourges, France, and died in Paris.

In the 1860s, she studied with Camille Corot. She exhibited at the 1865 Salon. Morisot met artist Édouard Manet in 1868.  Manet painted her portrait several times. The two had great influence on one another's work. In 1874, she married his brother, Eugène.

She exhibited at the first Impressionist exhibition in 1874. Morisot worked in oils, pastels, and watercolor. Her pictures are light and delicate. They typically depict women and children in everyday domestic life.

Many critics ridiculed the Impressionists. Morisot was not spared. She was never commercially successful during her lifetime. During her lifetime however, she outsold prominent Impressionists Claude Monet, Pierre-Auguste Renoir, and Alfred Sisley. 

[[Henri Rousseau]]

CATEGORIES: French painters, 1844 births, 1910 deaths

Henri  Rousseau (18441910) was a post-Impressionist painter. He was born at Laval, Mayenne. He worked a variety of jobs (saxophonist, toll collector) before beginning to paint at age 40. He was known as Le Douanier ("the customs officer").

From 1886 onwards, he exhibited at the Salon des Indépendents. In 1905, he began exhibiting at the Salon d'Automne.

François Mathey wrote: "Rousseau is considered to be the greatest master of naïve painting, for his art combines a spontaneous vision of reality with an imaginary universe of great plastic and poetical power, in which he allied audacity with innocence, monumental composition with minute detail".

Some critics ridiculed him for his style, but he came to be recognized as a self-taught genius. Rousseau's work had a great influence on many avant-garde artists.

He had an unhappy love affair in his last months. He died in Paris in 1910.

He painted a few pictures of the Rainforests, and his pictures were very busy.some of His paintings are very famous around the world.he died on september the 2..

[[Leslie Bibb]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from North Dakota, American movie actors, 1974 births, Living people, People from Bismarck, North Dakota

Leslie Bibb (born November 17, 1974 in Bismarck, North Dakota) is an American actress. She works primarily in movies, although sometimes in television programs. Her movies include Skulls and Iron Man. Some sources say she was born in 1973. Others say 1974 or 1975.

[[Inferno (operating system)]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

Inferno is a distributed operating system made by Bells Labs and Vita Nuova Holdings based on ideas and technology from Plan 9 from Bell Labs. The three main principles behind Inferno's design are:

As a distributed operating system (i.e. an operating system working across and connecting multiple machines and devices together), Inferno is also designed to be able to operated on a variety of computer architectures. It can also be operated on top of other operating systems, such as Unix, Microsoft Windows, or Google's Android operating system. In order to make Inferno applications as portable to other computer architectures as the Inferno operating system, Inferno applications are written in a programing language called Limbo and run inside Inferno's Dis virtual machine.

[[Cynthia]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Cynthia is a female given name that comes from Greek word kynthia. There are several different versions for this name. One short version is Cindy. There are many well known people under the name, including Cynthia McKinney and Cynthia Nixon. The short version, Cindy, is being used for Atlantic Basin tropical cyclones.

[[Amber (given name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Amber is a female given name. It comes from the word amber. This comes from the Arabic word anbar. The name is a very popular name for English-speaking areas. It was the 165th most popular for the United States in 2008. The name ranked among the top 25 most popular girl's names between 1980 and 1997. It ranked among the top 100 most used female names in Canada, Western Europe and Australia. There are some celebrities with the name, including Amber Heard.

[[Jacqueline]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Jacqueline is a female given name. It has many variants. One variant is Jackie. This is the feminine version for male name Jacques. Jacques is a French version of Jacob. Jacqueline was first used in the United Kingdom during the 17th century. The name is very popular in France, the United States, Australia, Canada and western Europe. Many famous people have Jacqueline and its related variants for their name.

[[Sasha Vujačić]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Los Angeles Lakers players, 1984 births, Slovenian sportspeople

Sasha Vujačić (born March 8, 1984) is a Slovenian basketball player. He played for the Los Angeles Lakers for most of his career.

[[Maryborough, Queensland]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Queensland

Maryborough is a city in south east Queensland, Australia. It is built on the banks of the Mary River. It is on the Bruce Highway about 255 north of Brisbane. In 2006 there were 25,705 people living in the city and the nearby area.

Maryborough was first settled in 1847 which makes it one the oldest towns in Queensland. The city was named after the Mary River. The river was named after Lady Mary FitzRoy, wife of the Governor of New South Wales, Sir Charles Augustus FitzRoy.

[[Gympie]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments, 1860s establishments in Australia

Gympie is a town in Queensland, Australia. The city is built on the banks of the Mary River. It is about 160 north of Brisbane.  In 2011 there were 18,602 people living in Gympie. Gympie is named after the Aboriginal words Gympie Gympie or Gimpi Gimpi, meaning the stinging tree. The town was first called Nashville, after James Nash who found gold there in 1867. In 1868 it became Gympie.

[[Marilyn vos Savant]]

CATEGORIES: American columnists, American playwrights, Writers from St. Louis, Missouri, 1946 births, Living people

Marilyn vos Savant (born August 11, 1946 in St. Louis) is an American magazine columnist, playwright and author. She became very famous in the Guinness Book of World Records category for the highest IQ. Since 1986, she has hosted Parade magazine's "Ask Marilyn" column. In the column she answers the questions from readers on a variety of subjects.

[[Murgon, Queensland]]

Murgon is a town in Queensland, Australia. It is about 270 northwest of Brisbane. It is a farming area with beef cattle, dairy farms and vineyards. The town is named after an Aboriginal word for "water lily". In 2011 there were 2,496 people living in Murgon.

[[Movement for Rights and Freedoms]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 establishments in Europe, Political parties in Bulgaria

The Movement for Rights and Freedoms (MRF) (Движение за права и свободи (ДПС); Hak ve Özgürlükler Hareketi (HÖH)), is a political party in Bulgaria. Their ideologies are centrism and liberalism. The MRF is a member of the Liberal International and the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe. The MRF represents Turks in Bulgaria.

The MRF was founded on 4 January 1990. The founder chairman of the MRF was Ahmed Dogan. After him, his deputy Lyutvi Mestan is elected as the 2nd chairman of the MRF.

[[Warren Truss]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Politicians from Queensland, National Party of Australia politicians, Government ministers of Australia, Members of the Australian House of Representatives

Warren Truss (born 8 October 1948, Kingaroy, Queensland) is an Australian politician. He was elected as the member for Wide Bay in the Australian Parliament in 1990. He became the leader of the National Party in 2007. In the Howard government, Truss was Minister for Customs and Consumer Affairs and Minister for Community Services. In July 1999 Truss became of Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry. In 2005 he became Minister for Transport and Regional Services. In September 2006 he became Minister for Trade.

[[Stan Musial]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2013 deaths, American baseball players, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, National League All-Stars, National Baseball Hall of Fame members, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania, St. Louis Cardinals players

Stanley Frank "Stan" Musial (born Stanisław Franciszek Musiał; November 21, 1920 – January 19, 2013) or Stan the Man was an American professional baseball player who played 22 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the St. Louis Cardinals (1941–1963).  He is the National League's all-time leader in doubles, among many other records for doubles.

President Barack Obama presented Musial with Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest honor that can be given to a civilian, at the White House on February 15, 2011. Musial was a first-ballot inductee to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1969. He began to play baseball in 1941 until his retirement in 1963.

Musial was born on November 21, 1920 in Donora, Pennsylvania. He had Czech and Polish parents. He studied at the University of Pittsburgh.

Musial was married to the former Lillian Labash from 1940 until her death in May 2012. They had four children. Musial died on January 19, 2013 in the St. Louis suburb of Ladue, Missouri from natural causes, aged 92. He died on the same day as Earl Weaver.

[[Earl Weaver]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2013 deaths, American baseball players, Sportspeople from Baltimore, Maryland, Major League Baseball managers, Baltimore Orioles, National Baseball Hall of Fame members, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Sportspeople from St. Louis, Missouri

Earl Sidney Weaver (August 14, 1930 – January 19, 2013) was an American professional baseball player and manager. After playing in minor league baseball, he retired without playing in Major League Baseball (MLB). He became a minor league manager, and then managed in MLB for 17 years with the Baltimore Orioles (1968–1982; 1985–1986). He was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1996.

Weaver was born on August 14, 1930 in St. Louis, Missouri. He was raised in Baltimore, Maryland. Weaver was married to Jane Johnston for fourteen years unti they divorced. Then he was married to Marianna Osgood from 1964 until his death in 2013. He had four children. Weaver died on January 19, 2013 while on a cruise ship in the Caribbean Sea from a heart attack, aged 82. He died on the same day as Stan Musial.

[[Screaming Trees]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in the United States, 2000 disestablishments in the United States, Grunge bands, Musical groups from Washington, 1980s establishments in Washington (state), Musical groups established in 1985, Musical groups disestablished in 2000, 2000s disestablishments in Washington (state)

Screaming Trees were an American grunge band from Ellensburg, Washington.

The band was formed in 1985 by brothers Gary Lee Conner and Van Conner. The band formed because the members had an interest in the punk, garage, and classic rock genres in high school.

They released their debut album, Clairvoyance, on January 1, 1986. The band gained fame from the early 1990s grunge movement along with bands like Alice in Chains, Nirvana, Stone Temple Pilots, Soundgarden and Pearl Jam. The band broke up in 2000.

[[Zizan Razak]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Malaysian actors, Comedians

Mohammad Razizan Abdul Razak (born 15 April 1984), better known as Zizan Razak, is a Malaysian comedian. He is also a television host, actor, and most recently a rapper and a singer. He has also been in several reality television shows. He was runner-up (second place) in the first season of Raja Lawak (King of Comedy), a competition for comedians. In it he was known as "Zizan Raja Lawak". He was also a participant in Maharaja Lawak (Emperor of Comedy), which was a second series of competitions for the finalists of each season of Raja Lawak. In the show, he was paired (as a team) with Johan Raja Lawak. They were known as "Jozan". They came second in the series, and won RM 250 thousand. Zizan was also in the reality show Super Spontan, which he won and took the prize of RM 100,000 and a Toyota Camry.

[[Last Exit to Brooklyn (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 drama movies, 1980s LGBT movies, American drama movies, American LGBT movies, British drama movies, German drama movies, English-language movies, LGBT drama movies, Movies about domestic violence, Movies about prostitution, Movies based on books, Movies set in Brooklyn, Movies set in the 1950s, Transgender in movies, Movies directed by Uli Edel

Last Exit to Brooklyn is a 1989 English-language British-German drama movie, directed by Uli Edel, and based on the novel by Hubert Selby Jr.

[[Cabin Boy]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 movies, American movies, English-language movies, Movies about giants

Cabin Boy is a 1994 fantasy comedy movie directed by Adam Resnick and co-produced by Tim Burton, which starred comedian Chris Elliott. Elliott co-wrote the movie with Resnick. Both men worked for Late Night with David Letterman in the 1980s, as well as co-creating the short-lived FOX sitcom Get a Life in the early 1990s.

The project was originally to be directed by Tim Burton, who had contacted Chris Elliott after seeing Get a Life. Resnick took over after Burton was offered the movie Ed Wood.

[[Skinner (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 movies, American independent movies

Skinner is a 1993 independent movie, splatter and slasher motion picture starring Ted Raimi, Traci Lords, Ricki Lake and Richard Schiff.

[[Martha]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Martha is a female given name. It means "mistress" or "the lady". The name has been around through many centuries. Martha of Bethany is a very notable person who has the name. She is described in the Gospel of John and the Gospel of Luke. There are other people with this female name, including Martha Stewart, Martha McSally and Martha Coakley. The name was used for an Atlantic hurricane in 1969.

[[Charles Roven]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American movie producers

Charles Roven (born August 2, 1949) is an American movie producer. He is known for his works with Batman Begins, The Dark Knight, The Dark Knight Rises, and with Man of Steel.

Roven was born on August 2, 1949. He was married to Dawn Steel from 1985 until her death in 1997. They had one daughter, Rebecca Steel Roven. 

[[Danielle]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Danielle is a female given name. It is feminine of the name Daniel. Daniel is Hebrew for "God is my judge". Danielle is a strongly popular female name for certain countries. There are many variants for this name. Famous people by the name include Danielle Steel and Danielle Fishel. This name is currently being used on Atlantic tropical cyclones.

[[Carol Castro]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian actors, Living people, 1984 births

Carolina Osório de Castro (born March 10, 1984) is a Brazilian actress. 

[[Wally Pfister]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Academy Award winners, American cinematographers, Movie directors from Chicago, Movie directors from New York City

Walter C. "Wally" Pfister (born July 8, 1961) is an Academy Award-winning American cinematographer and movie director who is known for his cinematography in Batman Begins, Memento, Moneyball, Insomnia, The Dark Knight, Inception, and in The Dark Knight Rises. He began his directing career in the 2014 movie Transcendence.

Pfister was born on July 8, 1961 in Chicago, Illinois. He was raised both in Chicago and in New York City, New York. Pfister was married to Anna Julien since 1992. They had three children.

[[Rajbari District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Rajbari (রাজবাড়ি জেলা, Rajbari Jela or Rajbari Zila) is a district in central Bangladesh. It is a part of the Dhaka Division.

[[Gopalganj District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Gopalganj (গোপালগঞ্জ জেলা) is a district of Bangladesh. It is part of the Dhaka Division.

[[Madaripur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Madaripur is a district in central Bangladesh. It is a part of the Dhaka Division.

[[Shariatpur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Shariatpur (শরিয়তপুর জেলা, bn or bn) is a district of central Bangladesh. It is part of the Dhaka Division.

[[Kushtia District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Kushtia (কুষ্টিয়া জেলা) is a district in the Khulna Division of west Bangladesh. It is next to the river Gorai.

[[Chuadanga District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Chuadanga (চুয়াডাঙা; Chuađaņa) is a district in western Bangladesh. It is a part of the Khulna Division.

[[Meherpur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Meherpur (মেহেরপুর জেলা) is a small district in south-western Bangladesh. It is part of the Khulna Division.

[[Jhenaidah District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Jhenidah is a district in southwestern Bangladesh. It is a part of the Khulna Division.

[[Magura District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Magura (মাগুরা জেলা) is a district in south-western part of Bangladesh. It is a part of the Khulna Division.

[[Narail District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Narail (নড়াইল, bn) is a district in south-western Bangladesh. It is a part of the Khulna Division.

[[Chemical kinetics]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical kinetics

Chemical kinetics, also called reaction kinetics, is studying how fast chemical reactions go. This includes studying how different conditions such as temperature, pressure or solvent used affect the speed of a reaction. Chemical kinetics can also be used to find out about reaction mechanisms and transition states.

The basic idea of chemical kinetics is called collision theory. This states that for a reaction to happen, the molecules must hit each other. Ways of increasing the speed of the reaction must therefore increase the number of hits. This can be done in many ways.

With experiments it is possible to calculate reaction rates from which you can get rate laws and rate constants. A rate law is a mathematical expression with which you can calculate the speed of a reaction given the concentration of the reagents.

[[Rose McGowan]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American feminist writers, American LGBT rights activists, American models, American movie actors, American voice actors, American television actors, American movie directors, American screenwriters, American autobiographers, Singers from Oregon, Writers from Oregon, Actors from Portland, Oregon, Singers from Washington, Writers from Washington, Actors from Seattle, Washington, People from Florence, People with non-binary gender identities

Rose Arianna McGowan (born September 5, 1973) is an American former actress, model, singer, and author. She is best known to television audiences for her role as Paige Matthews in The WB supernatural drama series Charmed (2001–2006), and also for her recurring role in ABC's long running fantasy series Once Upon a Time as young Cora Mills.

McGowan made her film debut in the comedy Encino Man (1992), wherein she played a small role. Her performance as Amy Blue in Gregg Araki's dark comedy The Doom Generation (1995) brought her wider attention, and she received an Independent Spirit Award nomination for her performance. McGowan appeared as Tatum Riley in the horror film Scream (1996) and starred alongside Ben Affleck in the coming-of-age feature Going All the Way (1997). She appeared in several Hollywood films, including Devil in the Flesh (1998), Jawbreaker (1999), Ready to Rumble (2000), Monkeybone (2001), and The Black Dahlia (2006). McGowan played Ann-Margret, alongside Jonathan Rhys Meyers as Elvis Presley, in the CBS miniseries Elvis (2005). She starred in Planet Terror (2007) and had a supporting role in Death Proof (2007), both part of the double-feature film directed by Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino, Grindhouse. Next, she starred in the crime thriller film Fifty Dead Men Walking (2008).

In 1996, McGowan was the cover model for the Henry Mancini tribute album Shots in the Dark, and she was the face of the American clothing company Bebe from 1998 to 1999. She has also appeared on numerous magazine covers, including Seventeen, Interview, Maxim, GQ, Entertainment Weekly, and Rolling Stone.

After the Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse scandal broke and the #MeToo movement began, McGowan has been a supportive figure speaking out against harassment.

In March 2018, McGowan came out as non-binary. McGowan lives in Mayfair, London.

[[Rose (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Rose is a female given name based on the flower.

[[The 300 Spartans]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, English-language movies, 1962 movies, American movies

The 300 Spartans is a 1962 Cinemascope movie depicting the Battle of Thermopylae. It was shot in the village of Perachora in the Peloponnese. It stars Richard Egan as the Spartan king Leonidas I, Ralph Richardson as Themistocles of Athens, and David Farrar as Persian king Xerxes. Diane Baker as Ellas and Barry Coe as Phylon provide the romantic element. 

The movie is about a force of Greek warriors led by 300 Spartans which fights against an enormous  Persian army. The Spartans will not flee or surrender, even if it means their deaths. 

When it was released in 1962, critics saw the movie as a commentary on the Cold War. It was impossible to shoot at Thermopylae. The sea had receded about 3 miles farther away from the narrow pass. Some 5,000 members of the Royal Hellenic Army were loaned by the King of Greece to portray both the Spartans and the Persians.

[[Transition state]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical kinetics

In a chemical reaction, the transition state is the point where there is a maximum value of energy. This energy is called the activation energy. When two or more molecules are mixed, they will hit each other. If they hit with enough energy to go through the transition state, they will react and form new molecules. At the transition state, new bonds are formed while the old ones are broken. In a graph or a drawing, the transition state is often marked with the double dagger ‡ symbol.

It is very difficult to study a transition state. This is because it is so high in energy that the molecules will stay in that form for a very short time, usually femtoseconds. It is important not to confuse transition states with intermediates. Intermediates are found at minimum points of energy, and they can live for a very long time. Like a transition state, however, an intermediate is between reagents and products of a reaction.

Studying transition states is very important to understand reaction mechanisms. There are theories and computer programs that can be used to calculate how the transition state looks like. This is a part of chemical kinetics.

[[Winged Victory of Samothrace]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Ancient Greek marble sculptures, Ancient Greek and Roman statues

The Winged Victory of Samothrace (or Nike of Samothrace) is a Parian marble sculpture now in the Louvre, Paris, France.  It is believed to have been made about 190 BC. It was discovered in 1863. It commemorates Nike, the Greek victory in a sea battle near Samothrace. It stands 2.44 m high. The work presents a pose where violent motion and sudden stillness meet. It is notable for its graceful balance and for the rendering of the figure's draped garments, depicted as if rippling in a strong sea breeze.

[[Activation energy]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical kinetics

The activation energy of a chemical reaction is the minimum energy that is needed to make the reaction happen. It usually has the symbol Ea and it is measured in kilojoule per mole. It can be thought of as a barrier between the reagents and the products of a reaction. The activation energy is the difference in energy between the transition state and the starting reagents.

[[300 (graphic novel)]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Novels

300 is a graphic novel written and drawn by Frank Miller and colored by Lynn Varley. It tells the story of the Spartans, the Persians, and the Battle of Thermopylae. The individual volumes were collected and reprinted in their entire by Dark Horse in 1999. Publishers Weekly wrote: "Form and content are ideally wedded: Miller's writing is stark, his drawings moody and dramatic, and intensified by Varley's grimly appropriate palette of earth and blood. The reader can see and feel the harshness of both the Grecian landscape and Sparta's battle-worshipping culture, as Miller presents the complex historical moment facing the 300." The novel was made into a movie.

[[Sacred Band of Thebes]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Thebes, Greece

The Sacred Band of Thebes was an elite fighting unit within the ancient Theban army of the 4th century BC. The earliest surviving record of the Sacred Band by name was made in 324 BC. The unit was comprised of 150 male lovers.  It was believed these men would make better warriors. Plutarch (46–120 AD) is the source of the most substantial surviving account of the Sacred Band. In his Life of Pelopidas Plutarch wrote, "Since the lovers, ashamed to be base in sight of their beloved, and the beloved before their lovers, willingly rush into danger for the relief of one another." The band was reportedly organized by the Theban commander Gorgidas in 378 BC. Male couples were originally dispersed throughout the ranks of the army. It was later decided to create a separate squad. The squad played a crucial role in the Battle of Leuctra. It was completely destroyed by Philip II of Macedon in the Battle of Chaeronea in 338 BC.

[[Jerry Hopkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2018 deaths, Biographers, Deaths from heart failure, Journalists from New Jersey, People from Camden, New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey

Elisha Gerald "Jerry" Hopkins (November 9, 1935 – June 3, 2018) was an American journalist and author. He was best known for writing the first biographies of both Elvis Presley and Jim Morrison of The Doors, as well as serving for 20 years as a writer for Rolling Stone magazine.  He also wrote several other biographies, wrote history and humor, and was a writer-producer for Mike Wallace, Steve Allen and Mort Sahl.  He has published 36 books and an estimated one thousand magazine articles. The books have been translated into 16 languages and total sales exceed 6 million.

[[Themistocles]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek military people, Ancient Greek politicians, Generals

Themistocles (?524 BC-?460 BC) was an Ancient Greek Athenian politician and general. He fought against the Persians at the Battle of Marathon as a young manJune 2020. He later persuaded Athens to build a navy which he commanded in the defeat of the Persians at the Battle of Salamis in 480 BC.

After the war he became unpopular and had to leave. He went to work for the Persian Empire.

[[Greek shield]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Military

The Greek shield of Ancient Greece was called a hoplon or aspis. It was from this word that hoplite (a Greek soldier) is derived. 

A hoplon was a deeply-dished shield made of wood. Some shields had a thin sheet of bronze on the outer face. This was placed just around the rim. In some periods, the shield was decorated. At other times, it remained undecorated. These large shields were designed for a mass of hoplites to push forward into the opposing army, and it was their most essential equipment. The shield was carried in the left hand. It was used by Spartans as a weapon of attack.

Probably the most famous decoration is the Spartan. This was a capital lambda (Λ). From the late 5th century BC onward, Athenian hoplites usually used the Little Owl (Athena's sacred bird). The shields of Theban hoplites were sometimes decorated with a sphinx, or the club of Herakles. 

[[Breadfruit]]

CATEGORIES: Moraceae

Breadfruit is the name for an evergreen tree in the mulberry family. Originally, the tree grew in Southeast Asia. It has been cultivated and is grown in the tropical and subtropical regions of Asia, Central and South America and the Caribbean. The tree can reach a height of up to 20. The breadfruit is the fruit of this tree. The fruits contain a lot of starch - much like potatoes; they are ground to make flour, which can then be used for baking.

Ancestors of the Polynesians found the trees growing in the northwest New Guinea area around 3,500 years ago. They gave up the rice cultivation they had brought with them from Taiwan, and raised breadfruit instead. They took the trees with them wherever they went in the Pacific. The exceptions were Easter Island and New Zealand: both places were too cold to grow the trees. Their ancient eastern Indonesian cousins spread the plant west and north through insular and coastal Southeast Asia. In historical times, it has also been widely planted in tropical regions elsewhere.

The Mutiny on the Bounty was caused by breadfruit trees: In 1787, William Bligh was ordered to load a number of these trees on Tahiti and to ship them to the Caribbean; there they would serve as a cheap food for the slaves working on plantations. The main plantations at the time were those of sugarcane. This was the first attempt a government made to grow an economically important plant at a different location. The attempt failed, because the seamen did not understand why the drinking water supply was used to water the plants; they threw the plants overboard.

Bligh was able to ship the trees in a second voyage: Arriving in the Caribbean, he faced a different problem: The slaves there did not accept breadfruit as a replacement for cereals. Bligh won the Royal Society medal for his efforts, even though the introduction was not entirely successful. Although most slaves refused to eat the new food, breadfruit was accepted into the cuisine of Puerto Rico.

[[Hercules Room]]

CATEGORIES: Palace of Versailles, 1736 establishments, 18th century establishments in France, 1730s establishments in Europe

The Hercules Room (sometimes Hercules Drawing Room or Hercules Salon; Fr: salon d'Hercule) is a State Room in the Palace of Versailles. It occupies what was once the site of a chapel. Louis XIV wanted the Hercules Room to be a showcase for a large painting by Paolo Veronese. The architect Robert de Cotte began working on the room in 1710. Work was completed in 1736. The Room has been the scene of many glittering events in the history of Versailles.

[[Robert de Cotte]]

CATEGORIES: Palace of Versailles, French architects, 1656 births, 1735 deaths

Robert de Cotte (1656 – 15 July 1735) was a French architect-administrator. He introduced the Rococo style. He was a pupil of Jules Hardouin-Mansart. He later became his teacher's brother-in-law and his collaborator. De Cotte married Hardouin-Mansart's sister. After Hardouin-Mansart's death, de Cotte completed his unfinished projects. These included the royal chapel at Versailles and the Grand Trianon.

[[Paolo Veronese]]

CATEGORIES: 16th century Italian painters, 1528 births, 1588 deaths

Paolo Veronese (1528 – 19 April 1588) was an Italian painter of the Renaissance. He was a Venetian. He is remembered for paintings such as The Wedding at Cana and The Feast in the House of Levi. He became known as "Veronese" from his birthplace in Verona. His best works are elaborate narratives. These are executed in a dramatic and colorful Mannerist style. They are full of majestic architectural settings and pageantry. His large paintings of biblical feasts are especially notable.

[[Hill Top]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in England

Hill Top is a 17th-century Lakeland farm once in the possession of children's author Beatrix Potter. She bought the farm house as a retreat from London in 1896 at a time when she was making a significant amount of money from her stories. She used the farm as a place to develop her stories. Many of these stories (such as Jemima Puddleduck and Tom Kitten) were set on the farm. Farm furniture, the ponds, and other elements were used as props in her books. 

Potter married William Heelis when she was 47. She moved across the road to Castle Cottage. She kept Hill Top though to house her collections of china, the "Two Bad Mice" doll house furniture, and other things. She continued to use the house as a retreat. She willed the houses and a large acreage to the National Trust in 1944. Hill Top is located near Sawrey in Cumbria. It is between Esthwaite Water and Windermere, 2 miles south-east of Hawksmoor.

[[The Yew Tree Ball]]

CATEGORIES: Palace of Versailles

The Yew Tree Ball (Le bal des if) was a masked ball. It was held in the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles on the night of 25-26 February 1745. Fifteen thousand people waited in the Hercules Room for the ball to begin. King Louis XV and several of his gentlemen courtiers attended dressed as topiary yew trees. The ball is notorious for being the venue in which the king made contact with Jeanne-Antoinette Poisson. He had first seen her while hunting at Senart. On 14 September 1745, Poisson was officially presented to the Court as the Marquise de Pompadour. She was the king’s official mistress until her death in 1764. 

[[Flávia Alessandra]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors

Flávia Alessandra Martins da Costa (born June 7, 1974 in Arraial do Cabo) is a Brazilian actress.

[[Fernanda Montenegro]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Brazilian actors, People from Rio de Janeiro

Arlette Pinheiro Esteves Torres (born October 16, 1929 in Rio de Janeiro) is a Brazilian actress. She is best known for her leading role in Central Station, for which she was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress.

[[Clock Cabinet]]

CATEGORIES: Clocks, Palace of Versailles, 1754 establishments, 18th century establishments in France, 1750s establishments in Europe

The Clock Cabinet is a room at Versailles. It is one of the rooms in the king's private cabinets. An astronomical clock stands in the room. Louis XV took great interest in astronomy.  The clock shows the time, the day of the week, the month, the year and the moon's quarter. In the crystal globe at the top, the planets can be seen moving around the sun according to Copernicus.

The clock was designed by Claude-Siméon Passemant, the King's engineer. It was made by the clock-maker Louis Dauthiau. The bronze casing was made by Jacques and Philippe II Caffiéri. The clock was used to determine the first official time system throughout the kingdom. The entire fixture measures over two meters tall.

The Academy of Science examined and approved the clock in August 1749. The Duc de Chaulnes presented it to Louis XV on 7 September 1750. It was put in the clock cabinet in 1754. The room actually got its name because of the large astronomical clock dials in the wainscoting. These clocks displayed the sunrises and moonrises every day. The king's scientific interests led him to upgrade that daily experience by having the Passemant clock installed in the room.

In 1692, the room was an Antechamber and part of Louis XIV's Art Cabinet. In 1738, it was remodeled into an oval-shaped drawing room. In 1760, it found its present form. The paneling is by Verberckt and Rousseau.  The overdoors are copies of the Diana story originally painted by Boucher. The furniture in the room includes hunting tables ordered by Louis XV from Slodtz, Foliot, and Roumier. A Sèvres bisque equestrian statue depicting Frederic II stands in the room. Another equestrian statue in the room depicts Louis XV. It is a small copy by Vassé after Bouchardon's statue that stands in the Place de la Concorde.

== Gallery ==  

[[Victoria (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Victoria is a female given name. It is Latin for victory and feminine for male name Victor. The name Victoria has a lot of variants, such as the short form Vicky. There are several Queens, several Princesses and many other famous people under this female name. As Vicky, the name is being used for Atlantic Basin tropical cyclones.

[[Reims – Prunay Aerodrome]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in France, Reims

Reims – Prunay Aerodrome (Aérodrome de Reims - Prunay)  is an airfield serving the city of Reims. It is 10 east-southeast of Reims, near Prunay, both communes in the Marne department in the Champagne-Ardenne region in northeastern France.

It is a class D aerodrome open to general aviation traffic with no commercial airline service scheduled. Also, it hosts the factory of Reims Aviation.

[[Tetuin]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Tetuin is a flavone. It is a type of flavonoid. It is the 6-O-glucoside of baicalein. It can be isolated from the seeds of Oroxylum indicum, the Indian trumpetflower, known as टेटु tetu in Marathi.

[[Bulbophyllum evasum]]

CATEGORIES: Flowers, Orchids

Bulbophyllum evasum is a species of orchid in the genus Bulbophyllum.

[[Atlantic City, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic City, New Jersey, 1854 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in New Jersey

Atlantic City is a city in New Jersey, United States. It officially became a city in 1854 when a new railroad connected it to Philadelphia. Atlantic City is an internationally renowned resort city for gambling, conventions, and leisure. The city also served as the inspiration for the original version of the board game Monopoly. Atlantic City is on Absecon Island on the coast of the Atlantic Ocean.

2010, the city has a population of 39,558. There were 274,549 people living in the Atlantic City–Hammonton Metropolitan Statistical Area as of the 2010 Census.

The three road routes into Atlantic City are the Black Horse Pike/Harding Highway (US 322/40), White Horse Pike (US 30), and the Atlantic City Expressway. Atlantic City is roughly 132 south of New York City by road (via the Garden State Parkway), 55 southeast of Philadelphia. 

[[Wholesale]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Wholesale is the sale of large numbers of goods to retailers. The retailer then sells small amounts of the goods to individual users or consumers. A wholesaler often buys goods direct from the factory or the farm. The wholesaler can put together, sort or grade the products. The wholesaler will repack and redistribute the goods in smaller lots. Wholesalers usually have large individual warehouses to do this work. Food wholesalers often are located together at large markets.

Wholesalers used to be closer to where the retail goods were sold than they were to the factories or farms. Since internet sales have increased there are a number of wholesalers setting up near factories in China and Taiwan.

In banking, wholesale banking means services provided to large companies. Retail banking is services provided to small businesses or individuals.

[[Network News Transfer Protocol]]

CATEGORIES: Computer protocols

The Network News Transfer Protocol is a computer protocol that was used to create groups that could exchange news articles between people. It is not in very common usage now, but was commonly used in the late 1980s and 1990s. Many internet service providers still provide a NNTP server for their customers, and commerical Usenet services exist.

[[Workhouse]]

CATEGORIES: Public services in the United Kingdom, History of the United Kingdom, 17th century establishments in Europe, 1948 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, Poverty

The workhouse was a place which offered housing and work to people who did not have any. They began in England and Wales during the 17th century. The first use of the word workhouse was in a report by the mayor of Abingdon in 1631 AD on the building of a workhouse in the town.

The beginnings of the workhouse go back to the Poor Law Act of 1388. This was designed to help solve a shortage of workers after the Black Death. It made it difficult for them to move about the country, and stopped them from looking for higher paid work somewhere else. This led to the state being responsible for the welfare of the poor. After the Napoleonic Wars there was a lot of unemployment. There was also unemployment caused by machines taking over work from farm workers. In the 1830s' there was also a series of bad harvests. These things put too much pressure on the existing ways of looking after poor people. 

New laws were passed, the New Poor Law of 1834, to try to deal with the problem. People would only be given help if they went into the workhouse to live. Some places hoped to make a profit from the workhouse by using the free labor of the people. Most did not have skills to get normal jobs, so workhouse jobs included breaking rocks into small stones, breaking bones to make fertilizer, or pulling apart old rope to reuse the fibre. This old rope, known as oakum, was used to pack joints in ship building to keep them watertight. A metal spike was used to unpick the rope,, and the nickname for the workhouse was the spike.

Life in a workhouse was not meant to be easy. It was made hard so only the very poor with no hope of finding work would go there for help. However the workhouse did provide free medical care and education for the children. This sort of help was not available to poor people outside the workhouse system.

Towards the end of the 1800s,,' the workhouses became filled with the old and sick, rather than unemployed poor people. In 1929 the laws were changed and the workhouses became hospitals. Some workhouses were renamed Public Assistance Institutions. These finally disappeared when the National Assistance act of 1948 was passed.

[[Ingrid]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Ingrid is a name for girls or women. The name comes from Ingfriar in Old Norse. Ing means Norse deity. Friar means beautiful. Many famous people have been named Ingrid. One of them being Ingrid Bergman. Others include Ingrid Cruz and Ingrid Michaelson. A hurricane with the name hit eastern Mexico in September 2013. The storm killed 32 and caused $1.5 billion in damage. The name Ingrid was then retired.

[[Facelift (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 albums, Alice in Chains albums, Heavy metal albums, Hard rock albums

Facelift is the debut studio album by American rock band, Alice in Chains. Facelift was released on August 21, 1990. The album featured the singles "We Die Young", "Man in the Box", "Bleed the Freak" and "Sea of Sorrow".

Facelift became the first grunge album to be certified platinum. It has also gone on to been certified double-platinum by the RIAA for shipments of two million copies in the United States.

[[Dirt (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums, Alice in Chains albums, Heavy metal albums

Dirt is the second studio album by American rock band, Alice in Chains. Dirt was released on September 29, 1992. The album featured the singles "Would?", "Them Bones", "Angry Chair", "Rooster", and "Down in a Hole".

Dirt is currently the band's highest selling album to date and has gone on to sell 5 million copies worldwide. The album was certified four-times platinum by the RIAA.

Dirt was the final album to feature Mike Starr on bass before he was kicked out of the band and replaced by former Ozzy Osbourne bassist Mike Inez.

The album was also included in the 2005 book 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die and was ranked #1 on Guitar World magazine's top ten list of guitar albums of 1992

[[Alice in Chains (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 albums, Alice in Chains albums

Alice in Chains is the self-titled third studio album by American rock band, Alice in Chains. Alice in Chains was released on November 7, 1995. The album featured the singles "Grind", "Heaven Beside You", "Over Now" and "Again".

The album was certified two-times platinum by the RIAA.

Alice in Chains was the last album to feature lead singer Layne Staley. He was later found dead of a heroin overdose on April 5, 2002. The next album, Black Gives Way to Blue was released in 2009, with new vocalist William DuVall.

The album is sometimes referred to as Tripod because of Jerry Cantrell's three-legged dog on the front cover and Frank Lentini on the back cover.

[[Florence (given name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Florence is a French or English female given name. It is from the Latin word floreo, which means "I flower". The name also comes from the city of Florence in Italy. It was most popular in the U.S. between 1900 and 1940. It is still popular in Canada and England. The name was used for many tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Basin until 2018.

In 2018 Hurricane Florence struck North and South Carolina. It killed over 50 people. It caused around $18 billion in damage.

Some famous people with the name are Florence Nightingale and Florence Henderson.

[[Beauty contest]]

CATEGORIES: Beauty pageants

A beauty contest or beauty pageant, is a public contest to decide which person is the most beautiful. Usually, the entrants are young females, but there are some contests for men. Each contests has its own rules as to who may enter, and what the prizes are. A person who enters a beauty contest or pageant is called a contestant.

The usual reason for holding such contests is to create publicity for the organisation which runs the contest. The contests are often shown on television and reported (with photographs) in newspapers. The first local event was probably in the United States in the late 19th century. 1880 in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware has been claimed.

With most contests the criteria for judging is physical appearance, plus some judgement of personality. "Beauty Queen" is a term often used to describe the winners. Usually the winner acts as a publicity representative for the year following the contest. Examples are:

There are many local events round the world.

[[Steve Braun]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Actors from Winnipeg, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Living people

Steve Braun (born August 14, 1976) is a Canadian television and movie actor from Winnipeg, Manitoba. Braun's credits include The Immortal, a TV series in which he and co-star Lorenzo Lamas hunted demons; The Trip, an independent movie about coming of age in the HIV age; and Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle (2004), a major motion picture in which he plays the lead villain. In addition, he starred as Brian Kelly in the 2004 thriller The Skulls III. He also played the role of "Jonsey" in the 2007 thriller movie Wrong Turn 2: Dead End.  He also co-starred in the 2005 horror movie "Pterodactyl" as Willis Bradbury.

Braun was cast in a recurring guest role in The WB series Twins, as Jordan, the love interest of Mitchee Arnold, played by Sara Gilbert. The series was broadcast from September 16, 2005 until May, 2006.

Braun was also in the movie The Skulls III as Brian.

[[Jacques Gabriel]]

CATEGORIES: French architects, 1667 births, 1742 deaths

Jacques Gabriel (1667–1767) was a French architect. He designed a lot of buildings in Paris.

Michelle Jacques Gabriel, is a designer, painter, architect and architect of the 17th and 18th centuries. He was one of the most prominent designers of the Versailless Palace in his lifetime. For his unique creativity and selflessness, he has always been attended by Louis XIV And eventually he became a trusted advisor to the king. He made important contributions to the king during his years of service, which is one of the most important works in the construction of the Versailles palace, which once served as the lobby of the fourteenth.

Michel had a mission to build the Versailles Palace throughout his life, he was also the first designer of the city's bridges in Paris. Interestingly, Gabriel's son (Ange Jacob Gabriel) continued his father's journey, and in this regard, like his father, completing the Versailles palace at the time of Louis 14 It has 15 significant roles. The Gabriel family is also home to the Cathedral of La Rochelle, the Royal Opera Royal Opera House and the Petit Trianon Palace, built on the palace of Versailles.

[[Isabel]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Isabel (or Isabelle) is a female given name. It comes from the Hebrew name Elisheva. Elisheva is often translated to Elizabeth, of which Isabel is a division. There are many royal figures or queens with the name or its variants. There are also many other famous people by Isabel and its related names. As Isabel, this name was used on two Atlantic tropical cyclones. The 2003 storm was so damaging that the name was later retired.

[[François Lemoyne]]

CATEGORIES: Artists who committed suicide, French painters, Suicides by blade weapons, 1688 births, 1737 deaths

François Lemoyne or François Le Moine (1688 – 4 June 1737) was a French rococo painter. He became First Painter to the King and worked with other artists of the era. However, the excess of work, court intrigues at Versailles, and the death of his wife drove him to madness. He committed suicide in Paris in 1737 by stabbing himself seven times, six months after finishing the ceiling painting "The Apotheosis of Hercules" in the Hercules Room in the Great Apartment of the King. With his death, the fashion of large allegorical ceilings disappeared.

[[Michael Winner]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from London, British critics, British movie editors, Deaths from liver disease, Disease-related deaths in London, Jewish British actors, Jewish British writers, Movie directors from London, Movie producers from London, Screenwriters from London

Michael Robert Winner (30 October 1935 – 21 January 2013) was an English movie director, producer, writer, editor, actor and restaurant critic. He was known for his work on the Death Wish movie series. 

Winner was born on 30 October 1935 in Hampstead, London, England. His parents were Jewish immigrants: his mother was Polish and his father was of Russian descent. He studied at St Christopher School, Letchworth, and Downing College, Cambridge. He was married to Geraldine Lynton-Edwards from 2011 until his death in 2013. Winner retired in December 2012 and died on 21 January 2013 in Kensington, London, England from a liver illness, aged 77.

[[The George Inn]]

CATEGORIES: Pubs, Inns, Buildings and structures in London, National Trust properties

The George Inn is a public house (pub) in Southwark, London. It is on the east side of Borough High Street, close to London Bridge. It is the last galleried inn in London. It stands on a site where Shakespeare was said to have once acted in a similar galleried inn. The present inn was built in 1677. It was an important coaching post in the past. Charles Dickens speaks of the inn in Little Dorrit.

The inn's long wooden exterior galleries are the only means of moving from one room to another on the first and second floors. A Victorian coffee room is downstairs. Upstairs, there is a large paneled dining room. The George Inn is owned by the National Trust.

[[The King's Head]]

CATEGORIES: Pubs, Inns, National Trust properties, Buildings and structures in England, 15th century establishments in England

The King's Head is a National Trust property in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, England, UK. The King's Head is a typical coaching inn. It has a large stable yard and an arched entrance high and wide enough to admit coaches. A window in the bar contains 15th century glass depicting angels bearing the arms of Henry VI and his Queen Margaret of Anjou. This glass and some parts of the building date to 1450. An exposed section of wattle-and-daub may be viewed. The King's Head is reached through a narrow passageway at the Aylesbury market square.

[[Suzuki Baleno]]

CATEGORIES: Suzuki automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Suzuki Baleno is a car produced by Suzuki. It was first introduced in 1995, and replaced by the Suzuki Liana in 2001. Suzuki again started making Suzuki Baleno in 2015 and introduced at Frankfurt Motor Show.

[[The Fifer]]

CATEGORIES: Paintings by Édouard Manet, 1860s paintings, French paintings, Paintings in the Musée d'Orsay, Paris

The Fifer or Young Flautist (1866) is an oil painting by French painter Édouard Manet. It hangs in the Musée d'Orsay, Paris, France.

[[Puerto Varas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Puerto Varas is a city and commune of Chile with 32.912 inhabitants according with the INE census of 2002.

[[Julie]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Julie is a French female given name. It comes from the Latin name Julia. Julia means "youthful" or "soft haired" in Latin. The name Julie and its variants are feminine for the masculine name Julius. Julie is very popular in the United States. The name was particularly popular between 1951 and 1991. Its variant, Julia, has been in the top 100 female names dating back to 1980. Julie and its related names are being used by many famous people, such as Julie Andrews and Julie Benz. As Julia the name is currently being used for Atlantic Basin tropical cyclones.

[[The Balcony]]

CATEGORIES: Paintings by Édouard Manet, 1870s paintings, French paintings, Paintings in the Musée d'Orsay, Paris

The Balcony is an 1868 oil painting by the French painter Édouard Manet. It was exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1869. The painting depicts four figures. On the left is Berthe Morisot, who became in 1874 the wife of Manet's brother, Eugène. In the centre is the painter Jean Baptiste Antoine Guillemet. On the right is Fanny Claus, a violist. The fourth figure in the background is possibly Leon Leenhoff, Manet's stepson.  It was sold by Gustave Caillebotte in 1884. It hangs at this time in Paris at the Musée d'Orsay.

[[Lord's Resistance Army]]

CATEGORIES: Rebel militia groups in Africa, New religious movements, 1987 establishments in Africa, Uganda, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Christian organizations, Christian terrorism

The Lord's Resistance Army is a paramilitary group, and a new religious movement. Joseph Kony founded it in 1987, in the north of Uganda, to fight against the government, headed by president Yoweri Museveni. The group operates in Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in South Sudan. It wants to establish an independent state which is governed by laws based on the Ten Commandments. There is an insurgency called Lord's Resistance Army insurgency, which was basically caused by the group. Uganda was able to evict the group, but it continues to terrorize the population in the other countries where it is active. In conjunction with the conflict, the group is also said to have committed several grave abuses of human rights.It has been accused of widespread human rights violations, including murder, abduction, mutilation, child-sex slavery and forcing children to participate in hostilities.

The group is led by Joseph Kony, who proclaims himself the spokesman of God and a spirit medium. Since 1987, Kony is believed to have recruited between 60,000 and 100,000 child soldiers and displaced around 2 million people throughout central Africa. The LRA is one of the foreign organizations designated as terrorist by the United States, and its leadership is wanted by the International Criminal Court for war crimes and crimes against humanity.

[[Michael Dukakis]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, American Eastern Orthodox Christians, Governors of Massachusetts, Harvard University alumni, 1988 United States presidential candidates, 20th-century American politicians

Michael Stanley Dukakis (Μιχαήλ Δούκάκῆς, born November 3, 1933) served as the 65th and 67th Governor of Massachusetts, from 1975 to 1979 and 1983 to 1991. He is the longest-serving Governor in Massachusetts and only the second Greek-American governor in United States history, after Spiro Agnew.

In 1988, he was the Democratic nominee for President, but lost to Republican then–Vice President, George H. W. Bush.

[[Tangail District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Tangail (টাঙ্গাইল জেলা) is a district in the central region of Bangladesh. It is a part of the Dhaka Division.

[[Jamalpur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Jamalpur (জামালপুর জেলা) is a district in the Dhaka Division of Bangladesh. It was originally established in 1869.

[[Sherpur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Sherpur (শেরপুর জেলা) is a district in central Bangladesh. It is a part of the Dhaka Division.

[[Kishoreganj District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Kishorganj (কিশোরগঞ্জ) is a district in central Bangladesh. It is a part of the Dhaka Division.

[[Netrokona District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Netrakona is a district in northeast Bangladesh. It is a part of the Mymensingh Division.

[[Saint Pancras Church, Ipswich]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in England, Ipswich, Roman Catholic churches

Saint Pancras is a Catholic church covering the town centre of Ipswich, England.

When it was built, the church was supposed to be used as the Catholic cathedral for the East of England.

[[Venus Consoling Love]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, French paintings

Venus Consoling Love or The Bath of Venus is a painting by François Boucher. It is signed and dated 1751. It measures 107 x 84.8 cm (42 1/8 x 33 3/8 in.) It hangs in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. The painting once belonged to Mme de Pompadour. Boucher was Pompadour's favorite artist. The painting may have been intended for her apartment at Versailles or for her chateau at Bellevue. 

She allegedly posed for the painting. It is more likely Venus was a product of Boucher's imagination. The technical dexterity evident in the painting is the principal charm of Rococo art.

"Boucher's success in communicating the charm and sensuality of the nude lies in his mastery of color and fluid brushstrokes ... The painting exemplifies the rococo love of asymmetric lines and sinuous curves, artfully arranged to seduce both the eye and the mind of the beholder."

[[Gilbert]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Gilbert is a British Isles male given name. It means "the bright pledge" in Germanic. Many famous people have carried the name, including W. S. Gilbert. 

It was used on a powerful Atlantic hurricane that struck the Caribbean and Mexico in 1988.

[[Felicity]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Felicity is an English female given name. It means "happiness". The name is derived from the Latin name Felicitas. Felicitas is the name for an Ancient Roman goddess. This female name was at 236 in popularity for girls around England and Wales. The name was 390th in popularity on girls in the United States for 1999. Felicity is a female form of the male name Felix. The name Felicity is the name of a character played by Keri Russell.

[[Stentor]]

CATEGORIES: Ciliates

Stentor is a genus of filter-feeding ciliates. They are usually horn-shaped, and reaching lengths of 2 millimeters, they are among the biggest known unicellular organisms.

They are a type of protist ciliate in the heterotrich class. The old-fashioned name for them was  trumpet animalcules.

The body is horn-shaped, with a ring of prominent cilia around the anterior "bell" that sweeps in food and helps swimming. Some reach several millimeters in length, making them among the largest single celled organisms. As in many freshwater protozoans, Stentor has a contractile vacuole. Because the concentration of salt inside the cell and in the surrounding freshwater is different, Stentor must store water that enters it by osmosis and then discharge it from the vacuole. They can regenerate, and small fragments can grow into full organisms. Each cell has one (often elongated) macronucleus and several micronuclei. Having two types of nuclei is charcteristic of ciliates.

[[Daming Sunusi]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Indonesian politicians, Judges

Muhammad Daming Sunusi (born in Bulukumba, South Sulawesi, Indonesia, June 1, 1952) is a judge from Indonesia. He became controversial for his words "rape victims and perpetrators alike, enjoy" in the House of Representatives at the fit and proper test as a potential Supreme Court Justice. 

[[Japan Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia, Transport companies of Japan, 1951 establishments in Asia, 1950s establishments in Japan

Japan Airlines (日本航空) is an airline founded in 1951. Its headquarters are in Shinagawa, Tokyo, Japan. The airline and four of its sub-airlines (J-Air, JAL Express, JALways, and Japan Transocean Air) are members of the Oneworld airline alliance. Japan Airlines currently goes to over 90 destinations. 

[[Panchagarh District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Panchagarh (পঞ্চগড়, Ponchogorh) is a district in the far northern part of Bangladesh. It is part of the Rangpur Division.

[[Thakurgaon District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Thakurgaon (ঠাকুরগাঁও জেলা) is a district in the north-western side of Bangladesh. It is a part of the Rangpur Division and borders India to the west.

[[Nilphamari District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Nilphamari (নীলফামারী জেলা) is a district in northern bengal of Bangladesh. It is part of the Rangpur Division.

[[Lalmonirhat District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Lalmonirhat (লালমনিরহাট জেলা) is a district on the northern border of Bangladesh. It is a part of the Rangpur Division.

[[Kurigram District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Kurigram (কুড়িগ্রাম) is a district in northern Bangladesh. It is in the Rangpur Division.

[[Gaibandha District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Gaibandha (গাইবান্ধা জেলা) is a district in northern Bangladesh. It is a part of the Rangpur Division.

[[Skymark Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia, Transport companies of Japan, Low-cost airlines, 1998 establishments in Japan

Skymark Airlines or Sky is a low-cost Japanese airline founded in 1998. It is partly owned by the Japanese travel company H.I.S.

[[Claire]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Claire is a female given name. It means clear in French. The popularity of the name in United Kingdom peaked in the 1970s and 1980s. Around 1997, the name fell out of the top 100 girls' names there. Many famous people have this name. One of them is the actress Claire Danes.

[[Yakushima]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Japan, World Heritage Sites in Japan

Yakushima is a World Heritage Site south of Kyushu in southern Japan.

[[Chibi Maruko-chan]]

CATEGORIES: anime

Chibi Maruko-chan (Little Maruko) is an anime broadcast on Sunday evenings in Japan. It is about a elementary school student and her family.

[[Japanese literature]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese literature

Japanese literature is literature written in the Japanese language. Early Japanese literature was a lot like Chinese literature because Japan and China had a lot of contact. Over time, Japanese literature became a new style that was different from Chinese literature. 

[[Shusaku Endo]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1996 deaths, Writers from Tokyo

Shūsaku Endō (遠藤 周作 ja, 27 March 1923 – 29 September 1996) was a Japanese writer known mainly for his novels. Endō is categorised as one of the "Third Generation" writers, the third major group of writers who appeared after World War II.

[[The Oval (Belfast)]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Northern Ireland, Belfast

The Oval is a football ground in Belfast, Northern Ireland. It is the home of Glentoran F.C.

[[Euglenozoa]]

CATEGORIES: Protista

The Euglenozoa are a large phylum of flagellate protists. 

They are part of the wastebasket taxon known as the Protozoa, which had many obviously different protists.

Euglenozoa include a variety of common free-living species, and some important parasites, of which a few infect humans. There are two main subgroups, the Euglenoidea "euglenids" and Kinetoplastea "kinetoplastids". Euglenozoa are unicellular, mostly around 1540 µm in size, although some euglenids get up to 500 µm long.

Most Euglenozoa have two flagella, parallel to one another in a pocket-like structure. In some there is a cytostome or mouth, used to eat bacteria or other small organisms. This is supported by a microtubule from the flagellar bases; two other tubules support the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the cell.

Some other Euglenozoa feed through absorption, and many euglenids have chloroplasts and so get energy by photosynthesis. These chloroplasts are surrounded by three membranes and contain chlorophylls A and C, and other pigments, so are probably evolved from those of a captured green alga.  Reproduction occurs only by cell division.  During mitosis, the nuclear membrane remains intact, and the spindle microtubules form inside it.

The group is characterized by the ultrastructure of the flagella. In addition to the normal supporting microtubules, each contains a rod (called paraxonemal), which has a tubular structure in one flagellum and a latticed structure in the other.

[[Commodore 64]]

CATEGORIES: Commodore computers

The Commodore 64 was a bestselling, 8-bit home computer from the 1980s. It was created by Commodore International, and it entered the market in 1982. Around 17 million units are believed to have been sold. The Commodore 64 is often credited with making personal computers popular amongst the masses. This quality sparked comparisons with the Ford Model T. The Commodore 64 was offered at relatively low prices, and was available in malls, department stores, and toy stores instead of solely in the shops of authorized dealers.

[[Kinetoplastid]]

CATEGORIES: Protista

The kinetoplastids are a group of single-cell flagellate eukaryotes. They include a number of parasites responsible for serious diseases in humans and other animals. There are also forms found in soil and aquatic environments. They are members of the phylum Euglenozoa. 

Their main distinguishing feature is the presence of a kinetoplast, a DNA-containing granule inside the single mitochondrion at the base of the cell's flagella (the basal body).

The kinetoplastids were first defined by Honigberg in 1961 as the flagellate order Kinetoplastida.  They are traditionally divided into the biflagellate Bodonidae and uniflagellate Trypanosomatidae. 

The Trypanosomatidae includes several genera which are exclusively parasitic. Trypanosoma brucei causes Sleeping sickness; Trypanosoma cruzi causes Chagas disease, Leishmania causes leishmaniasis, Crithidia is parasitic on insects, and  Cryptobia is an ectoparasite on the gills of fish.

Bodo is typical of the free-living Bodonids, and includes various species which feed on bacteria.  

[[Captain George K. H. Coussmaker]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City, British paintings, Paintings by Joshua Reynolds, 1782

Captain George K. H. Coussmaker (1782) is an oil painting by Joshua Reynolds. Coussmaker was born in London in 1759 to Evert and Mary Coussmaker. He entered the military in 1776. He was promoted several times. He never saw active service. He retired in 1795. He married Catherine Southwell in 1790. They had two children, George and Sophia (later, the Baroness de Clifford). He died in 1801. 

Coussmaker sat for Reynolds 21 times and his horse 8 times between February 9 and April 16. Reynolds was paid 205 pounds. Another 10 guineas paid for the frame. The portrait remained with Coussmaker and his descendants until 1884. It was then sold to William K. Vanderbilt. Vanderbilt bequeathed to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1920. Museum curators describe the picture as "an exceptionally fine work ... The composition is complex and the whole vigorously painted."

[[Pet Shop Boys]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 establishments in England, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, Brit Award winners, English pop music groups, LGBT-themed musical groups, Musical duos, Musical groups established in 1981, Musical groups from London, New wave bands

Pet Shop Boys are a British synthpop duo: Neil Tennant and Chris Lowe. They formed in London in 1981 after they met in an electronics shop. They have sold 50 million records and are the most successful British music duo of all time. They have won three Brit Awards. They have been nominated for seven Grammy Awards. In 1984 their first single "West End Girls" was released. It reached number one in the UK and US.

[[Nicole]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Nicole is a female given name of Greek origin. It means "victorious people". It is the French female version of the boy's name Nicholas. There are many variants for this female name. Famous persons going by the name include Nicole Sullivan and Nicole Kidman. The name is being used for tropical storms or hurricanes in Atlantic Basin.

[[The Dancing Class]]

CATEGORIES: 1870s paintings, Paintings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City, French paintings

The Dancing Class is an oil painting by Edgar Degas painted about 1870. It was the first of his ballet pictures. It depicts a dance class at the Paris Opéra. When he painted this picture, Degas did not yet have privileges to go backstage at the Opéra. In the late 1870s, Degas said, "I have done painted so many of these dance examinations without having seen them that I am a little ashamed of it."

Joséphine Gaujelin (or Gozelin) is the dancer in the center of the picture. She waits for the starting note from the ballet master. The watering can (to wet down the rosin on the floor), the top hat as music holder, and the empty violin case are props that Degas would continue to use in his ballet pictures. Degas would re-use the poses in this picture many times.

[[Diastereomer]]

CATEGORIES: Stereochemistry

Diastereomers (also called diastereoisomers) are stereoisomers which are not enantiomers. They are molecules which have the same atoms and bonds but different stereochemistry in at least one, but not all, of their chiral centres. Diastereomers can have very different properties even though they look similar. This is different from enantiomers, that have exactly the same properties except when in a chiral environment like the human body.

Every chiral centre in a molecule has two possible ways of putting the groups in space. With only one chiral centre, there are two enantiomers. With two chiral centres, you can form 4 different isomers. When all chiral centres are changed at the same time, two pairs of enantiomers are formed. When only one chiral centre is changed at a time, sets of diastereoisomers are formed. With more chiral centres the possibilities are many more.

Diastereoisomers which are different at only one of more chiral centres are called epimers. For example, D-Threose and D-Erythrose (see picture) are diastereomers because they are different at only one of two chiral centres. Because of this they can also be called epimers.

[[Rate-determining step]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical kinetics

The rate-determining step is the step for which the transition state has the highest energy. It is the slowest step within a chemical reaction. It can be thought of as the most difficult step to go through. It is also the step that must be used to calculate the activation energy.

Knowing which step is rate-determining is very important when studying a reaction mechanism. This is because if this step is changed the reaction can go much faster. This can be done for example by using a different reagent or changing the temperature or pressure. Changing the conditions for any other step of the mechanism will not change the overall speed of the reaction at all.

In the rate equation, which is an equation to calculate the speed of the reaction from the concentration of molecules, usually the only step that is important is the rate-determining one.

[[Japanese Footbridge]]

CATEGORIES: Landscape paintings, 1890s paintings, Paintings by Claude Monet, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, French paintings

Japanese Footbridge is an oil painting by Claude Monet. It was painted in 1899. It measures 81.3 x 101.6 cm (32 x 40 in.) It hangs in the National Gallery of Art. 

In 1893, Monet moved to a house in rural Giverny. In 1893 and the years following, he turned a swampy area at Giverny into a water lily pool. It became a source of artistic inspiration. 

In 1899 Monet painted 12 works that centered on the garden and the Japanese Footbridge he constructed. The National Gallery of Art writes: "When Monet exhibited these paintings at Durand–Ruel's gallery in 1900, a number of critics mentioned his debt to Japanese art. More telling, the impenetrable green enclosure—heightened in the National Gallery painting by the placement of the top of the bridge's arch just below the painting's top edge—harkens back to the hortus conclusus (closed garden) of medieval images, while also evoking a dreamlike contemplative zone consonant with symbolist literature, especially poems such as "Le Nénuphar blanc" by Stéphane Mallarmé. Gustave Geffroy described this effect in his review of the exhibition (Le Journal, November 26, 1900), speaking of "this minuscule pool where some mysterious corollas blossom," and "a calm pool, immobile, rigid, and deep like a mirror, upon which white water lilies blossom forth, a pool surrounded by soft and hanging greenery which reflects itself in it."

[[Water Lilies]]

CATEGORIES: Landscape paintings, Paintings by Claude Monet, 1890s paintings, 20th century paintings, Paintings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City

Water Lilies (or Nymphéas, nɛ̃.fe.a) is a series of about 250 oil paintings by French Impressionist Claude Monet. The paintings are of Monet's flower garden at Giverny. They were the main focus of Monet's work during the last thirty years of his life. Many of the works were painted while Monet suffered from cataracts. The paintings are on display in museums all over the world, including the Musée Marmottan Monet and the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Art Institute of Chicago, the Carnegie Museum of Art and the National Museum of Wales, among others.

As part of his extensive gardening plans at Giverny, Monet had a pond dug in his garden and planted with lilies in 1893. He painted the subject in 1899, and thereafter it dominated his art. He worked continuously for more than twenty years on a large-scale decorative series, attempting to capture every observation, impression, and reflection of the flowers and water. The series captures the blooms at different times of the day, and under different atmospheric conditions. After much hesitation, Monet exhibited a group of 48 water-lily paintings in 1909 at the Paris gallery of his art dealer, Paul Durand-Ruel. The series became an enormous financial, popular, and critical hit. By the mid-1910s, Monet had achieved a completely new, fluid, and somewhat audacious style of painting in which the water-lily pond became the point of departure for an almost abstract art.

[[Piper Laurie]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Michigan, 1932 births, Living people, American television actors

Piper Laurie (born January 22, 1932 in Detroit, Michigan) is an American actress. She played Catherine in the television series Twin Peaks. She acted in the movies Carrie and Children of a Lesser God. She has also acted in stage plays. She was married to movie critic Joe Morgenstern until they divorced in 1982.

[[Nighthawks]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s paintings, American paintings, 1942 works

Nighthawks is an oil painting. It was painted by American realist painter Edward Hopper in 1942. The picture shows two people sitting in a diner late at night. It is Hopper's most famous work. It is one of the most recognizable paintings in American art. Within months of its completion, it was sold to the Art Institute of Chicago for $3,000. It hangs in the Institute.

[[The Attentive Nurse]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Jean-Baptiste-Siméon-Chardin, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, French paintings, 1747

The Attentive Nurse is an oil painting by Jean-Baptiste-Siméon-Chardin. It measures 46.2 x 37 cm (18 3/16 x 14 9/16 in.). It was painted in 1747. It hangs in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC. 

The National Gallery tells us that Chardin reveals dignity and beauty in everyday life. The woman is preparing an invalid's meal. Each object receives careful treatment from the artist. The table setting is a harmony of white tones: jug, tablecloth, egg, and plate. Every pot, each piece of crockery has been given distinct treatment. As Diderot wrote of Chardin, "it is not white, red, or black pigment that you mix on your palette, it is the very substance of objects."

Chardin's subjects were popular with all classes of society, including the aristocracy. The National Gallery writes, "Perhaps their appeal rested in their sense of order, of things in their proper place. Chardin anticipated the popularity of paintings of "sensibility," which increased from the 1740s on, telling a colleague that "one uses color, but one paints with sentiment."

[[Broth]]

CATEGORIES: Soups

Broth or stock is a tasty soup. It is sometimes defined as the liquid part of soup. It can be made in boiling water by adding meat, fish or vegetables, and taking out the fat. It is sometimes used as an ingredient (or stuff) in recipes to make food taste better.

In Britain, a broth is a soup in which there are solid pieces of meat or fish, with some vegetables. It is usually made with a stock or plain water as its base, with meat or fish added while being brought to a boil, and vegetables added later. Broth is often made more substantial by adding rice, barley or pulses. Broth is distinct from stock, which is a thin liquid made by simmering raw ingredients until all the taste has been got, then sieving the resulting liquid. In Japan, other stuffs such as kelp, dried small sardines and katsuobushi are also used for Japanese dishes, too.

In the United States terms, broths are made from portions of meat, whereas stocks are made from vegetable scraps and bones.

[[Samuel Loomis]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional British people, Fictional characters introduced in 1978, Halloween (franchise), Movie characters

Dr. Samuel James "Sam" Loomis (March 13, 1922 – c. October 29th, 1998) is an fictional British character in the Halloween. He is the main good guy of Halloween, Halloween II, Halloween 4: The Return of Michael Myers, Halloween 5: The Revenge of Michael Myers and Halloween: The Curse of Michael Myers. Donald Pleasence plays the character of Dr. Loomis in all five movies relating to Michael Michael Myers from parts 1-2 and from parts 4-6 (He and Michael did not appear in part 3). 

From all the Halloween franchise, he is thought to be as the archenemy to the series' central character and main villian, Michael Myers. Dr. Loomis does not appear in the other movies after part six, because his portrayer Donald Pleasence died before part six was released. Malcolm McDowell plays Dr. Loomis in the 2007 re-make, Halloween and in its sequel Halloween II.

His name Samuel Loomis is based on John Gavin's character name from Alfred Hitchcock's 1960 horror movie Psycho.

[[The Swing (Fragonard, 1767-1768)]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Jean-Honoré Fragonard, French paintings

The Swing (1767-1768) is an oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It was painted in 1767-1768. It measures 81 × 64 cm (31.9 × 25.2 in). The painting depicts a woman kicking off her shoe as she flies up in a swing. A young man gazes up her skirt while another man controls the swing with a rope. It hangs in the Wallace Collection, London.

[[Walmor Chagas]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2013 deaths, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, People from Rio Grande do Sul, Suicides by firearm

Walmor Chagas (August 28, 1930 – January 18, 2013) was a Brazilian actor. He was in over 50 movies since his career began in 1965. He is known for his roles in São Paulo, Sociedade Anônima, Xica da Silva, Sonho Meu, Esperança, Caminhos do Coração, and in A Favorita.

Chagas was born on August 28, 1930 in Alegrete, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Chagas committed suicide by shooting himself in the head on January 18, 2013 in his home in Guaratinguetá, São Paulo, Brazil, aged 81.

[[The Swing (Fragonard, 1775-1780)]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Jean-Honoré Fragonard, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, French paintings

The Swing is an oil painting by  Jean Fragonard. It was painted between 1775-1780.  The picture measures 215.9 x 185.5 cm (85 x 73 1/16 in.). It hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC. 

[[Subaru Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Japan, Subaru, 1950s establishments in Japan, 1953 establishments in Asia

Subaru Corporation which used to be named Fuji Heavy Industries  is a Japanese manufacturing company that makes Subaru cars, aircraft for the Japanese Self Defence Force, engines, garbage trucks and wind turbines.

[[The Copper Cistern]]

CATEGORIES: 1730s paintings, Paintings by Jean-Baptiste-Siméon-Chardin, French paintings, 1735

The Copper Cistern is an oil painting on oak by Jean-Baptiste-Siméon-Chardin. It was painted ca. 1735. It measures 28.5 cm x 23 cm (11.22 in x 9.06 in). It hangs in the Louvre. Chardin chose homely themes that were popular with all classes of 18th century Parisian society.

[[A Rage in Harlem]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 comedy movies, English-language movies, American comedy movies, American independent movies

A Rage in Harlem is a 1991 movie starring Forest Whitaker, Danny Glover, Robin Givens and Gregory Hines. The movie is set around 1950s New York City. It was given an R rating by the MPAA. The movie was shot in Cincinnati.

[[The Cellar Boy]]

CATEGORIES: 1730s paintings, Paintings by Jean-Baptiste-Siméon-Chardin, French paintings, 1738

The Cellar Boy is an oil painting on canvas by Jean-Baptiste-Siméon-Chardin. It was painted sometime ca. 1736-1738. It measures 46 cm x 38 cm (18.11 in x 14.96 in). It hangs in a private collection. Chardin chose homely themes that were popular with all classes of Parisian society. 

[[Ginza]]

CATEGORIES: Tokyo

Ginza is an area of Central (Chuo) Tokyo ward, it is known for its expensive shops.

[[Soap Bubbles (painting)]]

CATEGORIES: 1730s paintings, Paintings by Jean-Baptiste-Siméon-Chardin, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, French paintings, 1735

Soap Bubbles is an oil painting on canvas by Jean-Baptiste-Simeon-Chardin. It was painted about 1733-1735. It measures 93 cm x 74.5 cm (36.61 in x 29.33 in.). It hangs in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC. Chardin chose homely subjects that proved popular with all classes of French society. He painted several pictures of boys playing.

The National Gallery of Art writes, "For the 18th–century viewer, bubbles were a form of entertainment. But they also were a symbol of the transience of life. The subject was popular; Chardin made at least three and probably four versions of this painting." 

The National Gallery of Art continues: "Chardin has rigorously constructed his composition. The boys are framed by a rectangular stone window, the sharp rectangles offset by the hunched youth whose arms and head form a triangle. This triangular shape is echoed in the hat of the younger boy. The focus of the composition, however, is the circular, translucent bubble, which glistens against the warm brown tones of the canvas."

[[The Happy Lovers]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Jean-Honoré Fragonard, French paintings

The Happy Lovers is an oil painting on canvas by the French painter Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It was painted sometime between 1760-1765. It measures 90.2. It hangs in the Norton Simon Museum. 

[[County Kerry]]

CATEGORIES: County Kerry

County Kerry is one of the Counties of Ireland. It is part of the Gaeltacht. Dingle is a popular tourist town in the county, and other scenic parts have been included in the List of World Heritage Sites in Ireland.

[[Lilacs and Roses]]

CATEGORIES: 1880s paintings, Paintings by Édouard Manet, French paintings

Lilacs and Roses is an oil painting on canvas by Édouard Manet. It was one of his late works, painted in 1883. It measures 54 × 45 cm. It is in a private collection. The painting is a development of the small vase of roses on the bar in Manet's The Bar at the Folies-Bergère. 

Many of Manet's later works offered a small still life in the lower left hand corner of the picture. The flowers present a "cross" shape that is broken by a diagonal line through the center.  The brushwork is exceptional. The picture is one of the masterpieces of Manet's later years.

[[End of the Lunch]]

CATEGORIES: 1870s paintings, French paintings

End of the Lunch is an oil painting by Pierre Auguste Renoir. It was painted in 1879. François Mathey writes, "This picture, redolent with a warm, healthy, and vibrant sensuality was painted under the arbor of Oliver's restaurant in Montmartre." The people in the picture are Ellen Andrée, the artist's current model Marguerite, and the son of someone who owned a ship.

[[Stoke Newington]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Hackney

Stoke Newington is an area of the London Borough of Hackney, northeast of central London.

[[Girl Most Likely]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 comedy movies, English-language movies, American comedy movies, American independent movies

Girl Most Likely is a 2012 American comedy movie. It stars Kristen Wiig as Imogene, Annette Bening as Zelda, Natasha Lyonne as Allyson and Matt Dillon. This comedy deals with gambling troubles and suicide attempts. It got mixed to positive reviews from the critics.

[[RoboCop (2014 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 action movies, 2014 science fiction movies, 2014 thriller movies, 2010s action thriller movies, 2010s movie remakes, American action thriller movies, American movie remakes, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Detroit, Michigan, Movies set in the future, RoboCop, Science fiction action movies, Drone movies, Dystopian movies, American superhero movies, Movies directed by José Padilha

RoboCop (RoboCop 4) is a 2014 American action science fiction thriller movie. It stars Joel Kinnaman, Gary Oldman, Samuel L. Jackson, and Michael Keaton. RoboCop is a remake of the 1987 action picture by the same name. This action picture is set in 2028 Detroit and was shot there. It was released on February 12, 2014 by Columbia Pictures. It also follows RoboCop 2 (1990) and RoboCop 3 (1993).

[[Passiflora]]

CATEGORIES: Malpighiales

Passiflora is also known as the passion flowers or passion vines. It is a genus of about 500 species of flowering plants. They are mainly vines, with some being shrubs, and a few species being herbaceous.  See passionfruit for information about the fruit of the passiflora plant.

The family Passifloraceae is characterized by a pantropical distribution. Passiflora is absent from Africa, which, instead, hosts many other members of its family  (e.g. the more plesiomorphic Adenia).

There are nine species of Passiflora native to the USA, from Ohio to the north, west to California and south to the Florida Keys. Most other species are found in South America, China, and Southern Asia, New Guinea, four or more species in Australia and an  endemic species in New Zealand.

[[Operation Entebbe]]

CATEGORIES: 1976, Terrorist attacks, Uganda, 1970s in Israel, Mossad

Operation Entebbe, also known as Operation Jonathan, was an Israeli hostage rescue mission. It took place in July 1976 in Entebbe, Uganda. An Air France airplane was hijacked on 27 June 1976. The Palestinian terrorists wanted the release of prisoners held in Israel and four other countries. Many of the hostages were later released but 106 Israelis and Jews were still held. Israeli special forces planned and executed a daring long-range rescue of the remaining 106 passengers on 4 July 1976. 102 of the passengers were rescued. Lt Col Yonatan Netanyahu, who led the mission, was the only rescuer to be killed.

[[Dido and Aeneas]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century operas

Dido and Aeneas (/ˈdaɪdoʊ/ "Dy-doh and eh-Nee-us") is a three-act English opera. The story and words were written by Nahum Tate. The music was written by Henry Purcell. The opera was probably written about 1684-1685. Dido is Purcell's only true opera. It was possibly modeled on John Blow's Venus and Adonis. Blow's piece was written and staged about the same time. Marc-Antoine Charpentier's little French operas may also have served as models. French music was appreciated at the English court.

The opera was intended for performance at the court. The death of Charles II may have caused it to be postponed however. The first performance occurred in a Chelsea girls' school run by Josias Priest (the dancing master at court) in 1689. Tragedy and comedy are deftly combined in Dido. The lovers' scenes are tense with emotion. The witches' scenes are filled with comical cackling and mischief-making.

The story of the opera is taken from Virgil's Aeneid. It tells of the Trojan Aeneas' tragic love for Dido, the Queen of Carthage. The opera manuscript has been lost or destroyed. Research and performance rely on earliest printed copies. Some music is believed missing from these early copies. That music is composed afresh by modern composers in Purcell's style. Sometimes music Purcell composed about 1685 is inserted into the score to make up for the lack of the original music. Dido and Aeneas is Purcell's best known work.

[[The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 comedy-drama movies, 2010s LGBT movies, British comedy-drama movies, British LGBT movies, English-language movies, LGBT comedy-drama movies, Movies set in Asia, Rajasthan

The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel is a 2011 British comedy-drama movie starring Judi Dench and Maggie Smith. It is based on the  novel These Foolish Things. John Madden is the director. This comedy-drama got very good reviews from critics. It was a box office hit. It made over $134 million worldwide.

[[Amiga]]

CATEGORIES: Commodore computers

The Amiga was a line of personal computers that Commodore International produced during the 1980s and early 1990s. The first Amiga computer, the Amiga 1000, possessed a HAM mode enabled the machine to display 4096 colors, a chip that enabled it to play back four channels of sound at once, an operating system with multitasking, and a graphical user interface at a time that these features were uncommon or not as developed as Amiga's. The Amiga is often said to have been ahead of its time. Although the Amiga did not sell well and Commodore went bankrupt, the Amiga developed a fandom and niche amongst video and graphics enthusiasts and gamers.

The Amiga was initially created by computer chip designer Jay Miner and Hi-Toro (later Amiga Corporation). In 1984, Commodore purchased Amiga Corporation. The first Amiga, the Amiga 1000, was released in 1985 after delays and marketing blunders. In 1994, Commodore declared bankruptcy.

[[Rate equation]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical kinetics

The rate equation (or rate law) is an equation used to calculate the speed of a chemical reaction. For a general reaction aA + bB → C, the rate equation is: 

Here, A and B are the concentrations of A and B. x and y depend on which step is rate-determining. If the reaction mechanism is a very simple one, where A and B hit each other and then go to products through one transition state, then x=a and y=b. k is the rate constant of the reaction. This changes with temperature, pressure and other conditions. 

The rate equation is a differential equation. If it is integrated, then an equation which tells how the concentration of reagents and products changes with time is found.

In special cases, it is very easy to solve the equation and find k. For example, in a first-order reaction the equation is:

Integrating gives:

[[Human resources]]

CATEGORIES: Business

Human resources is all the people working for a company or organization. Sometimes, human capital is used as well. This is because employees (the people that work) are a good thing for a business because they add value to it.

Examples are teachers, etc.

It is important that human resources in a company are the best possible, because it is the workers that can make the difference. There are many factors to think about when talking of human resources:

Human resources management is the group of people within a company that takes care of human resources. They make sure every employee is happy with what they are doing. They also do recruitment (finding new people for a job).

[[Benjamin F. Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: 1851 births, Year of death unknown, United States Army Medal of Honor recipients, Military people from Virginia

Benjamin F. Stewart (born 1851) was a Private in the United States Army. He received the Medal of Honor for his actions during the Indian Wars.

[[Recruitment]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations

Recruitment is the process of finding new people to do a job. For a company or organization, it is important to choose the right people from the beginning. This is because human resources are often a very important part of a business.

Recruitment has many different steps. First, the company needs to advertise that it has a job available. People then send an application. This usually includes a curriculum vitae, which is a summary of what a person has done until now in their life. The best applicants are selected and they come for an interview. This might also include some further tests or exercises to do. The person chosen is then given an offer of a job. Finally, they can choose to take it or not.

There are many ways of doing recruitment. Some companies go to consultants, who know where and how to find the best people. Universities and schools often have a group of people that tells the students about getting a job. At other times, a company might really want a person that is very good at a job but works for another company. They can then ask directly to this person, maybe offering more money. Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn are also sometimes used by people looking for a job.

[[Juliana Paes]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian actors, People from Rio de Janeiro

Juliana Couto Paes (born March 26, 1979) is a Brazilian actress and former model.

Born in Rio Bonito, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Paes is of Black, Portuguese, Bolivian, indigenous Brazilian and Spanish descent. She is the oldest child of Regina and Carlos Henrique Paes. She has three siblings: Mariana, Rosana, and Carlos Henrique Jr.

[[Todd Bridges]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American child actors, Comedians from California, American television personalities, African American actors, African American comedians, Actors from San Francisco

Todd Anthony Bridges (born May 27, 1965) is an American actor and comedian who was known for his role as Willis Jackson in the hit comedy show Diff'rent Strokes. He is also known for his roles in Everybody Hates Chris and truTV Presents: World's Dumbest.... 

Bridges was born on May 27, 1965 in San Francisco, California. He has been married to Dori A. Smith since 1998. They have two children. 

[[Dana Plato]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 1999 deaths, Actors from Los Angeles County, California, American adoptees, American child actors, American movie actors, American robbers, American television actors, American voice actors, Drug-related suicides in the United States

Dana Michelle Plato (November 7, 1964 – May 8, 1999) was an American actress who was known for her role as Kimberly Drummond in the hit comedy show Diff'rent Strokes. After the show ended, her career went down and later posed for Playboy and committed robbery. 

Plato was born Dana Michelle Strain on November 7, 1964 in Maywood, California. She was adopted by Dean and Florine Plato and she legally changed her name from Strain to Plato. She was raised in Los Angeles, California. Plato was married to Lanny Lambert from 1984 until they divorced in 1990. They had one son, Tyler Lambert. Plato committed suicide when she had an overdose from pills in her home in Moore, Oklahoma, aged 34.

[[The Secret Meeting]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Jean-Honoré Fragonard, French paintings

The Secret Meeting is an oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It dates to 1771-1773.  Fragonard was hired to paint a series of panels for the chateau at Louveciennes, the home of Madame du Barry. His theme was "The Progress of Love". It is the companion piece to The Lover Crowned. It hangs in the Frick Museum, New York. 

[[The Lover Crowned]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Jean-Honoré Fragonard, French paintings

The Lover  Crowned is an oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. In 1771, Fragonard was hired to paint a series of panels for the chateau at Louveciennes, the home of Madame du Barry. His theme was "The Progress of Love". The Lover  Crowned is the companion piece to The Secret Meeting. The picture hangs in the Frick Collection, New York. 

[[John Vanbrugh]]

CATEGORIES: English writers, English architects, 1664 births, 1726 deaths

Sir John Vanbrugh (1664-1726) was an English writer, dramatist and architect.

His main literary works include The Relapse (1696), The Provok'd Wife (1697), The Country House (1703), The Confederacy (1705) and The Provok'd Husband (left incomplete and later completed by Colley Cibber in 1728).

As an architect, Vanbrugh designed some famous buildings like Castle Howard, Blenheim Palace and the original Haymarket Theatre.

[[Seto Inland Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Bodies of water of Japan, Seas of the Pacific Ocean

Seto Inland Sea is a sea surrounded by the Japanese islands of Honshu, Kyushu and Shikoku.

[[Geophone]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquakes, Measuring tools

A geophone is a device for measuring earthquakes. They function by converting movement into voltage to be recorded at a station.

[[Asakura, Fukuoka]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fukuoka Prefecture

Asakura is a Japanese town in Fukuoka Prefecture on the island of Kyushu.

[[Schist]]

CATEGORIES: Metamorphic rocks

The schists are a group of metamorphic rocks which have lamellar (plate-like) minerals, such as micas, chlorite, talc, hornblende, graphite, and others. Quartz often occurs in drawn-out grains so that a form called quartz schist is produced. By definition, schist contains more than 50% platy and elongated minerals, often finely interleaved with quartz and feldspar. Schist often contains garnets.

The individual mineral grains in schist, drawn out into flaky scales by heat and pressure, can be seen by the naked eye. Schist is characteristically foliated, (~leaf-like) meaning the mineral grains split off easily into flakes or slabs. The word schist is derived from the Greek word σχίζειν schíxein meaning "to split". This refers to the ease with which schists can be split along the plane in which the platy minerals lie.

Most schists have been derived from clays and muds which have passed through a series of metamorphic processes involving the production of shales, slates and phyllites as intermediate steps. Certain schists have been derived from fine-grained igneous rocks such as basalts and tuffs. Most schists are mica schists, but graphite and chlorite schists are also common. 

Schists are named after their mineral constituents, such as garnet schist, tourmaline schist, glaucophane schist, etc. 

Schists are frequently used as dimension stone. Dimension stone is stone that has been selected and cut to specific shapes or sizes.

[[Ghost in the Machine]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Metaphors

The "Ghost in the Machine" is a metaphor in philosophy. The philosopher Gilbert Ryle called mind the Ghost in the 'Machine'', and the idea that it was separate from the brain was the mistaken "official doctrine"'''.

Ryle was referring to René Descartes' mind-body dualism. In dualist systems like Descartes', mental activity carries on in parallel to physical action, but the means of interaction are unknown or speculative. Ryle thought this was absurd, and as a kind of error which he called a "category mistake". It is like saying something like "cars move by motive spirit".

[[Helen Jacobs]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1997 deaths, American female tennis players, LGBT people from Arizona, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players, Sportspeople from Arizona

Helen Hull Jacobs (August 6, 1908 - June 2, 1997, Globe, Arizona) was an American tennis player. She was a former number 1 ranked player. Jacobs won the championship at Wimbledon in 1936. She won a total of 10 Grand Slam titles. Jacobs won the US National championship in singles (1932-1935), doubles (1932, 1934-35) and mixed doubles (1934). She is best known for her rivalry with Helen Wills Moody.

[[William Troy]]

CATEGORIES: United States Navy Medal of Honor recipients, People from Massachusetts, 1907 deaths, 1848 births

William Troy (1848–March 8, 1907) entered Service in the US Navy from Massachusetts as a United States Navy sailor. For bravery in action during the 1871 Korean Expedition he received the Medal of Honor on June 11, 1871. He was part of the party that rescued the mortally wounded Hugh McKee at Citadel Korea and was himself wounded and specifically commended by the Lieutenant.

Troy is buried in the Stockton State Hospital Cemetery in Stockton, California. A monument in his honor stands at the San Joaquin National Cemetery in Gustine, California. According to the San Joaquin National Cemetery's Website he is buried there, not at the state hospital in Stockton, in Section M-1, Grave 53.

[[Royal Rumble (2000)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in professional wrestling, Royal Rumble, Sports in New York City, 2000s in New York City, 2000 in the United States, January events

The Royal Rumble 2000 was the 22nd Royal Rumble, which Dwayne Johnson (better known as "The Rock") won. At the end of the rumble, The Rock and The Big Show were left. Big Show was about to throw The Rock out, but then Rock reversed the move and threw the Big Show out to win. Big Show proved that The Rock hit the ground first however it could not be arranged again because WrestleMania was in one month, so the Rock remained as the winner. After that, Show hit The Rock because of frustration.

[[James F. Merton]]

CATEGORIES: 1843 births, Year of death unknown, United States Navy Medal of Honor recipients

James F. Merton (born 1843) was a United States Navy sailor. He received the Medal of Honor for actions during the Korean Expedition in 1871. Landsman Merton was severely wounded during the seizure of the forts.

[[Jaipurhat District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Joypurhat (জয়পুরহাট জেলা) is a district in northern Bangladesh. It is a part of the Rajshahi Division.

[[Naogaon District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Naogaon (নওগাঁ, bn) is a district in northern Bangladesh. It is a part of the Rajshahi Division.

[[Nawabganj District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Nawabganj (চাঁপাই নবাবগঞ্জ) is a district in northern Bangladesh. It is a part of the Rajshahi Division.

[[Garum]]

CATEGORIES: Condiments, Ancient Greece, Ancient Rome

Garum was a fermented fish sauce used in ancient Greece, Rome, and Byzantium. It was made from the intestines of small fishes by bacterial fermentation.

[[The House of Cards]]

CATEGORIES: 1730s paintings, Paintings by Jean-Baptiste-Siméon-Chardin, French paintings, 1737

The House of Cards is an oil painting by Jean-Baptiste-Siméon-Chardin. It was painted about 1737. It measures 60 cm x 72 cm (23.62 in x 28.35 in.). It hangs in the National Gallery, London. Chardin painted homely scenes that found favor with all classes of Parisian society.

[[The See-Saw]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Jean-Honoré Fragonard, French paintings

The See-Saw is an oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It was painted in 1755. It measures 46 x 36 in. It hangs in the Fundación Colección Thyssen-Bornemisza, Madrid. It is the companion piece to Blind Man's Bluff.  	

[[Blind Man's Bluff]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Jean-Honoré Fragonard, French paintings

Blind Man's Bluff is an oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It was painted in 1755-1756. It measures 46 x 36 in. It hangs in the Toledo Museum of Art. It is the companion piece to The See-Saw. 

[[The Bathers]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Jean-Honoré Fragonard, French paintings, 1765 works

The Bathers is an oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It was painted in 1765(?). It hangs in the Louvre.  

[[A Visit to the Nursery]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Jean-Honoré Fragonard, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, French paintings

A Visit to the Nursery is an oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It was painted in 1775. It measures 28.75. It hangs in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC. Fragonard is usually remembered for his mildly erotic works. After his marriage in 1769, he painted family life. 

[[Mini CD]]

CATEGORIES: Compact Disc

A Mini CD is a Compact disc that is of smaller size, usually 8 cm, instead of 12 cm, for regular CDs. These CDs can hold less data, about 210 Megabytes, or 24 minutes of music. There is also a version which can only hold 155 MB of data, or 18 minutes of music. Mini Cds also come in the shape and size of a business card, these can hold between 10 and 100 MB of data.

[[Tollund Man]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeology, History of Denmark, Deaths by hanging

The Tollund Man is the name for a mummy which was found in Denmark, in the 1950s. The man lived in the 4th century BC, in what is known as the Pre-Roman Iron Age. The head and face were so well-preserved that he was mistaken at the time of discovery for a recent murder victim. Twelve years before the discovery of Tollund Man, another bog body, Elling Woman was discovered in the same bog.

Below the body was a thin layer of moss. Scientists know that this moss was formed in Danish peat bogs in the early Iron Age, therefore, the body was suspected to have been placed in the bog more than 2,000 years ago during the early Iron Age. C14 radiocarbon dating was performed: It indicated that he died in approximately 375-210 BC. The acid in the peat, along with the lack of oxygen underneath the surface, had preserved the delicate soft tissues of his body.

Examinations and X-rays showed that the man's head was undamaged, and his heart, lungs and liver were well preserved. The Silkeborg Museum estimated that he must have been approximately 40 years  old, and about 1.61 tall, at the time of his death. This means he was  relatively small, even for the time. It is likely that the body had shrunk in the bog.

On the first autopsy report in 1950, doctors concluded that Tollund Man died by hanging rather than strangulation. The rope left visible marks in the skin beneath his chin and at the sides of his neck.  There was no mark, however, at the back of the neck where the knot of the noose would have been located. After a re-examination in 2002, forensic scientists found more evidence to support these findings. Although the cervical vertebrae were undamaged (as they often are in hanging victims), radiography showed that the tongue was distended—an indication of death by hanging.

The stomach and intestines were examined and tests carried out on their contents. The scientists discovered that the man's

last meal had been a kind of porridge made from vegetables and seeds, both cultivated and wild: barley, linseed, gold of pleasure (Camelina sativa), knotweed, bristlegrass, and chamomile.

There were no traces of meat in the man's digestive system, and from the stage of digestion it was apparent that the man had lived for 12 to 24 hours after this last meal. In other words, he may not have eaten for up to a day before his death. Although similar vegetable soups were not unusual for people of this time, two interesting things were noted:

Bog bodies dry up and decompose rapidly, when they are taken out of the bog. Because of the facial expression, and the general state of the head, the decision was taken to expose the body. At the time, the head was preserved using Polyethylene glycol, the only material available. This method did not permit to preserve the body; it dried up and decayed. Today, the head is attached to a copy of the body. Both feet and the right thumb were also in a good state of preservation when the body was found in the 1950s. For this reason, they were kept in formaldehyde for analysis later.  In 1976, the Danish Police Force made a finger-print analysis, making Tollund Man's thumb print one of the oldest finger-prints on record. Tollund Man is exposed in the Silkeborg Museum.

[[Elmelindo Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 1967 deaths, United States Army Medal of Honor recipients, Military people from Hawaii, Purple Heart recipients

Sergeant First Class Elmelindo Rodrigues Smith  (July 27, 1935 – February 16, 1967) was born in Wahiawa, Hawaii. He was a United States Army soldier of Hispanic-Asian descent, who was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his actions in the Vietnam War. Despite being severely wounded, Smith inspired his men to beat back an enemy assault.

[[Madame du Barry]]

CATEGORIES: French people, 1743 births, 1793 deaths, French nobility, Executed French people

Jeanne Bécu, Countess of Barry (19 August 1743 – 8 December 1793) was the last mistress of Louis XV of France. She was one of the victims of the Reign of Terror.

[[Linda Lovelace]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2002 deaths, Actors from the Bronx, American activists, American autobiographers, American crime victims, American feminists, American movie actors, American pornographic actors, Anti-pornography activists, Road accident deaths in the United States, Writers from the Bronx

Linda Lovelace (January 10, 1949 – April 22, 2002) was an American pornographic actress best known for her starring role in 1972 movie Deep Throat. She was born Linda Susan Boreman in the Bronx, New York City. 

She was married to Chuck Traynor (1937-2002) from 1971 until 1973; he frequently used violence against her. In 1974 she married Larry Marchiano. She had two children with him. They divorced in 1996. In 1980 Ordeal was published. It was a book Lovelace wrote about being a porn actress. She moved to Colorado in 1990. She died in Denver on April 22, 2002 of injuries sustained in a road accident on April 3, 2002. The biopic Lovelace is about her.

[[Division of Parramatta]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1901 establishments in Australia

The Division of Parramatta is an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. The division was created in 1900 for the first federal election in 1901. It is named for the locality of Parramatta. The name Parramatta is an Aboriginal word for "the place where the eels lie down". 

The division is in the western suburbs of Sydney.  It includes Constitution Hill, Dundas Valley, Granville, Harris Park, Holroyd, Mays Hill, North Parramatta, Oatlands, Old Toongabbie, Parramatta, Rosehill, Rydalmere, Telopea, Wentworthville, Westmead and parts of Dundas, Ermington, Guildford, Merrylands, Merrylands West, Northmead, North Rocks, Pendle Hill, South Granville and South Wentworthville.

The division lies between Labor voting areas of western Sydney and the  Liberal areas on the North Shore.  Because of this, any change to the boundary can change the political balance in the seat.  For example, in the 2006 boundary change, Parramatta shifted from marginally Labor to marginally Liberal (as defined by the Australian Electoral Commission). Nevertheless, as was expected  Julie Owens held the seat for the ALP with an increased majority.

[[Harborne]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the West Midlands (county)

Harborne is an area of Birmingham in the West Midlands, England. It is west of the centre of Birmingham.

[[Humboldt-University of Berlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 establishments in Germany, Buildings and structures in Berlin, Colleges and universities in Germany, Education in Berlin

The Humboldt-University of Berlin (Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin) is Berlin's first public university. It was founded by Wilhelm von Humboldt. He was the German Minister of Education at the time. Von Humboldt organized Germany's system of education which is still used today. The first building was donated by Frederick William III of Prussia. The University opened its doors in 1810 as the University of Berlin. 

[[German Football Association]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 establishments in Germany, Football in Germany, Frankfurt, Sport in Hesse

The German Football Association (Deutscher Fußball-Bund) is the association that governs football in Germany. It was one of the founding members of both FIFA and UEFA. It is in charge of the men's and women's national teams. The association was started on 28 January 1900 in Leipzig. Its headquarters are now based in Frankfurt.

[[2013 Football League Cup Final]]

CATEGORIES: Football League Cup, 2013 in association football, 2013 in London

The 2013 Football League Cup Final is a football match between Bradford City and Swansea City, which will take place on 24 February 2013 at Wembley Stadium, London. It is the final match of the 2012–13 Football League Cup, the 53rd season of the Football League Cup, a football competition for the 92 teams in the Premier League and the Football League. The winner of the Football League Cup will enter the 2013–14 UEFA Europa League in the third qualifying round.

[[2052 - A Global Forecast for the Next Forty Years]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 books, Environment, Economics

2252 - A Global Forecast for the Next Forty Years is a description of trends in global development of Jørgen Randers, that is a follow-up of The Limits to Growth which in 1972 was the first known worldwide report to the Club of Rome.

There are three differences to the previous report. First, it does not describe a disaster scenario, but shows only trends. Secondly, it is to be read in the light of experience since 1972, namely, that all of humanity has responded to the report, but with a delay  of 20  to 40 years. Thirdly, it offers not only future scenarios, it makes concrete proposals on how the individual should respond to emerging developments.

[[Alkyne]]

CATEGORIES: Hydrocarbons, Functional groups

An alkyne is a molecule that has a triple bond between two carbon atoms. They have general formula CnH2n-2. They are also called acetylenes. The smallest alkyne is acetylene, also called ethyne. Alkynes are hydrophobic: this means they dissolve well in organic solvents but not in water. 

Alkynes are more reactive than usual hydrocarbons simply because they have triple bonds. For example, they are more reactive than alkenes in many reactions. If the alkyne is at the end of a molecule, it is easy to remove the proton with a strong base. Then, the alkyne can be used in addition reactions. For example, it can be added to a ketone. Alkynes are also easy to reduce to double bonds. They can be made into both trans and cis double bonds. Alkynes are also used a lot in pericyclic reactions.

[[Carboxylic acid]]

CATEGORIES: Acids, Functional groups, Carboxylic acids

A carboxylic acid is any molecule that has a COOH group. This group contains a carbonyl (C=O double bond) together with an hydroxyl group (OH) on the same carbon atom. Because it is easy to remove the proton with even a weak base, these compounds are called acids. An example of a carboxylic acid is Acetic acid, which is also known as vinegar.

Carboxylic acids are found a lot in food. Many types of fat molecules are actually carboxylic acids. For example, chocolate and coconuts have these acids. They are also used a lot in soaps and detergents.

The smaller carboxylic acids dissolve in water. The bigger ones dissolve only in organic solvents.

[[Epoxide]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups

In organic chemistry, an epoxide is a molecule that has a ring with at least three atoms in total, two carbon atoms and one oxygen atom. These three atoms are bonded, or stuck together, in a small ring. The ring of atoms is shaped like a triangle, with all edges of the same length. Because of this small ring, an epoxide is very reactive. 

Epoxides can be made by oxidation of alkenes. There are many ways to do this. Usually, a peroxide is used. Some ways can even make only one enantiomer of the epoxide.

Epoxides like to react with nucleophiles. Usually, when an epoxide reacts with a nucleophile, the first thing it does is break one of its chemical bonds between the oxygen atom and the carbon atom. This makes the triangular ring pop open. With the ring open, the nucleophile gets stuck onto one of the carbon atoms. On the other carbon, the left over oxygen attaches to a hydrogen atom, turning into an alcohol. This is very useful, because it is easy to change an alcohol into many other functional groups.

Epoxides are useful because with them very complicated molecules can be made quickly. Epoxides are extremely useful for making many other compounds. That is because oxygen, which is in an epoxide, is such a great functional group. Once you have made an epoxide, you can make alcohols, ethers, and halohydrins, among other things.

[[Max Dugan Returns]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 comedy-drama movies, English-language movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by Herbert Ross

Max Dugan Returns is a 1983 American comedy-drama movie. It stars Jason Robards as Max Dugan, Marsha Mason as his daughter Nora, Donald Sutherland, Kiefer Sutherland, and Matthew Broderick as grandson Michael. This was the first movie appearance for both Broderick and Kiefer Sutherland. This was the last Neil Simon movie directed by Herbert Ross. It was also the last Simon movie starring Mason (Simon's wife at the time).

[[10th Ward of New Orleans]]

CATEGORIES: New Orleans, Louisiana

The 10th Ward is a division of the city of New Orleans, Louisiana. The 10th Ward is one of the 17 Wards of New Orleans.

The 10th Ward is one of the city's Uptown wards, formerly the old Faubourg Lafayette annexed by New Orleans in 1850s.

[[George Washington Cable House]]

CATEGORIES: National Historic Landmarks of the United States, New Orleans, Louisiana, Houses in the United States, Buildings and structures in Louisiana, 1874 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Louisiana

George Washington Cable House is a cottage at 1313 8th Street in the Garden District of New Orleans, Louisiana. It was the home of George Washington Cable (1844–1925), an American novelist who wrote of Creole life, during the period in which he rose to national prominence.

He lived in this home during 1874-1884. The house was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1962.

[[Gallier House]]

CATEGORIES: National Historic Landmarks of the United States, New Orleans, Louisiana, Houses in the United States, Buildings and structures in Louisiana, 1857 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Louisiana

Gallier House, also known as James Gallier, Jr., House was the home of American architect James Gallier, Jr. in New Orleans, Louisiana. Gallier designed the house himself. It is located on Royal Street in the French Quarter section of the city.

It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1974.

Gallier House now houses a museum, with the interior restored and furnished in the style of the 1850s.

[[Gland, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Gland is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Grandchamp, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Grandchamp is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Grimault]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Grimault is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Gron, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Gron is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Guerchy]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Guerchy is a former commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Valravillon.

[[Guillon, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Guillon is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Guillon-Terre-Plaine.

[[Gurgy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Gurgy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Gy-l'Évêque]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Gy-l'Évêque is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Hauterive, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Hauterive is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Héry, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Héry is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Irancy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Irancy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Island, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Island is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[L'Isle-sur-Serein]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

L'Isle-sur-Serein is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Jaulges]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Jaulges is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Joigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Joigny is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Jouancy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Jouancy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Joux-la-Ville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Joux-la-Ville is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Jouy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Jouy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Jully]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Jully is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Junay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Junay is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Jussy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Jussy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. The people who live in Jussy are called Jussiens.

[[Laduz]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Laduz is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Valravillon.

[[Lailly]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lailly is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lain, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lain is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lainsecq]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lainsecq is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lalande, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lalande is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Laroche-Saint-Cydroine]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Laroche-Saint-Cydroine is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lasson, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lasson is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lavau, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lavau is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Précy-sur-Vrin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Précy-sur-Vrin is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Prégilbert]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Prégilbert is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Préhy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Préhy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Provency]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Provency is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Prunoy]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Prunoy is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Quarré-les-Tombes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Quarré-les-Tombes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Quenne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Quenne is a French commune, or small town. It is in the Yonne department, in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region, in the center of France.

[[Leugny, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Leugny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Levis, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Levis is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lézinnes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lézinnes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lichères-près-Aigremont]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lichères-près-Aigremont is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lichères-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lichères-sur-Yonne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lignorelles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lignorelles is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Ligny-le-Châtel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Ligny-le-Châtel is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lindry]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lindry is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lixy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lixy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Looze]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Looze is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lucy-le-Bois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lucy-le-Bois is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lucy-sur-Cure]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lucy-sur-Cure is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Lucy-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Lucy-sur-Yonne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Magny, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Magny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Maillot, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Maillot is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Mailly-la-Ville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Mailly-la-Ville is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Mailly-le-Château]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Mailly-le-Château is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Malay-le-Grand]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Malay-le-Grand is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Malay-le-Petit]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Malay-le-Petit is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Malicorne, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Malicorne is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Maligny, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Maligny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Marchais-Beton]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Marchais-Beton is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Quincerot, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Quincerot is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Marmeaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Marmeaux is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Marsangy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Marsangy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Massangis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Massangis is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Mélisey, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Mélisey is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Menades]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Menades is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Mercy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Mercy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Méré, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Méré is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Merry-la-Vallée]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Merry-la-Vallée is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Merry-Sec]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Merry-Sec is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Merry-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Merry-sur-Yonne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Moulins-sur-Ouanne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Moulins-sur-Ouanne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Moulins-en-Tonnerrois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Moulins-en-Tonnerrois is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Mouffy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Mouffy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Mont-Saint-Sulpice]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Mont-Saint-Sulpice is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Montréal, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Montréal is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Montillot]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Montillot is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Mézilles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Mézilles is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Michery]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Michery is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Migé]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Migé is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Migennes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Migennes is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Ravières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Ravières is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Roffey, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Roffey is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Rogny-les-Sept-Écluses]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Rogny-les-Sept-Écluses is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Montigny-la-Resle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Montigny-la-Resle is a commune in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Môlay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Môlay is a commune in the Yonne department of France.

[[Moutiers-en-Puisaye]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Moutiers-en-Puisaye is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Nailly]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Nailly is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Neuilly, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Neuilly is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Valravillon.

[[Montacher-Villegardin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Montacher-Villegardin is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Monéteau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Monéteau is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Molosmes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Molosmes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Molinons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Molinons is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Molesmes]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Molesmes is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune of Les Hauts de Forterre.

[[Neuvy-Sautour]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Neuvy-Sautour is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Nitry]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Nitry is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Noé, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Noé is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Noyers, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Noyers is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Nuits]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Nuits is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villiers-Saint-Benoît]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villiers-Saint-Benoît is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villiers-Louis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villiers-Louis is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villiers-les-Hauts]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villiers-les-Hauts is a commune in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villevallier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villevallier is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Les Ormes, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Les Ormes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Ormoy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Ormoy is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Ouanne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Ouanne is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Pacy-sur-Armançon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Pacy-sur-Armançon is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Pailly, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Pailly is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Parly]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Parly is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Paron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Paron is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Paroy-en-Othe]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Paroy-en-Othe is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Paroy-sur-Tholon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Paroy-sur-Tholon is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Pasilly]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Pasilly is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Passy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Passy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Perceneige]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Perceneige is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Percey]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Percey is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Perreux, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Perreux is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Perrigny, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Perrigny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Ronchères, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Ronchères is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Rousson, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Rousson is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Rouvray, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Rouvray is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Rugny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Rugny is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sacy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Sacy is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the commune of Vermenton.

[[Sainpuits]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sainpuits is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Agnan, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Agnan is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-André-en-Terre-Plaine]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-André-en-Terre-Plaine is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Aubin-Château-Neuf]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Saint-Aubin-Château-Neuf is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Le Val-d'Ocre.

[[Saint-Aubin-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Aubin-sur-Yonne is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Brancher]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Brancher is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Bris-le-Vineux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Bris-le-Vineux is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Clément, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Clément is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Cyr-les-Colons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Cyr-les-Colons is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Denis-lès-Sens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Denis-lès-Sens is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Denis-sur-Ouanne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Saint-Denis-sur-Ouanne is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Sainte-Colombe, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sainte-Colombe is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sainte-Colombe-sur-Loing]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Sainte-Colombe-sur-Loing is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Treigny-Perreuse-Sainte-Colombe.

[[Sainte-Magnance]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sainte-Magnance is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sainte-Pallaye]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sainte-Pallaye is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sainte-Vertu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sainte-Vertu is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Fargeau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Fargeau is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Florentin, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Florentin is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Georges-sur-Baulche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Georges-sur-Baulche is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Germain-des-Champs]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Germain-des-Champs is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Julien-du-Sault]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Julien-du-Sault is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Léger-Vauban]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Léger-Vauban is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Loup-d'Ordon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Loup-d'Ordon is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Martin-des-Champs, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Martin-des-Champs is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Martin-d'Ordon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Martin-d'Ordon is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Martin-du-Tertre, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Martin-du-Tertre is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Martin-sur-Armançon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Martin-sur-Armançon is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Martin-sur-Ocre, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Saint-Martin-sur-Ocre is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Le Val-d'Ocre.

[[Saint-Martin-sur-Ouanne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Saint-Martin-sur-Ouanne is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Saint-Maurice-aux-Riches-Hommes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Maurice-aux-Riches-Hommes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Maurice-le-Vieil]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Maurice-le-Vieil is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Maurice-Thizouaille]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Maurice-Thizouaille is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Estadio Nacional de Costa Rica (2011)]]

CATEGORIES: Stadiums, Sport in Costa Rica, 2011 establishments in North America, Establishments in Costa Rica

The National Stadium of Costa Rica (Estadio Nacional de Costa Rica) is a multi-purpose stadium. It is mostly used for football matches. The stadium is in San José, Costa Rica. It is the largest stadium in Costa Rica and one of the largest in Central America. It holds about 35,000 people. It is the home ground of the Costa Rica national football team.

The stadium was opened in 2011. It was built in the same place where the old national stadium (built in 1924) was located.

The stadium is the only venue of the 2013 Copa Centroamericana.

[[Saint-Moré]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Moré is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Père, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

 Saint-Père is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Privé, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Privé is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villethierry]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villethierry is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villeroy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villeroy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Romain-le-Preux]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Saint-Romain-le-Preux is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Sépeaux-Saint-Romain.

[[Saints-en-Puisaye]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saints-en-Puisaye is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Sauveur-en-Puisaye]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Sauveur-en-Puisaye is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Sérotin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Sérotin is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Valérien, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saint-Valérien is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Saligny, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Saligny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sambourg]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sambourg is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Santigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Santigny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sarry, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sarry is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sauvigny-le-Beuréal]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sauvigny-le-Beuréal is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sauvigny-le-Bois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sauvigny-le-Bois is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Savigny-en-Terre-Plaine]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Savigny-en-Terre-Plaine is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villeperrot]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villeperrot is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villeneuve-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villeneuve-sur-Yonne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villeneuve-Saint-Salves]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villeneuve-Saint-Salves is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villeneuve-les-Genêts]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villeneuve-les-Genêts is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villeneuve-l'Archevêque]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villeneuve-l'Archevêque is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villeneuve-la-Guyard]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villeneuve-la-Guyard is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villeneuve-la-Dondagre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villeneuve-la-Dondagre is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villenavotte]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villenavotte is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villemer, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Villemer is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Valravillon.

[[Savigny-sur-Clairis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Savigny-sur-Clairis is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villemanoche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villemanoche is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sceaux, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Sceaux is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Guillon-Terre-Plaine.

[[Seignelay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Seignelay is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sementron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sementron is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Senan, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Senan is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sennevoy-le-Bas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sennevoy-le-Bas is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sennevoy-le-Haut]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sennevoy-le-Haut is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sens]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Yonne

Sens is a French commune. It is in the north of the Yonne department in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region, to the southeast of Paris, and is a subprefecture in the department. It is also the capital of the arrrondissement of Sens.

Sens is the second commune of the department by its population, after Auxerre, prefecture of the department.

[[Sépeaux]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Sépeaux is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Sépeaux-Saint-Romain.

[[Jack Lew]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, American Jews, Harvard University alumni, Directors of the Office of Management and Budget, People from New York City, White House Chiefs of Staff

Jacob Joseph "Jack" Lew (born August 29, 1955) is the former United States Secretary of the Treasury and an American government administrator who was the 25th White House Chief of Staff from 2012 to 2013. Lew previously was Director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Clinton and Obama Administrations. He is a member of the Democratic party. He is an attorney. He has also been employed in the private sector.

[[Serbonnes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Serbonnes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sergines]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sergines is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sermizelles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sermizelles is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Serrigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Serrigny is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sery, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sery is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Les Sièges]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Les Sièges is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sommecaise]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sommecaise is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sormery]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sormery is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Soucy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Soucy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Sougères-en-Puisaye]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Sougères-en-Puisaye is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Soumaintrain]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Soumaintrain is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Stigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Stigny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Subligny, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Subligny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Taingy]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Taingy is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune of Les Hauts de Forterre.

[[Talcy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Talcy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Val-de-Mercy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Val-de-Mercy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Tanlay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Tanlay is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Tannerre-en-Puisaye]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Tannerre-en-Puisaye is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Tharoiseau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Tharoiseau is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Tharot]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Tharot is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Theil-sur-Vanne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Theil-sur-Vanne is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Les Vallées-de-la-Vanne.

[[Thizy, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Thizy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Thorey]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Thorey is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Thorigny-sur-Oreuse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Thorigny-sur-Oreuse is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Thory, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Thory is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Thury, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Thury is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Tissey]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Tissey is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Tonnerre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Tonnerre is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Toucy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Toucy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Treigny]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Treigny is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Treigny-Perreuse-Sainte-Colombe.

[[Trévilly]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Trévilly is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Guillon-Terre-Plaine.

[[Lists of communes of France]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of communes of France

The following lists give the communes of France within each department:

[[Trichey]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Trichey is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Tronchoy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Tronchoy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Trucy-sur-Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Trucy-sur-Yonne is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Turny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Turny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vallan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vallan is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vallery]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vallery is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vareilles, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Vareilles is a former commune in the Yonne department in the centre of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Les Vallées-de-la-Vanne.

[[Varennes, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Varennes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vassy-sous-Pisy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vassy-sous-Pisy (before 2010: Vassy) is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vaudeurs]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vaudeurs is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vault-de-Lugny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vault-de-Lugny is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vaumort]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vaumort is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Venizy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Venizy is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Venouse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Venouse is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Venoy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Venoy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vergigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vergigny is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Verlin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Verlin is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vermenton]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vermenton is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.  On 1 January 2016, the former commune of Sacy was merged into Vermenton.

[[Vernoy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vernoy is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Véron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Véron is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vézannes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vézannes is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vézelay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vézelay is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vézinnes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Vézinnes is a commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Vignes, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Vignes is a former commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Guillon-Terre-Plaine.

[[Villefranche, Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Yonne

Villefranche is a former commune. It is in the Yonne department in the center of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Charny-Orée-de-Puisaye.

[[Villefargeau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villefargeau is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villecien]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villecien is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villechétive]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villechétive is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villebougis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villebougis is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Villeblevin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yonne

Villeblevin is a commune. It is found in the Yonne department in the center of France.

[[Hérisson]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Hérisson is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Huriel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Huriel is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Hyds]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Hyds is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Isle-et-Bardais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Isle-et-Bardais is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Isserpent]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Isserpent is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Jaligny-sur-Besbre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Jaligny-sur-Besbre is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Jenzat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Jenzat is a French commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Laféline]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Laféline is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Lalizolle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Lalizolle is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Lamaids]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Lamaids is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Langy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Langy is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Lapalisse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Lapalisse is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Montilly]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Montilly is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Le Montet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Le Montet is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Montmarault]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Montmarault is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Vieure]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Vieure is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Montvicq]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Montvicq is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Montord]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Montord is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Montoldre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Montoldre is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Néris-les-Bains]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Néris-les-Bains is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Neuilly-en-Donjon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Neuilly-en-Donjon is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Villebret]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Villebret is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Le Vilhain]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Le Vilhain is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Le Veurdre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Le Veurdre is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Laprugne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Laprugne is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Lavault-Sainte-Anne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Lavault-Sainte-Anne is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Lavoine]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Lavoine is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Lenax]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Lenax is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Lételon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Lételon is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Liernolles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Liernolles is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Lignerolles, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Lignerolles is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Limoise]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Limoise is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Loddes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Loddes is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Loriges]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Loriges is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Louchy-Montfand]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Louchy-Montfand is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Louroux-Bourbonnais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Louroux-Bourbonnais is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Louroux-de-Beaune]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Louroux-de-Beaune is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Louroux-de-Bouble]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Louroux-de-Bouble is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Louroux-Hodement]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Allier

Louroux-Hodement is a former commune in the Allier department in central France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune Haut-Bocage.

[[Monteignet-sur-l'Andelot]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Monteignet-sur-l'Andelot is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Montcombroux-les-Mines]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Montcombroux-les-Mines is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Montbeugny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Montbeugny is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Montaigu-le-Blin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Montaigu-le-Blin is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Montaiguët-en-Forez]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Montaiguët-en-Forez is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Monétay-sur-Loire]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Monétay-sur-Loire is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Monétay-sur-Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Monétay-sur-Allier is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Monestier, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Monestier is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Molles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Molles is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Molinet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Molinet is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Mesples]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Mesples is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Mercy, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Mercy is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Meillers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Meillers is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Meillard]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Meillard is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Meaulne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Allier

Meaulne is a former commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune Meaulne-Vitray.

[[Mazirat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Mazirat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Mazerier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Mazerier is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Luneau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Luneau is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Le Mayet-de-Montagne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Le Mayet-de-Montagne is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Le Mayet-d'École]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Le Mayet-d'École is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Mariol]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Mariol is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Marigny, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Marigny is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Marcillat-en-Combraille]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Marcillat-en-Combraille is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Marcenat, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Marcenat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Malicorne, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Malicorne is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Maillet, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Allier

Maillet was a commune in the Allier department in central France. On 1 January 2016, it became part of the new commune Haut-Bocage.

[[Neuilly-le-Réal]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Neuilly-le-Réal is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Neure]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Neure is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Lurcy-Lévis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Lurcy-Lévis is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Lusigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Lusigny is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Magnet, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Magnet is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Neuvy, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Neuvy is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Nizerolles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Nizerolles is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Noyant-d'Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Noyant-d'Allier is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Paray-le-Frésil]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Paray-le-Frésil is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Paray-sous-Briailles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Paray-sous-Briailles is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Périgny, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Périgny is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Pierrefitte-sur-Loire]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Pierrefitte-sur-Loire is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Le Pin, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Le Pin is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Poëzat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Poëzat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Vernusse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Vernusse is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Verneuil-en-Bourbonnais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Verneuil-en-Bourbonnais is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Pouzy-Mésangy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Pouzy-Mésangy is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Prémilhat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Prémilhat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Quinssaines]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Quinssaines is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Reugny, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Reugny is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Rocles, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Rocles is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Rongères]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Rongères is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Ronnet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Ronnet is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Angel, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Angel is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Aubin-le-Monial]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Aubin-le-Monial is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Bonnet-de-Four]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Bonnet-de-Four is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Bonnet-de-Rochefort]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Bonnet-de-Rochefort is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Bonnet-Tronçais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Bonnet-Tronçais is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Caprais, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Caprais is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Christophe, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Christophe is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Clément, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Clément is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Désiré]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Désiré is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Didier-en-Donjon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Didier-en-Donjon is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Didier-la-Forêt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Didier-la-Forêt is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Éloy-d'Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Éloy-d'Allier is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Ennemond]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Ennemond is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Sainte-Thérence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Sainte-Thérence is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Étienne-de-Vicq]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Étienne-de-Vicq is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Fargeol]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Fargeol is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Félix, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Félix is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Genest, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Genest is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Gérand-de-Vaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Gérand-de-Vaux is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Gérand-le-Puy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Gérand-le-Puy is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Germain-de-Salles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Germain-de-Salles is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Germain-des-Fossés]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Germain-des-Fossés is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Hilaire, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Hilaire is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France. In 1999 there was 567 peoples.

[[Saint-Léger-sur-Vouzance]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Léger-sur-Vouzance is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Léon, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Léon is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Léopardin-d'Augy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Léopardin-d'Augy is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Loup, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Loup is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Marcel-en-Marcillat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Marcel-en-Marcillat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Marcel-en-Murat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Marcel-en-Murat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Martin-des-Lais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Martin-des-Lais is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Martinien]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Martinien is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Menoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Menoux is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Nicolas-des-Biefs]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Nicolas-des-Biefs is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Palais, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Palais is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Pierre-Laval]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Pierre-Laval is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Plaisir]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Plaisir is a commune in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Pont]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Pont is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Pourçain-sur-Besbre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Pourçain-sur-Besbre is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Pourçain-sur-Sioule]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Pourçain-sur-Sioule is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Priest-d'Andelot]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Priest-d'Andelot is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Priest-en-Murat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Priest-en-Murat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Prix, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Prix is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Rémy-en-Rollat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Rémy-en-Rollat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Sauvier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Sauvier is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Sornin, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Sornin is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Victor, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Victor is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Voir]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Voir is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saint-Yorre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saint-Yorre is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saligny-sur-Roudon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saligny-sur-Roudon is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Sanssat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Sanssat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saulcet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saulcet is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Saulzet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Saulzet is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Sauvagny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Sauvagny is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Sazeret]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Sazeret is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Serbannes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Serbannes is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Servilly]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Servilly is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Seuillet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Seuillet is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Sorbier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Sorbier is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Souvigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Souvigny is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Sussat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Sussat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Target, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Target is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Taxat-Senat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Taxat-Senat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Teillet-Argenty]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Teillet-Argenty is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Terjat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Terjat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of Germany, France.

[[Le Theil, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Le Theil is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Theneuille]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Theneuille is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Thiel-sur-Acolin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Thiel-sur-Acolin is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Thionne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Thionne is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Tortezais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Tortezais is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Toulon-sur-Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Toulon-sur-Allier is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Treban]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Treban is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Treignat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Treignat is a commune. It is in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Treteau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Treteau is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Trévol]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Trévol is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Trézelles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Trézelles is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Tronget]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Tronget is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Urçay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Urçay is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Ussel-d'Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Ussel-d'Allier is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Bodily integrity]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Sociology

Bodily integrity is the idea that a person's body belongs only to that person, and only he or she should decide what happens to it. Violations of bodily integrity may include rape or murder. It is also sometimes used in debates about euthanasia or circumcision.

It is one of the principles of liberalism. It may also be called other names such as self-ownership, individual autonomy or self-determination.

The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also requires protection of physical and mental integrity.

[[Quack Pack]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 television series debuts, Television series by Disney, Television series by Buena Vista Television, Animated television series, 1996 television series endings

Quack Pack is an animated Disney television series. Is the second spin-off of the series are DuckTales. The series was originally shown from September 3, 1996 to November 28, 1996. It had a total of 39 episodes.

[[Goof Troop]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 television series debuts, Television series by Disney, Animated television series, First run syndicated television programs, 1993 television series endings, English-language television programs

Goof Troop is an animated Disney television series. The series was originally shown from September 5, 1992 to May 1993. It had a total of 79 episodes. They started planning on the movies in early 1993 and early 1997, They wanted to release these movies in November 1994 and October 1998 as A Goofy Movie 2 and A Goofy Movie 3 was supposed to release in July 2000, A Goofy Movie 4 in February 2004 and A Goofy Movie 5 in September 2008. but the first two got delayed to May 1995 and February 2000 and the third, fourth and fifth films was cancelled.

[[Bonkers (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 American television series debuts, Television series by Disney, Animated television series, 1994 disestablishments in the United States, English-language television programs

Bonkers is an animated Disney television series. Originally was the spin-off of the 1992 television series Raw Toonage. The series was originally shown from May 5, 1993 to February 23, 1994. It had 65 episodes.

[[Chip 'n Dale Rescue Rangers]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 American television series debuts, Television series by Disney, Animated television series, First run syndicated television programs, 1990 American television series endings

Chip 'n Dale Rescue Rangers is an American animated television series. The series was originally shown from March 4, 1989 to November 19, 1990. It had a total of 65 episodes.

[[TaleSpin]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 American television series debuts, Television series by Disney, Animated television series, First run syndicated television programs, English-language television programs

TaleSpin is an American animated television show.  It is based on characters from Disney's The Jungle Book movie.  Instead of being wild animals from the jungle, the characters in TaleSpin wear clothes, live in a town, and have jobs. The series was originally shown from May 5, 1990 to August 8, 1991. It had a total of 65 episodes.

[[Gargoyles]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 television series debuts, Television series by Disney, Animated television series, ABC network shows, First run syndicated television programs, English-language television programs

Gargoyles is an animated Disney television series. The series was originally shown from October 24, 1994 to February 15, 1997, airing in syndication from 1994 to 1996, and on ABC from 1996 until the end of its run. It had a total of 78 episodes.

[[Valignat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Valignat is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Valigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Valigny is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Vallon-en-Sully]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Vallon-en-Sully is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Varennes-sur-Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Varennes-sur-Allier is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Varennes-sur-Tèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Varennes-sur-Tèche is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Vaumas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Vaumas is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Vaux, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Vaux is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Veauce]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Veauce is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Le Vernet, Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Le Vernet is a commune. It is found in the Allier department in the center of France.

[[Verneix]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Verneix is a commune. It is in Allier in the center of France.

[[Venas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Venas is a commune. It is in Allier in the center of France.

[[Vendat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Vendat is a commune. It is in Allier in the center of France.

[[Aladdin (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 television series debuts, Television series by Disney, Animated television series, First run syndicated television programs, Television series by Buena Vista Television, English-language television programs

Aladdin is an animated Disney television series based on the 1992 movie. The series ran from September 5, 1994 to November 25, 1995 with 86 episodes.

[[Los Ángeles, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Los Ángeles is a Chilean city; it is the capital and main city of the Bío Bío province, Bío Bío region.

[[The Little Mermaid (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 American television series debuts, 1994 disestablishments, Animated television series, First run syndicated television programs, Television series by Disney, The Little Mermaid (Disney), English-language television programs

The Little Mermaid was an animated Disney television series. It was based on The Little Mermaid movie. The series was shown from September 11, 1992 to November 26, 1994. It had a total of 31 episodes.

[[The Lion King's Timon and Pumbaa]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 television series debuts, Television series by Disney, Animated television series, First run syndicated television programs, 1999 disestablishments, English-language television programs

The Lion King's Timon and Pumbaa is an animated Disney television series. It is based off The Lion King movie. The series was shown from September 16, 1995 to 1999. It had a total of 86 episodes.

[[Lebu, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Lebu is a Chilean port city and commune. The city is also the capital of the Arauco Province in Bío Bío Region. It lies on the south bank of the mouth of the Lebu River. The commune includes the Mocha Island. Lebu was founded on 1862 thanks to some number of colonies in the zone. The commune has an area of 561.4 km2. According to the INE census of 2002, the population is with 25,035 inhabitants.

[[Jungle Cubs]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 television series debuts, Television series by Disney, Animated television series, 1998 television series endings

Jungle Cubs is an animated Disney television series. It is based on The Jungle Book movie. The series was first shown from October 5, 1996 to January 10, 1998. It had a total of 21 episodes.

[[Disney's House of Mouse]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 television series debuts, Television series by Disney, Animated television series, Television series by Buena Vista Television

Disney's House of Mouse is a animated television series from The Walt Disney Company.  It was on television from 2001 to 2002. In the television show Mickey Mouse and his friends have a dinner theater called the "House of Mouse" in downtown Toontown. It features many different Disney characters together. It has a Halloween special where the villains take over the theater for themselves and a Christmas special.

[[Pindar]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek poets, Thebes, Greece

Pindar (ˈ; Πίνδαρος Pindaros, píndaros; Pindarus; c. 518 – 438 BC) was an ancient Greek poet of Thebes. He was born in Boeotia, around 518 BC. He died in Argos, at age 80 in 438 BC. He is known for his odes in praise of athletes and their accomplishments but he wrote poems in many other forms as well.

[[Radioactive contamination]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Nuclear energy

Radioactive contamination  or radiological contamination is the contamination of the environment with radioactive materials, where these materials are not present. Many radioactive substances have very long half lives; this means that if they are present in the envioroment, they can be dangerous for a very long time. Many nuclear power plants produce such substances; usually they are processed to radioactive waste. There is little danger that comes from radioactive waste,if it is stored safely.

[[Battle of Chaeronea]]

CATEGORIES: 330s BC, History of Greece, Battles of the Ancient World

The Battle of Chaeronea was a battle in Ancient Greece. It was fought in 338 BC near the city of Chaeronea in Boeotia. It was fought between the armies of Philip II of Macedon and an alliance of some of the Greek city-states including Athens and Thebes. The battle was the end of Philip's campaign in Greece (339–338 BC). It was a strong victory for the Macedonians.

[[Homosexuality in the militaries of ancient Greece]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece

Homosexuality in the militaries of ancient Greece was regarded as contributing to morale. The chief example is the Sacred Band of Thebes, a unit said to have been formed of same-sex couples. The Spartan tradition of military heroism has also been explained in light of strong emotional bonds resulting from homosexual relationships. Various ancient Greek sources record incidents of courage in battle and interpret them as motivated by homoerotic bonds.

[[E.G. Daily]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Singers from Los Angeles, California, Singer-songwriters from California, 1961 births, Living people

Elizabeth Guttman "E.G." Daily (born Elizbeth Ann Guttman, September 11, 1961, in Los Angeles, California) is an American actress, voice actress, comedian, clown, jester, mime and singer. She has acted on television and in movies and video games. She is best known as the voice of Thomas Malcolm "Tommy" Pickles in Rugrats/All Grown Up and Buttercup in The Powerpuff Girls franchise.

[[Awty International School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Texas, Buildings and structures in Houston, Texas, 1956 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Texas

The Awty International School is a private school in Houston, Texas. It is for pre-kindergarten through 12th grade. It is the largest international school in the United States.

[[Cygnus (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Cygnus is a constellation in the northern sky. Cygnus means "swan" in Greek.  There is a pattern of stars in Cygnus that is called the Northern Cross.  This is because the pattern of stars looks like a cross.  The constellation Crux (constellation) has a pattern of stars that is called the Southern Cross.  The astronomer Ptolemy listed Cygnus in the 2nd century when he made a list of constellations.

[[Imagine Dragons]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American music groups, Musical groups established in 2008, 2010s American music groups, Alternative rock bands, American boy bands, Indie rock bands, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups from Nevada, 2008 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Nevada

Imagine Dragons are an American pop band from Las Vegas, Nevada.

The band was formed in 2008. They made 3 EPs Imagine Dragons EP, Hell and Silence EP and It's Time. They released their debut studio album Night Visions on September 4, 2012. And 3 more Albums after that

The band was named Amazon.com's "Favorite Rock artist of 2012" and was listed as one of "2012's Brightest New Stars" by Billboard Magazine.

[[Dark Tranquillity]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s music groups, Musical groups established in 1989, 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Melodic death metal bands, Swedish heavy metal bands, Musical groups from Gothenburg

Dark Tranquillity is a Swedish melodic death metal band from Billdal. 

The band was formed in 1989 by band member Mikael Stanne and guitarist Niklas Sundin. Stanne and Sundin originally formed a band under the name Septic Broiler. Members Anders Fridén, Anders Jivarp and Martin Henriksson joined the band shortly after. Dark Tranquillity is an important part of the melodic death metal genre of music and are one of the longest-standing bands from the original Gothenburg metal scene.

They released their debut album, Skydancer, on August 30, 1993. They are currently signed to Century Media Records.

[[2000 UEFA Cup Final riots]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in association football, 2000s crimes, Riots in Europe, UEFA, 21st century in Copenhagen, 2000 in Europe

The 2000 UEFA Cup Final Riots, also known as the Battle of Copenhagen, was a riot in City Hall Square in Copenhagen, Denmark, between fans of English football team Arsenal and Turkish side Galatasaray around the 2000 UEFA Cup Final on 17 May 2000. The fights, in which four people were stabbed, also included fans from other clubs and were viewed by the media as part of revenge attacks for the killing of two Leeds United fans by Galatasaray fans the month before.

[[1142]]

CATEGORIES: 1142

Year 1142 (MCXLII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1140]]

CATEGORIES: 1140

Year 1140 (MCXL) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Irreligion]]

CATEGORIES: Religion, Philosophy

Irreligion (meaning not religious) is a term that describes people who reject religion, or who do not have a particular religion.

The term covers all those who answer "none" to questionnaires which ask people about their religion. In the social survey world, they are called "the nones". The term irreligious is an umbrella term, for atheists, agnostics, deists and ignostics.

Irreligion takes many forms, ranging from the casual and unaware to full-fledged philosophies such as atheism, agnosticism, and secular humanism. 

Irreligion may be a purely naturalist worldview which denies a belief in anything supernatural. The broadest and loosest definition, is the lack of religious identification (attendance at church, temple etc.). The narrowest and strictest is subscribing to "positive atheism". That might be described as a willingness to state rejection of a deity absolutely. Public statements of belief can be, and are, tailored to the various social climates.

[[1230]]

CATEGORIES: 1230

Year 1230 (MCCXXX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1136]]

CATEGORIES: 1136

Year 1136 (MCXXXVI) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1132]]

CATEGORIES: 1132

Year 1132 (MCXXXII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1127]]

CATEGORIES: 1127

Year 1127 (MCXXVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1126]]

CATEGORIES: 1126

Year 1126 (MCXXVI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[4th millennium BC]]

CATEGORIES: 4th millennium BC

The 4th millennium BC saw major changes in human culture. It marked the beginning of the Bronze Age and of writing.

The city states of Sumer and the kingdom of Egypt were started and grew to prominence. Agriculture spread widely across Eurasia. World population in the course of the millennium doubled to approximately from 7 to 14 million people in the area surrounding them.

[[1108]]

CATEGORIES: 1108

Year 1108 (MCVIII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1110]]

CATEGORIES: 1110

Year 1110 (MCX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1111]]

CATEGORIES: 1111

Year 1111 (MCXI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1112]]

CATEGORIES: 1112

Year 1112 (MCXII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Apus]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Apus is a constellation in the southern sky.  It is hard to see because it is not very bright.  Apus means "no feet" in Greek.  It was named "no feet" because it looks like a Bird-of-Paradise, and people used to think that birds-of-paradise did not have feet.

[[1113]]

CATEGORIES: 1113

Year 1113 (MCXIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Ara (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Ara is a constellation in the southern sky.  Ara means altar in Latin.  It was one of the 48 constellations written down by the astronomer named Ptolemy in the 2nd century.  It is also one of the 88 modern constellations that were made by the International Astronomical Union.

In Greek mythology, Ara is the altar where Zeus and his brothers and sisters said that they were going to win in a war against Cronos and the other Titans.  It is also where people burned incense to show that they appreciated Zeus.  The Greek poet named Aratus said that if sailors could see the constellation Ara, it meant that there was going to be wind blowing from the south.

The Stingray Nebula is in Ara.  It is the  planetary nebula that was created most recently.

NGC 6193 is an open cluster at about 3,765 light-years away from Earth.

[[1114]]

CATEGORIES: 1114

Year 1114 (MCXIV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1115]]

CATEGORIES: 1115

Year 1115 (MCXV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1116]]

CATEGORIES: 1116

Year 1116 (MCXVI) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1120]]

CATEGORIES: 1120

Year 1120 (MCXX) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1117]]

CATEGORIES: 1117

Year 1117 (MCXVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1119]]

CATEGORIES: 1119

Year 1119 (MCXIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1090]]

CATEGORIES: 1090

Year 1090 (MXC) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1089]]

CATEGORIES: 1089, Years

Year 1089 (MLXXXIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Argonautica]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Epic poems

Argonautica is a Greek epic poem by Apollonius of Rhodes. It was written in the 3rd century BC. It tells the story of Jason and the Golden Fleece. 

[[1091]]

CATEGORIES: 1091

Year 1091 (MXCI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1092]]

CATEGORIES: 1092

Year 1092 (MXCII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1074]]

CATEGORIES: 1074

Year 1074 (MLXXIV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1075]]

CATEGORIES: 1075

Year 1075 (MLXXV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1077]]

CATEGORIES: 1077, Years

Year 1077 (MLXXVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Shawn Drover]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Canadian drummers, Canadian musicians, Heavy metal musicians, Living people, Megadeth, People from Montreal

Shawn Drover (born May 5, 1966) is a Canadian musician. He is best known as the drummer of the American heavy metal band Megadeth.

He also played for the Canadian power metal band Eidolon with his brother Glen Drover.

[[Open All Hours]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 television series debuts, 1985 disestablishments in Europe, 1970s British sitcoms, 1970s British workplace television series, 1970s establishments in the United Kingdom, 1970s workplace comedy television series, 1980s British sitcoms, 1980s British workplace television series, 1980s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1980s workplace comedy television series, BBC television sitcoms, British workplace comedy television series, South Yorkshire, Television series about families, Television shows set in Yorkshire, English-language television programs

Open All Hours is a British television sitcom written by Roy Clarke. It was broadcast by the BBC from 1973-1985. It is set in a small grocery shop in Balby, Doncaster, South Yorkshire. It stars Ronnie Barker as the owner Albert Arkwright and David Jason as his nephew Granville, who works for him. Lynda Baron plays nurse Gladys Emanuel, whom Arkwright is strongly attracted to.

It was followed in 2013 by Still Open All Hours.

[[1079]]

CATEGORIES: 1079

Year 1079 (MLXXIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Intel Atom]]

CATEGORIES: Computer processors

Intel Atom (made as Intel Centrino (2003-2010) in 2003) (formerly called Centrino Atom (2008-2009)) is a low-power x86 Microprocessor.  It was created by Intel for netbooks, smartphones, tablet computers, and embedded systems. It was created to compete with the ARM CPU. Its performance per watt is still not as good as the ARM, although the overall performance is better. For a given clock speed, the performance is about the same as a Pentium 4, but the power consumption is much lower.

[[1069]]

CATEGORIES: 1069

Year 1069 (MLXIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1065]]

CATEGORIES: 1065

Year 1065 (MLXV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Aries (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Aries is one of the constellations of the zodiac.  It is in the Northern Hemisphere.  Aries is Latin for ram - a male sheep.  Its symbol is  (Unicode ♈), which represents a ram's horns.  Aries had the meaning of a ram four thousand years ago in Babylonia.  It represents the ram whose fleece (hair) became the Golden Fleece in Ancient Greek Mythology.   The astronomer Ptolemy listed Aries when he made a list of 48 constellations.

[[1063]]

CATEGORIES: 1063

Year 1063 (MLXIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Auriga (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Auriga is a constellation in the northern sky.  It is the Latin word for "charioteer" - someone who drives a vehicle that is pulled by an animal.  The astronomer Ptolemy listed Auriga in the 2nd century when he was writing a list of 48 constellations.

[[Boötes]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Boötes, pronounced with both 'O's as 'boötez', is one of the 88 modern constellations in the northern sky. The name is from the Greek word Βοώτης, which means herdsman  someone who takes care of animals.

[[1064]]

CATEGORIES: 1064

Year 1064 (MLXIV) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1059]]

CATEGORIES: 1059

Year 1059 (MLIX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Robert Eddison]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1991 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors, British voice actors, British radio actors, Actors from London

Robert Leadam Eddison OBE (10 June 1908 –14 December 1991) was a British actor who was known for his role as the Grail Knight in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.

Eddison was born on 10 June 1908 in Yokohama, Japan to British parents. His grandparents were from the United States. He was raised in London, England. Eddison died on 14 December 1991 in London, England from pneumonia, aged 83.

[[1061]]

CATEGORIES: 1061

Year 1061 (MLXI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1058]]

CATEGORIES: 1058

Year 1058 (MLVIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1057]]

CATEGORIES: 1057

Year 1057 (MLVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Caelum]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Caelum is a constellation in the southern sky. It is hard to see because it is not very bright. It means "the chisel" in Latin. Before, people called Caelum Scalptorium, which means "the engraver's chisel". It was created and named by the French astronomer named Nicolas Louis de Lacaille in the 1750s. The brighest star in Caelum has a magnitude of 4.45. This means that all of the stars in Caelum are too dark for people who live in cities to see.

[[1054]]

CATEGORIES: 1054

Year 1054 (MLIV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1053]]

CATEGORIES: 1053

Year 1053 (MLIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1051]]

CATEGORIES: 1051

Year 1051 (MLI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1049]]

CATEGORIES: 1049

Year 1049 (MXLIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1047]]

CATEGORIES: 1047

Year 1047 (MXLVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Biotic]]

Biotic means anything living. Animals, plants, and microbes, for example, are all living organisms so they are considered biotic parts of the environment.

[[Camelopardalis]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Camelopardalis is a constellation in the northern sky.  It is hard to see because it is not very bright.  It is also very large.  It was created and named by the Dutch astronomer named Petrus Plancius in 1612.  It represents a giraffe.  Its brightest star, β Cam, has a magnitude of only 4.03.  This means that Camelopardalis is very dark.  People who live in cities cannot see Camelopardalis.

[[Callinectes]]

CATEGORIES: Portunidae

Callinectes (Blue crabs) is a genus of crabs. Sixteen species are in this genus. These species include the Atlantic blue crab, C. sapidus:

[[Canes Venatici]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Canes Venatici is a constellation in the northern sky.  It means "the hunting dogs" in Latin.  It was named and created by the Polish astronomer Johannes Hevelius in 1687.  The astronomer named Ptolemy included it in Ursa Major when he made a list of 48 constellations in the 2nd century.  Canes Venatici is not a very bright constellation.  

[[Callinectes exasperatus]]

CATEGORIES: Portunidae

Callinectes exasperatus (common name: rugose swimming crab) is a species of swimming crab. They can be found in the western Atlantic Ocean. This species of crab mainly only eats carrion (dead bodies of other animals). This species is not commercially fished.  

[[1044]]

CATEGORIES: 1044

Year 1044 (MXLIV) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1043]]

CATEGORIES: 1043

Year 1043 (MXLIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1041]]

CATEGORIES: 1041

Year 1041 (MXLI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1038]]

CATEGORIES: 1038

Year 1038 (MXXXVIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1037]]

CATEGORIES: 1037

Year 1037 (MXXXVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1032]]

CATEGORIES: 1032

Year 1032 (MXXXII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1033]]

CATEGORIES: 1033

Year 1033 (MXXXIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1026]]

CATEGORIES: 1026

Year 1026 (MXXVI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1023]]

CATEGORIES: 1023

Year 1023 (MXXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1022]]

CATEGORIES: 1022

Year 1022 (MXXII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1020]]

CATEGORIES: 1020

Year 1020 (MXX) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1029]]

CATEGORIES: 1029

Year 1029 (MXXIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1010]]

CATEGORIES: 1010

Year 1010 (MX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Spalato (Italian province)]]

CATEGORIES: History of Italy

The Italian Province of Spalato (1941-1943) was an administrative section of the "Governorate of Dalmatia", created during World War II by the Italian government with Regio Decreto Legge of May 18, 1941.

[[1013]]

CATEGORIES: 1013

Year 1013 (MXIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. It was one thousand years before 2013.

[[1014]]

CATEGORIES: 1014

Year 1014 (MXIV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1016]]

CATEGORIES: 1016

Year 1016 (MXVI) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1017]]

CATEGORIES: 1017

Year 1017 (MXVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1018]]

CATEGORIES: 1018

Year 1018 (MXVIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (liNk will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Canis Minor]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Canis Minor is a constellation in the northern sky.  It is Latin for "smaller dog" or "the lesser dog".  The astronomer Ptolemy listed it when he made a list of 48 constellations in the 2nd century. Both Canis Minor and Canis Major (which means "larger dog" in Latin) represent dogs that follow the hunter named Orion in Greek Mythology.

The main shape of Canis Minor is made by two stars, which are named Procyon (Alpha Canis Minoris) and Gomeisa (Beta Canis Minoris).  These stars are the only stars in Canis Minor that have a magnitude that is brigher than 4.  Procyon has a magnitude of 0.39, which means that it is the seventh brightest star in the night sky.  It is also very close to Earth, since it is only 11.4 light years away.  Procyon is a binary star, which means that it actually has two stars that orbit each other. It has a white dwarf star and a white type F5 main-sequence star.  Gomeisa has a magnitude of 2.9.  Its temperature is 11,500°K, which means that it is very hot.  It is a blue type B8 main-sequence star.  It is 3 times the mass of the sun and 250 times more luminous than the sun.  

[[1007]]

CATEGORIES: 1007

Year 1007 (MVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[1006]]

CATEGORIES: 1006

Year 1006 (MVI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Abraham Cowley]]

CATEGORIES: English writers, English poets, 1618 births, 1677 deaths

Abraham Cowley (1618-1677) was an English writer, a poet and essayist. He wrote and published his first book of poetry at the young age of fifteen years, when he was still at school.

His most famous book was a collection of love poems, The Mistress (1647). Later, he also published a collection of essays in 1668, which was also quite popular.

[[List of men's golf championships]]

CATEGORIES: Golf tournaments, Sports lists

There are four major championships in men's golf:

[[Thomas Fuller]]

CATEGORIES: 1608 births, 1661 deaths, English people, English writers

Thomas Fuller (1608–1661) was an English writer, historian and clergyman.

After taking a Master of Arts degree from Cambridge University he decided to join the church. He used to write to share his ideas with people.

He wrote many books like The History of the Holy War (1639), The Holy State and Profane State (1642), Good Thoughts in Bad Times (1645), Good Thoughts in Worse Times (1647), A History of the University of Cambridge (1659) and Mixed Contemplations in Better Times (1660). 

Thomas Fuller strongly supported the English Royalist party and was very loyal to King Charles I of England. He suffered a lot after his defeat but later on, after the English Restoration, he became Chaplain to King Charles II of England.

[[The Lock]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Jean-Honoré Fragonard, French paintings

The Lock is an oil painting by Jean-Honoré Fragonard. It was painted ca. 1776-79. The picture measures 71 × 92 cm (28 × 36.2 in). It hangs in the Louvre. Fragonard is (and was) famous for mildly erotic scenes. After his marriage in 1769, he painted family scenes.

[[Favelas]]

CATEGORIES: Shanty towns, Settlements in Brazil

A favela (faˈvɛlɐ) is the term for a shanty town in Brazil. They are mostly found on the outskirts of urban areas. The people living in the favelas are the poor, and the rich people live in the city. Most of the buildings in favelas are made out of cheap materials, like plastic, wood, glass and scrap. The people usually build their houses themselves and invite their friends to help them build. Crime is not common in favelas,only 1% of residents are criminals or involved in criminal activity. The favelas themselves are also considered illegal, because the people do not pay tax.

[[Explanation]]

CATEGORIES: Causality, Philosophy, Human communication

An explanation is an attempt to answer the question "why". Asked of a person, it is a question about motive: "why did you do this?". Asked of a natural event, it is a question about natural causes (causation).

In science, an explanation is the link between an event which is a cause, and a second event, which is an effect. The phrase "cause and effect" refers to this. The relationship between the two events is known as causality. The philosopher Mario Bunge said, "We do not rest content with finding facts but wish to know why they should occur rather than not".

As a general rule, explanations move from what we know to what we do not know. This is important because it explains why different kinds of people may need different explanations. "A child, a lay person and an expert may need different explanations of the same thing, since what is already familiar to them will differ".

The asking of questions depends on language, and is peculiar to humans. It starts very soon after a child learns how to speak. A kind of game which young children play with adults is the 'why game'. Every parent gets the experience of their child asking a never-ending stream of why questions, until at last the adult says "Well, it just is!"

There can be plenty of argument about whether or not an explanation is appropriate, and if so, whether it is correct. If one asks why the sun gives out heat and light, to say "because it is daytime" is not appropriate, even if it might indeed be daytime. The real answer was not known until the 20th century. Before then peoples like the ancient Egyptians thought it was caused by a god (Aten).

[[Mrs. Thomas Gainsborough, nee Margaret Burr]]

CATEGORIES: 1770s paintings, Paintings by Thomas Gainsborough, British paintings, 1778

Mrs. Thomas Gainsborough, nee Margaret Burr is an oil painting by Thomas Gainsborough. It was painted about 1778. It measures 76.6 cm x 63.8 cm. It hangs in the Courtauld Institute Galleries in England. The subject is the artist's wife.

[[Mr. and Mrs. Andrews]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Paintings by Thomas Gainsborough, British paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery, London, 1750

Mr. and Mrs. Andrews is an oil painting on canvas by Thomas Gainsborough. It was painted circa 1748-1750. It measures 69.8 × 119.4 cm (27.5 × 47 in). It hangs in the National Gallery, London, England.

[[Voiceless sound]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics

In phonetics, a voiceless sound is made when there is no vibration of the vocal cords. For instance, when you make the sounds for the English consonants p, f and s.

[[Fourth Geneva Convention]]

CATEGORIES: International law, Geneva Conventions, 1940s treaties, 1949 in Europe, 20th century in Geneva

The Fourth Geneva Convention (full tilte: Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War) is an international treaty signed in 1949. These treaties are known as Geneva Conventions, because they were originally signed in Geneva. The fourth geneva convention protects civilians in a war zone. Currently, 194 countries are party to this treaty of international law.

In 1993, the United Nations Security Council adopted a report from the Secretary-General and a Commission of Experts; this report stated that the Geneva Conventions had passed into the body of customary international law. If this is the case, the treaties are binding even to countries who did not sign them,whenever they engage in armed conflicts.

[[John Roxborough Norman]]

CATEGORIES: British scientists, 1898 births, 1944 deaths, Ichthyologists

John Roxborough Norman was a British ichthyologist. He was born in 1898 and died on 26 May 1944 in London.

He started as a clerk in a bank. He was in the military during the First World War. He got rheumatic fever during this time, and had it his whole life. He entered the British Museum in 1921 where he worked for Charles Tate Regan (1878-1943). From 1939 to 1944, he was in charge of the Natural History Museum at Tring. Norman wrote A History of Fishes (1931) and A Draft Synopsis of the Orders, Families and Genera of Recent Fishes (1957).

[[994]]

CATEGORIES: 994

Year 994 (CMXCIV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[993]]

CATEGORIES: 993

Year 993 (CMXCIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[992]]

CATEGORIES: 992

Year 992 (CMXCII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[991]]

CATEGORIES: 991

Year 991 (CMXCI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Betty Fussell]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, American historians, American educators, American critics, Writers from California, Writers from New York City, People from Riverside, California

Betty Harper Fussell (born July 28, 1927) is an American writer and food historian. She as write many books about food history, recipes, and her memoir. She is also a critic and educator. Fussell worked with the New York Times, The New Yorker, and the Los Angeles Times. During her career, she won many awards and received many honors. In 2009, she was made a member of Who’s Who of Food & Beverage in America.

Fussell was born in Riverside, California. She was raised in both in California and in New York City. She studied at Pomona College, Radcliffe College, and Rutgers University. Fussell was married to American writer Paul Fussell from 1949 until they divorced in 1981. They have two children. She now lives in New York  City.

[[Robert Kardashian]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2003 deaths, American lawyers, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Kardashian family

Robert George Kardashian (February 22, 1944 – September 30, 2003) was an American lawyer and businessman. He was the lawyer for O. J. Simpson when he was accused for murder. David Schwimmer played his role in the 2016 FX miniseries American Crime Story: The People v. O. J. Simpson.

[[Charioteer of Delphi]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Ancient Greek and Roman statues, Ancient Greek bronze sculptures

The Charioteer of Delphi is a Greek bronze sculpture from the early Classical period, about 477 BC. It stands 1.8 m tall. 

It was discovered in the sanctuary of Apollo at Delphi during excavations by French archaeologists in 1896. With the statue were found fragments of a sculpted chariot, sculpted horses, and a small, sculpted person, presumably the charioteer's groom. All would have been part of a large monument. The charioteer monument was commissioned by Polyzalos, a Sicilian tyrant, to commemorate his victory in the chariot races about 477 BC. At some point, according to Greek practice, the statue was buried, probably because of irreparable damage.

[[Dylan Olsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, American Hockey League players, American ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, ECHL players, Florida Panthers players, Living people, Sportspeople from Salt Lake City, Utah, Ice hockey defencemen

Dylan D. Olsen (born January 3, 1991 in Salt Lake City, Utah) is an American born-Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman. He currently plays for the South Carolina Stingrays of the ECHL. He also played for the Chicago Blackhawks and Florida Panthers of the NHL

He was drafted with the 28th overall pick by the Chicago Blackhawks in the 2009 NHL Entry Draft. He began his hockey career when he was drafted by the Medicine Hat Tigers in the 2006 WHL Bantam Draft. He instead played for the Camrose Kodiaks of the AJHL for three seasons before he left to play college hockey. He played college hockey at the University of Minnesota Duluth with the Bulldogs.

After he finished his college hockey career, he played for the Chicago Blackhawks' AHL farm team, the Rockford IceHogs for 2 seasons. On November 14, 2013, the Blackhawks traded Olsen along with Jimmy Hayes to the Florida Panthers for Kris Versteeg and Philippe Lefebvre.

His father was also an ice hockey player that played one game in the NHL with the Calgary Flames in the 1991-92 NHL season.

[[Joseph Heller]]

CATEGORIES: American novelists, American playwrights, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Writers from New York City, 1923 births, 1999 deaths

Joseph Heller (May 1, 1923 - December 12, 1999) was an American novelist and playwright. He was born in Coney Island, Brooklyn, New York City. He was most famous for the satirical war novel Catch-22 (1961). He died of a heart attack in East Hampton, Long Island, New York.

[[Harita Kaur Deol]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 1996 deaths, Aviation deaths, Aviators, Indian military people

Flt. Lt. Harita Kaur Deol (1972 – 25 December 1996) is a pilot with the Indian Air Force (IAF). She was the first woman pilot to fly solo in the IAF. The flight was on 2 September 1994. She was 22 years old at the time.

Harita is originally from Chandigarh. She joined the Air Force in 1992, when it advertised for the first time 8 jobs for women pilots.

She flew an Avro aircraft. She landed at the Yelahanka Air Force Station, near Bangalore. Two more women, Flight Cadets Archana Kapoor and Bindu Sebastian, did their solo flights on the Avro after Harita.

There had been other female pilots in India before, but Harita was the first time a woman was flying for the Air Force.

She died in a air crash in 1996.

[[Paul Verhoeven]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Dutch atheists, Dutch former Christians, Dutch movie directors, Dutch movie producers, Dutch screenwriters, Television directors, Television producers, Writers from Amsterdam

Paul Verhoeven (born 18 July 1938) is a Dutch movie director, producer and writer. He was born in Amsterdam. He directed American movies RoboCop, Total Recall, Basic Instinct, Showgirls and Starship Troopers. He wrote and directed Dutch movie Black Book.

During his youth Verhoeven was for a short time a Pentecostal Christian. Although he is an atheist,  he takes a great interest in Jesus. He is a member of the Jesus Seminar and wrote "Jesus of Nazareth" in 2007, a liberal view on Jesus. He is intending to make a movie about Jesus.

[[Emmeline Pankhurst]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 1928 deaths, British feminists, People from Manchester

Emmeline Pankhurst (née Goulden; 15 July 1858 – 14 June 1928) was the leader of the British suffragette movement which helped women win the right to vote.

In 1999 Time named Pankhurst as one of the 100 Most Important People of the 20th Century, stating: "she shaped an idea of women for our time; she shook society into a new pattern from which there could be no going back." She was widely criticized for her militant tactics, but her work helped to achieve women's suffrage in Britain.

After her husband died in 1898, Pankhurst founded the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU), an organisation dedicated to "deeds, not words". The group became infamous when its members smashed windows and assaulted police officers. Pankhurst, her daughters, and other WSPU activists were sentenced to repeated prison sentences, where they staged hunger strikes to secure better conditions. As Pankhurst's oldest daughter Christabel took the helm of the WSPU, antagonism between the group and the government grew. Eventually arson became a common tactic among WSPU members, and more moderate organisations spoke out against the Pankhurst family. In 1913 several prominent individuals left the WSPU, among them Pankhurst's daughters Adela and Sylvia. The family rift never healed.

With the advent of the First World War, Emmeline and Christabel called an immediate halt to militant suffrage activism in support of the British Government's stand against the "German Peril". They urged women to aid industrial production and encouraged young men to fight. In 1918 the Representation of the People Act granted votes to women over the age of 30 and the WSPU was disbanded.

Pankhurst transformed the WSPU machinery into the Women's Party, dedicated to promoting women's equality in public life. In her later years she became concerned with the 'Bolshevik menace' and – unhappy with the political alternatives – joined the Conservative Party. She died in 1928, 17 days before women got equal voting rights and was commemorated two years later with a statue in London's Victoria Tower Gardens.

[[983]]

CATEGORIES: 983

Year 983 (CMLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[982]]

CATEGORIES: 982

Year 982 (CMLXXXII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

[[Saif al-Arab al-Gaddafi]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2011 deaths, Libyan people

Saif al-Arab al-Gaddafi (1982 - April 30, 2011) was one of the sons of the former Libyan dictator Muammar al-Gaddafi. His name meant "Sword of the Arabs." He was killed in an air strike by NATO on 31 April 2011.

[[Overcoat]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing

An overcoat is a long coat which is worn over other clothes. Overcoats are made from a warm, heavy cloth or even animal fur. They go below the knee in length. A coat that is knee length is known as a topcoat. Overcoats have been worn for hundreds of years. Many armies dressed their soldiers in overcoats during the winter. 

There are many styles and types of overcoats. These include:

[[Carbonyl]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups

A carbonyl is the group C=O in a molecule. It is a carbon and an oxygen atom with a double bond between them. Carbon has another two bonds, which can in general be with any other group. For example, a carbonyl is the C=O bit of a ketone, aldehyde or ester.

Because oxygen is more electronegative than carbon, the electrons in the bond are more towards it. This means that in acid, a proton will go on the oxygen atom. Both the carbon and the oxygen in the group are sp2 hybridized.

The carbonyl is a very important functional group, because chemists can do many reactions with it. It is easy to do nucleophilic additions to it, which makes the molecule bigger. It is also easy to do redox reactions, for example forming an alcohol. The alcohol then is also a very useful group.

Carbonyls are found in many natural substances and also in drugs and medicines. It is easy to check if a carbonyl is in a molecule. It gives a very strong signal in infrared spectroscopy. In carbon NMR spectroscopy, the signal is usually at very high frequency, away from many other peaks.

[[Ester]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups

An ester is a carbonyl with an ether group on the carbon atom. The group can be written as COOR. They can be made by reacting a carboxylic acid with an alcohol with some acid. 

Esters are a very important functional group. They can be found in many substances. They are very common in fats and oils. They sometimes have a very strong, nice smell. They can be used to make perfumes. Polyesters are found in plastics.

Esters can also do many reactions. It is very easy to change the ether part of the molecule with another similar one. It is also possible to reduce the ester to a ketone or an alcohol, which can do many different reactions. Nucleophilic addition is also a good reaction, though a bit more difficult than with ketones.

There are many ways to find out if a molecule has an ester group. Infrared spectroscopy gives very sharp signals, which are different from other carbonyls. Carbon NMR spectroscopy has similar characteristics.

[[Sandra Oh]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Living people, People from Ottawa, 1971 births

Sandra Oh (born July 20, 1971) is an actress from Ottawa, Ontario. She played Cristina Yang in Grey's Anatomy. She has also acted in other TV programs and in movies.

She starred in Killing Eve.

[[Green iguana]]

CATEGORIES: Lizards

The lizard commonly known as green iguana or common iguana (Iguana iguana) is native to Central and South America and the Caribbean. It is an arboreal herbivorous species that belongs to the genus Iguana.  

[[David Strathairn]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from San Francisco, Emmy Award winning actors

David Russell Strathairn (born January 26, 1949) is an American actor and entertainer. He was nominated for an Academy Award in 2006 for his role as Edward R. Murrow in Good Night, and Good Luck. He is also known for his role as Secretary of State William H. Seward in the 2012 movie Lincoln. He won an Emmy Award in 2010.

Strathairn was born on January 26, 1949 in San Francisco, California. His grandparents were Scottish. He studied at Redwood High School, at Williams College, and he studied to become a clown at Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Clown College. Strathairn has been married to Logan Goodman since 1980. They have two children. He now lives in Poughkeepsie, New York.

[[Jean-Baptiste-Siméon-Chardin]]

CATEGORIES: French painters, 1699 births, 1779 deaths

Jean-Baptiste-Siméon Chardin (2 November 1699 – 6 December 1779) was an 18th-century French painter. He is considered a master of still life. He is also noted for paintings which depict women and children engaged in domestic activities. 

[[Assemblies of God]]

CATEGORIES: Pentecostalism, Christianity in the United States, 1914 establishments in the United States

The Assemblies of God is a United States-based Christian denomination; a large group of Pentecostal churches. There are over 64 million members in over 200 countries.

[[Denis McDonough]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Politicians from Minnesota, White House Chiefs of Staff, United States Secretaries of Veterans Affairs, Politicians from Maryland, US Democratic Party politicians

Denis Richard McDonough (born December 2, 1969) is an American politician. He is the 11th and current United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs since February 9, 2021. McDonough is the second non-veteran to serve in this position. He is a member of the Democratic Party.

He was the 26th White House Chief of Staff from 2013 to 2017 during the Barack Obama presidency.

In December 2020, then President-elect Joe Biden nominated McDonough to serve as the United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs in his administration. On February 8, 2021, the United States Senate confirmed McDonough to be Secretary of the VA in a vote of 87-7, with 6 senators absent.  

[[Ellen Johnson Sirleaf]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Monrovia, Presidents of Liberia

Ellen Johnson Sirleaf (born 29 October 1938) is the 24th President of Liberia serving from 2006 through 2018. Sirleaf is the first elected female head of state in Africa.

Sirleaf was awarded the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize, along with Leymah Gbowee of Liberia and Tawakel Karman of Yemen. The women were recognized "for their non-violent struggle for the safety of women and for women’s rights to full participation in peace-building work."

[[Mia Kirshner]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television actors, 1975 births, Living people

Mia Kirshner (January 25, 1975) is an actress that stars primarily on television. She starred as Jenny Schecter in The L Word and Mandy in 24. She has, however, starred in some movies. She was born next to Toronto.

[[Latona Fountain]]

CATEGORIES: Fountains of Versailles, Fountains

The Fountain of Latona (Fr: Bassin de Latone) is a fountain. It lies on the east-west alignment between the Palace of Versailles, the Apollo Fountain, the Green Carpet, and the Grand Canal. Latone faces west. The fountain was designed by Le Nôtre in 1666. The fountain figures were executed in lead by the Marsy brothers between 1668 and 1670. In 1686 Hardouin-Mansart altered the fountain. He had the figure of Latona (which originally faced the palace) turned 180 degrees. He also raised her pedestal.

The fountain is designed in the wedding cake style. On the top tier, there is a statue of the goddess Latona. In addition to the goddess Latona are her young children, Apollo and Diana. The second and third tiers of the fountain have frogs. The lowest tier has turtles and alligators. Latona turned the Lycean peasants into frogs when they mocked her and refused to give her water in her flight from the jealous and angry Juno.

[[Cookie's Fortune]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 comedy-drama movies, 1999 crime movies, 1990s criminal comedy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American criminal comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Robert Altman

Cookie's Fortune is a 1999 crime comedy with Julianne Moore, Glenn Close and Patricia Neal heading the cast. The subject for this comedy-drama is southern hospitality. It was shot around north central Mississippi, where Cookie's Fortune is mainly set. Liv Tyler is also in the cast.

[[Aud the Deep-Minded]]

CATEGORIES: 834 births, 900 deaths, Icelandic people

Aud the Deep-Minded (834–900 AD) was an early settler in Iceland.

[[Josephine Baker]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1975 deaths, African-American sex industry people, American erotic dancers, Erotic dancers, French dancers

Josephine Baker (June 3, 1906 – April 12, 1975) was an American-born French dancer, singer, and actress. She was born Freda Josephine McDonald in St. Louis, Missouri. Fluent in both English and French, Baker became an international musical and political icon. She was given such nicknames as the "Bronze Venus", the "Black Pearl", and the "Créole Goddess".

Baker was the first African-American female to star in a major motion picture, Zouzou (1934), and to become a world-famous entertainer.

She tried to integrate an American concert hall, and is noted for her contributions to the Civil Rights Movement in the United States. She was offered the unofficial leadership of the movement by Coretta Scott King in 1968 following Martin Luther King, Jr.'s assassination, but turned it down.

Baker became a citizen of France in 1937. She helped the French Resistance during World War II, and was awarded the Croix de Guerre, the Légion d'Honneur and the Rosette of the Résistance after the war.

[[Saint Clare of Assisi]]

CATEGORIES: 1194 births, 1253 deaths, Christian saints, Italian people

Clare of Assisi (July 16, 1194 – August 11, 1253), born Chiara Offreduccio, is an Italian saint. She was one of the first followers of Saint Francis of Assisi. Saint Clare of Assisi was of noble birth, her father, Favorone Offreduccio, was the Count of Sasso-Rosso and her mother, Ortolana di Fiumi, was from aristocratic descent. She was born as Chiara Offreduccio di Favaronne in Assisi. She was promised in marriage at age of 12, but it was canceled due to her father's death. She was the oldest child in her family. When she was 18 years old, she heard Francis of Assisi preaching. She was extremely moved by his sermon, so she ran away to join him. Francis didn't have a place for women to stay, so he sent her to the Benedictine convent in San Paulo. Clare's relatives found out where she was staying, but when they arrived to take her back home, she clung to the altar saying she would only wed Christ. When she was staying in another monastery in Panzo, she was reunited with her younger sister, Agnes. Later, when she was 21, she was moved to another convent next to the San Damiano church, where she was appointed the superior for 40 years. In that church, she was reunited with her mother and her other sister named Beatrice. 

Saint Clare of Assisi will be remembered for founding the "Order of Poor Ladies", later named “Poor Clares.” The order of Poor Clares was an order that had strict rules, such as silence vows, poverty, and strict fasting. The Poor Clares was an order for women so they could become closer to God. 

[[Catherine of Siena]]

CATEGORIES: People from Siena, Christian saints, 1347 births, 1380 deaths, Deaths from anorexia

Saint Catherine of Siena TOSD (March 25, 1347 – April 29, 1380) was a saint. She was born in Sienna and died in Rome. She promoted peace in Italy and is one of the two patron saints of Italy; the other being Saint Francis of Assisi 

She was born Katerina de Benincasa in western Italy, the 25th of 25 children. She was born at the time of the Black Death, or Bubonic Plague. Although it probably killed many she knew, she herself did not contract the disease and survived the epidemic. She had a twin sister, who died several months later. Her family was part of the lower classes and she did not become literate until 1378. 

At the age of six, Catherine had a vision of Jesus Christ. She continued to receive many visions throughout her life. At age 12, Catherine cut off her hair and was obligated to serve her family, living in small quarters in the basement. At the age of 16, she entered the Third Order of Saint Dominic and later became a Dominican nun.  

She wrote a book called Dialogue, which taught that if you love your neighbors it is loving God. She also devoted her life to improving the Catholic church, helping the ill, poor, and spiritually underprivileged. Catherine persuaded the pope to return from Avignon, France and back into Rome. She also tried to start a new Crusade to the holy land, Jerusalem. She died of “holy anorexia”, as she ate very little in the name of God. She became a saint in 1461, and was later made a Doctor of the Church in 1970 by Pope Paul VI and a patron of Europe in 1999.

[[Eleanor, Fair Maid of Brittany]]

CATEGORIES: 1180s births, 1241 deaths, French people, Nobility

Eleanor the "Fair Maid of Brittany" (c. 1184 – 10 August 1241) was a member of the nobility of England. She was the eldest daughter of Geoffrey Plantagenet and Constance, Duchess of Brittany. She was seen as a potential threat to the throne by her uncle, John of England, and cousin, Henry III of England. She was put in prison from 1202, and so became the longest imprisoned member of an English royal family. Although still treated honorably as a princess, she was never released or permitted to marry.

[[Buchenwald concentration camp]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s establishments in Germany, 1937 establishments in Europe, Buildings and structures in Thuringia, Nazi concentration camps in Germany, Weimar

Buchenwald concentration camp was a Nazi concentration camp during World War II.  In German, the camp was called Konzentrationslager (KZ) Buchenwald.  It was built in Germany in 1937, and stayed open until 1945.  Buchenwald was one of the first and largest concentration camps built in Germany.

The Nazis sent people from all over Europe and the Soviet Union to Buchenwald.  There, they were prisoners and did forced labor in weapons factories.

After the Allies won World War II, the Soviet Union took over Buchenwald and some other parts of Germany.  From 1945 to 1950, they used Buchenwald as an internment camp.  They called it NKVD Special Camp Number 2.  (The NKVD was the Soviet police organization that ran the camp.)  On January 6, 1950, the Soviets handed over Buchenwald to the East German Ministry of Internal Affairs.

Today, what is left of Buchenwald is a memorial.  There is also a museum there.

[[Pope Joan]]

CATEGORIES: Popes, Legends

Pope Joan, Johanna or Joanna, was a legendary female Pope. Said to have ruled for several years during the 1100s, her story first appeared in 13th century chronicles, then spread throughout Europe through the writings of preachers and story tellers. For centuries she was widely believed to be real; however, today religious scholars think her story is legend. Whether she is real or made up is subject to debate.

The Pope Joan story states that she was German and arrived in Rome dressed in men's clothes, managing to convince people that she was in fact a man. Her alleged male name was John Anglicus. She started out in the clergy as a curiae notary; next she became a cardinal, and then finally she became the Pope. She served as pope  for about two and a half years but her true gender was exposed when she became pregnant. The birth of her child was thought to have taken place either on the road that separated the Colosseum and St. Clement's or in the church. Her death and punishment are unknown. 

[[Vannozza dei Cattanei]]

CATEGORIES: 1442 births, 1518 deaths, Italian people

Vannozza dei Cattanei (13 July 1442 – 24 November 1518) was an Italian noblewoman. She was one of the many mistresses of Cardinal Rodrigo Borgia, future Pope Alexander VI. Among them, she was the one whose relationship with him lasted the longest.

[[Photorealism]]

CATEGORIES: Art movements

Photorealism is a style of painting or drawing. The picture is done with a lot of detail to make it look exactly like a photograph. The subjects pictured were often boring, without any special interest. Photorealism developed as an art style in the 1960s and 1970s. Two famous photorealist artists are Richard Estes and Chuck Close.

[[My Name Is Skrillex]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Skrillex albums

My Name Is Skrillex is the first EP by American electronic music producer, Skrillex. My Name Is Skrillex was released on June 7, 2010 on his MySpace profile.

The album is the first solo EP by Sonny Moore under the alias Skrillex. He released a previous album titled Gypsyhook under his first name.

[[Scary Monsters and Nice Sprites]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Skrillex albums

Scary Monsters and Nice Sprites is the second EP by American electronic music producer, Skrillex.

Scary Monsters and Nice Sprites was released on October 22, 2010. Skrillex said that he recorded the EP in 2010 at his apartment using a laptop.

The EP won two Grammys at the 54th Annual Grammy Awards for Best Dance Recording and for Best Dance/Electronica Album. The EP also received generally positive reviews from music critics and reached #49 on the Billboard 200 as well as #1 on the Billboard Heatseekers Albums chart.

[[More Monsters and Sprites]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Skrillex albums, Remix albums

More Monsters and Sprites is the third EP and first remix album by American electronic music producer, Skrillex.

More Monsters and Sprites was released on June 7, 2011. A music video for the song "First of the Year (Equinox)" which was directed by Tony Truand, was nominated for Best Short Form Music Video at the 54th Grammy Awards.

The EP also received generally positive reviews from music critics and reached #124 on the Billboard 200 as well as reaching the top five on both the Billboard Heatseekers and Dance/Electronica Albums chart.

[[Bangarang (EP)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Skrillex albums

Bangarang is the fifth EP by American electronic music producer, Skrillex.

Bangarang was released on December 23, 2011. Singles from the EP are "Breakn' a Sweat" which features the American rock band The Doors and "Bangarang" which features American rapper Sirah.

The song "Breakn' a Sweat" was written for the 2012 documentary film Re:Generation. The iTunes version of the EP features an "Orchestral Suite" performed by Varien.

The EP received generally mixed to positive reviews from music critics. The EP reached #14 on the Billboard 200 as well as #1 on the Top Dance/Electronic Albums chart.

[[Leaving (EP)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums, Skrillex albums

Leaving is the sixth EP by American electronic music producer, Skrillex. Leaving was released on January 2, 2013 to OWSLA's subscription service called The Nest.

Skrillex said that the title song "Leaving" was created in his hotel room in Mexico and that the song "The Reason" was finished an hour before the release of the EP in Moore's hotel room in Miami.

[[Amine]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups

An amine is a molecule which has a nitrogen atom that can behave as a base. An amine can be thought of coming from ammonia. The difference is that the three hydrogens in ammonia are changed to any group or atom. If only one of the hydrogens is changed, the amine is called primary. If two are changed, the amine is called secondary. If all three are changed then it is called tertiary. 

Sometimes, a fourth group can be added to the nitrogen. This is called a quaternary ammonium cation. This is not an amine but is a salt. If one of the groups on the nitrogen is a carbonyl group, then the molecule is called amide. This has very different properties.

Amines are used a lot in chemistry. Since the nitrogen has a lone pair, it can do many reactions. It can take protons away from some acids. It can also be a nucleophile. It can be changed into imines and other functional groups.

Amines are also found in many proteins. They are a part of every amino acid.

[[Brenda Strong]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Oregon, 1960 births, Living people

Brenda Strong (born March 25, 1960 in Oregon) is an American actress who stars primarily in television programs. She has, however, starred in a limited number of movies. She acted as Mary Alice Young in the ABC sitcom Desperate Housewives and as Ann Ewing in the TNT television drama Dallas, the 2012 edition. Before acting, she was crowned Miss Arizona 1980.

[[Transactinide element]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements

Transactinide elements are elements that have atomic numbers greater than the actinides. They have atomic numbers from 104 to 120.

They are all synthetic and radioactive. They range from 104 rutherfordium to 118 oganesson on the periodic table.

[[Canis Major]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Canis Major is a constellation that is in the southern sky.  It means "greater dog" in Latin (also called large dog).  There is also the constellation Canis Minor, which means "lesser dog" in Latin.    The astronomer named Ptolemy listed Canis Major when he made a list of 48 constellations.  It is also one of the 88 modern constellations that were made by the International Astronomical Union.

The star Sirius is in Canis Major.  Sirius has a magnitude of -1.44, which means that it is the brightest star in the night sky.  It is sometimes called the "dog star."  Also, Sirius is only 8.6 light years away from Earth, which is very close.

It also contains one of the largest stars known, VY Canis Majoris.

[[Ron Jeremy]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Actors from Queens, American pornographic actors, American teachers, Businesspeople from New York City, Jewish American actors, Jewish American comedians, Jewish businesspeople, Jewish sex industry people, The Surreal Life participants, Television personalities from New York City

Ronald Jeremy "Ron" Hyatt (born March 12, 1953) who is known professionally by his credited stage name as Ron Jeremy is an American pornographic actor, movie actor, filmmaker, businessman, stand-up comedian and television personality. He is known for his pornographic movies, and he was listed as one of the "Top 50 Best Porno Actors of All Time" as of 2007.

Jeremy was born on March 12, 1953 in Queens, New York City to a Jewish family. He was raised in New York City. He studied at the Queens College in New York. He was a teacher before he became a porn star.

Jeremy was a contestant in the second season of The Surreal Life.

On January 30, 2013, Jeremy went to the hospital in Los Angeles, California after he had an heart aneurysm. The next day he had a surgery. He recovered from the surgery on February 7. He eventually left the hospital on February 19.

More than a twelve women have publicly accused Jeremy of sexual assault. In June 2020, Jeremy was charged with 4 counts of rape and sexual assault involving four women. In August 2020, he was charged with another 20 counts of either rape or sexual assault between 2004 and 2020 respectively. He could originally be sentenced to 250 years in prison.

[[Jared Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Actors from London, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Jared Francis Harris (born 24 August 1961) is an English actor. He played Lane Pryce in Mad Men and as Ulysses S. Grant in Steven Spielberg's 2012 movie Lincoln. He won an Sitges Film Festival in 1999. His father was late Irish actor Richard Harris.

Harris was born in Hammersmith, London, England to an Irish father, actor Richard Harris and to a Welsh mother, Elizabeth Rees-Williams. He studied at Downside School and at Duke University. Harris was married to Emilia Fox from 2005 until they divorced in 2010. Since 2011, he has been partners with Allegra Riggio.

Harris lives in Los Angeles, California.

[[Long hair]]

CATEGORIES: Hairstyles

Long hair is a hairstyle that is mostly worn by girls and women. Boys and men may sometimes wear hair to shoulder length. Longer than that is rare for men of most cultures.

Extremely long hair (usually waist length or longer) is normally only found in females. The reason is that the female hormonal system affects the growth of their hair, just as the male hormonal system supports facial hair growth. This is also the reason young females can have longer hair than older women.

Hair length is measured (in centimeters or inches) from the line of the scalp on the forehead up over the highest point of the skull to the end of the hair. This method is not suitable for measuring hair length for people with a fringe. In cosmetology, hair lengths are usually described by the part of the body where the longest hair ends: chin level, shoulder length, mid-back level, waist length, hip-length, classic length (extends to almost upper thigh-length, where the legs meet the buttocks), thigh-length, knee-length and ankle/floor length hair.

Hair usually takes about 2–2½ years to reach shoulder length. It usually takes about 4–5 years to grow to the waist (which is about 60-80 cm for most women) if left to grow.

[[Pseudanthium]]

CATEGORIES: Flowers, Plant anatomy

A pseudanthium (Greek for "false flower") or flower head is a special type of inflorescence. Many flowers are grouped together to form a flower-like structure. The real flowers ("florets") are generally small and greatly reduced, but can sometimes be quite large (as in the sunflower flower head).

Pseudanthia are characteristic of the daisy and sunflower family (Asteraceae or Compositae). Their flowers are either ray flowers or disk flowers. The disk flowers in the center of the pseudanthium look like the centre of a normal flower. Flowers on the periphery have one large petal. This sytem is unique to this family. Either ray or disk flowers may be absent in some species: Senecio vulgaris lacks ray flowers and Taraxacum officinale lacks disk flowers. The pseudanthium has a whorl of bracts below the flowers.

At a glance, a pseudanthium (inflorescence) looks just like a normal flower, but closer inspection shows it is composed of multiple flowers. Thus, the pseudanthium represents an evolution of the inflorescence to a reproductive unit that may function in pollination like a single flower, at least in plants that are animal pollinated. The advantage of this "flower" is that it produces far more seeds than a normal flower, but needs only one act of pollination.

[[Alison]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Alison is a female given name that has many kinds of spellings. It was originally in medieval Norman. It was derived from the name Alice. The name was first recorded in Scotland in the 12th century. The variant spelling Allison ranked 228 for female names for the United States in 1990, and was the 45th most popular for girls between 2005 and early 2010s. As Allison, the name was used for tropical storms for 1989, 1995 and 2001. The 2001 tropical storm was incredibly damaging, which in turn caused the name to be retired the following year.

Alison can be used in other cases:

[[Mind control]]

CATEGORIES: Cults, Human issues, Psychiatry, Psychology, Pseudoscience

Mind control (also known as brainwashing, coercive persuasion or thought control) refers to the way some people have tried to control the beliefs and behaviours of others.

It is a process where a group or individual uses methods to persuade other to change their basic beliefs and values. A group or individual may use unethical  methods to persuade others to believe and do what the manipulator(s) want. It often harms the person being manipulated. 

The term has been applied to any tactic, psychological or otherwise, which undermines (damages) an individual's control over their own thinking, behaviour, emotions or decision making.

Theories of brainwashing and of mind control were originally developed to explain how totalitarian regimes appeared to succeed systematically in indoctrinating prisoners of war through propaganda and torture techniques.

[[Alagappa Chettiar College of Engineering and Technology]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering schools, Colleges and universities in India, Sivaganga District, 1952 establishments in Asia, 1950s establishments in India

Alagappa Chettiar College of Engineering and Technology (ACCET-Karaikudi) is an autonomous (with effect from 2009) college of engineering in Karaikudi, Tamil Nadu, India. It was established in 1952. The college is under the control of the state government. It is a member institute under the Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme in India (11 colleges were selected from Tamil Nadu).

[[585]]

CATEGORIES: 585

[[Water Walk]]

CATEGORIES: Fountains of Versailles

The Water Walk or Infants Walk (Allée d'Eau ou Allée des Marmousets) is a group of 14 fountains at Versailles. These fountains depict children supporting small basins of water. The Water Walk gently slopes from the Parterre du Nord to the Dragon Fountain and the Neptune Fountain. The Water Walk comprises three paths separated by two great lawns. The fourteen fountains are set in each of the two lawns, seven apiece. Another eight were added to the semicircle near the Walk's end. The Walk was created in 1670. The concept was that of Claude Perrault. The children were sculpted by Buirette, Le Hongre, Lerambert, and Mazeline after drawings by Le Brun.  The children were originally cast in lead and painted realistically in natural colours. They supported baskets of fruit and flowers. These figures were replaced with gilded bronze copies and basins of marble in 1688. 

[[Dragon Fountain]]

CATEGORIES: Fountains of Versailles

The Dragon Fountain at the Palace of Versailles was executed by Gaspard Marsy in 1667. The fountain lies at the end of the northern axis between the Water Walk and Neptune Fountain.  The Dragon Fountain shoots a jet of water 90 feet into the air. The Dragon Fountain was only operated when it was known the King would be present. All of the other fountains were required to be turned off for this spectacle to be accomplished.  At other times it was regulated to a 35 foot jet. Statues of children mounted upon swans bedevil the Dragon. 

[[Frankie Howerd]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from York, British stand-up comedians, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Comedians from Yorkshire, Deaths from heart failure, English LGBT people, English movie actors, English television actors, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT comedians, 1917 births, 1992 deaths

Francis Alick Howard, known as Frankie Howerd OBE (6 March 1917 - 19 April 1992) was a British comedian and comedy actor. He was born in York, North Riding of Yorkshire. He starred in several movies, including Carry On Doctor and Carry On Up the Jungle. He starred in television series including Up Pompeii!. He was a promiscuous homosexual and lived with his manager-partner Dennis Heymer (1928-2009) from 1955 until his death. Howerd died of heart failure in Fulham, London.

[[Waistcoat]]

CATEGORIES: Tops (clothing)

A waistcoat (known as a vest in the United States) is a sleeveless upper-body garment. It is worn over a dress shirt and necktie, and below a coat as a part of most men's formal wear. It is the third piece of the three-piece male suit.

The waistcoat has quite a long history, going back to King Charles II. It was derived from the Persian vests seen by English visitors to the court of Shah Abbas. 

As an item of clothing, the waistcoat has the advantage that if the jacket is taken off indoors, the outfit still keeps a degree of formality. 

[[QNX]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

QNX is an Unix-like, real-time operating system that is embedded in cars, medical devices, machinery, and other devices. The QNX operating system contains a microkernel that handles basic core tasks and a group of servers / daemons outside of the kernel that handle most other tasks. This design gives end-users and developers greater control (i.e. freedom) over the operating system. BlackBerry (formerly RIM) devices such as the BlackBerry PlayBook tablet and the BlackBerry smartphone use modified versions of the QNX operating system.

[[Neptune Fountain]]

CATEGORIES: Fountains of Versailles

The Neptune Fountain or the Fountain of Neptune (Fr: Bassin de Neptune) is a fountain at the Palace of Versailles. It was built under the direction of landscape designer André Le Nôtre between 1679 and 1681. At that time, it was called the Pool Below the Dragon or the Fir Tree Pool. The Fountain is at the end of the long path that features the Water Walk and the Dragon Fountain. Jacques-Ange Gabriel reworked the pool area very slightly, and, in 1740, the lead sculptures were put in place. The new fountain was officially opened by King Louis XV of France. 

The fountain has 99 jets of water. People admired the force and variety of the jets of water playing over the sculptural groups. The fountain is decorated with stone vases, sea cupids, and three central sculpted groups depicting Neptune and Amphitrite by L. A. Adam, Proteus by Bouchardin, and Ocean by Jean-Baptise Lemoyne. The Neptune Fountain is the largest of all the fountain pools in the gardens of Versailles. Fireworks during the summer months create spectacular displays that are reflected in the fountain's large pool.

[[Kahina]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and queens, 7th century births, 7th century deaths, Berber people

Dihya (Algerian Arabic: ديهيا, Berber: Daya Ult Yenfaq Tajrawt, Dihya, or Damya), was a Berber queen and religious and military leader. She led the native people to resist Arab expansion in Northwest Africa. This happened in the region then known as Numidia, which is eastern Algeria today. She was born in the early 7th century and died around the end of the 7th century in what is now Algeria.

[[Giulia Farnese]]

CATEGORIES: 1474 births, 1524 deaths, Italian people

Giulia Farnese (1474 – 23 March 1524) was mistress to Pope Alexander VI.

[[Marozia]]

CATEGORIES: 890s births, 930s deaths, People from Rome

Marozia, born Maria and also known as Mariuccia or Mariozza (c. 890 – 26 June c. 936), was a Roman noblewoman who was said to be the mistress of Pope Sergius III.

[[Edith the Fair]]

CATEGORIES: 1020s births, 1080s deaths, Anglo-Saxons

Edith Swan Neck, known as Edith the Fair (c. 1025 – c. 1086), was the wife of King Harold II of England.

[[Agatha, wife of Edward the Exile]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, 11th century births, 11th century deaths

Agatha (before 1030 – after 1070) was the wife of Edward the Exile. He was supposed to become the next King of England.

[[Solomonia Saburova]]

CATEGORIES: 1490 births, 1542 deaths, Christian saints

Saint Solomonia Yuryevna Saburova (c. 1490 – 18 December 1542) was the first wife of Grand Prince Vasili III of Muscovy. She was canonized by the Russian Orthodox Church as Saint Sofia of Suzdal.

[[Johan Galtung]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Norwegian mathematicians, Nonviolence advocates, Norwegian people, People from Oslo, Sociologists

Johan Galtung (born 24 October 1930 in Oslo) is a Norwegian sociologist and mathematician. He is the main founder of the discipline of peace and conflict studies. He think that world peace is not only the absence of war but freedom from poverty and any discrimination. In 1987, he won the Right Livelihood Award.

[[List of national trees]]

CATEGORIES: Trees, Lists of plants, National symbols, Lists of countries

A tree emblem is a tree or plant that is chosen by a country as a symbol or emblem for that country.

[[Natore District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Natore is a district of Rajshahi Division in northern Bangladesh. 

It borders the metropolitan city of Rajshahi, and used to be part of Rajshahi district.

[[Sirajganj District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Sirajganj (সিরাজগঞ্জ জেলা) is a district in northern Bangladesh. It is a part of the Rajshahi Division.

[[Pabna District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bangladesh

Pabna (পাবনা জেলা) is a district in north-western Bangladesh. It is the southern most district of Rajshahi Division.

[[Sign of the Dove]]

CATEGORIES: Mormonism

In Christianity, the Sign of the Dove was a prearranged sign by which John the Baptist would recognize the Messiah.

The four Gospels each record an account of the sign of the dove.

Matt. 3:16 (Mark 1:10; Luke 3:22; John 1:32)

And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him.

The sign of the dove is also recorded in the Book of Mormon.

1 Ne. 11:2abide upon him in the form of a dove.

2 Ne. 31:8 (D&C 93:15) Holy Ghost descended upon him in the form of a dove.

Abr. Fac. 2, Fig. 7 sign of the Holy Ghost... in the form of a dove.

Joseph Smith taught: "The sign of the dove was instituted before the creation of the world, a witness for the Holy Ghost, and the devil cannot come in the sign of a dove. The Holy Ghost is a personage, and is in the form of a personage. It does not confine itself to the form of the dove, but in sign of the dove. The Holy Ghost cannot be transformed into a dove; but the sign of a dove was given to John who had baptized Jesus to signify the truth of the deed, as the dove is an emblem or token of truth and innocence."

In Hebrew, Jonah (יוֹנָה) means dove.  The "sign of Jonas" in Mat 16:1-4 is related to the "sign of the dove".

[[Anna of Kashin]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, 1280 births, 1368 deaths, Russian royalty

Saint Anna of Kashin (1280 – 2 October 1368) was a Russian princess from the Rurik Dynasty. She was given sainthood in 1650. Her feast day, October 2, was created in 1909.

[[Matilda of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: 1080s births, 1118 deaths, Kings and Queens consort of England

Matilda of Scotland (c. 1080 – 1 May 1118), born Edith, was the first wife and Queen consort of Henry I of England.

[[Joan Beaufort, Queen of Scots]]

CATEGORIES: 1400s births, 1445 deaths, Kings and Queens consort of Scotland

Joan Beaufort (c. 1404 – 15 July 1445) was the Queen Consort of Scotland from 1424 to 1437. She was the wife of King James I of Scotland. She was the Regent of Scotland during part of the minority of her son James II (from 1437 to 1439).

[[A Lady in Her Bath]]

CATEGORIES: 16th century paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, French paintings

A Lady in Her Bath is a painting by François Clouet. It was painted in 1571. It measures 92.3 x 81.2 cm (36 5/16 x 31 15/16 in.) The picture is in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC. It is one of only three paintings signed by Clouet. The teenaged bather is unknown. It is possible that she is Diane de Poitiers, mistress of King Henry II of France when she was a teenager. Scholar Roger Trinquet suggested in 1966 that the teenaged lady is Mary Queen of Scots. The lady's face resembles other portraits of Mary, especially a drawing by Clouet depicting Mary in mourning. Trinquet believes the painting was intended as a satire for a Huguenot patron. The painting set a fashion for portraits of bathers.

The National Gallery writes: "The masklike symmetry of the bather's face makes exact identification difficult; scholars have suggested that her aristocratic features indicate that she is one of several royal mistresses, most notable among them Diane de Poitiers, the mistress of Henry II. It is possible that the nude, a Venus type, represents ideal beauty rather than a specific individual. The contrast of the smoothly rendered nude figure to the intricate surface details of the fruit, draperies, and jewelry, presents a union of Flemish and Italian motifs that characterized French courtly art of the sixteenth century."

[[List of national animals]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of animals, National symbols

A national animal is an animal that is the symbol or emblem of a country.

[[List of national birds]]

CATEGORIES: Birds, Lists of animals, National symbols

A national bird is a bird that is chosen by a country as a symbol or emblem for that country.

This is a list of national birds, most official, but some unofficial.

[[Wind from the Sea]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, American paintings, 1947 works

Wind from the Sea is a tempera on hardboard painting by Andrew Wyeth. It was painted in 1947. It measures 47 x 70 cm (18 1/2 x 27 9/16 in.) The work hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC. They write: "Wind from the Sea is an iconic example of Wyeth's landscapes, as well as one of the earliest examples of his use of windows and his often unique choice of vantage point. Three preparatory studies for the painting accompanied the gift. All four works were bequeathed to the Gallery by Charles H. Morgan.Wind from the Sea is the second painting by Wyeth to enter the National Gallery's collection; Snow Flurries, a 1953 tempera painting, was given in 1977." 

[[Drass]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Drass (دراس) is a sub-district of the Kargil District in Jammu and Kashmir, India. 

[[Sindh High Court]]

CATEGORIES: Sindh, Courts (law), 1906 establishments in Asia, Karachi, 20th century establishments in Pakistan

The High Court of Sindh is the highest judicial institution of Sindh province. Established in 1906, it is situated at provincial capital Karachi. Apart from being the highest Court of Appeal for Sindh in civil and criminal matters, the Court was the District Court and the Court of Session in Karachi.

[[Peshawar High Court]]

CATEGORIES: Peshawar, Courts (law)

The Peshawar High Court is the highest court of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. It is located in the provincial capital Peshawar.

[[Islamabad High Court]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan, Courts (law), 2010 establishments in Asia, 2010s establishments in Pakistan

Islamabad High Court, located in Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan, was established under Islamabad High Court Act, 2010 after the 18th amendment in the Pakistani constitution. Earlier, the Islamabad High Court was established by the President Pervez Musharraf by a Presidential Order of 14th August, 2007.

[[Lahore High Court]]

CATEGORIES: Lahore, 1919 establishments in Asia, Courts (law), 20th century establishments in Pakistan

The Lahore High Court is based in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. It was established as a high court on 1 March 1882. The Lahore High Court has jurisdiction over Punjab. The High Court's main seat is in Lahore, but there are benches in three other Pakistani cities: Rawalpindi, Multan and Bahawalpur.

[[Ghebi dialect]]

CATEGORIES: Punjabi language

Ghebi is a dialect of the Punjabi language spoken in the Punjab province of Pakistan.

[[Alexander Ypsilantis]]

CATEGORIES: 1828 deaths, 1792 births, Greek people

Alexander Ypsilantis (1792–1828) was a main participant in the Greek War of Independence against the Ottoman Empire in 1821. He was also a senior officer of the Imperial Russian cavalry during the Napoleonic Wars.

[[Batman & Robin]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 movies, 1990s superhero movies, Batman movies, Batman (1989 movie series), English-language movies, Movies based on comic book characters, Screenplays by Akiva Goldsman, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Joel Schumacher, American superhero movies

Batman & Robin is a 1997 American action-adventure movie directed by Joel Schumacher. It is based on the comic book character created by Bob Kane. It stars George Clooney as Batman, Chris O'Donnell as Robin, Alicia Silverstone as Batgirl, Arnold Schwarzenegger as Mr. Freeze, and Uma Thurman as Poison Ivy. The movie is about Batman and Robin trying to prevent Mr. Freeze, Poison Ivy, and Bane from covering Gotham City with ice and vegetation while at the same time struggling to keep their partnership together. It grossed over $230 million in the box office.  It got mixed reviews from the critics. It was criticized for its gay innuendo.

[[Yin and yang]]

CATEGORIES: Asian culture, Peace, Symbols, Taoism, China

The Taijitu (太极图), more commonly referred to as Yin and yang, is a Chinese symbol from a belief system called Taoism. It is also stylized as Yinyang or Yin-Yang. It represents the idea that nature is made up of opposing, yet complementary forces and energy.

[[Aspen, Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colorado, County seats in Colorado, 1879 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Colorado

Aspen, Colorado is a city in Colorado. The city is known for its large ski-resorts and for hosting many ski-related games. Aspen is home to 6,658 people. The mayor of Aspen is Mick Ireland. The city was founded in 1879.

Aspen is in a remote area of the Rocky Mountains. The Roaring Fork River flows through the town. In the early years of the town, Aspen was a major center of silver mining. After a major recession, the city fell into decline, and most of the people that lived there left. However, after World War II the area was developed as a ski resort, and became a major skiing destination. Popular with celebrities, today it is one of the richest cities in the US and it remains a popular skiing destination. 

[[Sid Fleischman]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Jewish American writers, Writers from New York City, Writers from San Diego, California, People from Santa Monica, California

Albert Sidney "Sid" Fleischman (March 16, 1920 – March 17, 2010) was a Newbery Medal-winning American author who was known for his award-winning book The Whipping Boy and for Humbug Mountain. He also won the Horn Book Award. The Sid Fleischman Award for funny fiction books for children or young adults was named after him. 

Fleischman was born on March 16, 1920 in Brooklyn, New York. His parents were Russian Jews. He was raised in San Diego, California and in Santa Monica, California. Fleischman studied at San Diego State University. 

Fleischman was married to Betty Taylor from 1952 until her death in 1993. They had three children. Their son Paul also became an Newbery Medal-winning writer. They were the only father and son to win a Newbery Medal. Fleischman died on March 17, 2010 in Santa Monica, California from cancer, just a day after his birthday, aged 90.

[[Les Misérables (2012 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 drama movies, 2010s musical movies, Academy Award winning movies, British drama movies, British musical movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies set in France, Movies set in the 19th century, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Movies directed by Tom Hooper

Les Misérables is a 2012 British musical-drama movie. It stars Anne Hathaway as Fantine, Russell Crowe as Javert, and Hugh Jackman as Jean Valjean. The movie is based on the musical of the same name, which, in turn, is based on the 1862 Victor Hugo novel, Les Misérables.

Critics gave the movie good reviews. Hathaway's performance won her a Screen Actors Guild Award, a Golden Globe Award, an Academy Award, and many other awards. Jackman won a Golden Globe Award for his performance.

[[Argo (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s action thriller movies, 2012 thriller movies, American action thriller movies, Best Picture Oscar, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies set in the 1970s, Movies set in the 1980s, Screenplays by Chris Terrio, Movies set in Iran, Tehran, Movies set in Virginia, Movies set in Turkey

Argo is an 2012 action-thriller movie directed by Ben Affleck and produced by George Clooney. It stars Ben Affleck as  Tony Mendez, Alan Arkin as Lester Siegel, and John Goodman as John Chambers. This movie is based on real events of the 1979-1981 Iranian hostage crisis. The movie was about an CIA agent (Tony Mendez) sent to save six U.S. diplomats in Tehran, Iran. To save them, he had to pretend they were making “Argo”, a fake science-fiction film. Critics gave the movie good reviews. It won many awards for Best Movie including an Golden Globe Award for Best Picture - Drama and Best Picture at the Academy Awards.

[[Arabian wolf]]

CATEGORIES: Wolves

The Arabian wolf (Canis lupus arabs) is a subspecies of grey wolf. It was once found throughout the Arabian Peninsula, but now only lives in small areas in Saudi Arabia, Oman, Yemen, Iraq, and southern Israel, Jordan and the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt.

[[Chris Griffin]]

CATEGORIES: Family Guy characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1999

Chris Griffin is a character in the television comedy Family Guy. He is the 16-year-old older son of Lois Griffin and Peter Griffin. He has a brother, Stewie, a sister, Meg and an halfbrother, Bertram. They are an American family. Chris is like his father both are unfit and not as smart as others. He has an "evil monkey" in his closet that everyone thinks is fake until everyone finds-out in Hannah Banana.

[[Meg Griffin]]

CATEGORIES: Family Guy characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1999

Meg  is a character in the television comedy Family Guy. At age 15, she is the oldest child of Lois Griffin and Peter Griffin. She has two younger siblings. Meg is one of the most hated members of her family and is bullied and humorlessly abused by her own family and friends because she is believed very ugly by everybody, except by a nerd of her school that she doesn't want.

[[Bactrian deer]]

CATEGORIES: Deer, Mammals of Asia

The Bactrian deer (Cervus elaphus bactrianus), also called the Bukhara deer, Bokhara deer or Bactrian wapiti, is a subspecies of Red Deer that is native to the lowlands of Central Asia. It is similar to the Yarkand deer in that it lives around the banks of rivers surrounded by desert.  Both subspecies are separated from one another by the Tian Shan Mountains.

[[Glenn Quagmire]]

CATEGORIES: Family Guy characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1999

Glenn Quagmire, usually called by his last name Quagmire, is a character from the animated television comedy show Family Guy. He lives on the same street as Peter Griffin and Joe Swanson, making them his neighbors. He is also best friends with the two. He works as a pilot. He is 55 years old, but looks younger because of his vegan diet. Quagmire is best known for having a lot of sex or making a lot of sex jokes with his catchphrase "Giggity". Peter Griffin, his best friend, once called him a "heartless sex hound". He also made one appearance in The Cleveland Show.

[[Joe Swanson]]

CATEGORIES: Family Guy characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1999

Joseph "Joe" Swanson is a character in the television comedy series Family Guy. He is friends with other main characters, Peter Griffin and Glenn Quagmire. He is in a wheelchair because a criminal hit him with a pipe, and later shot him in both of his legs. He is married to Bonnie Swanson. Although their relationship is not as strong as Peter Griffin and Lois Griffin, they appear to put up with each other for the time being. They had one son, Kevin Swanson, and a daughter, for which Bonnie was pregnant for about 7-8 years instead of 9 months. Joe works as a cop, and is 43 years old.

[[Mayor West]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2000, Family Guy characters

Mayor Adam West is a character for the television comedy Family Guy. He is voiced and based on the actor Adam West. He first appeared as the crazy mayor of Quahog, Rhode Island in Fifteen Minutes of Shame. He usually never takes things seriously and only cares about his office. He is married to Carol West, Lois Griffin's sister. 

The fate of the character is currently unknown following Adam West's death in June 2017.

[[Chhera Island]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Bangladesh, Islands of Asia

Chhera island (Bengali: bn), also called Cheradia Island or Cheridia Island, is an extension of St. Martin's Island in Bangladesh, but cut off from it by sea during high tides.  During low tide period, the Chhera island can be reached by walking for about two and a half hours from St. Martin's Island. The most popular way of getting there is by motorboat.

Corals can be found all over the island. It has one small green area where bushes grow. No permanent settlement exists except for tourists.

[[St. Martin's Island]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Bangladesh, Islands of Asia

St. Martin's Island is a small island (about 8 square kilometres) in the northeast of the Bay of Bengal. It is about 9 km south of the tip of the Cox's Bazar-Teknaf peninsula, and is the southernmost part of Bangladesh. There is a small connected island that is separated at high tide, called Chhera Island. It is about 8 km west of the northwest coast of Myanmar, at the mouth of the Naf River.

[[Teknaf]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladesh

Teknaf (টেকনাফ, Ṭeknaf) is a thana of Cox's Bazar Thana in the Chittagong Division, Bangladesh. It forms the southernmost point in mainland Bangladesh (St. Martin's Island is the southernmost point). The name of the region comes from the Naf River which forms the Eastern boundary of the thana.

[[Baba and Bhit Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Pakistan

Baba Bhit Island  (جزیرہ بابا بھٹ) is the smallest neighbourhood of Kiamari Town in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. It includes three small fishing islands which in the centre of the harbour of Karachi.

[[Justice League (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 movies, Warner Bros. movies, 2010s superhero movies, Batman movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Zack Snyder, Movies produced by Charles Roven, Wonder Woman movies, Superman movies, Justice League, DC Extended Universe movies, Screenplays by Chris Terrio, Screenplays by Joss Whedon, Superhero crossover movies, Apocalyptic movies, American superhero movies

Justice League is a 2017 American superhero movie directed by Zack Snyder. It is based on the DC Comics superhero team the Justice League. It is the fifth part in the DC Extended Universe. The movie has a screenplay written by Chris Terrio and Joss Whedon.

[[Kantaji Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh, 1752 establishments, 18th century establishments in Bangladesh

Kantojiu Temple (কান্তজীউ মন্দির) at Kantanagar is a late-medieval Hindu temple in Dinajpur District, Bangladesh. It was built by Maharaja Pran Nath; its construction started in 1702 and ended in 1752, during the reign of his son Maharaja Ramnath. It has one of the best examples of terracotta architecture in Bangladesh. It once had nine spires, but all were destroyed in an earthquake that happened in 1897.

[[Swami Bagh Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh, Dhaka

Swami Bagh Temple is a prominent Hindu temple of the Vaishnav Cult in Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh.

[[Temple of King Kangsa Narayan]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh

The Temple of King Kangsa Narayan (রাজা কংস নারায়ণের মন্দির) is a Hindu temple in northern Bangladesh. It is in Rajshahi's Tahirpur, where legend says that the Durga Puja of the Hindu community was performed for the first time in the Indian subcontinent.

[[Puthia Temple Complex]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh

Puthia Temple Complex is a group of important old Hindu temples in Puthia Upazila, Rajshahi Division, Bangladesh. It is located 23 km to the east of Rajshahi city. It has the largest number of historic temples in Bangladesh.

[[Bishyanath Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh

Bishyanath Temple is a Hindu temple, dedicated to the Hindu God Shiva, in the Mymensingh District of Bangladesh. It is one of the most important temples in the district. The temple is unique because of its pagoda-like architecture.May 2012

[[Boro Kali Bari Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh

Boro Kali Bari is one of the oldest Hindu temples in the city of Mymensingh, Bangladesh. The temple is dedicated to the goddess Kali.

[[Laxmi Narayan Mandir, Dhaka]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh, Dhaka

Laxmi Narayan Mandir is a Hindu temple, devoted to Laxmi, the Hindu goddess of wealth.  It is located at 31 Nawabpur Road in Dhaka, Bangladesh. The temple is about 300 years old. It was established in the Bengali year of 1056.

[[Joy Kali Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh

The Temple of Joy Kali is a Hindu temple in Bangladesh. It is located between Thathari Bazar and Wari, on a road named after this temple, called 24 Joy Kali Temple street. The temple is devoted to Goddess Kali. The statue of Kali is of great significance to the Hindus. The visitors and committee members of this temple gather money for occasions, where sweets are later distributed among them which is called 'Prasad'.

[[Shree Shree Siddheswari Kalimandir]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh, Dhaka

The Siddheshwari Kali Mandir is a Hindu temple located at 14 Siddheshwari Lane in Dhaka, Bangladesh.

[[Muktagachha Shiva temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh

The Muktagachha Shiva temple is a Hindu temple outside the Rajbari of Muktagachha, in the Mymensingh District of Bangladesh.

[[Kaliya jue Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh

Kaliya jue Temple (কালিয়া জীউ মন্দির) is a Hindu temple in the town of Dinajpur Sadar, Bangladesh. It is dedicated to the Hindu God Krishna. The temple is situated to the west side of the Dinajpur Rajbari.

[[Chatteshwari Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh, 18th century establishments in Bangladesh

Chatteshwari Temple is a Hindu temple in the centre of Chittagong city in Bangladesh. The temple is dedicated to the Goddess Kali. It was built in the 18th century. In Hindu belief, the goddess of the temple is considered the guardian deity of the town Chittagong.

[[Lalmai Chandi Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh

Lalmai Chandi Temple, also called Chandimura Mandir is an ancient Hindu temple in Bangladesh. It is on the summit of the Lalmai hill in Barura Upazila of Comilla District. The temple is dedicated to the Goddess Kali. There is a temple dedicated to the God Shiva nearby.

[[Sonarang Twin Temples]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh

Sonarang Twin Temples are two Hindu temples in Sonarang village in Bangladesh. The two temples stand side by side on a single masonry platform surrounded by a moat on three sides and an access path on the eastern side.

[[Aristolochia]]

CATEGORIES: Piperales

Aristolochia is a large plant genus with over 500 species of shrubs and herbs, many having medicinal properties. Collectively known as birthworts, pipevines or Dutchman's pipes, they are the namesake of the family (Aristolochiaceae). They are widespread and occur in the most diverse climates. Some species, like A. utriformis and A. westlandii, are threatened with extinction.

Isotrema is usually included here, but might be a valid genus. If so, it contains those species with a three-lobed calyx.

[[Shanksville, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in Pennsylvania, 1798 establishments in the United States, 1790s establishments in Pennsylvania

Shanksville, Pennsylvania is a small borough in Somerset County, Pennsylvania. About 250 people live there. The town is 60 from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The area became well-known worldwide when United Airlines Flight 93 crashed into a field during the September 11 attacks. The town was founded in 1798.

[[1993 World Trade Center bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 in the United States, 1990s explosions, 1990s in New York City, 1990s murders in the United States, 20th century in Manhattan, Al-Qaeda, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1990s, Building bombings in the United States, Crime in New York City, February events, Mass murder in 1993, Mass murder in New York, September 11 attacks

The 1993 World Trade Center bombing happened on February 26, 1993 in the bottom section of the North Tower of the World Trade Center in New York City, United States. Six people were killed, including a woman who was 7 months pregnant. About 1,042 people were injured. The plan was to use bomb trucks parked in the parking lot of the bottom of the North Tower. The main leader of the small group sent to destroy the buildings hoped that once the North Tower fell they would later see it collapse to hit the South Tower.

The main leader of the small group was Ramzi Yousef. The group wanted to destroy the building because many Jews worked in it. Their leader Osama bin Laden was not happy to see the buildings were not destroyed, so he wanted another attack on the same building. The result would be the September 11 attacks.

[[New Super Mario Bros. U]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 video games, Mario platform games, Wii U games

New Super Mario Bros. U is a 2012 platform video game for the Wii U game console. It is a sequel to the 2009 game New Super Mario Bros. Wii on the Wii, which is a follow-up to the 2006 Nintendo DS game New Super Mario Bros., and the fourth game in the New Super Mario Bros. series. It was developed by Nintendo EAD Group No. 4 and published by Nintendo. It was released on November 18, 2012 in North America, on November 30, 2012 in Europe, and on December 8, 2012 in Japan. It is a follow-up to the Nintendo 3DS game New Super Mario Bros. 2 (released three months before), which is a sequel to the 2006 game and a follow-up to the 2009 game.

Up to five players can play at a time. The game can be played with either the Wii Remote or the Wii U GamePad. The Wii U GamePad allows for Off-TV Play, where the game can be played on the controller without the use of a television screen.

For the Year of Luigi, which celebrates the 30th anniversary of Luigi's first appearance in the Mario series, Nintendo released downloadable content called New Super Luigi U which was also released on the Wii U. Players play as Luigi in harder versions of the game's levels. It was released in mid-2013. It was also released as a game and not a download. A port of NSMBU, titled New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, was released for the Nintendo Switch on January 11, 2019.

[[New Covenant]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

New Covenant in Christianity, refers to the New Testament, as opposed to the Old Testament. Perhaps the fullest explanation is in the Epistle to the Hebrews, which explains how Jesus' death on the cross replaces the need for animal sacrifice as laid out in Leviticus.

[[Agnes]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

The name Agnes is a female given name based on the Greek name hagne. The name was made popular by Saint Agnes of Rome, who was a well known saint. Agnes was the third most popular girl's name for almost 400 years in English-speaking areas. The name was used a lot until near the 1970s in the United States. It was especially popular between 1900 and 1920, during which time the name spent a few years on the top 50 list for feminine names. The name was used on a costly hurricane that caused over $3 billion in damage and many deaths in 1972. The name Agnes was later retired.

[[Stand Up Guys]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s criminal comedy movies, 2012 movies, English-language movies, Lionsgate movies

Stand Up Guys is a 2012 crime comedy about revenge. It stars Christopher Walken, Al Pacino and Julianna Margulies. It premiered at Chicago International Film Festival. The reviews for this crime comedy were not good.There are no sources for this statement.

[[Jake Wood]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Actors from London, English comedians

Jacob Dylan "Jake" Wood (born July 12, 1972) is an English actor, voice artist, and comedian. He is best known for playing Max Branning in EastEnders and in the United States as the current voice of the GEICO gecko.

[[Carlos Alazraqui]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York, People from Yonkers, New York

Carlos Jaime Alazraqui (born July 20, 1962) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, and voice artist, best known for playing Deputy James Garcia in Reno 911! and as the voice of the Taco Bell chihuahua. He's also known as the voice of Rocko in Rocko's Modern Life, Lazlo in Camp Lazlo, and Denzel Crocker in The Fairly OddParents.

[[Aurangabad division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of India, Maharashtra

Aurangabad Division is one of the six administrative divisions of Maharashtra state in India. Before 1956 the division was part of the State of Hyderabad.

[[Gulbarga division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of India, Karnataka

Gulbarga Division is one of the four divisions of Karnataka state of India. The division is made up of the districts of  Bellary, Bidar, Gulbarga, Koppal, Yadgir and Raichur. The city of Gulbarga is the headquarters of the division. Before 1956 the division was part of the disputed territory of State of Hyderabad.

[[Allahabad division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Allahabad (اللہآباد ڈویژن) is a division of Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Azamgarh division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Azamgarh (ازامگاڑھ ڈویژن) is a division of Uttar Pradesh, India. It has many small villages like Badharia, Saraimeer , etc

[[Bareilly division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Bareilly (بریللے ڈویژن) is a division of Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Basti division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Basti (بستی ڈویژن) is a division of Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Chitrakoot division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Chitrakoot (چترکوٹ ڈویژن) is a district of Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Devipatan division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of  Uttar Pradesh

Devipatan (دویپٹن ڈویژن) is a division of Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Faizabad division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of  Uttar Pradesh

Faizabad (فیزآباد ڈویژن) is a division of Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Gorakhpur division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of  Uttar Pradesh

Gorakhpur (گورکھپور ڈویژن) is a division of  Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Jhansi division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of  Uttar Pradesh

Jhansi is a division of  Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Bischhausen]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Lower Saxony

Bischhausen is a village in southern Lower Saxony, Germany. In December of 2010, 371 people lived in the village (as of May 4, 2015). It is near the previous border with what was the German Democratic Republic (East Germany). The castle ruins called the Gleichen are on two small mountains near the village. Almost all the working people who live in the village are farmers or work in the city of Göttingen, which is not far away. There is one church: the Lutheran church of St. Martin. 

The mayor is  Michael Dusch.

[[Kanpur division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Kanpur (کانپور ڈویژن) is a division of  Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Lucknow division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Lucknow (لکھنؤ ڈویژن) is a division of  Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Meerut division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Meerut (میرٹ ڈویژن) is a division of  Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Mirzapur division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Mirzapur (مرزاپور ڈویژن) is a division of  Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Moradabad division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Muradabad is a division of Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Saharanpur division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Sahranapur (سہارنپور ڈویژن) is a division of  Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Varanasi division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of  Uttar Pradesh

Varanasi (وارانسی ڈویژن) is a division of  Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Bath Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Pakistan

Bath Island  (جزیرہ باتھ) is a neighbourhood of Saddar Town in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Buddo Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Pakistan

Buddo Island (جزیرہ بدو) (also known as Dingi) is a small island in the Arabian Sea off the coast of Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Bundal Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Pakistan

Bundal Island (جزیرہ بندل) (also known as Bundaar) is a small island in the Arabian Sea off the coast of Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Astola Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Pakistan, Uninhabited islands

Astola Island, also known as ur (جزیرہ ہفت تلار) or 'Island of the Seven Hills', is an uninhabited island in the Arabian Sea. It is part of Pakistan, about 25 km south of Pakistan's nearest coastline and 39 km southeast of the fishing port of Pasni. Astola is Pakistan's largest offshore island and the only major island in the northern Arabian Sea. It is about 6.7 large. Administratively, the island is part of the Pasni subdistrict of Gwadar District in Balochistan province.

[[Shams Pir Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Pakistan

Shams Pir is an island in the Karachi Fish Harbour, close to Sandspit Beach and Mauripur.

[[Jim Belushi]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Actors from Chicago, Albanian people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stand-up comedians, American voice actors, Comedians from Chicago, Living people

James Adam "Jim" Belushi (born June 15, 1954) is an Albanian-American actor, comedian, singer and musician. He played James "Jim" Orenthal in the series According to Jim.

[[Naturalism]]

Naturalism is a philosophical viewpoint. According to this viewpoint everything arises from natural properties and causes, and supernatural or spiritual explanations are excluded or discounted.

Naturalism  may also refer to:

[[Big Brother (UK)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 British television series debuts, 2000s British television series, 2000s reality television series, 2010s British television series, 2010s reality television series, Big Brother, Channel 4 reality television programmes, Channel 5 (UK) television programmes, English-language television programs

Big Brother was a reality television series in the United Kingdom which began in 2000. It was a version of the Big Brother franchise. Contestants must complete challenges while living in a house full of cameras.

In some series the house is in London; in some series it is in Hertfordshire. In some series, the housemates are celebrities. From 2000-2010, it was shown on Channel 4 and was presented by Davina McCall; from 2011-2018, it was shown on Channel 5 and was presented by Emma Willis.

[[Kargil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Kargil (Ladakhi: ཀར་གིལ་; کرگل) is a town in the Kargil District in Jammu and Kashmir in India. It is the second largest town in Ladakh after Leh. It is located 60 km and 204 km from Drass and Srinagar to the west.

[[Matt Baker]]

CATEGORIES: American comics artists, 1921 births, 1959 deaths

Clarence Matthew Baker (December 10, 1921 – August 11, 1959) was an American comic book artist. He is best known for drawing the costumed crime fighter Phantom Lady. Baker was active as early as the 1930s and 1940s Golden Age of comic books. He also penciled an early form of graphic novel, St. John Publications' digest-sized "picture novel" It Rhymes with Lust (1950). His specialty was good girl art, a comics and cartooning subgenre. December 2016 Baker was inducted into the Will Eisner Comic Book Hall of Fame in 2009.

[[Zumbl]]

CATEGORIES: Websites

Zumbl was an online chat service. Users could chat with strangers without giving their name. The service does not work any more.

[[Amalasuntha]]

CATEGORIES: 490s births, 530s deaths, Kings and queens, European people

Amalasuntha (c. 495 – 30 April 534/535) was a queen of the Ostrogoths, a branch of Goths, from 526 to 534. She was a Gothic princess and daughter of the Italian king, Theodoric the Great.  Amalasuntha had been married to Eutharic, an unknown Gothic nobleman. She gave birth to a son named Athalaric in 518. Her husband later died, leaving Amalasuntha a widow to raise their young son.

After her son Athalaric died, she fought for the kingdom, which was very difficult, but it increased her support of the Romans. Amalasuntha was an extremely well educated woman. She studied Greek and Latin and she became a lifelong contributor of writings and arts. Theodoric (her father) supplied her with a Roman education because he had an interest in creating peaceful Roman-Gothic relations. Her husband Eutharic was assigned Theodoric's heir, which excluded Theodoric's nephew from inheritance and power.

Her husband Eutharic died in 522, and Theodoric followed in 526. As a result, Athalaric inherited the throne. Athalaric was still very young so Amalasuntha became the regent 

Her accomplishments over her years of being a regent, were applauded by many people like the historian Procopius who spoke of her bravery and knowledge. She pursued her goal of creating good connections between the Romans and the Goths, which had been torn down in the years of her father’s rule, mostly during the imprisonment of Theodoric  and the killing of Boethius, a Roman political figure. She gave Boethius back his captured estates and began to look for the Roman Senate and then sent a letter to the emperor of Constantinople, asking him to forgive her and gave a Roman education to her son. All of this to get on the emperors good side.

Amalasuntha attempted to improve relations with barbarian people to make peace with the Gothic nobility. Amalasuntha improved relations with the Burgundians, but the alliance ended.

[[Brunhilda of Austrasia]]

CATEGORIES: 530s births, 613 deaths, 6th century births, Converts to Christianity, Executed people, Frankish rulers, Kings and Queens of France, People from Toledo, Spain

Brunhilda (c. 534 – 613) was a Visigoth princess. Her father was King Athanagild of Spain. She married King Sigebert I of Austrasia. She ruled the eastern kingdoms of Austrasia and Burgundy in the names of her sons and grandsons. At first she was known as a fair and just ruler. She later became known for her cruelty and vengeful behavior.

Before her arrival to the Frankish kingdoms, Brunhilda was an Arian Christian, but later converted to Roman Catholicism. Brunhilda traveled to Austrasia to marry King Sigebert I. King Sigebert I's half brother, King Chilperic I married Brunhilda's sister, Galswintha. However, Galswintha was not happy, and wanted to go home and take back her dowry. King Chilperic refused, and murdered her. King Chilperic remmarried Fredegund, his first wife. Lots of tension was created between Fredegund and Brunhilda. In 575 C.E., King Sigebert was murdered by King Chilperic, and Brunhilda was exiled to Paris. Later, Brunhilda married Fredegund and Chilperic's son, Merovech. Brunhilda gained power, but Merovech and Brunhilda were split up by King Chilperic, and Brunhilda was exiled once more. In 585 C.E., King Chilperic died, believed to have been murdered by Fredegund. Fredegund started to favor Brunhilda. However, Brunhilda was caught by another of Fredegund and Chilperic’s sons, Chlotar II. She was blamed for the murder of ten kings, including her husband, children, grandchildren, Merovech, and Chilperic. She was found guilty (even though she was not) and put to death in a very gruesome way; she was tied to the back of a wild horse and dragged to her death.

[[Sam J. Jones]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Chicago, American movie actors, American television actors, 1954 births, Living people

Samuel Jerald Jones (born Andrew J. Cooper III, August 12, 1954), better known as Sam J. Jones, is an American actor. He is best known for playing Flash Gordon. He appeared as himself in the movie Ted.

[[Pat Finn]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Comedians from Illinois, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Illinois

Patrick "Pat" Finn (born July 31, 1965) is an American actor and comedian. He has had several recurring roles in television series, such as Murphy Brown and Ed. He played Santa Claus in Santa Paws 2: The Santa Pups.

[[Ed Koch]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2013 deaths, American activists, American lawyers, American movie critics, American television personalities, Deaths from heart failure, Jewish activists, Jewish American politicians, Jewish lawyers, Mayors of New York City, Politicians from Newark, New Jersey, Politicians from New York City, United States representatives from New York, US Democratic Party politicians, Writers from Newark, New Jersey, Writers from New York City

Edward Irving "Ed" Koch (December 12, 1924 – February 1, 2013) was an American lawyer, politician, movie critic, and television personality. He was the 105th mayor of New York City from January 1, 1978 through December 31, 1989. He was also part of the House of Representatives. He was a judge for the television judge show The People's Court.

[[Girl Drying Herself]]

CATEGORIES: 1880s paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC

Girl Drying Herself is a pastel by Edgar Degas. It is signed and dated 1885. It measures 80.1 x 51.2 cm (31 9/16 x 20 3/16 in.) It hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC.

[[Medical transcription]]

CATEGORIES: Healthcare occupations, Writing

Transcription means to listen to a recorded voice and to write down what it is saying. Medical transcription means to do this for a hospital, doctor's office or other medical place.

When doctors and nurses help someone in the hospital, they do not have time to write down what they saw or heard. So later they record what they saw and heard, so someone else can write it down. The notes are then added to the hospital's history. The person who does this as a profession is called a medical transcriptionist.

People who do medical transcription normally work in hospitals, doctor's offices, old age homes, and other places where doctors and nurses work. 

There is huge rise in outsourcing of Medical Transcription to other companies. In the United States this field of business is worth US$10 to $25 billion and growing 15 percent each year.

Because of rising costs of Medical Transcription it became recently popular to use different computer products (software) that can reduce transcription costs by as much as 50%. There is no available research about market share between in-house Transcription, outsourcing and software based.

[[Willem Coymans]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, Dutch paintings

Willem Coymans is an oil painting on canvas by Frans Hals. It is dated 1645. It measures 77 x 64 cm (30 5/16 x 25 3/16 in.) It hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC. The Gallery writes, "Hals was the first portraitist who consistently depicted his subjects seated sideways, with their arms hooked casually over the backs of their chairs. Coymans, an elegant dandy proud of his expensive clothes, wears an embroidered jacket and sports a pom–pom on his hat, which is pushed forward rakishly. Hals' dazzling brushwork is especially evident in the gold embroidery and the crisply pleated shirt–sleeve."

[[Bernard Horsfall]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Hertfordshire, Actors who played in James Bond movies, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors

Bernard Arthur Gordon Horsfall (November 20, 1930 – January 29, 2013) was an English actor. He is known for his roles in Gandhi and in Braveheart. He is also known for his guest-star roles in Doctor Who. 

Horsfall was born on November 20, 1930 in Bishop's Stortford, Hertfordshire, England. He studied at Rugby School and at Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art. He was married to Jane Jordan Rogers until his death in 2013. Horsfall died on January 29, 2013 in his home in Isle Of Skye, Scotland. He was 82 years old.

[[Girl with a Red Hat]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century paintings, Paintings by Johannes Vermeer, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, Dutch paintings

Girl with a Red Hat is an oil painting by Johannes Vermeer. It is dated about 1665-1666. It is painted on panel rather than on canvas. It is one of Vermeer's smallest pictures. It measures 22.8 x 18 cm (9 x 7 1/16 in.) It hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC. 

The Gallery writes, "The subject has turned in her chair and interacts with the viewer through her direct gaze. The effect is unusual spontaneity and informality. The artist’s exquisite use of color is the painting’s most striking characteristic, for both its compositional and its psychological impact. Vermeer concentrated the two major colors in two distinct areas: a vibrant red for the hat and a sumptuous blue for the robe; he then used the intensity of the white cravat to unify the whole."

[[Lady Holding a Balance]]

CATEGORIES: Paintings by Johannes Vermeer, 17th century paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, Dutch paintings

Lady Holding a Balance (sometimes Lady Testing a Balance) is an oil painting by Johannes Vermeer. It is dated ca. 1664. It measures 39.7 x 35.5 cm (15 5/8 x 14 in.) It hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC. The Gallery writes, "Woman Holding a Balance is an allegorical scene that urges us to conduct our lives with temperance and moderation. The painting within the painting offers an important clue in that Christ's Last Judgment is echoed by the woman's own actions. Before her are earthly treasures; behind her is the symbol of the eternal consequences of her actions here on earth. In waiting for the balance to rest at equilibrium she acknowledges the importance of judgment in weighing her own actions in anticipation of the life to come."

[[Deep diving]]

CATEGORIES: Diving

In deep diving, divers use a breathing apparatus (a supply of air carried on their backs). Or they may be supplied with breathing gas through a hose from above the water. This allows them to dive to some of the deeper parts of the ocean. Commercial divers may use different gas mixtures (Helium-Oxygen for example). They may also use armoured diving suits pressurized to one atmosphere. A deep dive is considered anything below a depth of about 30. This is still not very deep compared with the deepest parts of the ocean. Divers sometimes stay underwater for long periods of time. Sometimes they do work on oil wells and pipelines. Sometimes they explore sunken ships to see if they can retrieve items from the ship or help to bring the ship up to the surface.  

One of the dangers of deep diving is decompression sickness. That can happen if divers rise to the surface of the ocean too quickly. For that reason recreational divers need to be certified to show they have training to dive to a specified depth range.

[[Charlottesville Albemarle Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Virginia, 1955 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Virginia

Charlottesville Albemarle Airport CHO is a public airport 8 miles (12 km) north of Charlottesville, in Albemarle County, Virginia, USA. It has had airline flights since 1955. The airport serves the Charlottesville/Albemarle region and surrounding counties. It has 46 daily non-stop flights to six cities. Four airlines use the airport. The runway will be made 800 feet longer by the end of 2013.

The airport has a 60000 terminal. There are rental cars, ground transport, and food and gifts from "The Market" Gourmet Deli & Gift Shop. General aviation planes and pilots use the fixed base operator, Landmark Aviation. Landmark Aviation has flight schools and can fix planes or fill them with fuel.  Planes can also be rented or chartered.  The UVA Hospital's Pegasus service can carry sick people to bigger hospitals.

[[Ice climbing]]

CATEGORIES: Ice sports

Ice climbing is a type of mountaineering activity where people climb on ice formations. They might climb on frozen waterfalls or large rocks covered with ice. Ice climbers use special equipment like ice axes, ropes and crampons to climb ice and glaciers.

Ice climbing competitions started in Russia and have been held each winter since 1970.

Dangers to climbers include:

[[Cave diving]]

CATEGORIES: Diving, Caves

Cave diving is scuba diving which is done in underwater caves. Cave divers dive for adventure but also to find fossils and gather data (dirt samples, water temperature, etc.) that helps scientists better understand the earth and the environment.

Cave diving is more dangerous than diving in open water:

[[Freediving]]

CATEGORIES: Diving

Freediving is diving underwater (usually in the ocean) without using a breathing apparatus (air carried in tanks on their backs or supplied through a hose). Free divers practice holding their breath for long periods of time so that they can stay underwater longer.

Usually free divers stay underwater for about 45 seconds. That allows them to explore about 30 feet underwater. Some freedivers can dive to over 100 metres (300 feet), and hold their breath for four minutes or longer.

In Greek, “Apnea” means “Without air” and free-diving is called “Apnea”. Free-diving is similar to snorkeling, but divers need to hold their breath if they go in deep water. Free-diving doesn't need tools for breathing. Free-divers hold their breath until going up to the surface of the sea instead of using an air tank. Therefore, the most important part of free-diving is learning to breathe well. Most people can free-dive since it doesn’t need a snorkel or scuba tank. However, free-divers condition their mind and body before going free-diving.

[[Charlotte Rae]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from bone cancer, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television personalities, American comedians, American dancers, Jewish American actors, Singers from Wisconsin, Actors from Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Charlotte Rae (born Charlotte Rae Lubotsky; April 22, 1926 – August 5, 2018) was an American actress, comedian, singer, and dancer who was known for her role as Edna Garrett in Diff'rent Strokes and in The Facts of Life. She was nominated for an Emmy Award for Best Actress in a Comedy in 1982.

Rae was born on April 22, 1926 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin to Jewish-Russian parents. She was raised in Milwaukee and in Shorewood, Wisconsin. Rae studied at Shorewood High School and at Northwestern University. She was married to John Strauss from 1951 until they divorced. They had two children.

In April 2017, Rae was diagnosed with bone cancer. She died in Los Angeles, California on August 5, 2018 from the disease, aged 92.

[[Nedra Volz]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 2003 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, Comedians from Iowa, American television personalities, American radio personalities, Actors from Des Moines, Iowa

Nedra Volz (Nedra Gordonier, June 18, 1908 – January 20, 2003) was an American actress and comedian. She is known for her role as Housekeeper Adelaide Brubaker in Diff'rent Strokes.

[[Parasailing]]

CATEGORIES: Sports

Parasailing is a sport. Parasailers are put into a harness that is attached to a parachute.  They hold on to a rope and are towed at high speeds behind a vehicle (usually a boat, but sometimes a truck on land).  The parachute helps them rise up into the air behind the vehicle. People parasail for the thrill and also to get a good, high view of the scenery around them.

Parasailing is a popular recreational activity that was developed in the 1960s.

Dangers include falling too fast while in the air with injuries upon landing.

[[The Milk Maid]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century paintings, Paintings by Johannes Vermeer, Dutch paintings

The Milk Maid is an oil painting by Johannes Vermeer. It was painted about 1660. It measures 45.5 cm (17.9 in) x 41 cm (16.1 in). It hangs in the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam.

[[Zbrasov aragonite caves]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the Czech Republic, Caves

The Zbrašov aragonite caves are in the Přerov district of the Czech Republic. It is a protected area of national importance. The caves were created by both surface water and underground spring water. The protected area includes the caves as well as the surrounding forests. The natural underground springs of warm mineral water are rich in carbon dioxide. They are used for spas in the nearby willage and spa resort of Teplice nad Bečvou.

The caves are filled with aragonite and stalagmites which look like geysers. Other formations look like doughnuts. The bottom levels of the cave are filled with carbon dioxide.  The temperature stays at 14°C all year, and the caves are the warmest underground places in the Czech Republic.  The caves were discovered in 1912 and opened for the public in 1926. 

[[Any Good To You]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, Organisations based in the United Kingdom

Any Good To You often shortened to AGTY, is website based in the UK that aims to reduce the amount of things going into landfill by helping people to give away items they no longer need but which are too good to throw away.  It has similar goals to Freecycle and Freegle.

[[Tecophilaeaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Asparagales

Tecophilaeaceae is a family of flowering plants in the order Asparagales. It includes 8 genera and about 25 species.

These are mainly Southern Hemisphere genera although there is one genus with one species from North America. The rootstock is a corm and the flowers are solitary or arranged on a simple or branched raceme. Flowers are yellow, white, violet, or blue and have six tepals and six stamens and a half-inferior three chambered ovary. The fruit is a capsule and the seeds are black, ovoid and often wrinkled. 

[[Barney (dog)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from lymphoma, Individual dogs, George W. Bush, United States presidential pets

Barney (Bernard, September 30, 2000 – February 1, 2013) was the pet of George W. Bush and for Laura Bush. He was a Scottish Terrier. He had a nickname "The First Dog". On Christmas Days, he recorded all the activities held on the White House, which was called Barney Cam. He was born in New Jersey on September 30, 2000. Barney died on February 1, 2013 from lymphoma in Texas.

[[Carina (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Carina is a constellation in the southern sky. It means the keel of a ship in Latin. Before, it was part of the constellation named Argo Navis. Then, Argo Navis was split into three constellations. The astronomer named Ptolemy listed Argo Navis when he made a list of 666 constellations. Carina is one of the 0 modern constellations that were made by the International Astronomical Union.

The star named Canopus is in Carina. Canopus is the second brightest star in the night sky. The Carina Nebula is also in Carina. It is very large emission nebula. It is a region where stars form.

[[Nick Cannon]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American movie directors, American television directors, American television producers, American movie producers, American television personalities, American radio personalities, American rap musicians from California, Comedians from California, Singers from San Diego, California, Singers from North Dakota, Musicians from North Dakota, Musicians from San Diego, California, Actors from San Diego, California

Nicholas Scott "Nick" Cannon (born October 8, 1980) is an American actor, comedian, rapper and radio/television personality. He is known for his roles in Drumline, Love Don't Cost a Thing, and Roll Bounce. He also hosted his own show The Nick Cannon Show. He also hosted America's Got Talent.  

[[Portrait of Juan Pareja]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century paintings, Paintings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City, Spanish paintings, Paintings by Diego Velazquez

Portrait of Juan Pareja is an oil painting by Diego Velázquez. It dates to 1650. It measures 81.3 × 69.9 cm (32 × 27.5 in). It hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. Pareja was Velázquez’s slave. He served as an assistant in his workshop. The picture was painted in Rome. It was displayed publicly at the Pantheon in March 1650. The picture gained widespread admiration. Pareja became a painter in his own right. He was freed by Velázquez in 1654.

[[The Cup of Tea]]

CATEGORIES: 1880s paintings, Paintings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City, American paintings

The Cup of Tea is an oil painting on canvas by Mary Cassatt. It was painted about 1880.  It measures 36 3/8 x 25 3/4 in. (92.4 x 65.4 cm). The picture hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. The artist made the tea ritual the subject of a series of works painted around 1880-81. The model was her sister, Lydia, who often posed for her. Cassatt showed the painting to critical acclaim in the 1881 Impressionist exhibition.

[[Mrs. Hugh Hammersley]]

CATEGORIES: 1890s paintings, Paintings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City, American paintings

Mrs. Hugh Hammersley is an oil painting by John Singer Sargent. It was painted in 1892. It measures 81 x 45 1/2 in. (205.7 x 115.6 cm). The picture is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.

[[The Heart of the Andes]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century paintings, Paintings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City, American paintings

Heart of the Andes is an oil painting by Frederic Edwin Church. It was painted in 1859. It measures 66 1/8 x 119 1/4in. (168 x 302.9cm). It hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.

[[Swimming Hole]]

CATEGORIES: 1880s paintings, American paintings, Paintings by Thomas Eakins

The Swimming Hole (sometimes The Swimmers} is an oil painting by Thomas Eakins. It dates to 1885. It measures 27.625 × 36.625 in (70.2 × 93 cm). It hangs in the Amon Carter Museum of American Art. 

[[Portrait of Douglass Morgan Hall]]

CATEGORIES: American paintings, Paintings by Thomas Eakins, 1880s paintings

Portrait of Douglass Morgan Hall is an oil painting by Thomas Eakins. It was painted in 1889. It measures 61 × 50.8 cm (24 × 20 in). It hangs in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Douglass Morgan Hall, the son of a Philadelphia ophthalmologist, studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in 1885–86. After Eakins's forced resignation from the Academy, Hall enrolled as one of his students at the Philadelphia Art Students League in 1887, remaining there until 1890.

[[Arcadia (painting)]]

CATEGORIES: American paintings, 1880s paintings, Paintings by Thomas Eakins, Paintings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City

Arcadia is an oil painting by Thomas Eakins. It was painted about 1883. It measures 38 5/8 x 45 in. (98.1 x 114.3 cm). It hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City.

[[The Wrestlers]]

CATEGORIES: Paintings by Thomas Eakins, American paintings, 1890s paintings

The Wrestlers is an oil painting by Thomas Eakins. It dates to 1899. It measures 48 3/8" x 60" in.

[[Both Members of This Club]]

CATEGORIES: American paintings, 1900s paintings, 1909

Both Members of This Club is an oil painting by George Bellows. It hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC. It dates to 1909 and measures 115 x 160.5 cm (45 1/4 x 63 3/16 in.) 

Both Members of This Club was inspired by the fights Bellows attended at Tom Sharkey's Athletic Club in New YorkOctober 2020. At the time, public boxing matches were illegal in the city. Organizations like Sharkey's made fighters temporary members of the "club" on the night of the event. This allowed the men to fight and not break the law."

[[Breezing Up]]

CATEGORIES: 1870s paintings, American paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC

Breezing Up (A Fair Wind) is an oil painting by Winslow Homer. It dates to 1873-1876. It measures 61.5 x 97 cm (24 3/16 x 38 3/16 in.)  The picture hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC.

[[Sharpening the Sycthe]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s paintings, American paintings

Sharpening the Scythe is an oil painting by Eastman Johnson. It dates back to 1865. It measures 39.2 × 33 cm (15.4 × 13 in). The picture hangs in the Brooklyn Museum.

[[Kommando Spezialkräfte]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Germany

The KSK Kommando Spezialkräfte (Special Forces Command, KSK) is an elite military unit of Germany. Its soldiers are handpicked from each of the ranks of Germany’s army, the Bundeswehr. The KSK is organised as such under the Division Spezielle Operationen (Special Operations Division, DSO). KSK operators are performing joint anti-terror operations, mostly in the Balkans and Middle East.

[[End of the Day]]

CATEGORIES: American paintings, 1900s paintings, 1904 works

End of the Day is an oil painting by Frederic Remington. It dates to 1904. The picture hangs in the Frederic Remington Art Museum, Ogdensburg, New York.

[[The Power of Four]]

CATEGORIES: Songs, Rugby union

"The Power of Four" is a joint anthem for the British and Irish Lions, a rugby union team. It was created by Neil Myers.

[[Boeing 737 Classic]]

CATEGORIES: Boeing 737

The Boeing 737 Classic is a family of Boeing 737s. The Boeing 737 Classic series is made up of the Boeing 737-300, -400 and -500. These planes were not called the 737 Classics until the Boeing 737 Next Generation family was made. Before the 737 Next Generation family, the 737 Classics were called the 'new generation'. The 737 Classics were made from 1984 to 2000. 1,988 aircraft were made.

[[Amanda Blake]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York, 1929 births, 1989 deaths

Amanda Blake (February 20, 1929-August 16, 1989) was an American actress who acted primarily on television programs. She starred as Kitty Russell in the TV series Gunsmoke. Prior to that, Blake was a telephone company operator. Blake died due to complications of AIDS. She was born near Buffalo, New York.

[[TV5 Network, Inc.]]

CATEGORIES: Philippine television networks

TV5 Network, Inc. (formerly ABC Development Corporation) is a Philippine-based media company. Its main television station is TV5.

[[Mario Kart Arcade GP]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, Mario Kart games, Arcade games

Mario Kart Arcade GP is a racing video game released in arcades in 2005. It was developed by Namco and published by Nintendo. It is the first Mario Kart game to be released in arcades. A sequel, Mario Kart Arcade GP 2, was released in 2008.

[[Jack Hobbs]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1963 deaths, English cricketers, Knights Bachelor, People from Cambridge

Jack Hobbs (Sir John Berry Hobbs, 16 December 1882 – 21 December 1963) was an English professional cricketer.

Hobbs played for Surrey from 1905 to 1934 and for England in 61 Test matches between 1908 and 1930. Known as "The Master", Hobbs is regarded by critics as one of the greatest batsmen in the history of cricket. He is the leading run-scorer and century-maker in first-class cricket, with 61,760 runs and 199 centuries. A right-handed batsman and an occasional right-arm medium pace bowler, Hobbs also excelled as a fielder, particularly in the position of cover point.

[[Kirby's Return to Dream Land]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 video games, Kirby, Wii games, Platform games, Cooperative video games, Nintendo video games, Video games developed in Japan

Kirby's Return to Dream Land is a platform video game made by HAL Laboratory and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo Wii console. It was released in North America on October 24, 2011, in Japan on October 27, 2011, in Europe on November 25, 2011, and in Australia on December 1, 2011.

[[Moustapha Akkad]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2005 deaths, American murder victims, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Syrian people, American movie directors, American movie producers, People from Los Angeles, California, Aleppo

Moustapha Akkad (July 1, 1930 – November 11, 2005) was a Syrian-American movie producer and director who was known for producing all the Halloween movies until his death in 2005. He did not produce the first two Rob Zombie remakes. Halloween 9 was cancelled because of his death.

Akkad was born on July 1, 1930 in Aleppo, Syria. He was raised in Los Angeles, California. Akkad studied at Aleppo American College, at the University of California, Los Angeles and at the University of Southern California. He was married to Patricia Akkad until they divorced. Then he was to married Sasha Ascha until his death in 2005. He has two children with Patricia and one with Sasha.

Akkad and his daughter, Rima were both killed by a large explosion in the lobby of the hotel. They were in Amman, Jordan. Akkad and his daughter were in the lobby when it happened and his daughter died instantly. Akkad died two days after because of his injuries, aged 75.

[[The Mill]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century paintings, Dutch paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, Paintings by Rembrandt van Rijn

The Mill is an oil painting by Rembrandt van Rijn. It measures 87.6 cm (34.5 in) x 105.6 cm (41.6 in). It dates to 1645-1648. It hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC. The Gallery writes, "...Mill speaks to us as a powerfully expressive work. Rembrandt evokes a feeling of the forces of nature in the dramatic confrontation of the iconic mill, so central to the Dutch way of life, against the sweep of the sky. At the same time, the figures within the landscape give it a human element that we can respond to on a personal basis."

[[Ned Wertimer]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2013 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, Actors from Buffalo, New York

Ned Wertimer (October 27, 1923 – January 2, 2013) was an American actor. He was known for his role as Ralph Hart in the television sitcom The Jeffersons.

Wertimer was born on October 27, 1923 in Buffalo, New York. He studied at University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School. He was married to Skyne Uku from the 1960s until his death in 2013. In November 2012, Wertimer fell in his home in Burbank, California. He died in the hospital in Los Angeles, California from his injuries in January 2, 2013, aged 89.

[[The Nightwatch]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch paintings, 17th century paintings, Paintings by Rembrandt van Rijn

The Nightwatch (The Company of Frans Banning Cocq and Willem van Ruytenburch, known as the Night Watch) is an oil painting by Rembrandt. It dates to 1642. It measures 379.5 cm x 453.5 cm (149.4 in x 178.5 in). It hangs in the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam. 

[[Self Portrait (Van Gogh)]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch paintings, 1880s paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, Paintings by Vincent van Gogh

A self-drawn (or self-taken) picture of an artist is also called self portrait

Self Portrait is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh.  It measures 57.2 x 43.8 cm (22 1/2 x 17 1/4 in.) It was painted in 1889. It hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC. It is one of Van Gogh's last self-portraits.

[[Argon plasma coagulation]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine, Surgery

Argon plasma coagulation (APC) is the medical procedure to stop bleeding from an active bleeding site of the gastrointestinal tract. It is done with the help of endoscopy technique.

[[Van Gogh's Bedroom in Arles]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch paintings, Paintings by Vincent van Gogh, 1880s paintings

Van Gogh's Bedroom in Arles is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh. It was painted in October 1888. It measures 72 × 90 cm (28.3 × 35.4 in). It hangs in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. Van Gogh completed three paintings on the subject.

[[Cafe Terrace at Night]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch paintings, 1880s paintings, Paintings by Vincent van Gogh

Cafe Terrace at Night is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh. It was painted in 1888. It measures 81 × 64.5 cm (31.9 × 25.4 in). It hangs in the Kröller-Müller Museum.

[[Wheatfield with Crows]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch paintings, 1890s paintings, Paintings by Vincent van Gogh

Wheatfield with Crows is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh. It was finished about the 10th July 1890 (van Gough died on the 29th July 1890). In 1890, Van Gogh wrote that he had made three paintings in Auvers-sur-Oise of large fields of wheat under troubled skies. Wheat Field with Crows was one of them. It is almost certainly not the last painting of his life. This painting in particular is often thought to reflect his state of mind towards the end of his life.

[[Irises (1889 painting)]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch paintings, 1880s paintings, Paintings by Vincent van Gogh

Irises is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh. It was painted in 1889. It measures 28 × 36.625 in (71.1 × 93 cm). It hangs in the Getty Center.

He painted this when he was 36 years old.

[[The Storm on the Sea of Galilee]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch paintings, 17th century paintings, Paintings by Rembrandt van Rijn

The Storm on the Sea of Galilee is an oil painting by Rembrandt van Rijn. It measures 160 × 128 cm (63 × 50.4 in). It was painted in 1633. It is in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, Boston.

[[Toilette of Venus]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century paintings, Spanish paintings, Paintings by Diego Velazquez

Toilette of Venus (also Rokeby Venus, Venus at Her Mirror, Cupid and Venus, etc.) is an oil painting by Diego Velázquez. It was painted between 1644-1648. It measures 122.5. It hangs in the National Gallery, London.

[[Laocoön (painting)]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, 17th century paintings, Paintings by El Greco

Laocoön is an oil painting by El Greco. It dates to 16041614. It measures 142 × 193 cm (55.9 × 76 in). It hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC. Laocoön is a mythical character taken from the Aeneid, a Latin epic poem by Virgil. In the legend, Laocoön was a Trojan priest who warned the Trojans not to bring the Wooden Horse into the city of Troy. This angered the gods protecting the Greeks. They caused serpents to rise from the sea to strangle the priest and his two sons. Laocoön and his sons are seen left and center in the painting. The figures to the right may be the Greek gods. The Wooden Horse is seen in the middle distance center. The city in the far distance is Toledo, Spain. El Greco was Greek by birth. He completely ignored the history and mythology of Greece in his work, except for this one painting. This picture is the only classical theme he ever painted.

[[Red Boats at Argenteuil]]

CATEGORIES: Landscape paintings, Paintings by Claude Monet, 1870s paintings

Red Boats at Argenteuil is a painting by artist Claude Monet. It was painted in 1875. 

Argenteuil is a town northwest of Paris, France. Claude Monet painted different locations and objects in Argenteuil many times.

The painting belongs to a museum in Paris,  the Musée de l'Orangerie in France.

[[Portrait of Fray Hortensio Felix Paravicino]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish paintings, Paintings by El Greco, 16th century paintings

Portrait of Fray Hortensio Felix Paravicino is an oil painting by El Greco. It was painted in 1609. It measures 112.1 × 86.1 cm (44.1 × 33.9 in). It hangs in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.

[[South Africa national cricket team]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket clubs, South African people, 1889 establishments, 19th-century establishments in South Africa

The South African national cricket team, nicknamed the Proteas, represent South Africa in international cricket. They are administrated by Cricket South Africa.

South Africa is a full member of the International Cricket Council, also known as ICC, with Test and One Day International, or ODI, status. As of 24 March 2014, the South African team has played 384 Test matches, winning 140 (36%), losing 129 (34%) and drawing 114 (30%) of its games.

As of 24 March 2014, the South African team has played 498 ODI Matches, winning 307 (61.5%), losing 172 (34.5%), drawing 6 (1.2%) and getting a "No Result" in 13 (2.6%) of its games.

On 28 August 2012 South Africa became the first team to be number 1 in all 3 formats of the game.

[[Scotland national cricket team]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket clubs, Sport in Scotland

The Scotland national cricket team is Scotland's team in the game of cricket. They compete in the Clydesdale Bank 40 as the Scottish Saltires.  The Scottish Saltires play their home matches at The Grange, Edinburgh.

They were invited as member of the International Cricket Council in 1994. The team were unable to qualify for the World Cup in 2003.

In 2004 the Scotland cricket team played in the first "ICC Intercontinental Cup". They played against Ireland and the Netherlands to progress to the semi-finals in Sharjah. They won against Kenya in the semi-finals, and then won the Cup by beating Canada in the final. They also competed in that tournament in 2005, but failed to get past the first round.

Scotland played their first One Day International matches outside of World Cups against Pakistan in June 2006, with the European Championship matches against Ireland and the Netherlands during August.

Gordon Drummond has captained the side since 2010, and their coach is Peter Steindl from Australia.

[[Greg Cipes]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, American video game actors, Actors from Florida

Gregory Michael "Greg" Cipes (born January 4, 1980) is an American actor, voice artist and singer. He has performed in many movies (including The Wild as the voice of Ryan). He has performed in television programs, such as Teen Titans as Beast Boy. He was born in Coral Springs, Florida.

[[Moondyne Cave]]

CATEGORIES: Caves of Australia, Geography of Western Australia

Moondyne Cave is a cave in the southwest of Western Australia. It was discovered by Moondyne Joe in 1881. The cave is eight km north of Augusta. It was open for public tours from 1911 to 1959. In 1992 it was reopened for small groups.

[[Kirby Mass Attack]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 video games, Kirby, Platform games, Puzzle video games, Nintendo DS-only games, Video games developed in Japan, Virtual Console games

Kirby Mass Attack is a puzzle platformer game for the Nintendo DS console and is the fourth and last Kirby game for the DS. It was made by HAL Laboratory and published by Nintendo. It was released on August 4, 2011 in Japan, on September 19, 2011 in North America, on October 27, 2011 in Australia, and on October 28, 2011 in Europe.

[[Fatata Te Miti]]

CATEGORIES: French paintings, 1890s paintings, Paintings in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC

Fatata Te Miti (En: By the Sea) is an oil painting by Paul Gauguin. It is dated 1892. It measures 26 3/4 x 36 in. It hangs in the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC. The picture was painted a few months after Gauguin's first arrival in Tahiti. He retreated to the island's interior to live among the natives. Tehura, Gauguin's vahine, probably posed for the female on the right. John Walker writes, "In all his canvases painted in the South Seas, Complementary colorsorange and blue, yellow and violet, green and redat their highest intensities and without modulation of values, are balanced harmoniously against each other, forming beautiful, almost abstract patterns.

[[The Shrimp Girl]]

CATEGORIES: British paintings, 18th century paintings, Paintings by William Hogarth, Paintings in the National Gallery, London

The Shrimp Girl is an oil painting by William Hogarth.  It was painted around 1740–45. It measures 63.5 x 52.5 cm. It hangs in the National Gallery, London. The brush work is almost Impressionistic in style. It compares to that of French painter Jean-Honoré Fragonard. Its subject matter resembles the prints of hawkers and traders popular in Hogarth's day.

The painting depicts a woman selling shellfish on the streets of London. This job was typically one for the wives and daughters of fishmongers. The girl balances a large basket of shrimps and mussels on her head. A half-pint pewter pot in the basket is the girl's measuring cup.

The picture is not strictly finished. It was still in Hogarth's estate after his death.  His widow Jane was said to have told visitors, "They say he could not paint flesh. There is flesh and blood for you."  The pictue was only sold after his wife's death in 1789. It first received its title The Shrimp Girl in a Christie's sale catalog.

[[Richard Klein]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, American paleontologists, Scientists from Chicago

Richard G. Klein (born April 11, 1941 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American Professor of Biology and Anthropology at Stanford University. He is the professor in the School of Humanities and Sciences. He earned his PhD at the University of Chicago in 1966, and was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in April 2003. His research interests include paleoanthropology in Africa and Europe.

His publications are about the evoution and archaeology of humans.

[[George Clive and his Family with an Indian Maid]]

CATEGORIES: Paintings by Joshua Reynolds, 18th century paintings, British paintings, 1765 works

This painting, now known as Tysoe Saul Hancock, his wife Philadelphia, their daughter Elizabeth and their Indian maid Clarinda was previously misidentified as G''eorge Clive and his Family with an Indian Maid'' is an oil painting by Joshua Reynolds. It measures 140 cm x 171 cm (67.3 in x 55.1 in). It was painted in 1765. It hangs in the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin. Lord George Clive was cousin of Robert Clive, founder of the empire of British India. He made his fortune there. Clearly the painter found the Indian nurse's depiction his greatest pleasure. 

[[William Hootkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American video game actors, Comedians from Texas, American television personalities, Actors from Dallas, Texas

William Michael "Hoot" Hootkins (July 5, 1948 – October 23, 2005) was an American actor and comedian who was known for his roles in Raiders of the Lost Ark, Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope, and as Lt. Eckhert in Batman.

Hootkins was born on July 5, 1948 in Dallas, Texas. He studied at Princeton University and at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art. He was taken to the FBI because they thought he had something to do with the Assassination of John F. Kennedy.

He was married to Polly Hootkins from 1973 until they divorced in 2005. Then he was married to Carolyn Robb from July 2005 until his death in October 2005.

Hootkins lived in London, England until 2002 when he moved to Los Angeles, California. Hootkins died on October 23, 2005 in Santa Monica, California from pancreatic cancer, aged 57.

[[Jason Acuña]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Italian movie actors, Chilean movie actors, Chilean television actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American television personalities, Actors from Los Angeles County, California, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Pisa, People from Torrance, California, People with dwarfism

Jason Acuña (born May 16, 1973), he is mostly known as Wee-Man, is an American TV host and actor. He is one of the crew members for Jackass and stared in all of its movies.

Acuña was born on May 16, 1973 in Pisa, Italy with a Chilean origin. He was raised in Torrance, California. He studied at North High School.

[[Preston Lacy]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American television personalities, Actors from Missouri

Preston Lacy (born August 14, 1969) is an American daredevil, actor, and writer. He is known for being one of the cast members of Jackass. He is known for his stunts with Jason Acuña. Lacy was born on August 14, 1969 in Carthage, Missouri.

[[Dave England]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American television personalities, Actors from Sacramento County, California, Stuntmen

Dave England (born December 30, 1969) is an American stunt performer and actor. He is known for his works in Jackass and for all of its movies. England was born in Ventura, California.

[[Ehren McGhehey]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American television personalities, Actors from Oregon

Ehren McGhehey (born November 29, 1976) or Danger Ehren is an American daredevil and actor. He is known for being one of the crew members of Jackass. He has been in all of its movies. McGhehey was born on November 29, 1976 in McMinnville, Oregon.

[[Chris Pontius]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American television personalities, Actors from Pasadena, California, Stuntmen

Christopher Andrew "Chris" Pontius (born July 16, 1974) is an American television personality and daredevil and actor. He is one of the crew members for Jackass and for all of its movies. Pontius was born on July 16, 1974 in Pasadena, California. He is married to Claire Nolan.

[[Steve-O]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American television personalities, American radio personalities, Comedians from Florida, Actors from London, Actors from Connecticut, Actors from Miami, Florida, Comedians from London

Steve-O (born Stephen Gilchrist Glover; June 13, 1974) is a British-Canadian-American stunt performer, comedian, actor, and TV personality. He is known for being one of the cast members of Jackass.

Steve-O was born on June 13, 1974 in London, England to a Canadian mother and to an American father. He was raised in Darien, Connecticut and in Miami, Florida. Steve-O studied at the University of Miami and at the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Clown College. He was in rehab several times.

[[RSGC1]]

CATEGORIES: Open star clusters

RSGC1 is a massive young open star cluster in the Milky Way galaxy. It was discovered in 2006 in the data from infrared surveys. 

There are 12 red supergiants identified so far. These are massive young stars undergoing helium burning in their cores. There is also one yellow hypergiant, and one intermediate. The cluster is in the constellation Scutum at about 6.6 kpc from the Sun. It is at the intersection of the northern end of the Long Bar of the Milky Way and the inner portion of the Scutum–Centaurus Arm—one of its two major spiral arms.

The age of RSGC1 is estimated at 10–14 million years. The observed red supergiants with the mass of about 16–20 solar masses will become type II supernovas. The cluster is heavily obscured and has not been detected in the visible light. It lies close to other groups of red supergiants known as Stephenson 2, RSGC3 and Alicante 8. The mass of RSGC1 is estimated at 30 thousand solar masses, which makes it one the most massive open clusters in the Galaxy.

[[Arne Duncan]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Education, US Democratic Party politicians, Politicians from Chicago

Arne Duncan (born November 6, 1964) is an American education administrator. He was the United States Secretary of Education from 2009 through 2015. Duncan previously served as CEO of the Chicago Public Schools. He is a Democrat. He supports gay marriage.

Duncan was born on November 6, 1964 in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at Harvard University. Duncan is married to Karen Luann. They have two children. He lived in Arlington, Virginia and in Chicago, Illinois.

[[James Gammon]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2010 deaths, Actors from Illinois, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, Cancer deaths in California, Deaths from liver cancer

Richard Gammon (April 20, 1940 – July 16, 2010) was an American actor and entertainer. He was known for his role as Ulysses S. Grant in Lincoln, Mr. Sutherland in Wyatt Earp, and as Lou Brown in Major League.

Gammon was born on April 20, 1940 in Newman, Illinois. Gammon was married to Nancy Jane Kapusta from 1972 until his death in 2010. Gammon died on July 16, 2010 from adrenal and liver cancer in Costa Mesa, California, aged 70.

[[Bug River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Poland, Rivers of Belarus, Rivers of Ukraine

Bug is a name of two rivers in eastern Europe on opposite sides of the European watershed. The (western) Bug flows through western Ukraine, south-western Belarus and Poland. It is 772 km long and empties into the Vistula. The basin of Bug is about 30,420 km2 large.

[[Makoto Sakurai (disambiguation)]]

Makoto Sakurai may refer to

[[Jodi Rell]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Connecticut, Politicians from Virginia, People from Norfolk, Virginia, 1946 births, Living people, Lieutenant Governors of Connecticut

Mary Carolyn "Jodi" Rell (born Mary Carolyn Reavis; 16 June 1946) is an American Republican politician.  She was the eighty-seventh Governor of the Connecticut. Rell was Governor from 2004 to 2011. Before that, she was Lieutenant Governor of Connecticut under John G. Rowland. Rowland resigned during a corruption investigation. Rell was the second female Governor of Connecticut, after Ella Grasso. She was replaced in 2010 by Dannel Malloy.

[[The Graham Children]]

CATEGORIES: British paintings, 18th century paintings, Paintings by William Hogarth, Paintings in the National Gallery, London

The Graham Children is an oil painting by William Hogarth. It was painted in 1742. It measures 160.5 × 181 cm (63.2 × 71.3 in). It hangs in the National Gallery, London.

The children are painted life size, surrounded by plush furnishings and fabrics that reflect the family's wealth. A gilded bird cage is suspended from a cord and Thomas sits in an ornate baby cart with a fine silver fruit bowl at his feet. Richard plays a tune on a bird-organ which makes the bird sing.

[[Hogarth's Servants]]

CATEGORIES: British paintings, 18th century paintings, Paintings by William Hogarth

Hogarth's Servants is an oil painting by William Hogarth. It was painted between 1750-1755. It shows the faces of six of his servants. It measures 62 × 75 cm (24.4 × 29.5 in). It hangs in the Tate Gallery, London.

The painting shows three men and three women, of different ages. Each person looks in a different direction. The three women all look young, not children but also not old. The men are different ages, from a boy (at the top center), to an adult man (at the bottom center), to an elderly man (at the top right). Ronald Paulson thinks the servants could be a coachman (coach driver), valet (helper), messenger, housekeeper (top housemaid), and two housemaids. The servants are shown in their normal look, in their normal clothes. The painting was painted with love and sensitivity, showing Hogarth's affection for his servants.

[[Saint Helier]]

CATEGORIES: Jersey

Saint Helier or St. Helier (s; French language: Saint-Hélier sɛ̃t‿elje, Jèrriais: Saint Hélyi) is one of the twelve parts (called parishes) of Jersey, the largest of the Channel Islands in the English Channel. 33,500 people live in Saint Helier. 33,500 is about 34.2% of the number of people of Jersey. It is the capital of the Island (but Government House is in St. Saviour).

[[Super Bowl XLVII]]

CATEGORIES: Super Bowl, 2013 in sports, Baltimore Ravens, San Francisco 49ers, 2010s in New Orleans, Louisiana, 2010s in Louisiana, February 2013 events, 2013 in the United States

Super Bowl XLVII (meaning Super Bowl 47 in Roman numerals) was a Super Bowl game in which the Baltimore Ravens, winners of the American Football Conference (AFC) for the 2012 season, beat the San Francisco 49ers, winners of the National Football Conference (NFC) for the 2012 season, 34–31 to become winners of National Football League (NFL) for the 2012 season.

The game was played on February 3, 2013 at the Mercedes-Benz Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana. The win gave the Ravens their second Super Bowl title and their first since the 2000 NFL season at Super Bowl XXXV. Joe Flacco was named the Super Bowl MVP.

The game was also nicknamed the Harbaugh Bowl, HarBowl and Brother Bowl because it was the first Super Bowl that featured two brothers as opposing head coaches with both Baltimore's John Harbaugh and San Francisco's Jim Harbaugh facing each other.

The game also marked Ray Lewis' last NFL game after he said that he was going to retire from professional football at the end of the 2012 season.

[[Lloyd Bentsen]]

CATEGORIES: Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in Texas, Politicians from Houston, Texas, United States senators from Texas, 1976 United States presidential candidates, United States Secretaries of the Treasury, 1921 births, 2006 deaths

Lloyd Bentsen (February 11, 1921 — May 23, 2006) was a Senator from Texas from 1971 to 1993 and was the United States Secretary of the Treasury under the Clinton administration from 1993 to 1994. He was a congressman from Texas from 1948 to 1955. He was also chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance from 1987 to 1993. He was a member of the Democratic Party.

He was the Vice Presidential running mate in the 1988 United States presidential election, but lost to Dan Quayle. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He died on May 23, 2006 in his home in Houston, Texas from a stroke, aged 85.

[[Lone pair]]

CATEGORIES: Theoretical chemistry

A lone pair is a group of two electrons that are not used in any bonds between atoms. They are always in the last shell of an atom, the valence shell. Together with the electrons used in bonding they make up the total number of valence electrons. They are usually high in energy.

A lone pair can be used to form new bonds between molecules. Nucleophiles always have a lone pair that is used to attack an electrophile. Lone pairs are also important for the shape of a molecule. They take more space around an atom than a bonding electron. Lone pairs on a same atom want to be as far away from each other as possible.

[[Artemision Zeus]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek bronze sculptures, Ancient Greek and Roman statues

The Artemision Zeus is a Greek bronze statue. It dates to the Early Classical period, ca. 460 BC. It stands 2.09 m in height. It was found in the debris of a shipwreck near Cape Artemision in 1926-1928. It is in the National Museum, Athens. There has been some debate whether the statue represents Zeus or Poseidon. Caroline Houser believes it is unlikely the statue is Poseidon because his trident would obscure the statue's face.

[[Edwin Jarvis]]

CATEGORIES: Marvel Comics characters, Fictional British people

Jarvis Hopson or Edwin Jarvis is the butler of Tony Stark. He had also appeared in the Spider-Man comics. He has also been a supporting character in The Avengers comics. He sometimes is mistaken with DC Comics butler Alfred Pennyworth because of their background and what they do. He took care of the Start Mansion and Tony after his parents death.

Jarvis is as J.A.R.V.I.S, a robot in Iron Man, Iron Man 2, The Avengers, Iron Man 3 and Avengers: Age of Ultron because Jon Favreau did not want any confusion with Alfred Pennyworth. He is voice by Paul Bettany.

[[Nick Fury]]

CATEGORIES: Characters created by Stan Lee, Marvel Comics characters, Marvel Comics mutates

Colonel Nicholas Joseph "Nick" Fury is a fictional war hero and spy who helps Marvel heroes such as Hulk, The Fantastic Four, Iron Man, Captain America, Thor, and Spider-Man. He formed two groups one with spies S.H.I.E.L.D. and another one with superheroes The Avengers. He has an eye-patch and uses guns or advanced technology to fight criminals. He used to serve in World War II with Captain America.

[[Happy Rockefeller]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Breast cancer survivors, Disease-related deaths in New York, People from New York City, Rockefeller family, Second Ladies of the United States

Margaretta Large Fitler Murphy Rockefeller (June 9, 1926 – May 19, 2015), best known as Happy Rockefeller, was the widow of Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller, who was the 41st Vice President of the United States and the Governor of New York. She was the Second Lady of the United States from December 1974 to January 1977. Before she was the Second Lady, she was the First Lady of New York from May 1963 to December 1973.

[[Hydra (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Hydra is a constellation that has parts in the northern sky and parts in the southern sky.  It is the biggest constellation.  It represents a water snake.  The astronomer named Ptolemy listed Hydra when he made a list of 48 constellations.  It is also one of the 88 modern constellations that were made by the International Astronomical Union.

Even though Hydra is a very big constellation, it only has one bright star.  This star is named Alphard.  Alphard means "the solitary one" in Arabic. Hydra actually has little to identify it exept for a cluster of stars at its head. 

[[Captain Tsubasa]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 manga, Anime, Sports television series, Sports video games, Japanese television series, 2001 anime television series

Captain Tsubasa (キャプテン翼 Kyaputen Tsubasa?), also known as Flash Kicker, or Captain Majid in Arab speaking countries, is a popular long-running Japanese manga, animation, and video game series, originally created by Yōichi Takahashi in 1981. The series mainly revolves around the sport of Association football.

[[Hang gliding]]

CATEGORIES: Sports

Hang gliding is a sport which involves soaring in a very small aircraft without an engine.

[[Pitchfork]]

CATEGORIES: Farming tools

A pitchfork is a tool used in farming. It is similar to a garden fork, made of metal or another hard material, with three or more pointed ends. Its long handle, made of wood or hard plastic, is for use while standing. It is usually about the same size as a shovel. It is used to move hay and other materials.

[[Herbert Boyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, American biochemists, American civil rights activists, Living people, Scientists from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Herbert W. Boyer (born July 10, 1936 in Derry, Pennsylvania) received the 1990 National Medal of Science, and is a co-founder of Genentech. He served as Vice President of Genentech from 1976 until his retirement in 1991.

With Stanley Cohen, he did possibly the first piece of genetic engineering.

[[Thomas Wolfe]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from North Carolina, 1900 births, 1938 deaths

Thomas Wolfe (1900-1938) was an American writer from North Carolina. He wrote Look Homeward, Angel and You Can't Go Home Again.

[[Park Gyu-su]]

CATEGORIES: 1807 births, 1877 deaths, Korean educators, South Korean politicians, Autobiographers, Korean writers

Park Gyu-su (korean:박규수, hanja:朴珪壽, 1807–1877) was a Korean politician, Silhak and Neo-Confucianism philosopher, thinker, and liberal activist. One of his pennames was Hwanjae. His grandfather was Park Ji-won, a famous Silhak and Neo-Confucianism philosopher and novelist.

[[Susana Martinez]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American Roman Catholics, Governors of New Mexico, Politicians from El Paso, Texas, US Republican Party politicians, 21st-century American politicians

Susana Martinez (born July 14, 1959) is an American politician who served as the thirty-first Governor of New Mexico. She was the first female governor of New Mexico and the first female Hispanic governor in the United States. Martinez was a Democrat before the mid 1990s, around which time she became a Republican.

Martinez is from El Paso, Texas.

[[Kirby's Epic Yarn]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 video games, 2019 video games, Kirby, Wii games, Wii U games, Nintendo 3DS games, Platform games

Kirby's Epic Yarn is a platformer video game for the Nintendo Wii console. It was developed by HAL Laboratory and published by Nintendo. It was released in Japan on October 14, 2010, in North America on October 17, 2010, in Australia on February 24, 2011, and in Europe on February 25, 2011.

The game was ported to Nintendo 3DS in March 2019 as Kirby's Extra Epic Yarn which was last Kirby game for the system. 

[[Shizuka Gozen]]

CATEGORIES: 1165 births, 1211 deaths, Japanese people, Dancers

Shizuka Gozen (1165–1211), or Lady Shizuka, was one of the most famous women in Japanese history and literature. She was a shirabyōshi (court dancer) of the 12th century, and a mistress of Minamoto no Yoshitsune. Since she, like many others, are featured largely in the Heike Monogatari (Tale of Heike), Gikeiki (Chronicle of Yoshitsune), and a number of plays of various traditions, her story is quite well known, but it is difficult to separate fact from fiction within it.

[[Empress Genshō]]

CATEGORIES: 683 births, 748 deaths, Emperors of Japan

Empress Genshō (683 – May 22, 748) was the 44th monarch of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. Genshō ruled during the years 715 to 724.

In the history of Japan, Genshō was the fifth of eight women to take on the role of empress regnant, meaning that she was the ruler in her own right and not a ruler because she was a married to a ruler. 

Genshō was the only Japanese empress regnant to get her title from another empress regnant, rather than a previous male ruler.

[[Hōjō Masako]]

CATEGORIES: 1156 births, 1225 deaths, Japanese people

Hōjō Masako (1156 – August 16, 1225) was the eldest child of Hōjō Tokimasa by his wife Hōjō no Maki, the first shikken, or ruler, of the Kamakura shogunate. She was the sister of Hōjō Yoshitoki, and was married to Minamoto no Yoritomo, the first shogun of the Kamakura period. She was also the mother of Minamoto no Yoriie and Minamoto no Sanetomo, the second and third shoguns.

[[Empress Gemmei]]

CATEGORIES: 660 births, 721 deaths, Emperors of Japan

Empress Gemmei (660 – December 29, 721), also known as Empress Genmyō, was the 43rd monarch of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.

[[Izumi Shikibu]]

CATEGORIES: 970s births, 11th century deaths, Japanese poets

Izumi Shikibu (b. 976?) was a mid-Heian period Japanese poet. She is a member of the Thirty-six Medieval Poetry Immortals. She lived in the same time period of Murasaki Shikibu and Akazome Emon at the court of empress Joto Mon'in.

[[Mochizuki Chiyome]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese people

Mochizuki Chiyome （望月千代女） is a name of female ninja who did not exist. Although some non-academic books claim that  Chiyome existed in Sengoku period, she did not exist in fact, according to Katuya YoshimaruY17p282; He is an associate professor of Mie University and studies ninja.

According to Yoshimaru, the name of Chiyome was appeared first time  in 1971 at a book "考証日本史"("Investigation of Japanese history"); this book was written by non-academic writer 稲垣史生(Shisei Inagaki)Y17p282.

[[2013 Alabama bunker hostage crisis]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 murders in the United States, 21st century in Alabama

On January 29, 2013, a five-year-old boy was taken hostage for almost seven days in Dale County, Alabama, in the United States. The boy, Ethan, was riding to school on a bus. A 65-year-old Vietnam War veteran named Jimmy Lee Dykes came aboard the bus and killed the driver. Dykes took Ethan to an underground bunker on his property, in the Wiregrass Region near U.S. Highway 231.

On the afternoon of Monday, February 4, after negotiations with Dykes had failed and believing the child was going to be hurt very soon, law enforcement agents raided the bunker. The abductor was shot dead. Ethan, who suffers from Asperger's syndrome, was rescued.

Neighbors and officials had described Dykes as a survivalist with "anti-government" views.

[[Essie Mae Washington-Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2013 deaths, African American writers, American teachers, Deaths from natural causes, New York University alumni, Writers from South Carolina

Essie Mae Washington-Williams (October 12, 1925 – February 4, 2013) was an American school teacher. She is best known as the oldest and natural child of Strom Thurmond, Governor of South Carolina and longtime United States Senator. 

In 2003, she came forward and announced that she was the daughter of United States Senator, Strom Thurmond. Williams said that Thurmond paid for her college. She was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize.

[[Roger Bacon]]

CATEGORIES: 1214 births, 1294 deaths, English philosophers, English Roman Catholics, Franciscans

Roger Bacon (c. 1214–1294) was an English philosopher and Franciscan friar who placed considerable emphasis on the study of nature through empirical methods. He is sometimes credited, mainly starting in the 19th century, as one of the earliest European advocates of the modern scientific method inspired by the works of Aristotle and later Arabic works, such as the works of Muslim scientist Alhazen.

However, more recent studies emphasize that he was essentially a medieval thinker, with much of his "experimental" knowledge obtained from books, in the scholastic tradition. A survey of the reception of Bacon's work over centuries found that it often reflects the concerns and controversies central to the receivers. 

[[Mario Pinball Land]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, Mario video games, Pinball video games, Game Boy Advance games

Mario Pinball Land is a pinball video game for the Game Boy Advance console. It was developed by Fuse Games and published by Nintendo. It was released on August 26, 2004 in Japan, on October 4, 2004 in North America, and on November 26, 2004 in Europe.

[[Rabiah]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jordan

Rabiah is a neighborhood in Amman, Jordan. Notable landmarks include the Kalooti Mosque and the Kilo Circle Bridge. The area is comprised of both residential and non-residential communities. Popular cafes and restaurants make Rabiah a commercial hotspot, especially during holiday seasons such as Eid al-Adha. Major streets include Mecca Street, Medinah Street, and Wasfi Al Tall Street.

[[West Attica]]

CATEGORIES: Subdivisions of Greece, Attica

West Attica (Περιφερειακή ενότητα Δυτικής Αττικής) is a regional unit of Greece. It is part of Attica. The capital is the town Eleusis.

[[Ganache]]

CATEGORIES: Chocolate, French food

Ganache (ɡ; from the French word for "jowl") is a glaze, icing, sauce, or filling for pastries  made from chocolate and cream. It is made by heating cream and pouring it over chopped dark semi-sweet chocolate.

[[Ella Grasso]]

CATEGORIES: US Democratic Party politicians, United States representatives from Connecticut, Deaths from ovarian cancer, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Governors of Connecticut, 1919 births, 1981 deaths

Ella Tambussi Grasso (May 10, 1919 – February 5, 1981) was a Democratic Party American politician. She was the first female governor of the state of Connecticut. Grasso was in office from 1975 to 1980. She was elected governor in November 1974. She was the first female governor elected in her own right. From 1971 to 1975, she was a member of the United States House of Representatives. Grasso was born in Windsor Locks, Connecticut.

Grasso died on February 5, 1981 in Hartford, Connecticut of a heart attack and multiple organ failure caused by ovarian cancer, aged 61.

In 1984, President Ronald Reagan posthumously awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

[[PlayStation 4]]

CATEGORIES: Sony, PlayStation, Sony consoles

PlayStation 4 (also known by the abbreviated name PS4) is the fourth home video game console produced by Sony Computer Entertainment and is compatible with the PlayStation 3. It was officially announced at a press conference on February 20, 2013 and launched on November 15, 2013. The PS4 console features many games including Minecraft, Just Cause 3, and Call of Duty, Fortnite Battle Royale, Ratchet & Clank, and Spider-Man 3. It doesn't support any audio streaming Bluetooth profile or Advance Audio Distribution Profile, that's why there are many Bluetooth devices which you can't connect to the PS4. It was first discontinued in Brazil on January 9, 2016 as the Xbox One was also discontinued.

[[Naturalism (arts)]]

CATEGORIES: Art movements

Also see Realism (art movement)

Naturalism in art refers to the depiction of realistic objects in a natural setting. The Realist movement of the 19th century advocated naturalism in reaction to the stylized and idealized depictions of subjects in Romanticism, but many painters have used a similar approach over the centuries. One example of Naturalism is the artwork of American artist William Bliss Baker, whose landscape paintings are considered some of the best examples of the naturalist movement. Another example is the French Albert Charpin, from the Barbizon School, with his paintings of sheep in their natural settings.

Naturalism began in the early Renaissance, and developed itself further throughout the Renaissance, such as with the Florentine School.

Naturalism is a type of art that pays attention to very accurate and precise details, and portrays things as they are.

[[Reg Presley]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2013 deaths, Cancer deaths in England, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in Hampshire, English rock musicians, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Hampshire

Reg Presley (12 June 1941 - 4 February 2013) was a British singer-songwriter. He was born Reginald Maurice Ball in Andover, Hampshire, where he lived all his life. He was the lead singer of rock band The Troggs. In January 2012, Presley said he was retiring due to being diagnosed with lung cancer. Thirteen months later, he died at his house in Andover of lung cancer and strokes.

[[Stheno]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures

Stheno is a gorgon in Greek mythology. She has 2 sisters. She and her sister Eurale was immortal, and the third sister Medusa was mortal.  Medusa is the queen who turns people to stone with her eyes. Eurale could jump high. Stheno was very strong. She had snake hair, metal arms, and wings. She was the daughter of Phorcys and Ceto.

[[Eddie Fisher]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2010 deaths, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, Deaths from surgical complications, Jewish American actors, Jewish American musicians, Jewish American writers, Musicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Singers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Edwin John "Eddie" Fisher (August 10, 1928 – September 22, 2010) was an American singer, actor, writer, musician, and entertainer. Fisher had made hundreds of recording albums. 

Fisher was born on August 10, 1928 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to a Russian-Jewish family. He studied at Thomas Junior High School, South Philadelphia High School, and at Simon Gratz High School. It was during high school many people discovered that Fisher had a talent for singing. 

Fisher was married to Debbie Reynolds from 1955 until they divorced in 1959. They had two children; including actress Carrie Fisher. Then he was married to Elizabeth Taylor from 1959 until they divorced in 1964. Then he was married to Connie Stevens from 1967 until they divorced in 1969. They had two children. Then he was married to Terry Richard from 1975 until they divorced in 1976. Then he was last married to Betty Lin from 1993 until her death in 2001. 

Fisher died on September 22, 2010 in Berkeley, California after going into surgery, aged 82. Fisher broke his hip thirteen days before. He had hearing and seeing problems. His remains were cremated and were later buried. He was buried at Cypress Lawn Memorial Park next to his wife Betty Lin.

[[John Warner]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, United States senators from Virginia, US Republican Party politicians, United States Secretaries of the Navy, Politicians from Washington, D.C.

John William Warner, Jr. (February 18, 1927 – May 25, 2021) was an American Republican politician. He was the Secretary of the Navy from 1972 to 1974. He was a United States Senator from Virginia from January 2, 1979, to January 3, 2009. 

He did not run for office in 2008. He has rejoined the law firm of Hogan Lovells, where he worked before joining the United States Department of Defense. 

Warner was also the sixth husband to actress Elizabeth Taylor, whom he married before being elected to the Senate. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 2009.

Warner was born on February 18, 1927 in Washington, D.C.. He was raised in Washington, D.C.. Warner studied at St. Albans School, at Woodrow Wilson High School, at Washington-Lee University, at University of Virginia Law School, and at George Washington University. 

Warner was married to Catherine Mellon in 1957 until they divorced in 1973, they had three children. Then he was married to Elizabeth Taylor from 1976 until they divorced in 1982. In 2003, he married Jeanne Vander Myde.

A critic of President Donald Trump, he supported Democrats Hillary Clinton in 2016 and Joe Biden in 2020.

Warner died on May 25, 2021 at his home in Alexandria, Virginia from heart failure at the age of 94.

[[Daniel Akaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, American Calvinists, Congregationalists, Politicians from Honolulu, United States senators from Hawaii, US Democratic Party politicians

Daniel Kahikina Akaka (September 11, 1924 – April 6, 2018) was an American politician who was a United States Senator from Hawaii from 1990 to 2013. A member of the Democratic Party, Akaka is the first U.S. Senator of Native Hawaiian ancestry. He was the Senior Senator of Hawaii for a few weeks when Daniel Inouye died in December 2012.

He studied at the University of Hawaii. In 1969, he was hired by the Department of Education as a chief program planner. In the 1970s he served in various governmental positions. He was first elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1976 to represent Hawaii's Second Congressional District, and he served for 13 years.

Akaka died in Honolulu of multiple organ failure on April 6, 2018 at the age of 93.

[[Percy Spencer]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1970 deaths, American inventors

Percy LeBaron Spencer (July 9, 1894 – September 8, 1970) was an American engineer and inventor. He was the inventor the microwave oven. Spencer was born in Maine. He invented the microwave by accident when a chocolate bar his pocket melted when he was performing an experiment.

[[John Betjeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1984 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British poets laureate, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in England, English Anglicans, English poets, Writers from London

John Betjeman (28 August 1906 – 19 May 1984) was a English poet. He was Poet Laureate known for his light humorous verse. One of his most famous poems was about Slough, a town in Berkshire. 

It begins with the rhyme:

Betjeman was born in Highgate, London. He studied at Magdalen College, Oxford. In 1933 he married Penelope Chetwode; they separated in the late 1940s. The couple's son, Paul was born in 1937. Their daughter was Candida Lycett Green (1942–2014). Betjeman's partner from 1951 until his death was Lady Elizabeth Cavendish.

Betjeman died of Parkinson's disease in Trebetherick, Cornwall. He was replaced as Poet Laureate by Ted Hughes. Betjeman was also known as an architectural and cultural critic. He is buried at St Enodoc in Cornwall, near Trebetherick.

[[Frank Lautenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2013 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Businesspeople from New Jersey, Chief executives, Columbia University alumni, Deaths from pneumonia, Jewish American politicians, Jewish businesspeople, People from Paterson, New Jersey, United States senators from New Jersey, US Democratic Party politicians

Frank Raleigh Lautenberg (January 23, 1924 – June 3, 2013) was an American Senior Senator of the state of New Jersey. He first served in the United States Senate from 1982 to 2001; after a brief retirement, he was re-elected to the Senate and has served from 2003 until his death in 2013. At age 89, Lautenberg was the oldest senator and the last serving veteran of World War II to become a senator (after the death of Daniel Inouye and Ted Stevens. Daniel Akaka left office). Lautenberg was the oldest serving Senator.

[[Flannery O'Connor]]

CATEGORIES: American writers, 1925 births, 1964 deaths

Flannery O'Connor (1925–1964) was an American writer. Her books, include Wise Blood and A Good Man is Hard to Find. Her writing style is sometimes known as Southern Gothic. 

[[American literature]]

CATEGORIES: American literature, Literature

American literature is poetry, fiction, drama, or essays written by Americans. It also includes literature written by people living in the United States (who are not American citizens).

[[Saul Bellow]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2005 deaths, American Nobel Prize winners, American novelists, Canadian Nobel Prize winners, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Writers from Chicago, Writers from Montreal

Saul Bellow (June 10, 1915 - April 5, 2005) was a Canadian-American writer. He was born Solomon Bellows in Lachine, Montreal to Russian parents. He moved to Chicago, Illinois, when he was nine. He became an American citizen in 1941. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1976. He wrote the books Henderson the Rain King and Herzog. He died in Brookline, Massachusetts.

[[Averroes]]

CATEGORIES: 1126 births, 1198 deaths, Arab people, Astronomers, Muslims, Philosophers, People from Córdoba, Andalusia, Polymaths

Averroës (also known as Ibn Rušd or Ibn Rushd; 14 April 1126 – 10 December 1198) was a Muslim polymath from Al-Andalus. He was a scholar of Greek and Islamic philosophy. He also studied Islamic theology, law, politics, classical music, and the sciences of medicine, psychology, physics, astronomy, geography and mathematics.

Averroes was born in Córdoba, Al-Andalus. He lived during a unique period in academic history. Interest in philosophy and theology was failing in the Muslim world but just beginning to become influential in Christian Europe. Averroes himself was influenced by the ideas of Aristotle. His philosophy was often criticised by fellow Muslims. He had a larger influence on Western European society. He has been described as the founder of secular thought in Western Europe.

Averroes is most famous for his commentaries of Aristotle's works. Aristotle had been mostly forgotten in the West since the 6th century. Averroes' interpretations of Aristotle's ideas revived Western scholarly interest in Aristotle and ancient Greek philosophy in general. They also led to the development of scholasticism in medieval Europe.

[[Joseph Brodsky]]

CATEGORIES: American writers, Russian writers, 1940 births, 1996 deaths

Joseph Brodsky (24 May 1940 – 28 January 1996) was a Russian-American writer. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1987. He wrote poetry in Russian.

[[Christine Gregoire]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Washington, 1947 births, Living people

Christine Gregoire (March 24, 1947) is an American politician. She was the 22nd Governor of Washington from  2005 until 2013. She was a member for United States Democratic Party and the second female Governor of Washington. She was born near Auburn, Washington.

[[Tongs]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment, Kitchenware

Tongs are gripping and lifting tools. They are used in laboratories or in cooking are used to pick up hot objects.

There are also laboratory tongs, which are used to grip objects that are kind of, but not very poisonous. (Added by: Levern M.)

[[After Earth]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 action movies, 2010s adventure movies, 2013 science fiction movies, American action movies, American adventure movies, American science fiction movies, Movies about families, Movies composed by James Newton Howard, Movies directed by M. Night Shyamalan, Movies set in the future, Screenplays by M. Night Shyamalan, Post-apocalyptic movies

After Earth is a 2013 American action adventure science fiction movie that M. Night Shyamalan made with Will Smith. Columbia Pictures produced it.

[[Zanskar]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Zanskar (تحصیل زنسکار) is a sub-district of the Kargil District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Decompression sickness]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems, Diving

Decompression sickness is caused by bubbles which form in the blood and other body parts of people who have the pressure around them decrease too quickly. These bubbles may block the flow of blood and starve the body parts of oxygen, or the bubbles may cause damage by stretching, tearing, or pressing on the affected parts. Decompression sickness is also called the bends.

[[Buzzword]]

CATEGORIES: Rhetoric, Figures of speech, Terminology

A buzzword is a word or phrase that is made to either summarize a complex idea or reconstruct another word or phrase to reflect a particular point of view. Corporations make up buzzwords so that they can advertise stuff better. In this way, a buzzword is a lot like a product name or a proper noun. People can remember buzzwords better than non-buzzwords, which is why its good for advertising.

Example:

Multimedia has been a buzzword in the computer industry for years.

[[International trade]]

CATEGORIES: Economics, Trade

International  trade is when countries agree to allow their businesses to exchange products or resources, also known as importing and exporting goods. Businesses in one country will then buy (import) or sell (export) goods to the businesses in other countries. Alternatively, the government of a country will sometimes directly buy from (or sell to) the government of another country.

When import of goods affects the prices of those same goods in the receiving country, that country's government may pass special laws to regulate the trading. They may then try to use protectionist methods such as high tariffs to discourage import.

As a form of punishment or political pressure, some countries may impose economic sanctions, or embargoes that prevent trading altogether with a target country.

To promote relations, countries may agree to trade with each other without protectionism. This is called "free trade". Free trade reduces trade barriers in exporting items.

[[Narew]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Poland

Narew is a river in northeast Poland, and western Belarus. It is 484 long and empties into the Vistula.

[[Division of Higgins]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Higgins is an Australian Electoral Division in Victoria. 

It was created in 1949 and is named after Justice H. B. Higgins (1851–1929). Higgins was a member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly (1894), president of the Carlton Football Club (1904), a member of the Australian House of Representatives (1901–1906), and a judge of the High Court of Australia (1906–1929).

The Division of Higgins covers the inner eastern suburbs of Melbourne, including Armadale, Ashburton, Malvern, Toorak and parts of Glen Iris, Camberwell, Carnegie, Murrumbeena, Prahran, and South Yarra. 

[[Division of Murray]]

CATEGORIES: Former electoral divisions of Australia, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Murray was an Australian Electoral Division in the state of Victoria. 

It was located in the north of the state, next to the Murray River, which forms Victoria's border with New South Wales. It included the towns of Shepparton, Echuca, Cobram, Yarrawonga, Boort and Bridgewater.

Murray was created in 1949. It was named after the Murray River, which itself was named after British Secretary of State for War and the Colonies Sir George Murray.  

The Division was abolished in 2019 and renamed Nicholls.

[[Shepparton]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Victoria

Shepparton (ˈ) is a city on the floodplain of the Goulburn River in the north east of Victoria, Australia. It is about 181 north-east of Melbourne. In 2006 there were 27,707 living in the city.

Shepparton began as a sheep station and river crossing. It later became an important railway town. Today it is an agricultural and manufacturing city. It is at the centre of the Goulburn Valley irrigation system, one of the largest centres of irrigation in Australia. It is a major regional service city and is the civic administration centre for the City of Greater Shepparton. The Greater Shepparton area includes the towns of Tatura, Merrigum, Mooroopna, Murchison, Dookie, and Grahamvale.

[[Tatura]]

Tatura is a town in the Goulburn Valley region of Victoria, Australia, Australia. The town part of the City of Greater Shepparton local government area. It is 167 north of the state capital, Melbourne and 18 west of the regional centre of Shepparton. In 2011 there were 3,672 people living in the town.

There are several large companies based in Tatura. These include Tatura Milk Industries, Goulburn-Murray Water's corporate headquarters, Sinclair Knight Merz, and the Department of Primary Industries (Victoria). Several multinational corporations such as Unilever and Snow Brand Milk Products have processing factories in the town.

Attractions include the Cussen Park wetlands, the World War II Prisoner of War Camps, and the Irrigation Museum.

The name of the town is an Aboriginal word meaning "small lagoon".

[[Merrigum, Victoria]]

Merrigum is a small town in the Goulburn Valley region of Victoria, Australia. The town is part of City of Greater Shepparton local government area. It is 197 north of the state capital, Melbourne. In 2011 there were 672 people living in the town.

The name Merrigum is an Australian Aboriginal word meaning a small plain. Merrigum Post Office opened on 1 February 1875.

Golfers play at the course of the Merrigum Golf Club.

[[Great Artesian Basin]]

CATEGORIES: Aquifers, Drainage basins, Regions of Australia

The Great Artesian Basin in Australia is the largest and deepest aquifer (artesian basin) in the world. It stretches over  1711000, which is 22% of the surface area of Australia. This includes most of Queensland, the south-east corner of the Northern Territory, the north-east part of South Australia, and northern New South Wales. The basin is 3000 deep in places. It may contain 64900 of groundwater. Its temperature ranges from 30°C to 100°C. 

The basin is the only reliable source of freshwater through much of inland Australia. The Great Artesian Basin Coordinating Committee (GABCC) coordinates activity between the various levels of government and community organisations.

[[Melancholia]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses

Melancholia is a mental illness. A person with melancholia has intense or long-lasting feelings of sadness, for no clear reason. In the 20th century, the term "melancholia" was mostly replaced by "depression" (also called Major Depressive Disorder).

[[Refugee Boy]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 books

Refugee Boy is a very on the edge of your seat  book written by Benjamin Zephaniah.

[[California State Route 1]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in California, 1934 establishments in the United States

State Route 1 (SR 1) is a major north-south state highway that runs along most of the Pacific coastline of the U.S. state of California.

Highway 1 includes parts called Pacific Coast Highway (PCH), Cabrillo Highway, Shoreline Highway, or Coast Highway. Its southern end is at Interstate 5 (I-5) near Dana Point in Orange County. Its northern end is at U.S. Highway 101 (US 101) near Leggett in Mendocino County. Highway 1 also at times runs together with US 101, through a 54 stretch in Ventura and Santa Barbara Counties, and across the Golden Gate Bridge.

The highway is famous for running along some of the most beautiful coastlines in the USA. This is why people sometimes call it an 'All-American Road'. In addition to its scenic route to attractions along the coast, it is also  a major thoroughfare in the Greater Los Angeles Area, the San Francisco Bay Area, and several other coastal urban areas.

[[Spittal of Glenshee]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Scotland

The Spittal of Glenshee lies at the head of Glenshee in the highlands of eastern Perth and Kinross, Scotland where the confluence of many small streams flowing south out of the Grampians form the Shee Water.  For centuries, there has been a hostel or inn at the site and, in modern times, the small village has become a centre for travel, tourism and winter sports in the region, sited at a bend on the A93 trunk road which leads from Blairgowrie north past the Spittal to the Glenshee Ski Centre and on to Braemar.

Inhabitation in the Neolithic period is indicated by a Megalithic standing stone behind the old kirk, and the Four Poster stone circle on a nearby mound.

When interest in ski mountaineering revived after the First World War and the Scottish Ski Club was resuscitated in 1929, they restarted weekly snow reports with reporters appointed at Lix Toll near Killin, Dalwhinnie, Braemar and the Spittal of Glenshee. The Dundee Ski Club used the Spittal Hotel as its meeting place, and pioneered improvements, setting up the first ski tows in Britain at Glenshee in December 1950. The hotel burnt down in 1959, but Spittal of Glenshee has continued to provide accommodation near to the slopes.

The village also provides a stopping place on the Cateran Trail waymarked long distance footpath which provides a 64 mile (103km) circuit in the glens of Perthshire and Angus.

[[Improvised explosive device]]

CATEGORIES: Terrorism, Explosives

An improvised explosive device (IED), more commonly known as roadside bomb, is a bomb that is constructed by people for other purposes than military action. Paramilitary groups often use such devices for terrorist activities. Unconventional warfare which is done by guerilla forces also uses such devices.

[[Ladies' Home Journal]]

CATEGORIES: American women's magazines, Monthly magazines, Fashion magazines

The Ladies' Home Journal is an American women's magazine that is published through Meredith Corporation. The magazine first appeared in February 1883, and went on to eventually become one of the leading women's magazines in the United States during the 20th century. LHJ hit 1 million subscribers around 1907. It went quarterly in 2014.

[[Super Bowl XLVI]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in sports, Super Bowl

Super Bowl XLVI (Super Bowl 46) was an American football game between  the National Football Conference (NFC) champion New York Giants and the American Football Conference (AFC) champion New England Patriots to decide the National Football League (NFL) champion for the 2011 season. The Giants defeated the Patriots by the score of 21–17. The game was played on February 5, 2012, at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, the first time that the Super Bowl was played in the state of Indiana.

This Super Bowl is a rematch of Super Bowl XLII, which was also won by New York 17-14 and when they stopped the Patriots perfect season. This time, the Patriots entered the Super Bowl with a regular season 13-3 record, yet they were still the top seed and the New York Giants were the 4th seed.

[[Carbene]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups

A carbene is a molecule with a carbon atom that has two bonds and two other electrons that do not make any bonds. Since the carbon has only 6 electrons around it, it is quite reactive. The general formula can be written as  R-(C:)-R'.

A carbene can be a singlet or a triplet. In the first type, the two electrons that do not make bonds are like a lone pair. They both stay in the same orbital. In a triplet carbene instead, the two electron stay in different orbitals. Here they both have the same spin.

Carbenes can do many reactions. They can be both electrophiles and nucleophiles. They like doing addition reactions on double bonds. They are also found in cheletropic reactions.

Most carbenes are very unstable. However, some can exist for a long time. A famous example is Grubbs' catalyst, which was developed by Robert Grubbs.

[[Thiol]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups, Organosulfur compounds

A thiol is a molecule that has a R–SH group. Thiols are like alcohols with an oxygen atom changed with a sulfur one. They have often a very strong and bad smell. Thiols are added to natural gas so that people can smell it. This is because methane does not have a smell but can explode very easily.

Thiols are very easy to oxidize. They are also quite acidic, more than alcohols. When the proton is taken away by a base, the thiol can become a nucleophile. It can do reactions like nucleophilic substitution.

One of the natural amino acids, cysteine, has a thiol in its structure.

[[Orbital]]

Orbital means something related to an orbit. It might also mean:

[[Mario Party 2]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 video games, Mario Party games, Nintendo 64 games, Virtual Console games

Mario Party 2 is a party board video game for the Nintendo 64 console. It is the second game in the Mario Party series. It was published by Hudson Soft and published by Nintendo. It was released on December 17, 1999 in Japan, on January 24, 2000 in North America, and on November 6, 2000 in Europe. It was later re-released for the Nintendo Wii's Virtual Console in November and December 2010.

[[Váli (son of Odin)]]

CATEGORIES: Norse mythology, Norse gods and goddesses

In Norse mythology, Váli is a son of the god Odin and giantess Rindr. Váli's brothers are Thor, Baldr and Víðarr. When Baldr was killed, Váli killed the person who killed him. He grew to full adulthood in one day.

We don't know whether Norse people worshipped Váli as a god or whether he was only a character in the Poetic Edda.

He is also the god of flight. Anything that passes through the sky, whether man made or of nature is under his control. To symbolize this his cloak is made of raven feathers that when he spreads his arms looks like wings. Váli is fated to survive Ragnarök.

[[Stuart Freeborn]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Make-up artists, People from London

Stuart Freeborn (September 5, 1914 – February 5, 2013) was a British make-up artist. He was known for his works in Star Wars and for Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey. He had designed the make-up for Yoda.

Freeborn was born on September 5, 1914 in Leytonstone, London, England. He was married to Kay Freeborn until her death in 2012. They had three children, all who died before him. Freeborn died on February 5, 2013 in his home in London, England from natural causes, aged 98.

[[Edgar de Evia]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 2003 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American photographers, American artists, People from New York City, LGBT artists, American LGBT people

Edgar Domingo Evia y Joutard (July 30, 1910 – February 10, 2003) was a Mexican-born American photographer. He took photos for Town & Country, House & Garden, Look, and The New York Times Magazine.

Evia was born on July 30, 1910 in Mérida, Yucatán. His father was Mexican, and his mother was French. In 1912, his family immigrated to New York City. He studied at The Dalton School 1931. Evia was partners with Robert Denning from the 1950s until the 1960s. Then he was partners with David McJonathan-Swarm from 1966 until his death in 2003. Evia died in New York City, New York on February 10, 2003 from pneumonia after a broken hip, aged 92.

[[Peter Gilmore]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Yorkshire, British movie actors, British radio actors, British stage actors, British television actors, British voice actors, People from Leipzig

Peter Gilmore (August 25, 1931 – February 3, 2013) was a British actor. He was known for his roles in Warlords of Atlantis, The Onedin Line, and in Oh! What A Lovely War.

Gilmore was born on August 25, 1931 in Leipzig, Germany to British parents. He was raised in North Riding of Yorkshire. He was married to Una Stubbs from 1958 until they divorced in 1969. Then he was married to Jan Waters from 1970 until they divorced in 1976. Then he was married to Anne Stallybrass from 1987 until his death in 2013. He had a son with Stubbs. Gilmore died on February 3, 2013 in his home in London, England, aged 81.

[[La Serena, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

La Serena is a Chilean city, the capital of the Coquimbo Region and the Elqui Province. In the INE 2002 census, the city had 160,148 people.

[[Echuca, Victoria]]

Echuca (ə ə) is a city on the banks of the Murray River and Campaspe River in Victoria, Australia. On the other bank of the Murray is the New South Wales town of Moama. Echuca is the administrative centre and largest town in the Shire of Campaspe. In 2011 there were 13,708 people living in Echuca.

Echuca is an Aboriginal word meaning "Meeting of the Waters". Echuca is close to the junction of the Goulburn, Campaspe and Murray Rivers.  It is the closest point of the Murray to Melbourne. This meant it developed as a river port during the 19th century.

[[Division of Wannon]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, 1901 establishments in Australia

The Division of Wannon is an Australian Electoral Division in Victoria. 

It is in the south-west of the state, and includes much of the western part of Victoria. It is next to the South Australian border in the west, and the Bass Strait coast in the south. The Division includes the towns of Warnambool, Portland, Ararat, Hamilton, Stawell and Halls Gap. The Grampians and the Port Campbell National Parks are in the Division. Maryborough and Avoca will become part of Wannon at the 2013 federal election after changes that took place on December 24, 2010. 

The Division was one of the 75 divisions drawn up for the first federal election in 1901. It was named after the Wannon River, which had been named by Major Mitchell in 1836.  

[[Pencil sharpener]]

CATEGORIES: Writing tools

A pencil sharpener is a machine for making a point at the  of a pencil sharp enough so you can use it.

[[Eritrean–Ethiopian War]]

CATEGORIES: 1998, 1999, 2000, 1990s in Africa, Eritrea, History of Ethiopia, Wars

The Eritrean–Ethiopian War was a war between Ethiopia and Eritrea. It lasted from May 1998 to June 2000. Both countries spent hundreds of millions of dollars on the war, and tens of thousands of people were killed by the conflict. The war resulted in small changes to the border between the two countries.

Eritrea's war of independence lasted for 30 years, on and off; it was started in 1961 and finished in 1991 when Eritrea finally became independent.  While this was going on, there was also a civil war in Ethiopia, which began in 1975.  This war was started by Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) as a rebellion to overthrow the Marxist military dictatorship of Derg (a military committee that had overthrown Emperor Haile Selassie in 1974).  TPLF and the Eritrean People's Liberation Front were formidable allies during the civil war, but then Ethiopia and Eritrea could not agree on where the border was after Eritrea's independence.  One of the main areas of conflict was focused on Badme.

[[Whatever]]

CATEGORIES: Slang

The term whatever is American slang. It means whatever you say or I do not care what you say. It is used to dismiss something someone else has said. In the late 20th and early 21st century, the word became a sentence in its own right. The character Archie Bunker, from the show All in the Family, used the phrase often to dismiss his wife Edith in the 1970s. It was strongly prevalent among teenagers in the 1980s and 1990s. 

[[Division of Wills]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Wills is an Australian Electoral Division of Victoria. 

The division includes the northern Melbourne suburbs of Brunswick, Coburg, Pascoe Vale, Fawkner, Glenroy, and Essendon Airport. It was named after William John Wills, of the Burke and Wills expedition.

[[The Mall, London]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in London

The Mall  is a short but important road in London. It runs from Buckingham Palace at its western end to Whitehall, right near Trafalgar Square. On the way, it runs through Admiralty Arch. It is closed to traffic on Sundays and public holidays, and on ceremonial occasions. 

The Mall was built as a ceremonial route in the early 20th century. There are similar ceremonial routes in cities such as Berlin, Mexico City, Oslo, Paris, Saint Petersburg, Vienna and Washington, D.C.. These routes are often used for major national ceremonies. When the Mall was built, a new façade (front face) was constructed for Buckingham Palace, and the Victoria Memorial was erected. 

The Queen Victoria Memorial is in front of the gates of the Palace, whilst Admiralty Arch at the far end leads into Trafalgar Square. The length of The Mall from where it joins Constitution Hill at the Victoria Memorial end to Admiralty Arch is exactly 0.5. St. James's Park is on the south side of The Mall, opposite Green Park and St James's Palace, on the north side. Running off The Mall at its eastern end is Horse Guards Parade, where the Trooping the Colour ceremony is held.

The surface of The Mall is coloured red to give the effect of a giant red carpet leading up to Buckingham Palace. This colour was obtained using synthetic iron oxide pigment from Deanshanger Oxide Works (Deanox), which was created using the Deanox Process devised by chemist Ernest Lovell. 

On VE Day – 8 May 1945 – the Palace was the centre of British celebrations. The King, Queen and Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret were on the balcony behind them, to the cheers from a vast crowd on The Mall.

During state visits, the monarch and the visiting head of state are escorted in a state carriage up The Mall, and the street is decorated with Union Flags and the flags of the visiting head of state's country. During the Golden Jubilee celebrations of Queen Elizabeth II in 2002, over one million people packed The Mall to watch the public displays and the appearance of the Royal Family on the palace balcony. These scenes were repeated in 2011 for the wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton, and again in 2012 for the Queen's Diamond Jubilee, and the Diamond Jubilee concert.

[[Innamincka, South Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Australia

Innamincka is a very small town in north-east South Australia. It is 1065 km northeast of Adelaide and 459 km from Lyndhurst up the Strzelecki Track. It is on the banks of Cooper Creek in the state's Channel Country, and surrounded by the Strzelecki, Tirari and Sturt Stony Deserts. It is within Innamincka Regional Reserve. In 2006 there were 131 people living in the town.

[[Sankoo]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Sankoo (تحصیل سنکو) is a town in the Ladakh region of Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is south of the town of Kargil, and is a sub-district of the Kargil District.

[[Super Bowl XLV]]

CATEGORIES: Super Bowl, 2011 in sports, Arlington, Texas, Sports in Texas, 2011 in the United States, 2010s in Texas, Pittsburgh Steelers, Green Bay Packers

Super Bowl XLV was an American football game between the American Football Conference (AFC) champion Pittsburgh Steelers and the National Football Conference (NFC) champion Green Bay Packers to decide the National Football League (NFL) champion for the 2010 season. The Packers defeated the Steelers by the score of 31–25. The game was played on February 6, 2011, at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas, the first time the Super Bowl was played in the Dallas–Fort Worth area.

[[Oxford Street]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in London

Oxford Street is a major road in the City of Westminster in the West End of London. It is Europe's busiest shopping street, and has about 300 shops. 

The street forms part of the A40 road, which connects London to Oxford. Like many roads in central London which are no longer through routes it is not signposted with the road number.

Roughly halfway along Oxford Street is Oxford Circus, a busy intersection with Regent Street. A diagonal crossing at Oxford Circus opened in 2009, currently the only one of its kind in central London.

[[Oxford Circus]]

CATEGORIES: City of Westminster, Roads in London

Oxford Circus is the busy intersection of Oxford Street  and Regent Street in the West End of London. It is served by Oxford Circus tube station, which is directly beneath the junction itself.

[[Cold Stone Creamery]]

CATEGORIES: American food companies, 1988 establishments in the United States

The Cold Stone Creamery is an American ice cream network based out of Arizona. Its main products are pies, premium ice cream, smoothies and ice cream cakes. This ice cream group, since 2008, has co-branded certain locations along with other chains in attempts to increase its presence outside the United States.

[[Max Schmitt in a Single Scull]]

CATEGORIES: 1870s paintings, Paintings by Thomas Eakins, Paintings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City, American paintings

Max Schmitt in a Single Scull is an oil painting by Thomas Eakins. It was painted in 1871. The picture measures 32.6 x 46.3 cm. It hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. The painting sets on the Schuylkill River in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

[[Lake Karachay]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Russia

Lake Karachay is a small lake in the Ural Mountains. It lies in Chelyabinsk Oblast, near the town of Ozyorsk.Ozyork was a closed city; the people who worked there built Russia's first nuclear power plant, at Mayak. The lake was used to dump radioactive waste that resulted from operating the Mayak site, from about 1951. This waste had been dumped into the Techa River beforehand. From about 1956, it was also stored in tanks.

The lake is near Mayak, which is the name of a number of nuclear facilities, about 150 kilometres (93 miles) from Ekaterinburg in Russia.

[[Hobart Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2007 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American sculptors, People from Oklahoma, People from Los Angeles, California

Hobart Ray Brown, (February 27, 1934 – November 7, 2007) was an American sculptor. He was known for finding the Kinetic Sculpture Race in 1969.

Brown was born on February 27, 1934 in Hess, Oklahoma. He was raised in Los Angeles, California. Brown studied at Van Nuys High School, just a few classes from Marilyn Monroe. He was divorced two times. Brown had four children. Brown had a stroke in May 2007. Brown died on November 7, 2007 from pneumonia in Redwood City, California, aged 73.

[[Roberto Cabral del Hoyo]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1999 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Mexican writers, Mexican historians, Mexican poets, People from Zacatecas

Roberto Cabral del Hoyo (August 7, 1913 – October 4, 1999) was a Mexican poet, historian, and writer. He was known for his written works Filly Pearl, To My Roots of the Earth, Three, Against the Dark Wind, and Word.

Hoyo was born on August 7, 1913 in Zacatecas, Zacatecas, Mexico. He was never married and had no children. Hoyo died on October 4, 1999 from pneumonia in his hometown and were he lived in Zacatecas, Mexico, aged 86.

[[Santa Barbara, California]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in California, Santa Barbara, California

Santa Barbara, California  is the county seat of Santa Barbara County, California, United States. About 220,000 people live there. It is the second largest county seat in the country, just after Santa Maria, California. Helene Schneider is the mayor.

[[Santa Maria, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Santa Barbara County, California

Santa Maria is a city in Santa Barbara County, in Southern California. In 2019, about 107,263 people lived there. Alice Patino is the mayor.

[[Otavalo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ecuador

Otavalo is the capital of Otavalo Canton, is a large busy town in the Imbabura Province of Ecuador. The town has about 90,000 citizens and is surrounded by mountains and volcanoes such as Imbabura 4,630m, Cotacachi 4,995m, and the Mojanda volcanoes. Mario Conejo is the current mayor. 

[[Ibarra, Ecuador]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ecuador

Ibarra (full name San Miguel de Ibarra) is a city in northern Ecuador and the capital of the Imbabura Province. It lies at the foot of the Imbabura Volcano and on the left bank of the Tahuando river. It is about 70 kilometres (43 mi) northeast of Ecuador's capital Quito. Ibarra was founded in 1606.

[[North–South divide]]

CATEGORIES: Economic geography, Demographics, Country classifications

The North–South divide is a term often used in the geography of socio-economics. It describes a difference in economic development between the north and south of the world. The North is made up of mostly developed countries in the Northern Hemisphere – those of Europe and North America. The South is made up of mostly developing and undeveloped countries – those in Africa, Latin America and Asia. Many of them are in the Southern Hemisphere. The North is home to four of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and all members of the G8.

[[Shipbuilding]]

CATEGORIES: Industries, Manufacturing, Ships

Shipbuilding refers to the manufacturing of ships. In the past many ships were built in places like Glasgow and Sunderland but in the 21st century this industry is not big in the United Kingdom and most ships are built in South Korea and China. Japan once built the most ships but is now in 3rd place.

[[Saikai, Nagasaki]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Nagasaki Prefecture

Saikai is a place in Nagasaki Prefecture Japan, formed in 2005 from the merger of several smaller towns including Oshima.

[[Tina Majorino]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, 1985 births, Living people

Albertina Marie "Tina" Majorino (February 7, 1988) is an American movie and television actress. She started acting as a child. She acted in the movies Waterworld and Napoleon Dynamite. On television, she acted in the series Big Love, Veronica Mars and True Blood. She was also in the animated television version of Napoleon Dynamite.  She has a recurring role on the series Bones. In 2012, Majorino joined the cast of Grey's Anatomy. Her acting was begun around 1992. She was born in Westlake, California.

[[Sônia Braga]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, 1950 births, Living people, Brazilian movie actors

Sônia Braga (June 8, 1950) is a Brazilian and American actress. She acts mostly in movies. She starred in The Rookie and Moon over Parador. She has also been in a few television programs, including CSI: Miami. She is the aunt of the Brazilian actress Alice Braga.

[[Acton]]

Acton may refer to:

[[Acton, London]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, London Borough of Ealing

Acton is a district of west London. It is in the London Borough of Ealing.

[[Trading Mom]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 comedy movies, 1990s fantasy-comedy movies, American fantasy-comedy movies, Movies based on books, English-language movies, 1990s family movies

Trading Mom (also released as The Mommy Market) is a 1994 fantasy/comedy movie written and directed by Tia Brelis. Starring Sissy Spacek and Anna Chlumsky, it features the final acting role of André the Giant, who died a year before the movie was released.

[[Langlands program]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory, Algebra

The Langlands Program is a branch of algebraic number theory. It is a more complicated version of class field theory.

[[Thioester]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups, Organosulfur compounds

A thioester is a molecule with a group C-S-CO-C. They are like esters, but with a sulfur atom instead of an oxygen one. Like esters, they can be made from carboxylic acids. In the synthesis, a thiol is used instead of an alcohol. 

Thioesters are very important in biochemistry. They are made in the body during reactions that make fatty acids. They are also important intermediates in the production of ATP, which is the molecule that gives energy to the body.

In chemistry, thioesters can be also used as electrophiles. They are more reactive than esters and amides. They can also do aldol reactions.

[[Sulfone]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups, Organosulfur compounds

A sulfone is a molecule that has a sulfur atom with bonds to two oxygen atoms. The sulfur has two double bonds to the two oxygens. It has a single bond with the other two groups. They are usually made by oxidising thioethers.

They are used in many important chemical reactions. For example, the Julia olefination uses a sulfone to make an alkene from an aldehyde. They are also sometimes used as solvents.

[[John Kerr (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Actors from New York City, American lawyers, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Tony Award winning actors

John Grinham Kerr (November 15, 1931 – February 2, 2013) was an American actor who worked in movies, television and on stage. He was also a lawyer. He won a Tony Award in 1954.

[[Krsto Papić]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, Croatian movie directors, Croatian movie producers, Croatian screenwriters

Krsto Papić (December 7, 1933 – February 7, 2013) was a Croatian screenwriter and movie director. His career lasted for almost 50 years. He retired in 2012. He was nominated for a Golden Globe in 1989.

Papić was born on December 7, 1933 in Vučji Do, near Nikšić, Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Papić died on February 7, 2013 from stomach cancer in Zagreb, Croatia, aged 79.

[[Thioether]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups, Organosulfur compounds

A thioether is a molecule with the group R-S-R. The first atom in R is a carbon. Thioether take their name from ethers. They have a sulfur instead of an oxygen atom between the two R. Thioethers can have very bad smells like thiols. They can also be called sulfides. The C-S-C bond is at nearly 90 degrees.

Thioethers are important in biology. They are present in some amino acids. Petroleum has many thioethers in it as well. Thioethers can be made in the laboratory by the reaction of a thiol with a base and an electrophile. They can do many interesting reactions. It is easy to oxidise them to sulfoxides and then sulfones. 

Dimethyl sulfide is the simplest thioether. It is used in important reactions like the Swern oxidation. This makes aldehydes starting from alcohols.

[[Limbic system]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the brain

The limbic system is a set of structures of the brain. These structures cover both sides of the thalamus, right under the cerebrum. It is not a separate system, but a collection of structures from the cerebrum, diencephalon, and midbrain. It supports many different functions, including emotion, behaviour, motivation, long-term memory, and olfaction.

[[Collins, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mississippi, County seats in Mississippi

Collins is a city in Covington County, Mississippi. In 2005, 2,761 people lived there. Actor Gerald McRaney was born there. 52% of the people are African American and only 46% are white.

[[Albus Dumbledore]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1997, Fictional gay males, Harry Potter characters

Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore is a fictional character of the Harry Potter series. He was the headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry until his death in 1996. He first found Harry when he was a little boy and since then they developed a relationship. In the Harry Potter movies he is played first by Richard Harris, and then by Michael Gambon after Harris died. He had two siblings, Aberforth Dumbledore and Ariana Dumbledore.

Dumbledore is killed by Severus Snape in the sixth book/movie, after Draco Malfoy failed to do so. However, his character's backstory is explored in the last book of the series. His death would lead to the final battle between Harry Potter and Voldemort.

Though it is never mentioned in any of the books, the author announced publicly that Dumbledore is gay.

[[Barney Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2005 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, Deaths from lung cancer, Seinfeld

Barney Martin (March 3, 1923 – March 21, 2005) was an American actor and comedian. He is best known for playing Morty Seinfeld, father of Jerry, on the famous sitcom Seinfeld.

Martin was born on March 3, 1923 in Queens, New York to an Irish-Catholic family. Martin died on March 21, 2005 in his home in Studio City, California from lung cancer, aged 82.

[[Lizzie Velasquez]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Writers from Austin, Texas, 1989 births, American bloggers

Lizzie Velasquez is an American woman whose very rare medical condition has led her to become an author and public speaker.

[[Mary Steenburgen]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Actors from Arkansas, American movie actors, Best Supporting Actress Academy Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Saturn Award winners, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Mary Nell Steenburgen (born February 8, 1953) is an American Golden Globe and Academy Award winning actress. She has starred in a lot of notable movies. Steenburgen was born in Arkansas.

[[Mexican Mafia]]

CATEGORIES: Organized crime, Crime in the United States

The Mexican Mafia is a Mexican American crime organization. The Mexican mafia did not start in Mexico but in the United States. 

[[Rockefeller University]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in New York (state), Colleges and universities in New York, Buildings and structures in Manhattan

The Rockefeller University is an American private university in New York City. It does research and offers postgraduate and postdoctoral education. It conducts research mainly in biological sciences and medical science, and has produced or attracted many Nobel laureates.

The Rockefeller University is on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, between 63rd and 68th Streets along York Avenue.

A number of important journals are published by the Rockefeller University Press: the Journal of Experimental Medicine, the Journal of Cell Biology, and The Journal of General Physiology.

[[Russian mafia]]

CATEGORIES: Organized crime

The term Russian mafia represents various crime groups all across the former Soviet Union. They are not a single criminal club, though they represent similar goals and structures which define them. Organized crime in Russia began during early 1700s with thievery and banditry. Nowadays, close to six thousand different groups operate, 200 of which have global reach.

[[Curator]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations

A curator or keeper looks after collections. It may be a private activity, but usually they look after the collections of a cultural heritage institution. Art galleries, museums, libraries or archives have curators. Zoos have zookeepers and underkeepers.

Curators are subject-matter experts who act as managers. It is an official job description in institutions which have collections. The curator's work involves objects of some kind, such as artwork, collectibles, historic items or scientific collections. Curators in zoos are usually called 'keepers', but it is the same idea.

The word curator comes from the Latin word curare, meaning to look after. 

[[Amber Valletta]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Phoenix, Arizona, Models from Phoenix, Arizona, 1974 births, Living people, American television actors, American television personalities, Vegetarians

Amber Valletta (February 9, 1974, Phoenix, Arizona) is an American movie and television program actress and model. She started as a model for fashion agencies. She appeared in movies including Hitch (2005), The Spy Next Door and the television series Revenge. Her acting career began around 1993.

[[Bazargan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran

Bazargan (بازرگان; also Romanized as Bāzargān, Bāzarqān, and Bāzergān) is a city in Iran. It is the capital of Bazargan District, in Maku County, West Azerbaijan Province. The city is the most important Iranian ground border for importing and exporting.October 2011 At the 2006 census, its population was 9,047, in 2,126 families.

[[Economics of fascism]]

CATEGORIES: Economic systems, Fascism

The term economics of fascism refers to the economic systems that are used by fascist regimes. In general, Fascist regimes wanted to exert strong control over the economy, but also defend private property; this attitude is generally known as dirigisme. The first cases of dirigisme happened in France. One of the first such movements is known as Colbertisme, after Jean-Baptiste Colbert (1619-1683). Colbert was the chief minister of finances of King Louis XIV of France. The ideas of Social Darwinism had a strong influence on Fascist regimes: Some people and enterprises did better than others; those that did better needed the support of the state, those that did not do as well, needed to be eradicated. Since most Fascist regimes were also influenced by racist ideas, the general tendency was to support the companies of the people of the "better" race. Gaetano Salvemini, an Italian historian said in 1936 that fascism made taxpayers responsible to private enterprise, because "the State pays for the blunders of private enterprise... Profit is private and individual. Loss is public and social." Fascist governments encouraged the pursuit of private profit and offered many benefits to large businesses, but they demanded in return that all economic activity should serve the national interest.

[[Social work]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology, Psychology

Social work is work done for the welfare of the society. A social worker is a trained individual who represents the social well-being of society. According to the Australian Association of Social Workers, "The social work profession facilitates social change and development, social cohesion, and the empowerment and liberation of people. Principles of social justice, human rights, collective responsibility and respect for diversities are embedded in social work. Underpinned by theories of social work, social sciences, humanities and indigenous knowledges, social work engages people and structures to address life challenges and enhance well being."

Social workers are employed in human services track, like hospitals, clinics, NPOs, or publicly (government) as a staff that gives adequate welfare and helps people who cannot help themselves including physically disabled people, person with other disabilities. Persons or professionals who engage in social work activities and social care services are not necessarily a qualified social worker, though within geographical differences they are accepted as companions of change.

Research and the practice of social work focuses on areas such as: addictions and mental health, assessment and diagnosis, human development, psycho-social and socio-legal issues related to child and family welfare, community and social development, counselling, diversity, marginalization and oppression, policy analysis and development, psychotherapy, public administration, social planning, social policy and social program evaluation. Social workers are organized into local, national, continental and international professional bodies. It is an interdisciplinary field that incorporates theoretical bases from anthropology, ecology, economics, education, law, medicine, philosophy, politics, psychology, sociology and science.

[[Mario Party 3]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 video games, 2001 video games, Nintendo 64 games, Mario Party games

Mario Party 3 is a party board video game for the Nintendo 64 console. It is the third game in the Mario Party series. It is the last Mario Party game for the Nintendo 64. It was made by Hudson Soft and published by Nintendo. It was released on December 7, 2000 in Japan, on May 7, 2001 in North America, and on September 3, 2001 in Europe.

[[United States Minor Outlying Islands]]

CATEGORIES: United States Minor Outlying Islands

The United States Minor Outlying Islands are nine island territories of the United States. They are Baker Island, Howland Island, Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Atoll, Palmyra Atoll and Wake Island in the Pacific Ocean; and Navassa Island in the Caribbean Sea. The islands are grouped together for statistical reasons. They are not administered together.

As of 2008, none of the islands have any people living there permanently. The only human population consists of temporarily stationed scientific and military personnel.  The 2000 census counted 315 people on Johnston Atoll and 1 person on Wake Island. There has been no modern indigenous population, except at the 1940 census. In 1936, a colonization scheme began to settle Americans on Baker, Howland and Jarvis, but all three islands were evacuated in 1942 because of World War II.

The islands are all together represented by the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code UM. The ISO introduced the term "United States Minor Outlying Islands" in 1986. From 1974 until 1986, five of the islands (Baker Island, Howland Island, Jarvis Island, Palmyra Atoll and Kingman Reef) were grouped under the term "United States Miscellaneous Pacific Islands", with ISO 3166 code PU. The code of Midway Atoll was MI, the code of Johnston Atoll was JT, and the code of Wake Island was WK. The Pacific islands are surrounded by large Exclusive Economic Zones.

[[Mitchell Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television personalities, Actors from Cincinnati, Ohio, Actors from Louisville, Kentucky

Mitchell Ryan (January 18, 1928 – June 2, 2021) or Mitch Ryan was an American actor. He is known for his roles as Edward Montgomery in Dharma & Greg and as Dr. Terence Wynn in Halloween: The Curse of Michael Myers.

Ryan was born on January 18, 1928 in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was raised in Louisville, Kentucky. He was married to Lynda Morse from 1972 until they divorced. They had three children.

Ryan died on June 2, 2021 in Los Angeles, aged 93.

[[Shamrock]]

CATEGORIES: Plants, Ireland

Shamrocks are the young sprigs of clover or trefoil. The shamrock is a symbol of Ireland. According to a legend, Saint Patrick used it to illustrate the doctrine of the Holy Trinity. The name shamrock is  derived from Irish seamróg. This is the diminutive version of the Irish word for clover (seamair) meaning simply "little clover" or "young clover". Sometimes other three-leafed plants are called shamrocks. The shamrock can be used for its medicinal properties. It was used as a motif in Victorian days. Around March 17 (Saint Patrick's Day) small pots of shamrocks are sold. Some people wear sprigs of shamrock in a buttonhole on the holiday.

[[John J. B. Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Chicago, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California, Chief executives, Writers from Chicago, Writers from Los Angeles, California, People from Santa Monica, California

John J. B. Wilson (born May 24, 1954) is an American copywriter and publicist. He is the founder of the Golden Raspberry Awards. He written many books about how he founded the "Razzie Awards".

Wilson was born on May 24, 1954 in Chicago, Illinois. He was raised in Santa Monica, California and in Los Angeles, California. Wilson studied at the University of California, Los Angeles. He is married to Barbara Wilson. They have a son. He now lives in Cerritos, California.

[[Sulfoxide]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups, Organosulfur compounds

A sulfoxide is a molecule that has a sulfur atom bonded to two carbons and one oxygen atom. It comes from oxidising thioethers, without going all the way to the sulfone. Like many molecules containing sulfur, sulfoxide can sometimes smell a lot.

Sulfoxides can be written with the general formula R–S(=O)–R'. Sulfur has a double bond with the oxygen, and single bonds with the carbons. That leaves a lone pair on the atom. This means that the shape at that atom is tetrahedral. It also means that the sulfur can be a chiral centre. Sulfoxides are used as good ligands for transition metals.

An important molecule of this kind is dimethyl sulfoxide. It is also called DMSO. It is used as a solvent for many reactions, especially in biochemistry.

[[Olly Murs]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English pop singers, English singer-songwriters, English television presenters, Singers from Essex, Television personalities from Essex

Olly Murs (born 14 May 1984) is an English singer. He comes from Witham, Essex. He became famous after he finished second in The X Factor in 2009.

In August 2010, his first single "Please Don't Let Me Go" came top of the record charts in the UK. After that, he had another three songs that went to number one: "Heart Skips a Beat", "Dance With Me Tonight" and "Troublemaker" (with Flo Rida). He has also made three albums, which all did well in the UK charts. His label is Epic Records.

He is co-host of the X Factor along with Caroline Flack. They took over from Dermot o'Leary from 2015.

[[LaSalle Street]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Chicago

LaSalle Street is a major north-south street in Chicago named after Sieur de La Salle, an early explorer from Illinois. The section that runs through the Chicago Loop is thought to be Chicago's financial district. The Chicago Board of Trade Building is in the north part of the street. The street is a good spot for movies because of the location of the Trade Building. The street also has many tall buildings.

[[Lake Shore Drive]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Chicago

Lake Shore Drive is a freeway-standard expressway in Chicago, Illinois. It runs along the shore of Lake Michigan. The highway passes Navy Pier all the through 875 North Michigan Avenue. The drive is a dangerous area during blizzards. The drive was named Leif Ericson Drive (after Leif Ericson) until it was renamed in 1946.

[[Navy Pier]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Chicago, Illinois

Navy Pier is a pier on the Chicago shoreline of Lake Michigan. It is 3300 long. It is in the Streeterville neighborhood of the Near North Side community area. The pier was built in 1916. It cost $4.5 million. It was a part of the Plan of Chicago developed by architect and city planner Daniel Burnham and his partners. The pier has a 150 tall Ferris wheel.

[[Daniel Burnham]]

CATEGORIES: 1846 births, 1912 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Burials at Graceland Cemetery, Architects from Chicago, People from New York

Daniel Hudson Burnham  (September 4, 1846 – June 1, 1912) was an American architect and urban designer. Burnham helped create buildings or streets in Washington, D.C., in New York City, and in his hometown of Chicago. He helped create Navy Pier.

Burnham was born on September 4, 1846 in Henderson, New York. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. He was rejected from Yale University and at Harvard University. Burnham was married to Margaret Sherman from 1876 until his death in 1912. They had two children. Burnham died on June 1, 1912 in Heidelberg, Germany from diabetes, aged 65. He was buried in Graceland Cemetery in Uptown, Chicago.

[[Barney Frank]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Gay men, Harvard University alumni, People from Bayonne, New Jersey, People from Newton, Massachusetts, LGBT people from New Jersey, LGBT politicians, Politicians from New Jersey, United States representatives from Massachusetts, US Democratic Party politicians

Barnett "Barney" Frank (born March 31, 1940) is an American politician who served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1981 to 2013. A member of the Democratic Party, he served as chairman of the House Financial Services Committee (2007–2011). He was a leading co-sponsor of the 2010 Dodd–Frank Act, a sweeping reform of the U.S. financial industry. Frank, a resident of Newton, Massachusetts, is considered the most prominent openly gay politician in the United States. 

Frank was born on March 31, 1940 in Bayonne, New Jersey. He studied at Harvard University. He has been married to Jim Ready since 2012.

Barney's latest book is "Frank Barney Frank," a review of his personal and political career and a strong argument for empowering government to help people.   

[[Miranda Hart]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Devon, Actors from Hampshire, British stand-up comedians, British television producers, British television writers, Comedians from Hampshire, English movie actors, English television actors, English writers, Reality television participants, Writers from Hampshire, Writers from Devon, 1972 births, Living people

Miranda Katharine Hart-Dyke (born 14 December 1972) is a British actress, writer and comedienne. She was born in Torquay, Devon. Her parents are Diana Margaret Luce and David Hart Dyke. Miranda grew up in Petersfield, Hampshire. She writes, produces and stars in the television sitcom Miranda. Her other acting roles include: Hyperdrive, Not Going Out and Call the Midwife.

[[Neil Abercrombie]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, US Democratic Party politicians, United States representatives from Hawaii, Politicians from Buffalo, New York, Governors of Hawaii

Neil Abercrombie (born June 26, 1938) is an American politician. He  was the 7th Governor of Hawaii from December 2010 to December 2014. Previously he was the Democratic U.S. Representative of the First Congressional District of Hawaii, which comprises urban Honolulu.

He served in Congress from 1986 to 1987 and from 1991 to 2010, when he resigned to successfully run for governor. He has also served as a state legislator and member of the Honolulu City Council.

In August 2014, he was defeated in the Hawaii Democratic primary by state senator David Ige.

Abercrombie was born on June 26, 1938 in Buffalo, New York. He has Irish, English, and German ancestry. He studied at Union College and at the University of Hawaii, Manoa. He went to schools in Hawaii with the parents of Barack Obama. Abercrombie has been married to Nancie Caraway since 1981.

[[Mario Party 9]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 video games, Mario Party games, Wii games, Wii-only games

Mario Party 9 is a party board video game for the Nintendo Wii console. It is the 12th game in the Mario Party series. It was developed by Nd Cube and published by Nintendo. It is the second and last game for the Wii (the first being Mario Party 8). It was released on March 2, 2012 in Europe, on March 8, 2012 in Australia, on March 11, 2012 in North America, on April 26, 2012 in Japan, on June 29, 2012 in Hong Kong, and on April 11 2013 in South Korea.

[[Phil Bruns]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from Minnesota, Writers from Minnesota

Phillip Bruns (May 2, 1931 – February 8, 2012) was an American actor and writer who was known for his role as George Shumway in Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman.

Bruns was born on May 2, 1931 in Pipestone, Minnesota. He was married to Laurie Franks from until his death in 2012. Bruns died on February 8, 2012 in Los Angeles, California from natural causes, aged 80.

[[Ron Leibman]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City, American educators, Drama Desk Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors

Ron Leibman (October 11, 1937 – December 6, 2019) was an American actor and educator. He was known for his role as Dr. Leonard Green in the famous comedy sitcom Friends. He won an Drama Desk Award in 1993, an Emmy Award in 1979, and an Tony Award in 1993 for his role as Roy Cohn in Angels in America.

Leibman was born on October 11, 1937 in New York City, New York. He studied at Ohio Wesleyan University. Leibman was married to Linda Lavin from 1969 until they divorced in 1981. He married to Jessica Walter from 1983 until 2019.

Leibman died from pneumonia-related problems in New York City on December 6, 2019, at age 82.

[[Will Keith Kellogg]]

CATEGORIES: 1860 births, 1951 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, People with foods named after them, Businesspeople from Michigan, Chief executives, People from Battle Creek, Michigan

Will Keith "W.K." Kellogg (April 7, 1860 – October 6, 1951) was an American industrialist in food manufacturing, best known as the founder of the Kellogg Company. His brother was John Harvey Kellogg.

Kellogg was born on April 7, 1860 in Battle Creek, Michigan. He was married to Ella Osborn Davis from 1880 until her death in 1912. They had five children. Then he was married to Carrie Staines from 1918 until her death in 1948. Kellogg died on October 6, 1951 in Battle Creek, Michigan from heart failure, aged 91.

[[History of mathematics]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, History of science

History of mathematics is how mathematics has developed over time. Early maths by Babylonians and Egyptians was built upon by Greeks such as Euclid, Archimedes, Pythagoras and Eratosthenes. Other important figures include Fibonacci, Descartes, Leonhard Euler, Blaise Pascal and Gauss.

[[John Harvey Kellogg]]

CATEGORIES: 1852 births, 1943 deaths, People with foods named after them, Businesspeople from Michigan, Chief executives, People from Battle Creek, Michigan

John Harvey Kellogg (February 26, 1852 – December 14, 1943) was an American medical doctor. He and his brother, Will Keith Kellogg, invented corn flakes.

Kellogg was born on February 26, 1852 in Battle Creek, Michigan. He studied at New York University. Kellogg was married to Ella Ervilla Eaton from 1879 until her death in 1920. They adopted seven children. Kellogg died on December 14, 1943 in Battle Creek, Michigan from an illness, aged 91.

[[Studebaker]]

CATEGORIES: Automobile companies, American transport companies

The Studebaker Corporation was an American company in South Bend, Indiana that built automobiles.  It started in 1852 making wagons, at that time it was named Studebaker Brothers Manufacturing Company.  Later they started making cars and then pickups.  In 1966 they went out of business.

[[Mamie Van Doren]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American models, 1930s births, Living people, American bloggers

Mamie Van Doren (born February 6) is an American actress and model. She acts primarily in movies. She is also a singer. Her many movies include Untamed Youth (1957). Many times, she would play a bad girl within her movies. Van Doren has been oftentimes compared against other blonde actresses, in particular, Marilyn Monroe. Mamie was born in Rowena, South Dakota. Her date of birth is varied between 1931 and 1934.

[[Gene Barry]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2009 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American musical theatre actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from heart failure, Jewish American actors

Gene Barry (Eugene Klass; June 14, 1919 – December 9, 2009) was an American actor. He was known for his roles in The Atomic City (1952), The War of The Worlds (1953), and Bat Masterson (1958-1961).

Barry was born on June 14, 1919 in New York City, New York to a Jewish-Russian family. He studied at Chatham Square School of Music. Barry was married to Betty Claire Kalb from 1944 until her death in 2003. They had three children, one adopted. 

Barry died on the morning of December 9, 2009 from heart failure in his home in Woodland Hills, California, aged 90.

[[Mehmet Öz]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American television personalities, American educators, Writers from Delaware, People from Wilmington, Delaware, Writers from Cleveland, Ohio, Emmy Award winners

Mehmet Cengiz Öz (born June 11, 1960, called Dr. Oz) is a Turkish-American doctor, writer, educator, and television personality. He has a television show, The Dr. Oz Show. He helps people with health and weight. Some people think he gives bad advice. He won two Emmy Awards, in 2010 and in 2011.

Öz was born on June 11, 1960 in Cleveland, Ohio to a Turkish family. He studied at Tower Hill School, at Harvard University, at Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and at University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. Öz married his wife Lisa Lemole in 1985. They have four children. He now lives in Cliffside Park, New Jersey.

[[Jimmie Åkesson]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Bloggers, Swedish politicians, Swedish writers

Per Jimmie Åkesson (born May 17, 1979) is a Swedish politician and blogger.He has been the leader of the Sweden Democrats since 2005. In 2010 the Sweden Democrats made it into the Riksdag after the general elections.

[[February 2013 nor'easter]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in the United States, 2010s in Canada, Severe weather, 2013 in weather, Natural disasters in the United States, Natural disasters, Natural disasters in Canada, February 2013 events

The February 2013 nor'easter (called by The Weather Channel as Winter Storm Nemo) was a large winter storm that formed from two low pressure areas and affected the northeastern United States and eastern Canada from February 7–10, 2013. The areas affect by the storm were between Virginia and Maine. The storm had hurricane strength winds, lightning, thunder, heavy snows and blizzard conditions. Boston received almost 25 inches of snow due to this storm. New York City received almost one foot of new snow. It was Connecticut, however, that got the most. Hamden, Connecticut received almost 40 inches, while nearby cities got at least one foot. About 700,000 customers lost power.

[[Non-deterministic turing machine]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A Turing machine is an idea from computer science that tries to describe how some computers work. Deterministic Turing machines use a function. Given the current state of the Turing machine, it selects another state the Turing machine should have. In other words, from each state there is one other state the machine can have. A non-deterministic Turing machine uses a relation. This means that from some states there are several other states that are possible.

[[Black Star of Queensland]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones, Queensland

The Black Star of Queensland is a large gem sapphire. It is the world's largest star sapphire. It is 733. It was discovered in Queensland in the 1930s. During the 1960s, the Black Star of Queensland was on display at the Smithsonian as part of an exhibition with the Hope Diamond. It was also on display at the Royal Ontario Museum from 2 June to 2 December 2007.

[[Cheddar]]

Cheddar most often refers to one of these:

Cheddar may also refer to:

[[Nearest neighbour algorithm]]

CATEGORIES: Greedy algorithms, Graph theory

Nearest neighbour algorithms is a the name given to a number of greedy algorithms to solve problems related to graph theory. This algorithm was made to find a solution to the travelling salesman problem. In general, these algorithms try to find a Hamlitonian cycle as follows:

Such algorithms are easy to implement, but they do  not always find the best solution. What is worse, the algorithm may not find a tour even if one exists. 

[[Nubra]]

Nubra may refer to:

[[Alexandrite]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones, Birthstones

Alexandrite is a gemstone. It is a type of chrysoberyl. Different kinds of light make the colors change. That is called the "alexandrite effect". 

A gemstone similar to alexandrite can be made in a laboratory. That kind of stone is called synthetic or simulated alexandrite. These are not made of chrysoberyl. People make these because alexandrite is expensive, and the synthetic alexandrite costs less.

One story says that alexandrite was named in honor of Alexander II of Russia. Alexander was not yet Tsar at the time.

Alexandrite has been found in Russia, Brazil, India, Madagascar and Sri Lanka.

Alexandrite is one of the birthstones for June.

[[Jandali dialect]]

CATEGORIES: Punjabi language

Jandali is a Punjabi dialect spoken in the Punjab province of Pakistan.

[[Golden pheasant]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of China

The golden pheasant (also known as the Chinese pheasant or rainbow pheasant) (Chrysolophus pictus) is a gamebird of the order Galliformes (gallinaceous birds) and the family Phasianidae. It is native to forests in mountainous areas of western China, but feral populations have been established in the United Kingdom and elsewhere.

[[Grey peacock-pheasant]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Asia, Phasianidae

The grey peacock-pheasant (Polyplectron bicalcaratum), also known as the Burmese peacock-pheasant, is a large southeast Asian member of the order Galliformes. It is the national bird of Myanmar.

[[List of national fruits]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols, Fruits, Food-related lists

This is a list of national fruits arranged alphabetically by country. Some national fruits are officially designated, some are unofficial.

[[Hamiltonian path]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Graph theory

A Hamiltonian path is a path in a graph which contains each vertex of the graph exactly once. A Hamiltonian cycle is a Hamiltonian path, which is also a cycle. Knowing whether such a path exists in a graph, as well as finding it is a fundamental problem of graph theory. It is much more difficult than finding an Eulerian path, which contains each edge exactly once. The problem of finding a Hamiltonian path is NP-complete. There are two classes of graphs: directed and undirected graphs. In directed graphs, an edge can only be travelled in one direction, in undirected graphs it can be travelled in both directions. The Travelling Salesman Problem is an instance of this problem. Its task is to find the shortest Hamiltonian cycle, usually in a directed graph, with weight (or distances) attached to the edges. 

Hamiltonian paths  and cycles and cycle paths are named after William Rowan Hamilton who invented the Icosian game. This game is also known as Hamilton's puzzle. It involves finding a Hamiltonian cycle in the edge graph of the dodecahedron.  Hamilton solved this problem using the Icosian Calculus, an algebraic structure based on roots of unity with many similarities to the quaternions (also invented by Hamilton).  This solution does not generalize to arbitrary graphs. However, despite being named after Hamilton, Hamiltonian cycles in polyhedra had also been studied a year earlier by Thomas Kirkman. 

[[Tracy Chapman]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American feminists, American guitarists, American singer-songwriters, Brit Award winners, Grammy Award winners, Singers from Cleveland, Ohio, 1964 births, Living people

Tracy Chapman (born March 30, 1964) is an American singer-songwriter. She was born in Cleveland in Ohio. She has won four Grammy Awards.

Her most famous songs are "Fast Car" and "Give Me One Reason" that went top of the charts in Canada. They also did really well in the Billboard charts (United States). She has published a total of 8 albums.

She is a feminist. She has never said publicly what her sexuality is, but she dated Alice Walker in the mid 1990s.

[[Nathaniel Wallich]]

CATEGORIES: 1786 births, 1854 deaths, Botanists, Danish Jews, Danish scientists, Jewish scientists

Nathaniel Wallich FRS (28 January 1786 – 28 April 1854) was a medical doctor and botanist from Denmark. He worked in India; firstly in the Danish settlement near Calcutta and later for the East India Company. He was involved in the early development of the Calcutta Botanical Garden, describing many new plant species and developing a large collection with copies that he gave to collections in Europe. Several of the plants that he collected were named after him.

[[Roman dodecahedron]]

CATEGORIES: Mysteries, Ancient Rome

Roman dodecahedron is the name for dodecahedra which were found in Europe. In total, over hundred such objects were found in all European parts of the Roman Empire. They date from the second or third century CE, and were made of bronze or stone.  They are hollow, and each of the twelve pentangular faces has a hole in it. Most of these were found on the territories of modern-day France and Germany, but some were also found in Hungary and Great Britain. They are between 4 and 11 in size.

The function or use of the dodecahedra remains a mystery; no mention of them has been found in texts or pictures of the time. Speculated uses include candlestick holders (wax was found inside one example); dice; survey instruments; devices for determining the optimal  sowing date for winter grain; that they were used to calibrate water pipes; and army standard bases. It has also been suggested that they may have been religious artifacts of some kind. This speculation is based on the fact that most of the examples have been found in Gallo-Roman sites.

[[Gamma function]]

CATEGORIES: Recursion, Mathematics

The gamma function is defined for all complex numbers, but it is not defined for negative integers and zero. For a complex number whose real part is not a negative integer, the function is defined by:

[[Necrotising arachnidism]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems

Necrotising arachnidism is a medical condition caused by a spider bite. The skin can blister, form ulcers, and in some cases be destroyed (called necrosis). It is very painful and could need skin grafts. Doctors are still unclear about the treatment of the condition. The only spider identified as being a causative agent for necrotising arachnidism is the Recluse spider (specifically, the Brown Recluse spider).  Whilst It is portrayed by the media to be caused by the bite of the white-tailed spider and the black house spider, no studies have definitively proven the causative link. There is no specific treatment for the condition.

[[Farthing (English coin)]]

CATEGORIES: British currency

The farthing was a coin of the Kingdom of England. It was worth one quarter of a penny, or 960 of a pound sterling. The word 'farthing' is derived from the Anglo-Saxon feorthing. It means a fourthling or fourth part. The Anglo-Saxon word was probably derived from the Old Norse, fjorthungr meaning a "quarter". 

Such coins were first minted in England in silver in the 13th century. They were used until 1707, when the Kingdom of England merged into the new United Kingdom of Great Britain. Early farthings were silver. The farthing was small (only 10 millimeters in diameter) and very light (slightly more than 0.4 gram). Surviving examples are rare. The first copper farthings were issued during the reign of King James I.  In the late 17th century the English farthing was also minted in tin. 

In 1953, the British farthing's low value forced its last minting. A Londoner complained of abusive vendors when he tried to offer the coin for purchases. The coin ceased to be legal tender on 1 January 1961.

[[Emeli Sandé]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Brit Award winners, British singer-songwriters, Musicians from Tyne and Wear, People from Sunderland

Adele Emeli Sandé MBE best known as Emeli Sandé (born 10 March 1987) is a British singer and songwriter. She was born in Sunderland, Tyne and Wear to an English mother and Zambian father. She was raised in Alford, Aberdeenshire. She became famous after writing many songs for artists like Rihanna, Leona Lewis and Susan Boyle. 

In 2010 she singed a contract with EMI. She then released two singles, "Read All About It" and "Beneath Your Beautiful", which went on top of the British charts. In 2012 she won the Brits Critics Choice award. Her first album, Our Version of Events, was very successful, selling more than 100,000 copies in the first week. It was the best-selling album in the UK of 2012. She performed at the opening ceremony of the London 2012 Olympics.

In 2013 she won two BRIT Awards, one for Best Female Artist and one for Best Album.

On 24 February 2014, she released her second EP, Who Needs The World? EP.

Her next album will be released in summer 2014.

[[Stock-Keeping Unit]]

CATEGORIES: Commerce

SKU (often pronounced "skew") is an acronym for Stock-Keeping Unit.  This is the barcode found on things sold in stores. It is made in a way that laser scanners in the check-out lane can read the code.  The code is then used to find the price.

[[Hermann Levi]]

CATEGORIES: German conductors, 1839 births, 1900 deaths

Hermann Levi was a 19th-century orchestral conductor. He conducted the premiere of Parsifal.

[[Jimmy Perry]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Surrey, English stage actors, English television actors, English television producers, English television writers, Writers from Surrey

James "Jimmy" Perry OBE (9 September 1923 – 23 October 2016) was an English writer, scriptwriter, producer, author and actor who is known for creating the BBC sitcom Dad's Army.

Perry was born on September 9, 1923 in Barnes, Surrey, England. He studied at Colet Court and at St Paul's School. Perry lived in Algarve, Portugal. 

Perry died in London on 23 October 2016 at the age of 93.

[[Philips]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in the Netherlands, Technology companies of Europe, Companies of the Netherlands, Eindhoven

Philips is a Dutch electronics company. It was founded by Gerard and Frederik Philips in 1891. It employs about 120,000 people in 60 countries.

[[David Croft]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2011 deaths, English television directors, English television producers, English television writers, Deaths from natural causes, People from Poole, Writers from Dorset

Major David John Croft OBE (David John Andrew Sharland, September 7, 1922 – September 27, 2011) was an English writer, producer, and director. He created the BBC television sitcom Dad's Army.

Croft was born on September 7, 1922 in Sandbanks, Poole, Dorset, England. He studied at the Rugby School and at Royal Military College, Sandhurst. Croft was married to Ann Callender from 1952 until his death in 2011. They had seven children. Croft died on September 27, 2011 in his home in Tavira, Algarve, Portugal from natural causes, aged 89.

[[Tertullian]]

CATEGORIES: Christian writers, 160 births, 225 deaths

Tertullian (160-225) was an early Christian writer from Carthage.

Though conservative in his worldview, Tertullian originated new theological concepts and advanced the development of early Church doctrine. He is perhaps most famous for being the first writer in Latin known to use the term trinity (Latin: trinitas). According to The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, "Tertullian's trinity is not a triune God, but rather a triad or group of three, with God as the founding member".13 A similar word had been used earlier in Greek,a though Tertullian gives the oldest extant use of the terminology as later incorporated into the Nicene Creed at the Second Ecumenical Council, the First Council of Constantinople in 381 AD, or as the Athanasian Creed, or both.14 Other Latin formulations that first appear in his work are "One God, three persons, one substance" as the Latin "tres personae, una substantia", ('consubstantial', in English), itself from the Koine Greek "treis hypostases, homoousioi").12 Influenced by Stoic philosophy, the "substance" of Tertullian, however, was a material substance that did not refer to a single God, but to the sharing of the divine substance of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.13 He wrote his understanding of the three members of the trinity after becoming a Montanist.12

[[Beautiful Creatures (2013 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 drama movies, 2013 romance movies, 2010s fantasy movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, 2010s teen drama movies, 2010s teen romance movies, American fantasy movies, American romantic drama movies, American teen drama movies, American teen romance movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, South Carolina

Beautiful Creatures is a 2013 American romantic-fantasy drama set in South Carolina. It stars Emmy Rossum, Viola Davis and Emma Thompson. Thompson plays Mrs. Lincoln and Sarafine. Beautiful Creatures was released on February 14, 2013 for the United States. Jeremy Irons also stars. The film is based on the novel of the same name by Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl.

[[Round city of Baghdad]]

CATEGORIES: Round cities, Buildings and structures in Baghdad, 767 establishments, 8th century establishments in Iraq, 760s establishments in Asia

the Round city of Baghdad (Al-Mansur city) (also called: the city of peace) was an ancient city in Baghdad, Iraq that was built in 762–767 CE. Today there are only a few remains of the ancient city of Al Mansur.

[[Deborah Cox]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Toronto, Singers from Toronto, Canadian television actors, 1974 births, Living people

Deborah Cox (July 13, 1974, Toronto) is a Canadian singer, songwriter and actress who has had eleven charting #1 singles. She has had some hit movies, such as Love Come Down. She began her music career around the mid 1990s. Her song "Nobody's Supposed to be Here" is her signature song.

[[National Governors Association]]

CATEGORIES: State governors of the United States, Political organizations based in the United States, 1908 establishments in the United States

The National Governors Association (NGA) provides both state and national views regarding issues with usage of natural resources and management in the Progressive Era. It was founded in 1908 as the National Governors' Conference, at the Conference of Governors.  The NGA represents the governors of the fifty U.S. states and five U.S. territories (American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands).

The NGA serves as an important public policy liaison between the state governments and the federal government.

[[Faxing Berlin]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs, deadmau5 songs

Faxing Berlin is a progressive house song by Canadian electronic music producer deadmau5. The song is featured on deadmau5's third studio album Random Album Title. 

The song received some controversy in 2008 by an artist named DirtyCircuit. DirtyCircuit said that he was threatened with legal action after he used a sample called "LP_Faxing Berlin C_128bpm" that came bundled with the digital audio workstation FL Studio which deadmau5 claimed copyright. The sample was a direct clip of a full bar from the song. A "Demo Track" was provided by deadmau5 which came bundled with FL Studio, along with many loop samples. FL Studio users became were in discomfort because of the case and some of the users had pointed out possible inconsistencies in the EULA of the software.

The song reached #6 on the Billboard US Hot Dance Club Songs.

[[Lingula]]

CATEGORIES: Brachiopods, Living fossils

Lingula is a genus of brachiopods in the class Lingulata. Lingula is known to have existed since the early Ordovician period. Lingula is a good example of a living fossil. Like all brachiopods, it is a filter feeder.

Brachiopods are superficially similar to bivalves, both having two shells. Brachiopods are easily distinguished from molluscs because they have (different) dorsal and ventral shells. Bivalves have mirrored right and left shells. Lingula and most brachiopods also have a stalk (or peduncle) that extends through a hole near the tip of one of its shells. Bivalves may be attached to a substrate with byssus filaments, that extend from between the shells.

The Lingulata brachiopods have existed from the Cambrian period to the present, a time span of over 500 million years! Modern species of Lingula are very similar from their fossil ancestors.

[[Identity Thief]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 comedy movies, English-language movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Seth Gordon

Identity Thief is a 2013 comedy movie starring Jason Bateman and Melissa McCarthy. Bateman plays Sandy in this comedy. McCarthy plays Diana, the woman who stole Sandy's identity. Amanda Peet is also part of the cast.

This movie received negative reviews. Yet, it debuted at number one in the United States.

[[Manfred Porsch]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian composers, Teachers, Writers from Vienna, 1950 births, Living people

Manfred Maria Porsch (born 14 April 1950 in Vienna) is an Austrian composer and teacher. He composes Austrian contemporary worship music.

Manfred Porsch comes from the Focolare Movement. In 1971 and 1972, he toured with Gen Rosso. In 1983, he won first prize at the "Worldfestival of religious Song", the "Rassegna Mondiale della Canzone Religosa Populare" in Rome. In 1987, Porsch founded "Musica e Vita Österreich" and started the festival series "Fest der Lieder". He has published about 200 songs.

In 2012, after a long break from writing music, Porsch published new songs with the producer Thomas Raber.

[[Georg Bydlinski]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Austrian poets, Austrian writers, People from Graz

Georg Bydlinski (born 30 May 1956 in Graz) is an Austrian writer.

[[Antarctic Peninsula]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Antarctica, Peninsulas

The Antarctic Peninsula is the largest peninsula in Antarctica. The peninsula is the northernmost part of the mainland of Antarctica. It is 1300 km and reaches from Cape Adams (Weddell Sea) and a point on the mainland south of Eklund Islands. The northern tip is about 1000 km (600 miles) from Tierra del Fuego. There are many research stations as well as multiple claims of sovereignty on the Antarctic Peninsula.

Average temperatures on the peninsula have risen by nearly 2°C in the past 50 years which makes the Antarctic Peninsula one of the fastest warming places on Earth.

[[Elizabeth Vargas]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, American journalists, Living people, People from New Jersey

Elizabeth Vargas (born September 6, 1962 near Paterson, New Jersey) is an American journalist. She first worked at the NBC network. She has worked on ABC programs, including 20/20. Before that, she was an anchor for Dateline NBC and The Today Show.

[[Brachiopod classification]]

CATEGORIES: Brachiopods, Taxonomy

The classification of brachiopods is being discussed at present. The following is an overview of the different schemes which are proposed.

The "traditional" classification was defined in 1869. Two further approaches were established in the 1990s:

[[Déborah François]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Belgian movie actors, Belgian stage actors, Belgian television actors, Belgian voice actors, People from Liège

Déborah François (born 24 May 1987) is an actress from Belgium. She lives in Paris, France.

She is best known for her role as in Belgian film L’Enfant (The Child) , French film La Tourneuse de pages  (The Page Turner), and she won a César Award for her role in a 2008 French film Le premier jour du reste de ta vie (The First Day of the Rest of Your Life).

She was born in Liège, Belgium which is in the French-speaking area. She is the daughter of a policeman and a social worker. She was awarded the Romy-Schneider Prize and Prix Suzanne Bianchetti.

[[St. Ouen F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs, Jersey, 1919 establishments in Europe

St. Ouen Football Club  is a association football club in Saint Ouen, Jersey, Channel Islands. The club was founded in 1919. In 1972, they played a game against Scottish Old Firm team, Celtic.

[[Fertilisation of Orchids]]

CATEGORIES: Biology books, Books by Charles Darwin

Fertilisation of Orchids is a book by Charles Darwin.

The book was published on 15 May 1862 under the full title On the various contrivances by which British and foreign orchids are fertilised by insects, and on the good effects of intercrossing.

Darwin's previous book, On the Origin of Species, had briefly mentioned evolutionary interactions between insects and the plants they fertilised. This new idea was explored in detail for orchids. The field studies and practical scientific investigations were initially a recreation for Darwin, a relief from the drudgery of writing. The work developed into enjoyable and challenging experiments, and he was helped by his family, friends, and a wide circle of correspondents.

The book was his first detailed demonstration of natural selection. It explained how complex ecological relationships resulted in the co-evolution of orchids and insects. The view has been expressed that the book led directly or indirectly to all modern work on coevolution and the evolution of extreme specialisation. It influenced botanists, and revived interest in the long neglected idea that insects played a part in pollinating flowers. It supported his view that natural selection led to a  variety of forms through the important benefits achieved by cross-fertilisation. Although the general public showed less interest and sales of the book were low, it established Darwin as a leading botanist. Orchids was the first in a series of books on his investigations into plants.

The book describes how the relationship between insects and plants resulted in the beautiful and complex forms which had fascinated many naturalists. By showing how adaptations develop step by step, Darwin countered the view that beautiful organisms were the handiwork of a Creator. Darwin's painstaking observations, experiments, and detailed dissection of the flowers explained previously unknown features. such as the puzzle of Catasetum, three completely different kinds of flowers. Darwin discusses how the Sack-Shaped Catasetum (Catasetum saccatum), a tropical South American species, launches its sticky pollen sacs with explosive force when an insect touches a hair (seta). His friend Thomas Huxley said "Do you really think I can believe all that?"

In the book Darwin made some famous predictions, including his proposal that the long nectary of Angraecum sesquipedale meant there must be a moth with an equally long proboscis. This was confirmed in 1903 when Xanthopan morgani praedicta was found in Madagascar.

[[Cocker Spaniel]]

CATEGORIES: Spaniels

Cocker Spaniel is the name for two dog breeds of the Spaniel type: The English Cocker Spaniel and the American Cocker Spaniel. Originally, these dogs were bred in England for hunting Eurasian Woodcock. Cocker spaniels are popular family pets. The English version is usually brown and ginger in color. Their fur is very soft and their noses are big. They have very big floppy ears. There are two version of cocker spaniels, show dogs and hunters. They are the smallest of the sporting dogs. They are bred from an earlier 19th century dog called field spaniels. The smallest dogs in litters were called "cockers". This was because They were small enough to go under hedgerows where larger dogs could not go. They could also move through brambles and bushes to flush woodcocks into the open. The smaller dogs became the American cockers while the larger dogs became the English variety.

[[2013 Southern California shootings]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in California, 2013 murders in the United States, 2010s crimes in California, February 2013 events, Murder-suicides in California, Murders by firearm in California, Suicide in the 2010s

The 2013 Southern California shootings were an incident that happened in Southern California. The victims were law enforcement officers and related families.

The incident began on February 3, 2013, around which point 28-year-old Monica Quan and her fiancé Keith Lawrence, in Irvine, were found dead. They were shot in Lawrence's car. The suspected perpetrator of the crime, Christopher Dorner, put out a manifesto one day after the crime. Dorner is a former officer of the Los Angeles Police Department. On February 7, the driver of a pickup truck fired a rifle onto two officers, grazing the head of one and killing another. The one that was killed was Michael Crain, who died shortly after the shooting. Dorner was later found by police on February 12 and hid in a wooden cabin. The cabin later caught on fire. Human remains was found with a wallet reading "Christopher Dorner".

[[Super Game Boy]]

CATEGORIES: Game Boy, Nintendo hardware

The Super Game Boy is a special video game cartridge released for the Super NES in 1994. It allows players to play Game Boy and some Game Boy Color games on a television screen. When played on the Super Game Boy, games are colored. There are 32 colors available. Players can switch colors with the L and R buttons. Some games, such as Donkey Kong, have features exclusive to the Super Game Boy. New features include better sound effects and multi-player. Some games also have a custom border when played on the Super Game Boy. In 1998, a new model, the Super Game Boy 2, was released in Japan. It has more borders and link cable support.

[[The Lost Wand]]

CATEGORIES: Fairy tales

"The Lost Wand" is a fairy tale written by Jean Ingelow and published by The Wonder Box Tales in 1902 The story revolves around Hulda, a lucky young girl in Norway who receives the opportunity to be granted a wish after finding a ring in her slice of cake.

[[Jizya]]

CATEGORIES: Taxation, Ottoman Empire

Jizya or jizyah was a tax imposed upon dhimmi, non-Muslim residents in Muslim countries, as in the Ottoman Empire.

[[John B. Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Independent politicians in the United States, 1980 United States presidential candidates, United States representatives from Illinois, People from Rockford, Illinois

John Bayard Anderson (February 15, 1922 – December 3, 2017) was an American-Republican politician from Illinois.  He was a politician from the 1960s until the later 2000s.  He ran for president in 1980, but lost to Ronald Reagan as the main Republican candidate.  He then ran as an independent candidate, and lost again to Reagan in November, 1980.

Anderson was born on February 15, 1922 in Rockford, Illinois to a Swedish-American family. He studied at the University of Illinois, at the University of Illinois College of Law, and at the Harvard Law School. Anderson was married to Keke Machakos from 1953 until his death 2017.

Anderson died on December 3, 2017, in Washington, D.C., aged 95.

[[Greater spotted eagle]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes

The greater spotted eagle (Aquila clanga), occasionally just called the spotted eagle, is a large bird of prey. Like all typical eagles, it belongs to the family Accipitridae. In summer it lives in eastern Eurasia, and winters further south.

[[James R. Thompson]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Chicago, Governors of Illinois, Politicians from Chicago, US Republican Party politicians

James Robert Thompson, Jr. (May 8, 1936 – August 14, 2020) was an American Republican politician. He was the 37th Governor of Illinois from 1977 through 1991. He was part of the 9/11 Commission. A structure in Chicago is named after him, the James R. Thompson Center.

Thompson was born on May 8, 1936 in Chicago, Illinois to a Swedish-American family. He studied at the University of Illinois at Chicago, at Washington University in St. Louis, and at Northwestern University. He was married to Jayne Ann Carr Thompson. They had one child.

Thompson died of cardiac arrest at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago on August 14, 2020 at the age of 84.

[[Daniel Walker]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American fraudsters, Governors of Illinois, Politicians from Washington, D.C., Politicians from San Diego, California, US Democratic Party politicians

Daniel "Dan" Walker (August 6, 1922 – April 29, 2015) was an American Democratic lawyer, businessman, and politician from Illinois. He was the 36th Governor of Illinois from January 1973 to January 1977. He was one of the four governors of Illinois to serve in jail. He went to jail because of bank fraud in 1988.

Walker was born on August 6, 1922 in Washington, D.C.. He was raised in San Diego, California. Walker studied at the United States Naval Academy and at Northwestern University. Walker died of heart failure in Chula Vista, California, aged 92.

[[Otto Kerner, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1976 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Governors of Illinois, American fraudsters, Criminals from Chicago, Politicians from Chicago, US Democratic Party politicians

Otto Kerner, Jr. (August 15, 1908 – May 9, 1976) was an American politician. He was a Democrat. He was the Governor of Illinois from January 1961 to May 1968. He is best known for chairing the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders and for accepting bribes. He would later be charged with 17 charges of felony and would serve time in jail. He was one of the four Governors of Illinois to be in jail. He would soon nominate Lyndon B. Johnson to be President.

Kerner was born on August 15, 1908 in Chicago, Illinois. His father was politician Otto Kerner, Sr.. Kerner studied at the Trinity College and at Brown University. He was married to Helena Cermak, the daughter of ex-Chicago mayor Anton Cermak who was assassinated. After leaving office, Kerner had suffered cancer and would later die from the disease on May 9, 1976 in Chicago, Illinois, aged 67. He was buried at the Arlington National Cemetery.

[[Jim Edgar]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American Baptists, Governors of Illinois, Politicians from Oklahoma, US Republican Party politicians

James "Jim" Edgar (born July 22, 1946) is an American Republican politician. He was Governor of Illinois from January 1991 through January 1999. He was the Illinois Secretary of State from January 1981 through January 1991.

Edgar was a very popular governor. Even though Illinois is a Democratic state, he won in landslides as a Republican. He retired with high approval ratings.

Edgar was born on July 22, 1946 in Vinita, Oklahoma. He was raised in Charleston, Illinois. Edgar studied at Wabash College and at Eastern Illinois University. He is married to Brenda Smith.

[[Internet Marketing Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Commerce, International organizations

The Internet Marketing Conference, often named (IMC), is an international conference about some aspects of e-business. It was first hosted in Copenhagen in 2000. It has since then been hosted in Edinburgh, Stockholm, Las Vegas, Berlin, Vancouver, Montreal,  Gothenburg and New York. The conference was started by Lennart Svanberg.

Many guests have been helping with hosting this event, including Danny Sullivan (Search Engine Watch), Jeffrey Eisenberg (Future Now, Inc.), Jim Wilson (Jim World), Lucas Morea (LatinEdge), Mitch Joel (Twist Image), Scott Ferber (Advertising.com), Stephen Turner (ClickTracks), Matthew Colebourne (coComment), Brian Clifton (Google).

Topics discussed include: 

[[J. Edgar Hoover]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1972 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from heart failure, Gay men, Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Politicians from Washington, D.C.

John Edgar Hoover (January 1, 1895 – May 2, 1972) was an American politician. He was the first Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the United States. He was chosen as director of the Bureau of Investigation because he helped start it. He was the director until his death in 1972 at age 77.

According to President Harry S Truman, Hoover transformed the FBI into his private secret police force. Truman stated that "we want no Gestapo or secret police. FBI is tending in that direction. They are dabbling in sex-life scandals and plain blackmail. J. Edgar Hoover would give his right eye to take over, and all congressmen and senators are afraid of him".

Hoover had the largest collection of pornography in history. Some adult movies included photos of Joan Crawford, Frank Sinatra, Warren Beatty, and Tony Curtis.

Hoover was born on January 1, 1895 in Washington, D.C. He studied at George Washington University. Hoover was homosexual.

It is unknown if Hoover and his political partner Clyde Tolson were ever in a relationship. Hoover died on May 2, 1972 in Washington, D.C. from heart failure, aged 77.

[[Monica Geller]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1994, Friends characters

Monica Geller is a fictional character on American sitcom Friends, portrayed by Courteney Cox. She works in a very fancy restaurant. She likes everything in her apartment to be clean. She is married to Chandler Bing. Her brother is Ross Geller. She has two adopted children. 

[[Chandler Bing]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Friends characters

Chandler Bing is a fictional character on American sitcom Friends, portrayed by Matthew Perry. He works in an advertising company. He says that he uses humor as a way to defend himself. He is married to Monica Geller. Her brother is Ross Geller, his college roommate. He has two adopted children. 

[[Ross Geller]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1994, Friends characters

Ross Geller is a fictional character on the American sitcom Friends, portrayed by David Schwimmer. He works in a museum. He usually wants everyone to be right in facts or grammar. He was divorced three times. He has a son Ben and a daughter Emma. His sister is Monica Geller. In the series finale he ends up having a relationship with Rachel Green.

[[Rachel Green]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1994, Friends characters

Rachel Green is a fictional character on the American sitcom Friends. She is portrayed by Jennifer Aniston. Green worked as a waitress at Central Perk. Then she worked in Bloomingdales as an assistant. Then she was a manager of a Ralph Lauren company. She was divorced two times, one she left her fiancé at the altar. She has a daughter Emma. In the series finale she ends up having a relationship with Ross Geller.

[[Phoebe Buffay]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Friends characters

Phoebe Buffay is a fictional character on the American sitcom Friends. She is portrayed by Lisa Kudrow. Buffay sang terrible songs at Central Perk. Then she worked as a massage therapist. Her dad left her, her twin sister (Ursula), and her stepmother who would later commit suicide. She would later marry Mike Hanagan.

[[Henry Horner]]

CATEGORIES: 1878 births, 1940 deaths, Governors of Illinois, Jewish American politicians, Politicians from Chicago, University of Chicago alumni, US Democratic Party politicians

Henry Horner (November 30, 1878 – October 6, 1940) was an American-Democrat politician. He was the 28th Governor of Illinois, serving from January 9, 1933 through October 6, 1940, when he died in office. Horner was the first Jewish governor of Illinois. A park is named after, Horner Park.

Horner was born on November 30, 1878 in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at the University of Chicago. He later came back to Chicago five months later. He died in Winnetka, Illinois on October 6, 1940, aged 61.

[[Tina Louise]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, 1934 births, Living people

Tina Louise (b. Tina Black, February 11, 1934) is an American sitcom and movie actress. She is best known for playing Ginger Grant on the television series Gilligan's Island. She also played a doomed housewife in the 1975 movie The Stepford Wives, which was well received. She was born in New York City.

[[GLONASS]]

CATEGORIES: Satellites, Russia

GLONASS (ru) is a radio-based satellite navigation system. It is operated by the Russian Defence Forces. It provides an alternative to the United States' Global Positioning System (GPS). These are the only two navigational systems with global coverage. Some receivers can use both systems, giving more accurate locations, more quickly.

[[Quinquagesima]]

CATEGORIES: Liturgical calendar

Quinquagesima is the Sunday before Ash Wednesday. In Catholicism it is now within Ordinary Time, but the word is still used in the Book of Common Prayer in Anglicanism.

[[Aubrey O'Day]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from San Francisco, American television actors, 1984 births, Living people, Participants in American reality television series, Singer-songwriters from California, Singers from San Francisco

Aubrey O'Day (born February 11, 1984) is an American singer-songwriter and reality television actress and participant.  She was in the music group Danity Kane, from which she was fired in 2008. 

O'Day was born in San Francisco.

[[People's Sunday]]

CATEGORIES: Malta

People's Sunday is a tradition in Malta on the first Sunday of Lent. Many people went on pilgrimage to Zabbar to a chapel devoted to Our Lady of Graces.

[[Notting Hill]]

CATEGORIES: Notting Hill

Notting Hill is an area of central London west of Westminster. It is known for its carnival each August, and for a movie set in the Portobello Road market starring Julia Roberts and Hugh Grant. The London Underground station Notting Hill Gate is on the Central line between Holland Park and Queensway.

[[Stefanie Powers]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Hollywood, 1942 births, Living people

Stefanie Powers (born November 2, 1942) is an American actress and singer. She stars mainly in television programs. She played as Jennifer Hart in the 1980s series Hart to Hart.

Powers was born near Los Angeles.

[[Luna Park, Tel Aviv]]

CATEGORIES: Theme parks in Israel, Buildings and structures in Tel Aviv

Luna Park, Tel Aviv is an amusement park complex in Tel Aviv Fairgrounds. It is managed by the "Israeli Entertainment Company" which also manages the Superland amusement park in Rishon Lezion. 

[[Superland]]

CATEGORIES: Theme parks in Israel, Rishon LeZion

Superland is an amusement park in Rishon LeZion, Israel. It was opened in 1991. In 1992 it opened as a park with a lake next to it. In the 2000s, a stadium was built in the park. In 2012, a movie theater was opened in the park.    

[[The Great Giana Sisters]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 video games, Commodore 64 games, Platform games

The Great Giana Sisters is a 1987 platform game known for resembling Nintendo's Super Mario Brothers. The game was developed by Time Warp Productions and published by Rainbow Arts. Due to the game's similarity to Nintendo's Super Mario Brothers, Nintendo threatened the game's makers with a legal action, and the game was removed from stores.

Players control one of two protagonists Giana or Maria. Players defeat enemies and collect gems and powerups in order to increase their score. The player's objective is to advance through each level.

[[Prionosuchus]]

CATEGORIES: Temnospondyls, Amphibians, Fossils

italictitle

Prionosuchus is a genus of extremely large temnospondyl amphibians from the Middle Permian (270 million years ago). Its remains were found in Brazil.

[[Fleur de lys]]

CATEGORIES: Symbols

The fleur de lys or fleur de lis (plural: fleurs de lys or fleurs de lis) is a stylized depiction of the lily or the iris. It is decorative and has been used for centuries on flags and on coats of arms.

[[Frans Hals]]

CATEGORIES: 1580s births, 1666 deaths, Dutch painters

Frans Hals the Elder (c. 1582 – 26 August 1666) was a Dutch painter. He is notable for his loose brushwork. He helped introduce this lively style of painting into Dutch art. Hals was also instrumental in the evolution of 17th century group portrait painting.

[[The Cube]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 television series debuts, 2015 television series endings, 2000s British television series, 2010s British television series, British television game shows, ITV television programmes, English-language television programs

The Cube is a British game show that airs on ITV. It is presented by Phillip Schofield. It began on 22 August 2009 and ended on 8 August 2015. The show ran for 9 series.

[[Pearl Bailey]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 1990 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, African American actors, American television personalities, American radio personalities, Actors from Virginia, Singers from Virginia, Actors from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Singers from Pennsylvania, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Grammy Award winners

Pearl Mae Bailey (March 29, 1918 – August 17, 1990) was an American actress, entertainer, and singer. She was known for her roles in St. Louis Women, Hello, Dolly!, and in Cindy Eller: A Modern Fairy Tale. She won an Grammy Award in 1959, an Emmy Award in 1968, an Screen Actors Guild Award in 1976, and an Tony Award in 1986.

Bailey was born on March 29, 1918 in Southampton County, Virginia. She was married to John Randolph Pinkett from 1948 until they divorced in 1952. Then she was married to Louie Bellson from 1952 until her death in 1990. They had two children, one adopted. Bailey died on August 17, 1990 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She was aged 72.

[[Robert Hegyes]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television personalities, Actors from New Jersey, People from Perth Amboy, New Jersey

Robert Hegyes (May 7, 1951 – January 26, 2012) was an American actor who was known for his role as Juan Epstein in the 1970s comedy sitcom Welcome Back, Kotter.

Hegyes was born on May 7, 1951 in Perth Amboy, New Jersey to a Hungarian-Italian family. He was raised in Metuchen, New Jersey. Hegyes studied at Metuchen High School and at Glassboro State College. He was never married. Hegyes died on January 26, 2012 from a heart attack in Edison, New Jersey, aged 60.

[[Kings City]]

CATEGORIES: Theme parks in Israel, Eilat

Kings City is an amusement park in Eilat, Israel. It is located in the hotels area of the city. The amusement park is dedicated to the Bible and was open in 2005 at a cost of US$40,000,000.

[[Xenophon]]

CATEGORIES: 430s BC births, 354 BC deaths, Ancient Greek philosophers, Ancient Greek writers, Ancient Greek historians

Xenophon (c. 430 – 354 BC), also known as Xenophon of Athens, was a Greek historian, soldier, mercenary, philosopher and a contemporary and admirer of Socrates.  He is known for his writings on the history of his own times, the 4th century BC. He preserved the sayings of Socrates, and descriptions of life in ancient Greece and the Persian Empire.

[[Praxiteles]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Sculptors

Praxiteles was the most famous of the sculptors of the 4th century BC. He was the first to sculpt the nude female form in a life-size statue. While no sculpture by Praxiteles is extant, numerous copies of his works have survived.  Several authors, including Pliny the Elder, wrote of his works. Coins engraved with silhouettes of his various famous statuary types from the period still exist. His works include Hermes and the Infant Dionysus. 

[[Jack Thayer]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1945 deaths, Writers who committed suicide, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

John Borland "Jack" Thayer III (December 24, 1894 – September 20, 1945) was an American writer and historian. He was a first-class passenger on the RMS Titanic. He helped many people to solve how the Titanic sank. He later wrote books about the sinking.

Thayer was born on December 24, 1894 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He was married to Lois Cassatt until his death in 1945. Thayer committed suicide on September 20, 1945. He was depressed about his son's death during World War II. He was found in a car in Philadelphia with cuts on his wrist and throat, aged 50.

[[J. Bruce Ismay]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1937 deaths, Deaths from stroke, RMS Titanic survivors, English businesspeople, People from Lancashire

Joseph Bruce Ismay (December 12, 1862 – October 17, 1937) was an English businessman. He was chairman and managing director of the White Star Line. He was known as the man who created the RMS Titanic. He was one of the survivors, but because he survived many people thought he was afraid of dying and would later destroy his reputation.

Ismay was born on December 12, 1862 in Crosby, Lancashire, England. He was married to Julia Florence Schieffelin from 1888 until his death in 1937. They had five children. Ismay died on October 17, 1937 in Mayfar, London, England from a stroke, aged 74.

[[Cinereous vulture]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes

The cinereous vulture (Aegypius monachus) is also known as the 'black vulture', 'monk vulture', or 'Eurasian black vulture'. It is a member of the family Accipitridae. It is one of the two largest old world vultures.

This bird is an Old World vulture, and is only distantly related to the New World vultures, which are in a separate family, Cathartidae, of the same order. It is therefore not directly related to the much smaller American black vulture despite the similar name and coloration. 

[[Sarah Lancaster]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Kansas, 1980 births, Living people, Overland Park, Kansas

Sarah Lancaster (February 12, 1980, Overland Park, Kansas) is an American actress who stars primarily in sitcoms. She starred as Rachel Meyers in the sitcom Saved by the Bell: The New Class and Marjorie in What about Brian.

[[Search Engine Watch]]

CATEGORIES: Websites

Search Engine Watch (SEW) is a website with news and information about search engines and search engine marketing.

Search Engine Watch website was started by Danny Sullivan in 1996. In 1997, Sullivan sold it to MecklerMedia (now Jupitermedia). In 2005 the website and Search Engine Strategies were sold to Incisive Media for $43 million. On November 30, 2006 Danny Sullivan left Search Engine Watch. Rebecca Lieb became editor-in-chief next month.

Google's Matt Cutts has named Search Engine Watch "a must read." Yahoo's Tim Mayer has said that Search Engine Watch is the "most authoritative source on search." 

[[Kanon]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 video games, Visual novels, Windows games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation Portable games, IOS games, Android (operating system) games

Kanon (カノン) is a Japanese adult visual novel developed by Key. It was released on 4 June 1999. It is playable on Windows PCs. Key later released versions of Kanon without the erotic content, and the game was ported to the Dreamcast, PlayStation 2 and PlayStation Portable. After the game's release, Kanon made several transitions into other media. Two Manga series were serialized in Dengeki Daioh and Dragon Age Pure. Comic anthologies, light novels and art books were also published, as were audio dramas and several music albums. Toei Animation produced a 13-episode anime television series in 2002 and an original video animation (OVA) episode in 2003. Kyoto Animation produced a 24-episode anime series in 2006.

The story follows the life of Yuichi Aizawa, a high school student who returns to a city he last visited seven years ago, and he has little recollection (memories) of the events from back then. He meets several girls and slowly regains his lost memories.

[[Division of North Sydney]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1901 establishments in Australia

The Division of North Sydney is  an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. The division is named after the North Sydney area. It was set up in 1900 for the first federal election in 1901.  

[[Exit to Eden]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 comedy movies, 1994 thriller movies, English-language movies, American comedy movies, American thriller movies, American independent movies

Exit to Eden is a 1994 comedy-thriller movie. Rosie O'Donnell, Dana Delany and Dan Aykroyd are in the cast. This movie is about undercover police, sex and vacationing on an island. Exit to Eden got attention because of sexual content and well-known actors in the cast.

[[Australian War Memorial]]

CATEGORIES: Art Deco buildings, Museums in Australia, Australian National Heritage List, Buildings and structures in Canberra, Monuments and memorials, Tombs of Unknown Soldiers, 1941 establishments in Australia

The Australian War Memorial is Australia's national memorial. It recognises all members of the armed forces and organisations who have died or taken part in the wars of the Commonwealth of Australia. The memorial includes a large military museum. Opened in 1941, it is one of the most significant memorials of its type in the world.

The Memorial is in Australia's capital, Canberra. It is the north end of the city's ceremonial land axis. This is a line from Parliament House on Capital Hill to Mount Ainslie. No roads directly link the two points, but there is a clear line of sight between Parliament House and the War Memorial.

The Australian War Memorial has three parts. The first is the Commemorative Area (shrine) including the Hall of Memory with the Tomb of the Unknown Australian Soldier. The second is the museum. The third part is the Research Centre. The Memorial also has an outdoor Sculpture Garden. The Memorial is 2008 open daily from 10am until 5pm, except on Christmas Day.

Anzac Parade, while a part of the Memorial design, is maintained by the National Capital Authority (NCA).

[[Michel de Montaigne]]

CATEGORIES: 1533 births, 1592 deaths, French essayists, French writers, Renaissance, French philosophers

Michel Eyquem de Montaigne (28 February 1533 — 13 September 1592) was a French Renaissance man, statesman, and writer. He was a court official in the late Valois-Angoulême period of the Kingdom of France. Montaigne was the inventor of essay-writing and was one of the most important philosophers of the French Renaissance.

[[Anna Shaffer]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Scottish movie actors, Scottish television actors, 1992 births

Anna Shaffer is an English actress, best known for her role as Ruby Button in teen soap opera Hollyoaks, and for her role as Romilda Vane in the Harry Potter film series.

[[AccuWeather]]

CATEGORIES: Mass media, Weather services, 1962 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Pennsylvania

AccuWeather is an American media organization that provides non-profit worldwide weather forecasts. The name AccuWeather is a portmanteau for accurate and weather. 

The network was founded in 1962 by Joel N. Myers, then a Penn State graduate student working on degrees in meteorology. The company adopted the name "AccuWeather" in 1971. It is centered in  State College, Pennsylvania. AccuWeather is a strong provider for a lot of local television stations, and does guest commentaries on major television, networks.

[[LionsXII]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs, Football in Singapore, 2010s establishments in Singapore, 2011 establishments in Asia, 2010s disestablishments in Asia, 2015 disestablishments

LionsXII is a Singapore football team based at Jalan Besar Stadium. Managed by the Football Association of Singapore, the squad marks the return of Singapore to the Malaysia football scene after leaving the Malaysia Cup in 1994. The name "LionsXII" is a special tribute to the fans, who is generally recognised as football's "12th Man".

[[Water resistance]]

Water resistance may refer to:

[[Harlem Shake]]

CATEGORIES: Internet memes, Dances

The Harlem Shake is an Internet meme that became popular in February 2013. It started with a video by a YouTube user named Filthy Frank. The trend spread with people trying to replicate the video. The videos feature the song Harlem Shake by electronic musician Baauer, and a dance. Normally, each video begins with one person (often wearing a mask) dancing to the song alone, surrounded by other people who seem to be unaware of the person dancing. When the bass drops, the entire crowd starts doing the dance. The video tends to be 30 seconds long.

Several reports have compared the Harlem shake to the Gangnam Style meme that was popular during 2012.

[[Charter Communications]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, Television, 1993 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Delaware

Charter Communications is a cable system group begun in Delaware in 1993. They have Cable television, Internet and telephone services for over 26 million customers in 41 U.S. States.

The Charter headquarters are in Stamford, Connecticut, though many operations remain in St. Louis, Missouri.

The company has gotten several awards. But like certain other providers, they have also been under criticism.

In May 2016, Charter took over Time Warner Cable and the Bright House Networks; the three companies merged and then became Spectrum.

[[Bearded vulture]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes, Birds of Africa, Birds of Asia, Birds of Europe, Birds of Pakistan, Birds of Turkey

The bearded vulture (Gypaetus barbatus), also known as the lammergeier or lammergeyer, is a bird of prey. It is the only member of the genus Gypaetus.

An Old World vulture, it forms a minor line of the Accipitridae with the Egyptian vulture, its closest living relative. They are not much more closely related to the Old World vultures proper than to hawks. They differ from Old World vultures by their feathered neck.

It eats mainly carrion and lives and breeds on crags in high mountains in southern Europe, the Caucasus, Africa, the Indian subcontinent, and Tibet. The females lay one or two eggs in mid-winter that hatch at the beginning of spring. Populations are resident.

[[Abu Kabir Forensic Institute]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Tel Aviv, Government of Israel, Forensics, Organizations

Abu Kabir Forensic Institute (L. Greenberg National Institute of Forensic Medicine; המכון הלאומי לרפואה משפטית ע"ש ל' גרינברג) is the only forensics institute in Israel. It is in Tel Aviv.

[[Israel Meteorological Service]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Israel, Weather services, Rishon LeZion

The Israel Meteorological Service is the central service for weather forecasting and climate research in Israel. It includes 30 weather stations. The Israel Meteorological Service is located in Rishon LeZion. The Israel Meteorological Service is also a unit in the Israeli Ministry of Transport.

[[Burning Man]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals in the United States, Art, Nevada, 1990 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Nevada

Burning Man is a festival that happens every year at Black Rock Desert in northern Nevada, in the United States. It lasts a week, and it starts on the last Monday in August, and ends on the first Monday in September (which is also Labor Day in the U.S.). The festival is called Burning Man because a large wood sculpture of a man is set on fire on Saturday. The festival has been happening every year since 1990. Many people go to Burning Man; in 2012, over 55,000 people were there. The Black Rock desert is far from any cities or towns, and is very dry, so people who go to Burning Man have to bring their own water, food, and shelter. 

[[Tyre, Lebanon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lebanon, Phoenician colonies, History of the Middle East

Tyre is a city in the south of Lebanon. About 120,000 people lived there in 2003. The Phoenicians originally built the city. It is known as Tyrus in Latin, and Tyros in Greek. Its name in Arabic and Turkish is Suur.

[[Norodom Sihanouk]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Kings and queens, Prime ministers, Cambodian people

Norodom Sihanouk (October 31, 1922 – October 15, 2012) was the King of Cambodia from 1941 to 1955 and again from 1993 to 2004. He was in the Guinness Book of Records because he had had the most political duties in the world. He served as the 1st, 12th, 16th, 20th, 23rd, 25th, 27th, 35th, and 37th Prime Minister of Cambodia. He was exiled in 2004 and later left his throne in the same year.

Sihanouk was born on October 31, 1922 in Phnom Penh, French Indochina. He studied at the Cavalry Military School. Sihanouk was married six times. His last wife was Norodom Monineath from 1952 until his death in 2012. Sihanouk had 14 children. He had suffered prostate cancer. Sihanouk died on October 15, 2012 while on a trip to Beijing, China from a heart attack, aged 89.

[[David Dinkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, Mayors of New York City, African American politicians, American activists, Manhattan borough presidents, Politicians from New Jersey, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Trenton, New Jersey, Deaths from respiratory failure

David Norman Dinkins (July 10, 1927 – November 23, 2020) was an American politician and activist. He served as the 106th Mayor of New York City from January 1, 1990 through December 31, 1993. He lost reelection in 1993 to Rudy Giuliani. He was the first African American mayor of New York City.

Dinkins was born on July 10, 1927 in Trenton, New Jersey. He studied at Harvard University and at the Brooklyn Law School. Dinkins was married to Joyce Burrows until her death in 2020. They had two children.

Dinkins died on November 23, 2020 at his home in New York City from respiratory failure, aged 93.

[[Thomas E. Dewey]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1971 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Governors of New York, Politicians from Michigan, US Republican Party politicians, Writers from Michigan, Writers from New York

Thomas Edmund Dewey (March 24, 1902 – March 16, 1971) was an American politician. He served as the 47th Governor of New York from January 1, 1943 through December 31, 1954. He ran for President two times, he lost both of them. He was mostly known for losing to Harry S. Truman when the Chicago Tribune mistakenly printed newspapers that said Dewey Defeats Truman.

Dewey was born on March 24, 1902 in Owosso, Michigan. He studied at the University of Michigan and at the Columbian Law School. Dewey was married to Frances Hutt from 1928 until her death 1970. Dewey died while on a trip to Miami, Florida from a heart attack on March 16, 1971, aged 68.

[[Robert M. La Follette]]

CATEGORIES: 1855 births, 1925 deaths, American Baptists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Governors of Wisconsin, United States representatives from Wisconsin, United States senators from Wisconsin, US Republican Party politicians

Robert Marion "Fighting Bob" La Follette, Sr. (June 14, 1855 – June 18, 1925) was an American Republican. He was a Senator from Wisconsin from January 2, 1906 until his death on June 18, 1925. He ran for President in 1924, but lost. If La Follette won he would have been the seventh President to die in office. He is thought to be one of the greatest Senators of American History.

La Follette was born on June 14, 1855 in Primrose, Wisconsin. He is of English-Scottish-French descent. He studied at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. La Follette was married to Belle Case Le Follette from 1881 until his death in 1925. They had four children. La Follette died on June 18, 1925 in Washington, D.C. from a heart disease, aged 70.

[[The Piano Teacher]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 drama movies, French drama movies, Austrian movies, German drama movies, French-language movies

The Piano Teacher is an erotic drama movie of 2001 about a piano professor for a musical conservatory. The subjects of this drama are piano playing, voyeurism and masochism. The Piano Teacher received positive review by critics, and several international awards.

[[Har Nof]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Jerusalem, Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem

Har Nof (הר נוף, meaning "scenic mountain") is a mountain in Jerusalem. It is a famous neighborhood of important Israeli Rabbis. There are ancient terraces in the neighborhood, which were used for growing grapes. There are also many presses, from the Second Temple carved in the rock, suggesting a large Jewish community at the time. There are also ruins from fortifications dating from the Herodian period.

The ruins of a castle and a small pond were found in one of the lowest streets in the neighborhood. The fort was from the time of the Second Temple, and was populated by guards who protected the pilgrims visiting the temple. Opposite the castle, an ancient wine press was found, which probably belonged to the fortress' guards.

[[National Gallery of Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Government agencies of Australia, Art museums, National museums, Museums in Australia, 1982 establishments, Australian National Heritage List, Buildings and structures in Canberra, 1980s establishments in Australia

The National Gallery of Australia is the national art museum of Australia. It is in Canberra. It holds more than 120,000 works of art in its collection. The gallery was established in 1967 by the Australian government. The construction of the building started in 1973, and cost AU$82 million. It was officially opened by Queen Elizabeth II in 1982.

The gallery is northeast of Parliament House. It is near the High Court and the National Library. There are three levels of galleries. On the main floor, the galleries are large, and are used to display the collections of Indigenous Australian, European and American art. The lower level also contains a series of large galleries, used to display the Asian art collection. The topmost level contains a series of smaller galleries, which holds the gallery's collection of Australian art. A smaller building on the eastern side of the gallery holds the gallery's temporary exhibitions. It includes a sculpture garden. A major expansion of the gallery began in 2006. It included several new galleries for indigenous Australian art.

The gallery's collection of indigenous Australian art is mostly modern, but in traditional forms. It is dominated by a memorial of 200 painted tree trunks commemorating all the indigenous people who died defending their land against invaders in the 200 years between 1788 and 1988. Each trunk is a coffin, which in the Yolngu culture is used to mark the safe journey of the soul of the dead from this world to the next.

The collection of non-indigenous Australian art includes work by Frederick McCubbin, Tom Roberts, William Dobell, Sidney Nolan, and many other famous artists. The gallery's international collection is mainly focused on late-19th-century and 20th-century art. Artists represented include Paul Cézanne, Claude Monet, Pablo Picasso, Jackson Pollock, Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, David Hockney, Lucian Freud and Henri Matisse. The sculpture garden contains works by Bert Flugelman, Henry Moore, Fujiko Nakaya and Auguste Rodin.

[[West North Central States]]

CATEGORIES: Census Regions of the United States

The West North Central States are made up of seven US States: Iowa, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota and Kansas. The region is defined by the United States Census Bureau and is populated by between 20 million and 21 million people. This region is also regarded by the names of Heartland or The Farm Belt.

[[Alonzo Gee]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Cleveland Cavaliers players

Alonzo Gee (born May 29, 1987) is an NBA basketball player for the Cleveland Cavaliers. He went to the University of Alabama.

[[East North Central States]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the United States

The East North Central States are a region that consists of five US States: Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin, according to the United States Census Bureau. Almost fifty million people live in this region. Some non-government groups may put the State of Kentucky within this group, although the Census Bureau usually has Kentucky in the East South Central region.

[[Pemako]]

CATEGORIES: Tibet, Regions of Asia

Pemako is a region in the southeast corner of Tibet. It is considered to be the sacred place for Tibetans, and a place for pilgrimages. Many popular lamas visited the place in search of termas, which were hidden during the crisis in Tibet.

[[Israel Space Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Israel, Space agencies, 1983 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Israel

Israel Space Agency (ISA; סוכנות החלל הישראלית, he) is a government agency of Israel. It oordinates all Israeli space research programmes with scientific and commercial goals. It is part of the Ministry of Science and Technology of Israel. It was established in 1983. The head of the ISA is Major Gen. (ret.) Prof. Yitzhak Ben Yisrael.

[[Oscar Pistorius]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Afrikaner people, Competitors at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Murderers, Olympians, Paralympic bronze medalists, Paralympic gold medalists, Paralympic silver medalists, Prisoners, South African sportspeople, Sprinters

Oscar Leonard Carl Pistorius (born 22 November 1986) is a South African former sprint runner. He is serving a prison sentence for the murder of his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp.

Pistorius was born in Sandton, Johannesburg. Both of his legs are amputated above the ankle, and he runs with prostheses. Pistorius competed in races for athletes with disabilities. He first ran in international competitions for able-bodied athletes in 2007.

In 2011, he competed in the World Championships, and as part of South Africa's silver-medal-winning relay team, he became the first amputee to win an able-bodied world track medal. At the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, Pistorius became the first double-leg amputee to compete in the Olympics. He also competed in the 2012 Summer Paralympics. He won gold medals in the men's 400 metre race in a Paralympic record time of 46.68 seconds and in the 4 × 100 metres relay in a world record time of 41.78 seconds. He also won a silver in the 200 metres race.

On 14 February 2013, he shot his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp dead in his house. He was charged with murder, but is not in prison because he paid a R1 million to be released on bail. His murder trial began on 3 March 2014 in Pretoria. During the trial, Pistorius was diagnosed with generalised anxiety disorder. On 11 September, he was found not guilty of murder. On 12 September 2014, he was convicted of manslaughter.

In November 2014, prosecutors asked the sentencing judge for permission to appeal the verdict.  Permission was granted in December, and the case was presented to a five-person panel at the Supreme Court of Appeal. He was released on house arrest, and on 3 December 2015 the Appeal Court overturned the culpable homicide verdict and convicted him of murder. Pistorius appeared in court on 13 June 2016 to start the sentence hearing for the murder conviction; on 6 July he was sentenced to six years imprisonment for murder.

[[Randolph Street]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Chicago

Randolph Street is a street in Chicago. It runs east-west through the Chicago Loop. It carries traffic west from Michigan Avenue across the Chicago River. The street runs through the whole city. The street is named after Edmund Randolph.

[[Michigan Avenue]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Chicago

Michigan Avenue is a major north-south street in Chicago. It runs at 100 east on the Chicago grid. The northern end of the street is at Lake Shore Drive on the shore of Lake Michigan in the Gold Coast Historic District. The avenue is named after the state of Michigan. The avenue is also known for shopping stores, museums, and tall buildings. Part of Michigan Avenue is called the Magnificent Mile.

It is the location of the annual November Magnificent Mile Lights Festival hosted by Disney.

[[Kud Wafter]]

CATEGORIES: Anime, 2010 video games

Kud Wafter is a Japanese adult visual novel developed by Key released on June 25, 2010 for Windows PCs.Kud Wafter is Key's eighth game, along with other titles such as Kanon, Air, and Clannad. Key will release a version of Kud Wafter without the erotic content, and the game will be ported to the PlayStation Portable.

The story follows the lives of high school students Riki Naoe and his close friend Kudryavka Noumi as they start to see more of each other in a romantic relationship. The gameplay in Kud Wafter follows a branching plot line which offers pre-determined scenarios with courses of interaction, and focuses on the appeal of the title character Kudryavka, also known as "Kud" for short.

[[Margaret Truman]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2008 deaths, American historians, Children of Presidents of the United States, Harry S. Truman, Writers from Missouri, People from Independence, Missouri

Mary Margaret Truman Daniel (February 17, 1924 – January 29, 2008) was an American singer, writer, and historian. She wrote many mystery/historical books. She was the daughter of U.S. President Harry S. Truman and Bess Truman.

Truman was born on February 17, 1924 in Independence, Missouri. She studied at George Washington University. Truman was married to Clifton Daniel from 1956 until his death in 2000. They had four children. Truman died on January 29, 2008 in her son's home in Chicago, Illinois from a respiratory infection, aged 83.

[[Pope Stephen IV]]

CATEGORIES: Popes, 8th century births, 817 deaths

Pope Stephen IV was Pope from June 816 to January 817. He died of old age.

[[Michael Mann]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Screenwriters from Illinois, Emmy Award winners, Movie directors from Chicago, Movie producers from Chicago, Writers from Chicago

Michael Kenneth Mann (born February 5, 1943) is an American movie director, screenwriter, and movie producer. He is known for his works in Manhunter, Ali, Collateral, Hancock, and in Public Enemies. He won an Emmy Award in 1979.

Mann was born on February 5, 1943 in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Mann has been married to Summer Mann since 1974. They have four children. 

[[Bille Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Queensland, Australian LGBT people, Australian movie actors, Australian stage actors, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, Cancer deaths in Queensland, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Gay men, LGBT actors

William Gerard "Bille" Brown AM (11 January 1952 – 13 January 2013) was an Australian actor and playwright. He was known for his roles in Fierce Creatures, The Man Who Sued God, The Dish, and in The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader. Brown and Geoffrey Rush were good friends. He was openly gay.February 2013

Brown was born on 11 January 1952 in Biloela, Queensland, Australia. He studied at Queensland University. 

Brown died on 13 January 2013 in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia from bowel cancer, aged 61.

[[Saqqez]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Saqqez (سەقز, سقز) is a city in the west of Iran. According to 2006 census, 131,348 people lived there. Saqqez is famous because of its ancient history and the remaining of a historic fort located on north-east of the city, named "Zehweeya". The city is in Kurdistan Province, in Iranian Kurdistan. 

[[Beckenham]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in London, London Borough of Bromley

Beckenham is a suburb of London, in the London Borough of Bromley. It is south of central London.

There are also places with the same name in Perth, Western Australia and Christchurch, New Zealand.

[[Political behavior]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Human behavior

Political behaviour is how people think about politics and how they vote and do things like protest because of what they believe. Family, teachers and friends all shape how we think. The media and political adverts also change the way many people vote. Social class, race and religion also make people vote in different ways.

[[Internal Affairs]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 thriller movies, 1990 drama movies, English-language movies

Internal Affairs is a 1990 crime-thriller movie starring Laurie Metcalf, Andy Garcia and Richard Gere. The story is about manipulation, corruption and lying in the Los Angeles Police Department in late 1989 and early 1990. Elijah Wood, Annabella Sciorra and William Baldwin also star. This movie got strong positive reviews from many critics and was a success in the box office.

[[Welcome to the Dollhouse]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 comedy movies, 1990s teen comedy movies, English-language movies, American teen comedy movies, American independent movies, Movies about pedophilia

Welcome to the Dollhouse is an American 1995 teen comedy movie. It is about bullying and dysfunctional family life. This independent comedy started the acting career of Heather Matarazzo, who plays Dawn Weiner. It received positive reviews from critics. It was a success at the box office.

[[Hasan Basri]]

CATEGORIES: 642 births, 728 deaths, Muslims, Asian Sufis, Iraqi people

Hasan Al-Basri (الحسن بن أبي الحسن البصري; full name: Al-Hasan ibn Abi-l-Hasan al-Basri), (642–728), was a well-known Sunni Muslim Sufi,  preacher and scholar. Hasan was one of the most famous and prominent of the early Sufi saints in Islam. He was a very popular and beloved personality of Basra, in Iraq. 

[[The Brothers McMullen]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 comedy-drama movies, English-language movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American comedy-drama movies, American independent movies, Movies directed by Edward Burns

The Brothers McMullen is an American 1995 comedy movie. It is about three brothers in Long Island, New York. The plot has love, sex, marriage, infidelity and deception. This movie was released in January 1995 in the United States and was directed by first time director Edward Burns.

[[Pranab Mukherjee]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of India, 1935 births, 2020 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in India, Indian writers, Indian economists, Deaths from sepsis

[[Meira Kumar]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Speakers of the Lok Sabha, People from Bihar, Indian National Congress politicians

Meira Kumar (born March 31, 1945 in Bihar, India) is an Indian politician. She has been elected to the Lok Sabha (the lower house in the Indian parliament) five times. She was elected unopposed as the first woman Speaker of the Lok Sabha on June 3, 2009. Kumar replaced retiring Somnath Chatterjee. She left office on May 18, 2014.

Kumar was the daughter of Babu Jagjivan Ram, a former Deputy Prime Minister of India. She studied at Cambridge University. After Cambridge, she joined the Indian Foreign Service in 1973. She was elected to parliament as a member of the Indian National Congress.

Kumar has been nominated as a joint presidential candidate by the leading opposition parties for 2017 Presidential election. She lost the election to Conservative Ram Nath Kovind after the results were announced on 20 July 2017.

[[Speaker of the Lok Sabha]]

CATEGORIES: Speakers of the Lok Sabha, Legislative speakers

The Speaker of the Lok Sabha is the presiding officer of the lower house of the Parliament of India, known as the Lok Sabha. The role of the Speaker is the same as in other countries which use the Westminster system of government. 

The speaker is elected in the very first meeting of the Lok Sabha after the general elections. He or she is chosen from the members of Lok Sabha. The speaker serves for a term of five years. The current speaker is Om Birla. He is the Member of parliament from Rajasthan.

[[Lok Sabha]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of India, National lower houses

The Lok Sabha or House of the People is the lower house of the Parliament of India. As of 2019, there have been seventeen Lok Sabhas elected by the people of India. The Constitution limits the Lok Sabha to a maximum of 552 members. This includes no more than 20 members representing people from the Union Territories, and two appointed non-partisan members to represent the Anglo-Indian community (if the President feels that the community is not represented well enough).

Each Lok Sabha is formed for a five-year term. Normally, after five years, it is automatically dissolved. It can be extended by a proclamation of emergency. If this happens, the term may be extended for one year. It can be extended more than one time. The 17th and current Lok Sabha was formed in May 2019.

The Lok Sabha meets at the Lok Sabha Chambers, in Sansad Bhavan, Sansad Marg, in New Delhi.

The Lok Sabha member are elected for a team of five years.The president may dissolve the Lok Sabha.During emergency ,the team may be extended for one year

[[The Accidental Husband]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 romance movies, 2008 comedy movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Tamil-language movies, Multilingual movies, American independent movies

The Accidental Husband is a 2008 American romance-comedy starring Uma Thurman and Isabella Rossellini. It was originally released in 2008 in the United Kingdom, and in 2009 in the United States. This romantic-comedy is about romance, deception and infidelity.

[[Romance comics]]

CATEGORIES: Comics

Romance comics is a genre of comics. Stories are about love, courtship, marriage, divorce, heartbreak and other aspects of romance. Most stories in the past featured teens and young adults. The stories were set in contemporary times. Joe Simon and Jack Kirby took credit for inventing the genre. They noticed many adults were reading comics after WWII, but only children's comics were available on newsstands. The two created a title for adults called Young Romance. Its success and popularity led other publishers to glut the market with love titles. The genre was unaffected by the Senate subcommittee investigation into a supposed link between comic books and juvenile crime. The romance genre died in the 1970s with the last issue of Young Love and the onset of the women's movement. Some romance comics are still published. They are spoofs of the originals or take a more contemporary stance on love such as lesbian and gay romance. 

[[Pokémon Black 2 and White 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 video games, Nintendo DS games, Pokémon RPGs

Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 are two role-playing video games in the Pokémon series made by Game Freak for the Nintendo DS game console. The games are the sequels to 2010's Pokémon Black and White. The games were released in Japan on June 23, 2012, in North America on October 7, 2012, in Australia on October 11, 2012, and in Europe on October 12, 2012.

[[Act Against Bullying]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments in the United Kingdom, Bullying, Organisations based in the United Kingdom

Act Against Bullying (AAB) is a national charity in the United Kingdom. The purpose of the organization is to help children who are bullied at school. 

[[Chelyabinsk]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Russia

Chelyabinsk is a city in the Chelyabinsk Oblast, Russia. The city is east of the Ural Mountains, on the Miass River, and on the border of Europe and Asia. The city has 1,195,446 people. As of 15 February 2013, the head of the city is Stanislav Mosharov. On February 15, 2013, a meteor hit the city.

[[Chelyabinsk meteor]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 disasters, 2010s in Russia, February 2013 events, Meteorites

The Chelyabinsk meteor (or 2013 Russian meteor event) happened on 15 February 2013 over Chelyabinsk, Russia at about 9:13 a.m. Chelyabinsk is near the Ural Mountains.

The meteor was moving at a speed of about 18 km/s (40,000 mph), it passed over the southern Ural region and exploded in the air over Chelyabinsk Oblast. The air burst occurred at approximately 15 to 25 km (10 to 15 mi) above the ground.

The total energy released was equivalent to nearly 500 kilotons of TNT (2.1 PJ), which would make it 20–30 times more powerful than the atomic bombs detonated at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The meteor was significantly smaller than objects that are tracked through current efforts by space object scientists, and was not detected before atmospheric entry.

About 1,500 people were injured, mainly by glass from windows shattered by the shock wave; two were reported in serious condition. As many as 3,000 buildings in six cities across the region were damaged as a result of the explosion and impacts. The meteor created a dazzling light, bright enough to cast shadows during broad daylight in Chelyabinsk and to be seen as far away as Kazakhstan. Eyewitnesses also felt intense heat from the fireball.

The Chelyabinsk meteor is the largest object known to have entered the Earth's atmosphere since the 1908 Tunguska event, and the only such event known to have resulted in a large number of injuries.

The predicted close approach of the roughly 50 metre asteroid 2012 DA14 occurred about 15 hours later. Sodankylä Geophysical Observatory, NASA, Russian sources, and the European Space Agency, said the two events were not  related because they had different trajectories.

No deaths have been reported. It is not related to an asteroid that was also near the Earth on that day.

[[Judy Agnew]]

CATEGORIES: Second Ladies of the United States, 1921 births, 2012 deaths, People from Baltimore, Maryland

Elinor Isabel "Judy" Judefind Agnew (April 23, 1921 — June 20, 2012) was the Second Lady of the United States from 1969 to 1973. Before becoming Second Lady, she was the First Lady of Maryland in 1967 to 1969. She was the wife of the 39th Vice President of the United States and Governor of Maryland Spiro Agnew. 

[[Muriel Humphrey Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1998 deaths, Politicians from South Dakota, Second Ladies of the United States, United States senators from Minnesota

Muriel Fay Buck Humphrey Brown (February 20, 1912 — September 20, 1998) was the widow of former Vice President Hubert Humphrey. After her husband died, she was appointed to take his seat in the Senate, so she became the first wife of a Vice President to hold public office. She later remarried and chose the name Muriel Humphrey Brown.

[[Van Jones]]

CATEGORIES: Politicians from Tennessee, 1968 births, Living people, American bloggers

Van Jones (born on September 20, 1968) is a civil rights advocate, an environment activist and a lawyer born in Tennessee who also represents four non-profit organizations. He was appointed via by President Barack Obama in early 2009 for the Special Advisor of the Green Jobs. Later that year he was under controversy over past political activity and under criticism by conservatives. He then resigned in September 2009. Jones is currently the senior fellow at Center for American Progress and the senior policy advisor for Green for All.

[[Clannad (visual novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, Visual novels, Windows games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation Portable games, Xbox 360 games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation 4 games, Nintendo Switch games

Clannad is a Japanese visual novel developed by Key and released on April 28, 2004 for Windows PCs. While both of Key's first two previous works, Kanon and Air, had been released first as adult games and then censored for the younger market, it was released with a rating for all ages. It was later ported to the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, Xbox 360, and PlayStation 3 consoles. An animated film by Toei Animation was released in September 2007, followed by two TV anime series including two original video animation (OVA) episodes by Kyoto Animation produced between 2007 and 2009. 

The story follows the life of Tomoya Okazaki, a high school delinquent who meets anyone at school to solve the problem, including five girls.

[[I Wanna Have Your Babies]]

CATEGORIES: Songs by Natasha Bedingfield, Pop songs, 2007 songs

"I Wanna Have Your Babies" is a 2007 pop song performed and written by singer Natasha Bedingfield. The song is about a woman trying to prevent herself from rushing into relationships. This woman wants to be pregnant with babies from Mr. Right.

The song received rather negative reviews from pop music critics, some of whom said it wasn't as good as other Bedingfield songs.

[[Thial]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups, Organosulfur compounds

A thial, or thioaldehyde, is any molecule with the group RC(S)H. It is like an aldehyde with the oxygen atom changed with a sulfur. The sulfur has a double bond to carbon. It also keeps two lone pairs.

Thials are very reactive because they are very good electrophiles. It is difficult to make one, because they will react with themselves as soon as they are formed. They can do Diels-Alder reactions very quickly. However, if bulky R groups are used, the thial might be more stable.

If the H is changed with another R group, then the molecule is called a thioketone. These are more stable.

[[Onești]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Romania

Onești (oˈneʃtʲ) is a city in Bacău County, Romania. It has 51,681 people living there. It is a great tourist attraction in the summer.

[[Automata theory]]

CATEGORIES: Theoretical computer science

Automata theory is a branch of Theoretical computer science. Automata theory is concerned with the study of abstract machines called automata, and with the problems that can be solved using such machines. An automaton is characterized by a number of states it can be in, a number of transitions between those states, and an alphabet of symbols it accepts.  One state is special: it is the state the automaton is in at the start. There are a number of states that are called final states or exit states; if at the end of the input, the automaton is in one of those states, it is said to accept the word just processed, otherwise it is said to reject it.

Example problems of automata theory include:

[[Golden cave catfish]]

CATEGORIES: Catfish

italic title

Clarias cavernicola (also known as the golden cave catfish) is a species of freshwater catfish. They are only known to live in one place: an underground lake in Aigamas Cave, which is near Otavi, in the Kalahari Desert of Namibia. The lake is 45 in area and about 30 deep.

The water level has been steadily dropping because it is extracted by humans. The lake is a major water supply in an otherwise very dry area. Because of this, the species is considered critically endangered. It is estimated that there are about 150 individuals living in the lake.

The fish live in the shallow areas of the lake in open, clear water. They feed on detritus (bat droppings and carcasses) and insects that fall into the lake. Not much is known about how the species reproduces. Attempts to breed the fish in captivity have failed.

The fish grow up to 16.1 long. Having evolved in the darkness of the cave, they have no pigment. The fish is white in colour. It has a long eel-like body, with long dorsal and anal fins. The head has a rounded snout with four pairs of thin barbels. The fish have very small eyes, which are covered with skin. They are blind, and find food using taste and other senses on the barbels.

[[Thioketone]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups, Organosulfur compounds

A thioketone (or thione) is any molecule with the group R2C=S. It is like a ketone with the oxygen atom changed with a sulfur one. The sulfur atom has a double bond with the carbon atom. It also keeps two lone pairs.

Thioketones are very reactive. This is because they are good electrophiles. Many of them are unstable. They want to form rings. They do that with cycloaddition reactions, similar to the Diels-Alder reaction.

If one of the R groups is hydrogen, the molecule is the sulfur version of an aldehyde. It is called a thial, and it is even more reactive than a thioketone.

[[Testament of Ieyasu]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan

Testament of Ieyasu, also known as Ieyasu precepts or Legacy of Ieyasu,  was a formal statement made by Tokugawa Ieyasu.

[[Limit (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In mathematics, a limit is an anticipated value of a function or sequence based on the points around it. As a function performs operations on different inputs, this can cause strange results with certain numbers, especially if we try to plot them on a Cartesian graph; limits are a way of explaining what happens in these cases.

[[Mario Sports Mix]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 video games, Wii games, Mario sports games

Mario Sports Mix is a sports video game for the Nintendo Wii. It was developed by Square Enix and published by Nintendo. It was released on November 25, 2010 in Japan, on January 28, 2011 in Europe, and on February 7, 2011 in North America.

[[Mount Hotzvim]]

CATEGORIES: Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem, Mountains of Jerusalem

Har Hotzvim (הר חוצבים; Stonecutter Mountain) is a high-tech industrial park in Jerusalem. It was founded in the early 1970s by the Jerusalem Economic Corporation. Har Hotzvim is also known as Campus of Science-Rich Industries (קריית תעשיות עתירות מדע, he).

Har Hotzvim is also a mountain.  Its summit is 700 m above sea level.

[[Olivia Colman]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Actors from Norfolk, English movie actors, English television actors, People from Norwich, Academy Award winning actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Sarah Caroline Olivia Colman CBE (born 30 January 1974) is an English actress, known professionally Olivia Colman. She has won an Academy Award, three BAFTA Awards, three BIFA Awards, one Golden Globe Award, and has been nominated twice for an Emmy Award.

Colman first came to prominence for her supporting role as Sophie Chapman in the Channel 4 comedy series Peep Show (2003–2015). Her other TV comedy roles include Green Wing (2004–2006), Beautiful People (2008–2009), Rev. (2010–2014) and Twenty Twelve (2011–2012). She also played various roles in That Mitchell and Webb Look (2006–2008), alongside her Peep Show co-stars David Mitchell and Robert Webb. Colman's move to drama saw her receive critical acclaim for her performance in Paddy Considine's film Tyrannosaur (2011). Her other film roles include PC Doris Thatcher in Hot Fuzz (2007), Carol Thatcher in The Iron Lady (2011), Queen Elizabeth in Hyde Park on Hudson (2012), Bethan Maguire in Locke (2013), Margaret Lea in The Thirteenth Tale (2013), Marion in Tale of the Brave (2014) and the Hotel Manager in The Lobster (2015). Colman will portray Queen Elizabeth II in the third and fourth season of the original Netflix series The Crown.

A three-time BAFTA TV Award winner, she won Best Female Comedy Performance for Twenty Twelve and Best Supporting Actress for Accused in 2013, before winning Best Actress in 2014 for her role as DS Ellie Miller in the ITV crime series Broadchurch. Colman was also nominated for the International Emmy Award for Best Actress for Broadchurch. For her performance in the AMC/BBC miniseries The Night Manager, she won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress – Series, Miniseries or Television Film and was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Limited Series or Movie.

[[Israeli Educational Television]]

CATEGORIES: Mass media in Israel, Television networks, 1965 establishments in Israel, Education in Israel

Israeli Educational Television (הטלוויזיה החינוכית הישראלית, he) was the first television channel in Israel. It was established in 1965 and began broadcasting in 1966. After it started broadcasting, it was added to the national broadcasting channels. Since 1997, it has had an independent broadcasting channel called Educational 23 on Channel 23.

[[Laura Cardoso]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1927 births, Brazilian actors

Laurinda de Jesus Cardoso Baleroni (better known as Laura Cardoso, b. 13 September 1927  in São Paulo) is a Brazilian actress.

Cardoso was a pioneer of television in Brazil. She has acted in teleteatros, series and telenovelas since the 1950s on the defunct TV Tupi and later in syndication. She starred in more than 50 telenovelas. She is the widow of actor, writer, director and television producer Fernando Baleroni. They had two daughters, Fátima and Fernanda.

[[Khalsi]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Khalsi (تحصیل خلسی) is a sub-district of the Leh District, Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Dhani dialect]]

CATEGORIES: Punjabi language

Dhani is a dialect of the Punjabi language, spoken in the Rawalpindi Division in the Punjab province of Pakistan.

[[Ceto]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures, Monsters

In Ancient Greek mytholoy Ceto is the name of a sea monster;often represented as a whale, or a large fish. She is the daughter of Pontos and Gaia. Together with her brother Phorcys she bore the Gorgons, and Graeae, Echidna and Ladon.

Note there is also a minor oceanid called Keto. There are also various mythological beings referred to as ketos (plural ketea); this is a general term for "sea monster" in Ancient Greek.

[[Summa Theologica]]

CATEGORIES: Theology, Christian literature, Spiritual books, Non-fiction books

Summa Theologica is a famous theology book by Thomas Aquinas, a Scholastic philosopher. He was influenced by Augustine of Hippo and Peter Lombard.

[[Peter Lombard]]

CATEGORIES: 1096 births, 1164 deaths, Christian theologians, Italian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops, Writers from Piedmont, People from Novara

Peter Lombard (1096 in Novara - 1164 in Paris) was an Italian Scholastic theologian. His work was very well known in the Middle Ages. He wrote Sentences, and became Bishop of Paris. Theologians from Thomas Aquinas to John Calvin were influenced by him. In 2009 Pope Benedict XVI spoke about his work. 

[[Ronald Lacey]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 1991 deaths, Deaths from liver failure, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, Actors from London

Ronald William Lacey (28 September 1935 – 15 May 1991) was an English actor. He was known for his role as Arnold Toht in Raiders of the Lost Ark.

Lacey was born on 28 September 1935 in Harrow, London, England. He studied at the Harrow Weald Grammar School and at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art. Lacey was married to Mela White from 1959 until they divorced in 1971. Then he was married to Joanna Baker from 1972 until they divorced in 1991. He had three children. Lacey died on 15 May 1991 from liver failure cause by his liver cancer in London, England, aged 55.

[[Jane Hadley Barkley]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1964 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, People from St. Louis, Missouri, Second Ladies of the United States

Elizabeth Jane Rucker Hadley Barkley (September 23, 1911 – September 6, 1964, known as Jane Hadley Barkley) was second lady of the United States from 1949 to 1953. She was the second wife of Vice President Alben W. Barkley. 

[[Bill Hunter]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from Victoria (Australia), Australian movie actors, Australian stage actors, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, Cancer deaths in Victoria (Australia), Deaths from liver cancer

William John "Bill" Hunter (27 February 1940 – 21 May 2011) was an Australian actor. Hunter was known for being in many Australian movies. In the United States, Hunter is known for his roles as the Dentist in Finding Nemo. Hunter won the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role in 1978.

Hunter was born on 27 February 1940 in Ballarat, Victoria, Australia. He was married to Robbie Anderson until they divorced. Then he was married to Pat Bishop from 1976 until they divorced. Then he was married to Rhoda Roberts from 1993 until they divorced in 1999. He had a son with Anderson. Hunter died on 21 May 2011 in Kew, Victoria, Australia from liver cancer, aged 71.

[[Carditamera gracilis]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves

Carditamera gracilis, or the West Indian cardita, is a species of bivalve mollusc in the family Carditidae. It can be found off the coast of the West Indies.

[[Banahaw Broadcasting Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Philippine television networks, 1973 establishments in Asia, 1986 disestablishments, 1970s establishments in the Philippines

Banahaw Broadcasting Corporation was a television network in the Philippines. It started in November 1973 and ended transmission on 25 February 1986.

[[Shavuot]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish festivals and holidays

Shavuot, or Shavuos in Ashkenazic usage, is a holiday celebrated by Jewish people. They celebrate it to remember the day God gave the Torah to the entire nation of Israel assembled at Mount Sinai. The holiday association between the giving of the Torah (Matan Torah) and Shavuot is not explicit in the Biblical text. 

Shavuot is celebrated on the sixth day of the Hebrew month of Sivan, which may occur in May or June. It falls 49 days after Passover(Pesach), which comes before Shavuot. It marks the end of the Counting of the Omer (Sefirat HaOmer). Pentecost falls around the time of Shavuot. 

In Secular Jews of the Diaspora, Shavuot is one of the Jewish holidays known to not be celebrated as much, while the people in Israel celebrate it every year.

Shavuot is celebrated by all types of Orthodox Jewry, ranging from Modern to ultra-Orthodox. It is one of the three pilgrimage holidays celebrated by Jews. (The other two being Passover, and Sukkot, or 'Festival of the Tabernacle'.)

According to Jewish law, Shavuot is celebrated in Israel for one day and in the Diaspora (outside of Israel) for two days. Reform Jews celebrate only one day.

Jews travel from their countries to Jerusalem to sacrifice wheat to the temple.

[[When in Rome]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010 movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Mark Steven Johnson, Screenplays by Mark Steven Johnson, Movies set in Rome

When in Rome is a 2010 romantic comedy. It stars Kristen Bell, Josh Duhamel, Will Arnett, Anjelica Huston, Shaquille O'Neal and Danny DeVito. The comedy is about back and forth romances. It got bad reviews from critics. It got $43 million in worldwide revenue.

[[Killing Season]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 thriller movies, 2013 drama movies, American action movies, American drama movies, Belgian movies, Bulgarian movies, English-language movies, American independent movies

Killing Season is an action thriller movie of 2013. It is about personal fighting between an American war veteran and one from Serbia. John Travolta plays Emil Kovac and Robert De Niro plays Ben Ford.

[[Samantha Barks]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, British singers, Living people, Manx people, British movie actors, British artists, British television actors, Musical theater actors

Samantha Jane Barks (born 2 October 1990) is a Manx singer and actress who first rose to fame after coming third in the BBC talent show–themed television series I'd Do Anything in 2008. In 2012, she was cast in her first movie as Éponine in the movie version of the long-running musical Les Misérables.

[[Lorisidae]]

CATEGORIES: Lorisoidea

Lorisidae (sometimes called Loridae) is a family of primates. Its members resemble lemurs. They live in trees, in Africa and Asia. Depending on the author, there are nine to eleven species, in about five genera. 

Genera are:Arctocebus Perodicticus Pseudopotto Loris Nycticebus

[[Éponine]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in written fiction, French literature

Éponine Thénardier (ˌ; epɔnin tenaʁdje) is a character in the novel Les Misérables (1862) by Victor Hugo. She is also referred to as the "Jondrette girl".

The character is introduced as a spoiled and pampered child. Later in the book, she appears as a ragged teenager who has become very mature for her age. She speaks in the style of language of the streets of Paris. She has kept her former charm and innocence.

[[Feeling Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 comedy-drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, 1990s criminal comedy movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American crime drama movies, American criminal comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Minnesota

Feeling Minnesota is a 1996 American romantic comedy-drama crime movie starring Cameron Diaz, Dan Aykroyd and Courtney Love. It was released in the USA on September 13, 1996, and is about confusion and problems in romance decisions.

[[Human Connectome Project]]

CATEGORIES: Brain, Technology

The Human Connectome Project is a US-led effort to map the human brain. The HCP is a five-year project funded by the National Institutes of Health.On September 15, 2010, the NIH announced that it would award two grants: $30 million over five years to a consortium led by Washington University in Saint Louis and the University of Minnesota, and $8.5 million over three years to a consortium led by Harvard University, Massachusetts General Hospital and the University of California Los Angeles. The aim of the $40m programme is to map the entire human neural wiring system by scanning the brains of 1,200 Americans. The project uses magnetic resonance imaging.

Like the Human Genome Project, the data will be publicly released to scientists as the scans are processed. The first data from 80 to100 people will be released in a few weeks' time.

Scientists at Massachusetts General Hospital are pushing the technique to its limits with a purpose-built scanner. It is one of the most powerful scanners in the world. The scanner's magnets need 22MW (megawatts) of electricity  enough to power a nuclear submarine. It was specially built for this project "4 to 8 times as powerful as conventional systems, enabling imaging of human neuroanatomy with much greater sensitivity than is currently possible". 

What the scans show is the way various brain centres are connected to each other. 

[[Shahjalal International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Bangladesh, Airports in Asia, Dhaka

Shahjalal International Airport is the largest airport in Bangladesh. It is the only international airport in the country. It is located in Dhaka, and was previously known as Dacca International Airport.

[[Boys of Bangladesh]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladesh, Gay men, LGBT rights activists, Organisations based in Bangladesh

Boys of Bangladesh (BoB) is the oldest and largest network of Bangladeshi men who identify as gay. Its members live in Bangladesh and in other countries. It is based in Dhaka. It is an informal group run by volunteers. It was founded in 2002. Boys of Bangladesh aims to build a gay community in the country, and repealing Section 377, which makes homosexuality illegal.

BoB is a full member of the Human Rights Forum of Bangladesh, the Human Rights Alliance of Bangladesh and the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association.

[[Lobatus gigas]]

CATEGORIES: Gastropods

Lobatus gigas, commonly known as the queen conch, is a species of large edible sea snail, as a marine gastropod mollusc in the family of true conches, the Strombidae. This species is one of the largest molluscs native to the tropical northwestern Atlantic, from Bermuda to Brazil, reaching up to 35.2 centimetres (13.9 inches) in shell length.

==Description== 

The shell is characterized by its large size, solidity and sculptured design with large thorns. The mouth is large, calloused, has great lip colors white, pink, yellow and orange. Sifonales Channels, anal and notch estromboide are wide and well marked.

[[Cuboid bone]]

CATEGORIES: Bones

The cuboid bone is one of the seven tarsals of the feet. It is located on the side of the foot. It articulates (connects with) metatarsals number 4 and 5. Ligaments help hold the foot in an arched position and to hold the metatarsals and medial cuneiform bones (one of many is the cuboid) together. The bone also makes up part of the arch of the foot. Most likely, the name cuboid comes from the fact that the cuboid bone is shaped kind of like a cube.

Cuboid syndrome can happen as a result of an injury to the cuboid bone. 

[[Vjosa River]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Albania, Rivers of Greece

Vjosa is a river in Albania. It runs from the Pindus Mountains of Greece, through rocky terrain. It spills into the Adriatic Sea, where the terrain turns sandy. It runs about 272 km and it sets the boundaries between the city of Fier and Vlora.

[[Frontier Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the United States, Denver, Colorado, Low-cost airlines, 1994 establishments in the United States

Frontier Airlines is an American ultra low-fare airline. It is based in Denver, Colorado. It has focus cities at Atlanta, Chicago, Cleveland, Miami, Orlando, Trenton.

[[Volaris]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of North America, Low-cost airlines, Mexico City, Transport in Mexico, 2005 establishments in North America, 2000s establishments in Mexico

Volaris is a Mexican low-cost airline. The airline is based in Mexico City. Its largest airline hub is at General Abelardo L. Rodríguez International Airport in Tijuana. discrimina airline

[[Omak Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in the United States, Buildings and structures in Washington, Transport in Washington

Omak Airport is an airport in Omak, Washington.

[[Shinshūkyō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture, New religious movements

Shinshūkyō refers to new religious movements in Japan. Japanese theologians consier all religions founded since the middle of the 19th century as "new religions". They are influenced by much older traditional religions such as Shinto, Buddhism, and Hinduism.

[[Estonian mark]]

CATEGORIES: Former currencies of Europe, Estonia, Currency of Europe, 1918 establishments in Europe, 1928 disestablishments, 1920s disestablishments in Europe

The Estonian mark was the currency of Estonia from 1918 to 1928.  It was divided into 100 penns.

[[The Other Sister]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1999 movies, English-language movies, Movies set in California

The Other Sister is a 1999 romantic comedy movie. It stars Diane Keaton, Juliette Lewis and Tom Skerritt. The story is about autism related issues and over-protection by parents. It received mostly negative reviews, though it took in close to $28 million at the box office. This romantic comedy was filmed in Long Beach, Pasadena, and San Francisco, California and released in February 1999.

[[Lorisoidea]]

CATEGORIES: Lorisoidea

Lorisoidea is a superfamily of Primates. It combines the familiies of the Lorisidae (lorises) and the Galagidae (galagos). They are part of the Lemuriformes.

Lorisoidea is afro-asian phylogeny is disputable since their paraphylegenit has been traced with the group of the Galagidae with the Asian or African lorisidae (Masters 2007). The lorisodea species includes nocturnal species such as the Malagasy Lemur roidea. This species can be found in Africa and regions in tropical areas of Asia. Lorisoidea is categorized in two families Lorisidae and Galagidae. 

[[Her Majesty's Ship]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Navy

HMS is an acronym (contraction) of Her Majesty's Ship. It refers to ships of the Royal Navy. It is the official prefix of Royal Navy ship names since 1789. Versions of HMS are used in those Commonwealth countries where the British monarch is still the head of state. So, for example, HMNZS is the prefix for the Royal New Zealand Navy.

There are some similar designations. RMS designates a ship which officially transports mail for the United Kingdom. Other countries with monarchs use the same kind of system, and almost all countries have a prefix system for their ships.

[[Mindy McCready]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, Musicians who committed suicide, Singers from Florida, Suicides by firearm in the United States, 1975 births, 2013 deaths

Mindy McCready (November 30, 1975 - February 17, 2013) was an American country music singer. She was born Malinda Gayle McCready in Fort Myers, Florida. She shot herself dead in Heber Springs, Arkansas.

[[Laurie Bird]]

CATEGORIES: People from New York, American movie actors, 1953 births, 1979 deaths

Laurie Bird (born September 26, 1953–June 15, 1979) was an American actress and photographer. She acted in only three movies. Her most well-known was the 1977 movie Annie Hall. 

Bird died from a Valium overdose in New York City at age 25.

[[Lucy Gordon]]

CATEGORIES: English movie actors, 1980 births, 2009 deaths

Lucy Gordon (22 May 1980 – 20 May 2009) was an English movie actress and model who worked for CoverGirl 1997. She starred in The Four Feathers and Spider-Man 3. Gordon died in Paris, France by hanging herself in her flat.

[[Dorian Gray (actress)]]

CATEGORIES: Italian movie actors, Suicides by firearm, 1928 births, 2011 deaths

Maria Luisa Mangini (February 2, 1928 – February 16, 2011) was an Italian actress that mostly acted in movies. She is more commonly known by the stage name Dorian Gray. She was one of the Italian theater's most famous actresses. In the 1950s and 1960s, she devoted herself to the cinema. Mainly she played the role of the femme fatale. However, she proved to be a talented actress interpreting also a dramatic role in Michelangelo Antonioni's Il grido with great critical acclaim. In 1957, at the top of her popularity, she also took part in the Oscar-winning movie The Nights of Cabiria. She retired from acting in 1965, after becoming pregnant with her son. In 2011, she committed suicide by shooting herself, fourteen days after her 83rd birthday.

[[Carole Landis]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Wisconsin, American movie actors, 1919 births, 1948 deaths

Carole Landis (January 1, 1919 – July 5, 1948) was an American actress. She acted mostly in movies. Her movies include Fly Away Baby and Broadway Melody of 1938. She was born in Fairchild, Wisconsin. Landis later committed suicide by overdose of drugs.

[[Rachel Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1980 deaths, Drug-related suicides in the United States, Welsh movie actors, Welsh television actors

Rachel Roberts (September 20, 1927 - November 26, 1980) was a Welsh actress who starred in many movies and stage acts. She became well-known for her fervour and strong passion. She starred in the 1953 movie Valley of Song. While in Los Angeles, Roberts committed suicide at age 53 with barbiturates and alcohol.

[[Leslie Phillips]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, Living people, Actors from London, British radio actors, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, People from Chingford, People from Tottenham

Leslie Phillips CBE (born 20 April 1924) is a British actor. He was born in Tottenham, London and moved to Chingford when he was nine.

[[ENAC Alumni]]

CATEGORIES: French Civil Aviation University, Non-profit organizations of France, 1987 establishments in France

ENAC Alumni (also referred to as INGENAC) is an alumni association based in Toulouse, Midi-Pyrénées. It was started by Robert Aladenyse, in 1987. The main mission of the association is to gather the alumni of the French Civil Aviation University. In 2013, it has almost 20,000 members. It is a non-profit organization.

[[WrestleMania XXX]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in professional wrestling, WrestleMania, 2014 in American television, Sports in New Orleans, Louisiana, 2010s in New Orleans, Louisiana

WrestleMania XXX was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event made by WWE. It was held on April 6, 2014 at the Mercedes-Benz Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana. It was the thirtieth WrestleMania event held by the WWE.

The main event saw Daniel Bryan defeat both Randy Orton and Batista in a triple threat match to win the WWE World Heavyweight Championship. Wrestlemania XXX also saw Brock Lesnar defeat The Undertaker and breaking his 21 year undefeated streak at WrestleMania. 

[[Saint Finbarr]]

CATEGORIES: People from Cork (city), Christian saints, 550 births, 623 deaths

Saint Finbarr (550-623) was an Irish bishop of Cork. The Church of Ireland cathedral in Cork is named after him.

[[Steel Dragon 2000]]

CATEGORIES: Steel roller coasters, Buildings and structures in Japan, Roller coasters by name

The Steel Dragon 2000 is a steel roller coaster at Nagashima Spa Land amusement park in Mie Prefecture, Japan. It is the longest roller coaster in the world.

[[Short ton]]

CATEGORIES: Units of mass

A short ton is a unit of measurement that is equal to 2000 lbs. (pounds). Often, the short ton is used to measure objects that have a very large weight. This is because using smaller units would be difficult.

[[Idempotence]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Computer science

Idempotence is a property that an operation in mathematics or computer science may have. It roughly means that the operation can be carried out again and again without changing the result.

The word idempotence was made by Benjamin Pierce because he saw the concept when studying algebra.

The meaning is different if we are talking about different kinds of operations. It can also be used to describe elements than an operation can take:

We say that an element c in the domain of f is an idempotent element if f(f(c)) = f(c). This means that f is idempotent if every element of its domain is an idempotent element.

We say that an element c which * can take is an idempotent element for * if c * c = c. For example, the number 1 is an idempotent element for multiplication because 1 times 1 is 1.

[[Saint David's Day]]

CATEGORIES: Wales, Christian holidays, National Days, March events, Establishments in Wales, 18th century establishments in Europe

Saint David's Day is the feast (celebration) day of Saint David. He is the patron saint of Wales. His feast day falls on the 1st of March each year. The day is celebrated by the people of Wales and people of Welsh background throughout the world. The first day of March was chosen in memory of the death of Saint David. It is believed that he died on that day in 589. The date was declared a national day of celebration within Wales in the 18th century.

Everyone in the National Assembly for Wales voted to make St. David's Day a public holiday in 2000. A poll conducted for Saint David's Day in 2006 found that 87% of people in Wales wanted it to be a bank holiday, with 65% prepared to sacrifice a different bank holiday to ensure this. A petition in 2007 to make St. David's Day a bank holiday was rejected by the office of the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair.

Parades are held in Wales on St. David's Day. The largest parade is held in Cardiff. It is formally attended by either the British Monarch or the Prince of Wales. Parades are a mixture of folklore and military parade. On 1 March 2010, the seventh National St. David's Day Parade took place in Cardiff city centre. Celebrations included concerts, a parade and a food festival featuring all Welsh produce. 

[[Dusty Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2021 deaths, American bass guitarists, American rock guitarists, Musicians from Dallas, Texas, Singer-songwriters from Texas, American rock singers

Joseph Michael "Dusty" Hill (May 19, 1949 – July 28, 2021) was an American musician and singer for in the rock band ZZ Top. He had also made many voice guest appearance such as in King of the Hill and has been in movies such as Back to the Future III.

Hill was born on May 19, 1949 in Dallas, Texas. He studied at Woodrow Wilson High School. In 2002, Hill married Charleen McCrory. 

Hill died in his sleep on July 28, 2021 in Houston, Texas at the age of 72. Before his death, he suffered a hip injury.

[[Billy Gibbons]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American rock guitarists, American blues musicians, Musicians from Houston, Texas, Actors from Houston, Texas

William Frederick "Billy" Gibbons (born December 16, 1949) is an American musician, actor, and car customizer. He is known for being in the rock band ZZ Top.

Gibbons was born on December 16, 1949 in Houston, Texas. He has been married to Gilligan Stillwater since 2005.

[[Cawl]]

CATEGORIES: Welsh culture, Foods

Cawl  is a Welsh dish. It was traditionally eaten during the winter months in the south-west of Wales. Today the word is often used to refer to a dish containing lamb and leeks, but historically it was made with either salted bacon or beef, potatoes, carrots and other vegetables. Cawl is widely considered to be the national dish of Wales.

The meat in the dish was normally cut into medium-sized pieces and boiled with the vegetables in water. The stock was thickened with either oatmeal or flour. It was then served, without the meat or vegetables, as a first course.  The vegetables and slices of the meat would then be served as a second course.  Cawl served as a single course is today the most popular way to serve the dish. Cawl is similar to lobsgows, cawl's north Wales equivalent. Lobsgows differs in that the meat and vegetables are cut into smaller pieces. The stock is not thickened.

"Cawl cennin", or leek cawl, can be made without meat but using meat stock. In some areas cawl is often served with bread and cheese. These are served separately on a plate. The dish was traditionally cooked in an iron pot or cauldron over the fire. It was eaten with wooden spoons. The word cawl in Welsh is first recorded in the 14th century, and is thought to come from the Latin caulis, meaning the stalk of a plant, a cabbage stalk or a cabbage. In Welsh, gwneud cawl o rywbeth  ("make a cawl of something") means to mess something up.

[[Jerry Buss]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2013 deaths, American chemists, Chief executives, Deaths from cancer, Deaths from renal failure, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California, Businesspeople from Utah, Poker players

Gerald Hatten "Jerry" Buss (January 27, 1933 – February 18, 2013) was an American businessman, poker player, real estate investor, and chemist. Buss was the owner of the basketball team the Los Angeles Lakers from 1979 until his death in 2013.

Buss was born on January 27, 1933 in Salt Lake City, Utah. He studied at the University of Wyoming and at the University of Southern California. Buss was married to JoAnn Mueller until they divorced. They had four children. Then he was married to Karen Buss until his death in 2013. They had two children. Buss died on February 18, 2013 from cancer and kidney failure in Los Angeles, California, aged 80.

[[William Fichtner]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American video game actors, Actors from New York

William Edward "Will" Fichtner, Jr. (born November 27, 1956) is an American actor. He was known for his roles in Prison Break, Armageddon, Heat, The Perfect Storm, and in The Dark Knight.

[[Inversion temperature]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

Sometimes, temperature increases with altitude. In a mountainous region, cold and dense air slides down the mountain slopes into the valley by the earth's gravity as Katabatic wind. It causes the temperature in the valley to be lowered. This is called inversion of temperature or inversion temperature.

[[Rajya Sabha]]

CATEGORIES: National upper houses, Politics of India

The Rajya Sabha or Council of States is the upper house of the Parliament of India. The total number of members are 250. Twelve of the members are nominated by the President of India for their contributions to art, literature, science, and social services. The rest of the house is elected by the state and territorial legislatures. Members sit for six-year terms, with one third of the members retiring every two years.

[[Greta Scacchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Actors from Milan, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Naturalised citizens of Australia

Greta Scacchi (born 18 February 1960) is an Italian-Australian actress. She acts mostly in movies, although sometimes in television programs. She starred in lots of movies, which include White Mischief and Presumed Innocent. She has acted in many other movies as well.

Scacchi was born Greta Scacchi in Milan to an English mother and Italian father. Since 1995, she is an Australian citizen, and is still an Italian citizen.

[[Draco (genus)]]

CATEGORIES: Lizards

Draco is a genus of agamid lizards that are sometimes called the flying dragons. The ribs and their connecting membrane can be extended to create a kind of wing. The hindlimbs are flattened and wing-like in cross-section, and a small set of flaps on the neck serve as a horizontal stabilizers. 

They live in forests, and eat insects. They cannot fly, but often get lift as they glide. Glides as long as 60 m have been recorded, over which the animal loses only 10 m in height. They are quite small. One species is only about 20 cm long.

The only time a flying lizard comes to the ground is when a female is ready to lay her eggs. She descends the tree she is on and makes a nest hole by forcing her head into the soil. She then lays 2–5 eggs before filling the hole. She guards the eggs for approximately 24 hours, but then leaves and has nothing more to do with her offspring.

There are about 42 species.

[[Iris Chang]]

CATEGORIES: People from Princeton, New Jersey, American journalists, American writers, Writers who committed suicide, 1968 births, 2004 deaths

Iris Chang (March 28, 1968 - November 9, 2004) was an American writer and journalist. She wrote several best-selling books. Her books included Thread of the Silkworm, The Rape of Nanking and The Chinese of America. She was born in Princeton, New Jersey. She was raised in Illinois.

Chang spent her last years living in San Jose, California. She used Risperdal and Depakote due to mood swings and depression. On November 9, 2004, Chang committed suicide by using a revolver.

[[Bullying UK]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in the United Kingdom, Bullying, Organisations based in the United Kingdom

Bullying UK, also known as Bullying Online, is a national charity in the United Kingdom. The purpose of the organization is to give advice about a range of problems including cyberbullying.

[[Margaret Sullavan]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1960 deaths, Actors from Virginia, American stage actors, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, People from Norfolk, Virginia

Margaret Sullavan (May 16 1909-January 1 1960) was an American actress. She who acted mostly on the stage, but she was also in sixteen movies. She began her career in 1929. Four years later, she began her movie career with Only Yesterday. Mostly however, the actress preferred stage work. Margaret was born in Norfolk, Virginia. She died in near New Haven, Connecticut from an accidental barbiturate overdose on January 1, 1960.

[[BeatBullying]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 establishments in the United Kingdom, Bullying, Organisations based in the United Kingdom

BeatBullying (BB) is a national charity in the United Kingdom. The purpose of BB is to help people to understand, recognise, and say no to bullying. This is done by giving them the tools to change their lives and the lives of other people.

[[Hexaplex erythrostomus]]

CATEGORIES: Gastropods

Hexaplex erythrostomus is a species of gastropod.

[[List of programmes broadcast by Sky1]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of television series by network, British Sky Broadcasting

This is a list of television programmes broadcast by Sky1 in the United Kingdom and Ireland.

[[Joaquín Cordero]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors, Mexican stage actors, Puebla (state)

Joaquín Cordero Aurrecoechea (August 16, 1922 – February 19, 2013) was a Mexican actor. He was mostly known for being in many Mexican telenovelas. He was in about 100 television shows and over 50 movies.

Cordero was born on August 16, 1922 in Puebla, Mexico. He was married to Alma Guzman until her death in 2012. They had three children. Cordero was in ill health shortly after his wife died.

In January 2013, Cordero went to the hospital because he had pneumonia. On February 19, 2013, Cordero died in his sleep in his home in Mexico City, Mexico from heart failure, aged 90.

[[Rooney Mara]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, 1985 births, Living people, Actors from New York, American fashion designers, American voice actors

Patricia Rooney Mara (born April 17, 1985) is an American actress. She has acted in movies, including A Nightmare on Elm Street (the remake of the 1984 horror movie) and The Social Network. Mara played Lisbeth Salander, the title character for the 2011 remake movie The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. She was nominated for an Academy Award for her performance. In 2013, she starred in the movie Side Effects.

Mara is also known for her charity work. She oversees the charity Uweza Foundation, which supports programs for children and families in the Kibera slum in Nairobi, Kenya. Her sister is Kate Mara.

[[Florence Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian movie actors, Canadian stage actors, 1886 births, 1938 deaths

Florence Annie Bridgwood (also known as Florence Lawrence; January 2 1886-December 28 1938) was a Canadian actress. She acted in silent movies and on stage. She acted in almost three hundred movies. She was very involved in stage and Broadway plays. She was born in 1886 near Hamilton, Ontario. Her death happened in Hollywood, California almost three days after Christmas 1938. She poisoned herself using ant paste. Her age was fifty-two when she died.

[[Exosphere]]

CATEGORIES: Layers of Earth's atmosphere

The exosphere is a thin, atmosphere-like volume surrounding a planet or natural satellite. Its molecules are gravitationally bound to that body. The density is so low that the molecules are essentially collisionless. In the case of bodies with substantial atmospheres, such as Earth's atmosphere, the exosphere is the uppermost layer,

The lightest atmospheric gases such as hydrogen and helium exist throughout the exosphere. Heavier ones like carbon dioxide and atomic oxygen are near the base. There are two borders to the exosphere; the lower boundary and the upper boundary. The lower boundary is about 500-800 km (300-500 miles) above the surface and is called the exobase.  It is also called the thermopause because it is in between the exosphere and the thermosphere. The molecules are moving very fast, so the temperature in this zone is thought to be thousands of degrees celsius.

[[Elspet Gray]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2013 deaths, British activists, Scottish movie actors, Scottish stage actors, Scottish television actors, Scottish voice actors

Elspeth Jean Gray, Baroness Rix (Elspet Jean MacGregor, April 12, 1929 – February 18, 2013) was a Scottish actress and activist. She played Mrs. Palmer in Solo and as Lady Collingford in Catweazel.

Gray was born on April 12, 1929 in Inverness, Inverness-shire, Scotland. She was married to Brian Rix from 1949 until her death in 2013. They had four children. Gray died on February 18, 2013 from unknown causes, aged 83.

[[W. Watts Biggers]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2013 deaths, American composers, American cartoonists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Massachusetts, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Writers from Atlanta, Georgia

William Watts "Buck" Biggers (June 2, 1927 – February 10, 2013) was an American novelist, composer, and co-creator of the Underdog. He wrote many books. His first book was The Man Inside.

Biggers was born on June 2, 1927 in Atlanta, Georgia. He studied at the North Georgia Military College. Watts was married to Gracie Biggers from 1950 until her death in 1990. They had two children. Biggers died on February 10, 2013 in his home in Plymouth, Massachusetts from a heart attack, aged 85.

[[Phyllis Hyman]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 1995 deaths, Actors from Pennsylvania, Musicians who committed suicide, R&B musicians, Singers from Pennsylvania, People who committed suicide

Phyllis Hyman (July 6, 1949 – June 30, 1995) was an American actress and singer. She was born in Philadelphia. She performed pop and R&B music. She starred in the movie School Daze (1988). Her music was mainly melancholy from 1984 and afterwards. She killed herself with drugs and pentobarbital in her apartment in New York City on June 30, 1995. Three years after her death, a record, Forever with You, was released with other songs she had recorded before her death.

[[Stephen Foster]]

CATEGORIES: 1826 births, 1864 deaths, Accidental deaths in the United States, American songwriters, Writers from Pennsylvania, Writers from New York City

Stephen Collins Foster (July 4, 1826 - January 13, 1864) was an American composer. He was the first American composer to be paid for his songs. Music publishers paid him for his music. He was born in Lawrenceville, Pennsylvania which is now part of Pittsburgh. His parents were wealthy. His most well-known and successful song is  "Oh! Susanna". It was first performed in the Eagle Ice Cream Saloon in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1847.  

Foster married Jane Denny MacDowell in July 1850, They had one daughter named Marion. The marriage was troubled and the couple separated. Foster moved to New York City to do professional songwriting. He died in New York City on January 13, 1864. HE was 37 years old.

Foster wrote mainly in three musical genres: plantation songs ("Oh! Susanna", "Camptown Races"), parlor songs ("Jeannie with the Light Brown Hair", "Beautiful Dreamer") and Civil War songs ("We Are Coming, Father Abraham").

[[Kim Myung-sun]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1951 deaths, Feminists, Korean poets, Journalists, Autobiographers

Kim Myung-sun(김명순; Hanja: 金明淳, 20 January 1896 - 22 June 1951) was a Korean writer and poet. She was a journalist, novelist, a femenist activist, and a movie actor. Her nickname was Tansil(탄실; 彈實), Mangyangcho (망양초; 望洋草) and real name was Tansil.

[[Carla Abellana]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Filipino actors, People from Manila

Carla Angeline Reyes Abellana (born June 12, 1986) is a Filipino actress and model.

Abellana was born in Manila, Philippines. She is the daughter of the former 80s heartthrob Rey 'PJ' Abellana and Rea Reyes. Her grandmother is Delia Razon.

[[Elizabeth Hartman]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Ohio, American movie actors, People from Youngstown, Ohio, Suicides by jumping in the United States, 1943 births, 1987 deaths

Elizabeth Hartman (December 2, 1943 - June 10, 1987) was an American actress who mostly did movies. She starred in the movie A Patch of Blue with Shelley Winters and Sidney Poitier and received a Golden Globe Award for that role. Hartman was born in Youngstown, Ohio. Hartman had depression. On June 10, 1987, she jumped from the 5th floor of her apartment building in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The jump ended her life at age 43.

[[South Bank]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Lambeth, London Borough of Southwark

The South Bank is an area of London on the south bank of the River Thames. The South Bank is the home of the Royal Festival Hall, the Queen Elizabeth Hall, the Hayward Gallery, the BFI cinemas including the BFI IMAX and the National Theatre. The nearest tube and train station is Waterloo Station.

[[Dating]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality, Relationships, Social sciences

When two people go out together because they are or want to be in a romantic relationship, this is often called dating. When someone goes on a date, they try to do things that both people will like doing: go to see a movie, eat in a restaurant, drink in a pub, bar or café.

Dating can be done with both new people and people one already is in a relationship with. A first date lets people decide whether they are interested in that person, while dates after that are done to try and build the relationship.

There are commercial services to help people find people that they might want to go on a date with: dating services or introduction services. On the Internet, there are dating sites that allow people to find people who they might want to date. There are some online communities that oppose dating, such as MGTOW. When someone gives up on dating, it is sometimes called the black pill.

[[Detritus]]

CATEGORIES: Biology

In biology, detritus is non-living particules of organic origin.  Typically, it includes the bodies or fragments of dead organisms as well as faecal material. 

Detritus is typically colonized by communities of fungi and microorganisms which act to decompose (break down) the material. In terrestrial ecosystems, leaf litter and other organic matter gets mixed with soil. The result is called humus.  Detritus of aquatic ecosystems is organic material suspended in water, which is sometimes referred to as marine snow. Marine snow is the basis of much life on the ocean floor. It is the food of animals which operate as 'filter-feeders'.

[[Grindr]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT, Social networking

Grindr is a piece of social networking software for smartphones. It is built for gay and bisexual men to chat with other men in their area. It is used to find people for sex or to go on a date.

[[Irene Lentz]]

CATEGORIES: People from Montana, People who committed suicide, 1900 births, 1962 deaths, Costume designers

Irene Maud Lentz (December 8, 1901 – November 15, 1962)  was an American costume designer. She made costumes for many movie stars. She designed costumes for actresses like Hedy Lamarr, Ingrid Bergman and Marlene Dietrich in the 1930s and the 1940s.

On November 15, 1962, Lentz jumped to her death out a hotel window near Los Angeles.

[[Dragon Quest]]

CATEGORIES: Video game series, Role-playing video games

italic titleDragon Quest, also known as Dragon Warrior outside of Japan before 2005, is a role-playing video game series. Dragon Quest is divided into two series: Dragon Quest and Dragon Quest Monsters. In the first, the main characters are human. In the second, the main characters are monsters. The series was created by Yuji Horii, and published by Square Enix (formely Enix). Its first title was released in 1986 in Japan on the Famicom (known as Nintendo Entertainment System in America), and as of February 2013, ten main games were released. Dragon Quest 10 is an online game. Besides these, there are many spin-off games and related products (manga, anime, Drama CDs and et cetera).

The series is the most popular in Japan, though it is not as popular as the Final Fantasy series in America and Europe. The series has sold 5,900 million copies globally.

[[Indian elephant]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Asia, Elephants, National symbols of India

The Indian elephant (Elephas maximus indicus) is one of three subspecies of the Asian elephant. It comes from mainland Asia. Since 1986,  E. maximus indicus has been listed as endangered by IUCN. The population has declined by at least 50% over the last 60–75 years. The subspecies is also threatened by habitat loss, degradation and herds being split apart into smaller groups. It is recognized as the National animal of India. 

[[Kharo]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Kharo (تحصیل خرو) is a sub-district of the Leh District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Durbuk]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Durbuk (تحصیل دربک) is a sub-district of the Leh District in Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Nyoma]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Nyoma (تحصیل نیوما) is a sub-district of the Leh District in Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Garrotte]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons, Capital punishment

A garrotte is a weapon, usually a handheld length of chain, rope, scarf, wire or fishing line used to strangle a person. Garotte is normal British English spelling, with single r as an alternate. Garrote with a single t is US English spelling. A Spanish version is garrote vil.

[[Samaná English]]

CATEGORIES: Dialects of English, Dominican Republic

Samaná English is a variety of the English language. It is spoken by about 8,000 people in the Samaná Peninsula, Dominican Republic. The speakers of Samaná English are the descendants of African American slaves freed from the United States. They migrated to the Samaná region beginning in 1824. Today, they are the largest group of English-speakers in the Dominican Republic.

The language is often described by linguists as either a Creole language or a dialect of English. It is closely related to other Creole languages of the Caribbean, especially Turks and Caicos and Bahamian Creole.

[[Disability bullying]]

CATEGORIES: Disability, Bullying

Disability bullying is a pattern of behavior.  It is about an imbalance of social, physical or other power involving a person or group who has a disability.

Studies show that bullying happens to people with disabilities more often than to others in general.

[[Strangulation]]

CATEGORIES: Violence, Deaths by strangulation, Judo

Stranglation is death by compressing the neck until the supply of oxygen is cut off. The process is called strangling. 

The brain needs a constant supply of oxygen. Strangling leads first to unconsciousness, then to death. Fatal strangling may occurs in accidents, and other causes of violence.  Strangling does not have to be fatal; limited or interrupted strangling is practised in erotic asphyxiation, in the so-called "choking game". 

Strangling is a technique in many combat sports and self-defence systems. It is a method of winning a judo bout. Usually the opponent submits; if not, he is "strangled out", that is, the hold is continued until he passes out and is then immediately released. Shime-waza, the judo term for this technique, has scored 97 times in World Judo events. No fatalities have resulted from it. There have been some deaths of suspects in police custody, where officers have used a "choke hold". Investigation suggested that this was because the officers' training had not been so adequate as the training of top-class judo players.

Strangling can be divided into three general types according to the mechanism used:

[[School bullying]]

CATEGORIES: Bullying

School bullying is a pattern of behavior during the ages when children and young people are in school.  It is about an imbalance of social, physical or other power involving a person or group.

Studies show that school bullying happens to some more than others, particularly young people with disabilities and those with sexual orientation that are not traditional. 

[[Noël Coward]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Middlesex, Deaths from heart failure, English composers, English LGBT people, English movie actors, English movie producers, English playwrights, English singers, English stage actors, English theatre directors, Theatre producers, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT musicians, Musicians from Middlesex, 1899 births, 1973 deaths

Sir Noël Peirce Coward (16 December 1899 – 26 March 1973) was a British playwright, composer, producer, actor and singer. He was born in Teddington, Middlesex. He was a closeted homosexual. He died of heart failure in Jamaica.

[[Rosalina]]

CATEGORIES: Mario series characters

Rosalina is a character from the Mario video game series. She is the third major female character after Princess Peach and Princess Daisy. In the Mario games, she watches over the Comet Observatory. The Comet Observatory is an area in space that orbits the Mushroom Kingdom every 100 years.

[[We Are Young]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs

We Are Young is a song by the American band Fun from their album Some Nights. It was released as the first single from the album on 20 September 2011. The song was covered on Glee on the episode "Hold On to Sixteen", aired in December 2011. It won the Grammy Award for Song of the Year at the 2013 Grammy Awards.

[[Vicky Cristina Barcelona]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2008 comedy-drama movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Barcelona, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies directed by Woody Allen, Oviedo, Screenplays by Woody Allen, Spanish-language movies, Spanish movies

Vicky Cristina Barcelona is a 2008 Spanish-American romantic comedy-drama movie. It was written and directed by Woody Allen. It is set in the Spanish cities Barcelona and Oviedo. It is about two American women in their twenties who meet an artist, Juan, whilst spending a summer in Spain.

Rebecca Hall playes Vicky, Scarlett Johansson plays Cristina, Javier Bardem plays Juan, Penélope Cruz plays his angry, violent ex-wife Maria. The movie won a Golden Globe Award.

[[Bullying culture]]

CATEGORIES: Bullying

Bullying culture means, that it is normal to be bullied for the victim. It is about the abuse of social powers.

The culture of bullying includes daily activities and the way people relate to each other. A bullying culture emphasizes a win/lose way of thinking. It also encourages domination and aggression.

[[Baneh]]

CATEGORIES: Kurdistan Province, Cities in Iran

Baneh (بانه, بانە ،, ku) is the capital of Baneh county in the Kurdistan region of Iran.

[[The Story of Us]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Taylor Swift songs

"The Story of Us" is a song written and recorded by American singer-songwriter  Taylor Swift. The song was produced by Nathan Chapman and Swift. It is about breakups and troubles between two people. The story in the song was inspired by an encounter with an ex-boyfriend during the CMT Music Awards in which Swift and the ex attempted to ignore one another. "The Story of Us" received mixed reviews, peaking at #41 on Billboard Hot 100, although the video got positive review for its "departure from the music video high school". The song was on Swift's album Speak Now, released in 2010.

[[The Quarrymen]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 establishments, 1950s establishments in the United Kingdom, British rock bands, Musical groups established in the 1950s, Musical groups from Liverpool, The Beatles

The Quarrymen (also written as "the Quarry Men") were a British skiffle and rock and roll band. It was formed by John Lennon in Liverpool in 1956. The band evolved into the Beatles in 1960. Originally, it consisted of Lennon and several of his friends from school. The Quarrymen took their name from a line in the anthem of their high school, Quarry Bank High School. Lennon's mother, Julia Lennon, taught her son to play the banjo and then showed Lennon and Eric Griffiths how to tune their guitars in a similar way to the banjo, and taught them simple chords and songs.

Lennon started a skiffle group that was very briefly called the Blackjacks, but changed the name before any public performances. Some accounts credit Lennon with choosing the new name; other accounts credit his close friend Pete Shotton with suggesting the name. The Quarrymen played at parties, school dances, cinemas and amateur skiffle contests before Paul McCartney joined the band in October 1957. George Harrison  joined the band in early 1958 at McCartney's recommendation, though Lennon initially resisted because he felt Harrison (still only 14 when he was first introduced to Lennon) to be too young. Both McCartney and Harrison attended the Liverpool Institute.

[[Beta blocker]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Cardiovascular system, Biochemistry, Neuroscience, Pharmacology

Beta blockers is the name for a class of drugs that inhibit the hormone adrenalin and the neurotransmitter noradrenalin. Adrenalin is mainly released in stress situations; blocking its pathway will lead to lowering the heart rate, and blood pressure. 

[[Candies (band)]]

CATEGORIES: J-pop bands, 1973 establishments in Asia, Japanese musical groups, Girl groups, 1970s establishments in Japan

The Candies (キャンディーズ) was a famous Japanese singing girl group. The group started in 1973. Their first single was "あなたに夢中" (ja). The Candies had three members: Ran Ito (伊藤蘭), called Ran; Yoshiko Tanaka (田中好子), called Sue; and Miki Fujimura (藤村美樹), called Miki. Candies were working as a comedian in TV programs as well. It was unprecedented thing through Japanese show business. July 17, 1977. In their concert at Hibiya Open-Air Concert Hall (日比谷野外音楽堂), Candies suddenly declared their breakup in spite of its strong popularity.

[[A Tribe Called Quest]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s music groups, Hip hop bands

A Tribe Called Quest was an alternative hip hop group that started in 1985. They are perhaps most famous for their song "Can I kick it?". The members are MC/producer Q-Tip, MC Phife Dawg aka Phife Diggy (Malik Taylor), and DJ/producer Ali Shaheed Muhammad. Jarobi White was a member until 1991. They have released five albums.

[[List of political parties in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: United States-related lists, Political parties in the United States, Lists of political parties

These are the main political parties in the United States.

[[Lincoln Motor Company]]

CATEGORIES: American automobile companies, Ford, 1917 establishments in the United States

The Lincoln Motor Company is an automobile company in the United States. It is a part of the Ford Motor Company that sells cars in North America. The current Lincoln cars in the United States includes two sedans (the MKS and MKZ), two crossovers (the MKT and MKX) and one SUV (the Navigator).

Lincoln is the luxury brand of Ford. It makes upscale luxury vehicles. The company was founded by Henry M. Leland in 1917. It was bought by Ford in 1922. The brand is named after Abraham Lincoln.

[[I Walk the Line]]

CATEGORIES: Johnny Cash songs, 1950s songs, Country songs

"I Walk the Line" is a song that was written and recorded by Johnny Cash in 1956. It was the first number one single Cash got. It sold over 2 million copies. Cash said that the song is about his promise to love and care for his wife.

[[Bill Macy]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2019 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, Comedians from Massachusetts, American television personalities, American radio personalities, Jewish American actors, Actors from Massachusetts

Bill Macy (born Wolf Martin Garber; May 18, 1922 – October 17, 2019) was an American actor and comedian. He was in many comedy shows during the 1980s. He was best known for his role as Walter in Maude.

Macy was born on May 18, 1922 in Revere, Massachusetts. He was married to Samantha Harper from 1975 until his death. Macy died on October 17, 2019 in Los Angeles at the age of 97.

[[Ronnie Stevens]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2006 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, Actors from London

Ronald Stevens (September 2, 1925 – November 11, 2006) was an English actor. He was known for his roles in Wild, Wild Women, Only When I Laugh, Ever Decreasing Circles, Hi-de-Hi!, Yes, Prime Minister, The Parent Trap.

Stevens was born on September 2, 1925 in London, England. He was married to Ann Stevens from 1959 until her death in 2006. They had two children, one died. Stevens died from an illness on November 11, 2006 in Northwood, Middlesex, England, aged 81.

[[Laurie Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians from Illinois, American singers, 1947 births, Living people

Laurie Anderson (born June 5 1947) is an American musician, performing artist and composer. She plays violin and keyboard and sings a variety of art rock with experimental music. She first performed an art piece in the late 1960s. In 1981, she became famous with O Superman, which hit #2 on pop charts in United Kingdom. Anderson was born in Illinois.

[[Hassan Zirak]]

CATEGORIES: Kurdish people, Singers, 1921 births, 1972 deaths

Hassan Zirak (29 November 1921 – 26 June 1972) was a Kurdish singer. He performed over 1000 songs during his life. His songs are very popular in areas of Iran and Iraq where Kurds live.

[[Mineral County]]

Mineral County is the name of many counties in the United States:

[[Martha Reeves]]

CATEGORIES: Politicians from Alabama, R&B musicians, 1941 births, Living people, Politicians from Michigan

Martha Rose Reeves (born July 18, 1941) is an American musician and former politician. She was a councilwoman in Detroit, Michigan. She was associated with R&B group Martha and the Vandellas during the 1960s. Together, their hits included Dancing in the Street and Heat Wave. She had some solo songs, also.

Reeves was a Detroit Councilwoman between 2005 and 2009. She was born in Alabama. She was raised in Detroit.

[[Bukan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran

Bukan (بۆکان, بوکان) is a city in the West Azerbaijan province of Iran. Bokan is between Saqqez and Miandoab. Bokan's people are Kurd. They speak in Kurdi and most of them are able to speak Persian. Most of people believe in Islam.

[[Kristy McNichol]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, 1962 births, Living people

Christina Ann "Kristy" McNichol (born September 11 1962) is an American TV and movie actress. She played Letitia "Buddy" Lawrence in the television program Family. She played Barbara Weston in the sitcom Empty Nest. She also acted with Cynthia Nixon in the 1980 movie Little Darlings. She was born in Los Angeles.

[[Kanzaki, Saga]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kyushu, Settlements in Saga Prefecture

Kanzaki is a city in Saga Prefecture, Kyushu, Japan. It has around 33,000 people.

[[Kasuga, Fukuoka]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Fukuoka Prefecture

Kasuga is a city in Fukuoka Prefecture, Kyushu, Japan. 

[[Villages of Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Japan

Villages of Japan or Mura are the smallest local administrative units in Japan. As a result of changes in the way places are grouped, some Prefectures, such as Saga Prefecture, no longer have any villages which are administered separately.

[[Sylvia Robinson]]

CATEGORIES: People from New York, R&B musicians, 1936 births, 2011 deaths

Sylvia Robinson (born March 6 1936-died September 29 2011) was an American singer, musician, record label executive and record producer who founded and was CEO of the Sugar Hill Record Company in the 1970s. She began recording in 1950 through Columbia Records. She also had several hit songs, with other musicians and solo, including the sensual song Pillow Talk. Robinson was born in New York City. She died due to congestive heart failure at age 75.

[[Jenny Frost]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, English pop musicians, English singers, English television presenters, Musicians from Manchester, Musicians from Merseyside

Jenny Frost (born 22 February 1978) is a British singer, television presenter and model. She was born in Wallasey, Merseyside and raised in Manchester. She has been a member of girl groups Precious and Atomic Kitten. She has presented Snog Marry Avoid? and OK! TV. 

[[Donny Hathaway]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American R&B musicians, Musicians from Chicago, Musicians who committed suicide, People with schizophrenia, Singers from Chicago, Suicides by jumping in the United States, 1945 births, 1979 deaths

Donny Hathaway (October 1, 1945 - January 13, 1979) was an American singer and musician who did R&B, soul blues and jazz. He collaborated many times under singer Roberta Flack, and had many singles with her. He covered the Carole King hit You've Got a Friend and the Aretha Franklin song Baby I Love You. He was born in Chicago, though raised near St. Louis. He terminated his own life by jumping from a New York City hotel room onto the sidewalk on January 13, 1979. He had schizophrenia and depression.

[[Uwajima, Ehime]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Shikoku, Settlements in Ehime Prefecture

Uwajima is a Japanese city in Ehime on the island of Shikoku.

[[Julieta Venegas]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Latin singers, Mexican singers, People from Long Beach, California, Grammy Award winners, Latin Grammy Award winners

Julieta Venegas Percevault (born November 24, 1970 in Long Beach, California), is a Mexican singer, songwriter, instrumentalist and producer. She sings pop-rock in the Spanish language. She speaks English, Portuguese, and Spanish.

She plays several instruments such as acoustic guitar, accordion, and keyboard. She has won five Latin Grammys and one Grammy Award. She has composed music for theater and performed in soundtracks for two movies.

[[Juárez Municipality, Chihuahua]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua, 1826 establishments in North America, 19th-century establishments in Mexico

Juárez is a one of the 67 municipalities of Chihuahua, in northern Mexico. The municipal seat is Ciudad Juárez. The municipality's land area is 4853.

In the 2010 INEGI Census, the municipality reported a population of 1,332,131, of whom 1,321,004 (over 99%) lived in the municipal seat. 

The municipality is named for 19th-century president Benito Juárez, as is the city of Ciudad Juárez.

[[Municipalities of Chihuahua]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua, Lists of municipalities, Mexico-related lists

right|thumb|250px|Municipalities of ChihuahuaRedlinks

Chihuahua is divided into 67 municipalities (municipios): 

[[Rosales Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua

Rosales is one of the 67 municipalities of Chihuahua, in northern Mexico. The municipal seat lies at Santa Cruz de Rosales. The municipality covers an area of 1716.6 km².

In 2005, the municipality had a total population of 15,935. 

[[Victoria Abril]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Spanish singers, Spanish actors

Victoria Abril (born Victoria Mérida Rojas, 4 July 1959 ) is a Spanish actress and singer. She is best known for her acting in the movie ¡Átame! (Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down!) by director Pedro Almodóvar.

[[Gran Morelos]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua

Gran Morelos is one of the 67 municipalities of Chihuahua, in northern Mexico. The municipal seat is San Nicolás de Carretas. The municipality land area is 424.2 km².

In the 2005 Census, the municipality had a total population of 3,092. 

[[San Nicolás de Carretas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Settlements in Chihuahua, 1688 establishments, 17th-century establishments in Mexico, 1680s establishments in North America

San Nicolás de Carretas is a town in the Chihuahua, Mexico. It is the municipal seat of the municipality of Gran Morelos. 

San Nicolás de Carretas was founded as a Franciscan mission in 1688. 

[[Visakhapatnam]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Settlements in Andhra Pradesh

Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram is a metropolitan area and port city in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh, southeast India. It is the largest city in Andhra Pradesh.

[[Valle del Cauca]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Colombia, 1910 establishments in South America, 1910s establishments in Colombia

Valle del Cauca is one of the 32 departments of Colombia. It is located in the southwest of the country, between the Andean Region and Pacific Region. It is named after the valley of the Cauca River. Its capital is Cali.

[[Municipalities of Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico

Municipalities (municipios) are the second-level administrative division in Mexico. There are 2,438 municipalities in Mexico, making the average municipality population 45,616. 

[[Morelos Municipality, Chihuahua]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua

Morelos is one of the 67 municipalities of Chihuahua, in north-western Mexico. The municipal seat is Morelos. The municipality covers an area of 1336.8 km².

As of 2005, the municipality had a total population of 7,172. 

It is named after Independence War hero José María Morelos.

[[Delicias Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua

Delicias is a one of the 67 municipalities of Chihuahua, in northern Mexico. The capital is Delicias. The municipality covers an area of 335.4 km².

As of 2005, the municipality had a total population of 127,211. 

[[Delicias]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Settlements in Chihuahua, 1933 establishments, 1930s establishments in Mexico

Delicias (Spanish for Delights) is a city in Chihuahua, Mexico. It is the seat of the municipality of the same name. It is located southeast of the state capital, Chihuahua. 

[[Hashima, Gifu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Gifu Prefecture

Hashima is a Japanese city in Gifu Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

Hashima is known for its wool crafts.

[[Nuevo Casas Grandes Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua

Nuevo Casas Grandes is a Mexican municipality of Chihuahua, Mexico.  The seat of the municipality is the city of Nuevo Casas Grandes.

[[Chínipas Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua

Chínipas is one of the 67 municipalities of Chihuahua, in northern Mexico. The municipal seat is Chínipas de Almada. The municipality covers an area of 2,278.9 km².

In 2005, the municipality had a total population of 7,233.

[[Donald Richie]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2013 deaths, American historians, American journalists, American military personnel of World War II, American movie critics, American movie directors, Bisexual people, Deaths from natural causes, Japanologists, LGBT people from Ohio, LGBT writers, Writers from Ohio, People from Lima, Ohio

Donald Steiner Richie (April 17, 1924 – February 19, 2013) was an American writer, director, historian, journalist, and movie critic. He only wrote his books or reviewed his movies in Japan. He directed his first movie when he was 17.

[[Tajimi, Gifu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Gifu Prefecture

Tajimi is a small Japanese city in Gifu Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[Guachochi Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua, 1962 establishments in North America, 1960s establishments in Mexico

Guachochi is a one of the 67 municipalities of Chihuahua, in northern Mexico. The municipal seat is Guachochi. The municipality covers an area of 4,340.35 km².

As of 2005, the municipality had a total population of 45,881. 

[[Guachochi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Settlements in Chihuahua, 18th-century establishments in Mexico

Guachochi is a city in the south-western  Chihuahua, Mexico. It is the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name.

In the 2005 INEGI census, the city had 12,385 residents. 

[[Jonathan Katz]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American television personalities, Comedians from New York City, Writers from New York City, Actors from New York City, Emmy Award winning actors, People with multiple sclerosis

Jonathan Paul Katz (born December 1, 1946) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, and writer. He is known for his role as Dr. Katz in Dr. Katz, Professional Therapist. Katz won an Emmy Award for "Outstanding Voice-Over Performance" in 1995. 

[[Susana Giménez]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Argentine movie actors, Argentine models, Argentine businesspeople, Actors from Buenos Aires, Television presenters

María Susana Giménez Aubert (born January 29, 1944 in Buenos Aires, Argentina), is an Argentine talk show host, actress, model and businesswoman. She is considered the biggest celebrity in Argentine television.

[[Beaivi]]

CATEGORIES: Gods and goddesses

Beaivi also called, Beiwe, Bievve, Beivve and Biejje, is the sun goddess in Sami mythology. She is the goddess of fertility and sanity. Beivve was often accompanied by her daughter, Beaivi-nieida (the sun maiden) in an enclosure of reindeer antlers.

[[Lou Myers]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from West Virginia, African American actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from pneumonia

Lou Leabengula Myers (September 26, 1935 – February 19, 2013) was an American actor. He was known for his role as Vernon Gaines in A Different World. 

Myers was born in Chesapeake, West Virginia on September 26, 1935. Myers died on February 19, 2013 in Charleston, West Virginia from pneumonia and heart failure, aged 77.  

[[James Randi]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, American entertainers, American LGBT people, American magicians, Canadian entertainers, Canadian LGBT people, Gay men, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Toronto, Skeptics

James Randi (born Randall James Hamilton Zwinge; August 7, 1928 – October 20, 2020) was a Canadian-American magician and skeptic. He was known for performing ghost magic. He founded the James Randi Educational Foundation. He held two world records in the Guinness World Records. He was influenced by Harry Houdini and Harry Blackstone, Sr..

Randi was born in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. He was openly gay. He married his partner of 27 years, Deyvi Pena, in 2013.

Randi died on October 20, 2020 in Plantation, Florida at the age of 92.

[[Fixed-gear bicycle]]

CATEGORIES: Human-powered vehicles, Cycling

A fixed-gear bicycle (also called a "fixie") is a bicycle that has no freewheel mechanism (allowing pedals to stay still while moving).

It is a dangerous bike to use in towns.  This type of bicycle is becoming more and more popular around the world.

Fixed-gear bicycles are very light. They are built without any unnecessary gadgets, such as chain rings or freewheel hub. When a person rides a fixed-gear bicycle, he/she/they need not put a lot of energy into it as with a geared bike. 

Most bicycles have a freewheel so the pedals will stay stationary while the bicycle is moving and so that the rider can ride without pedaling going forward or down a hill. Fixed-gear bicycles have even simpler mechanisms with pedals fixed to the back wheel. That means that the rider cannot stop pedaling. When the rear wheel turns, the pedals turn in the same direction. This allows a cyclist to use a brake by putting a pressure in opposite directions to pedals, so that the mechanism will not rotate.

It also makes it possible to ride backwards, although learning to do so is much more difficult than riding forwards.

[[Causeway]]

CATEGORIES: Roads

A Causeway is a road or railway embankment across water or marsh. Some may be underwater at high tide.

[[Lifestyle]]

CATEGORIES: Lifestyles

Lifestyle is the way of life of person, group, or culture.

The term "lifestyle" was used for first time by Austrian psychologist Alfred Adler (1870-1937).

[[The Pallbearer]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 romance movies, 1996 comedy movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Matt Reeves, American independent movies

The Pallbearer is an American romantic comedy released in 1996 directed by Matt Reeves. It stars Toni Collette and Gwyneth Paltrow. The story is about suicide and romance conflict. It received almost $6 million in the box office.

[[Barbara Bates]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Denver, Colorado, People who committed suicide, 1925 births, 1969 deaths

Barbara Bates (August 6, 1925 – March 18, 1969) was an American actress. She acted mostly in movies. She played Phoebe in the 1950 movie All about Eve and acted in many other movies in her career. She was born in Denver, Colorado. She killed herself with carbon monoxide poisoning, also in Denver. She was age 43.

[[Seven Bridges of Königsberg]]

CATEGORIES: Graph theory, Puzzles, Bridges, 1735, Kaliningrad

The Seven Bridges of Königsberg is a historically famous problem in mathematics. Leonhard Euler solved the problem in 1735. This led to the beginning of graph theory. This then led to the development of topology.

The city of Königsberg in Prussia (now Kaliningrad, Russia) was set on both sides of the Pregel River. It included two large islands which were connected to each other and the mainland by seven bridges.

The problem was to find a way to walk through the city by crossing each bridge once and only once. The islands could not be reached by any route other than the bridges. Every bridge must have been crossed completely every time. The walk need not start and end at the same spot. Euler proved that the problem has no solution. 

[[The Heat]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 action movies, 2013 buddy movies, 2013 comedy movies, American action comedy movies, Buddy comedy movies, Buddy cop movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Boston, Massachusetts, Police comedy movies, 2010s feminist movies

The Heat is a 2013 police comedy which stars Sandra Bullock and Melissa McCarthy. Bullock plays a Special Agent and the latter plays a detective. This comedy is set in Boston.

[[San (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Poland

San is a river in southeastern Poland. It is 443.3 km long.

[[Map coloring]]

CATEGORIES: Cartography, Mathematics

Map coloring is a term used for two different concepts: In geography and mapmaking it is used to say that colors are assigned to certain areas on a map. Examples of this are coloring that show the countries or divisions of a country, but also to visualize other data, for example the altitude.  The other use is in mathematics: There it is used to describe the problem of finding the minimal number of colors needed to color a given map.

[[QED]]

QED may mean:

[[Q.E.D.]]

CATEGORIES: Latin words and phrases

Q.E.D. is an acronym or initialism of the Latin phrase quod erat demonstrandum, which means "what was to be demonstrated".  In other words, Q.E.D. means "something was to be proven, and now it has been done".

[[Five color theorem]]

CATEGORIES: Graph theory

The Five color theorem is a theorem from Graph theory. It states that any plane which is separated into regions, such as a map, can be colored with no more than five colors. It was first stated by Alfred Kempe in 1890, and proved by Percy John Heawood eleven years later. Kempe also tried to prove it, but his proof failed. There are two restrictions which are placed on the maps: First, a country must be contiguous, there must be no exclaves, and secondly, countries that only touch in one point can be colored with the same color. 

There is also a four color theorem, which is stronger, and much more difficult to prove. 

[[Silence procedure]]

CATEGORIES: Diplomacy

Silence procedure (French: procédure d'approbation tacite) is a decision-making tactic or process used in international political contexts.  The procedure is based on the Latin phrase qui tacet consentire videtur which means "he who is silent is taken to agree" or "silence means consent".  

The silence procedure is used to enhance the process of consensus-building.  It is used by many international groups, including NATO, and the European Union (EU).  

In the contexts of such multi-party groups, silence signifies a willingness to work together to limit the possible causes of paralysis.

[[Ahumada Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua

Ahumada is one of the 67 municipalities of Chihuahua, in northern Mexico. The municipal seat is Villa Ahumada. The municipality covers an area of 17,131.5 km².

As of 2005, the municipality had a total population of 11,727.

[[Villa Ahumada]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Settlements in Chihuahua

Villa Ahumada (officially Miguel Ahumada) is the seat of the Ahumada Municipality in the Chihuahua, Mexico. It had 8,753 inhabitants (2005). It is located along Highway 45, about 130 km south of Ciudad Juárez and 247 km north of the city of Chihuahua.

[[General Cepeda Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Coahuila

General Cepeda is a one of the 38 municipalities of Coahuila, in north-eastern Mexico. The municipal seat is General Cepeda. The municipality covers an area of 3517 km².

As of 2005, the municipality had a total population of 11,284. 

[[Providenciales]]

CATEGORIES: Turks and Caicos Islands, Caribbean islands

Providenciales is the main tourist island in the Turks and Caicos Islands. It is also where most of the people in the country live, with a population of about 32,000. The island has an area of 98.

Grace Bay is where most of the resorts are. The first resort was Club Med. It opened in 1984. Blue Hills, Five Cays, and The Bight were the original villages.

[[Vortex (Kings Island)]]

CATEGORIES: Roller coasters in the United States, Steel roller coasters, Roller coasters by name, Roller coasters in Ohio, 1987 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Ohio

Vortex is a steel roller coaster at Kings Island in Mason, Ohio. It was designed and built by Arrow Dynamics. It cost $4 million. The ride officially opened to the public on April 11, 1987. When it opened, Vortex was the tallest, full-circuit roller coaster with the highest drop in the world. It was also the first one where riders are upside down six times.

Vortex is where The Bat used to be. The Bat was the world's first suspended roller coaster. There have been more than 38 million rides on Vortex. It is one of the most popular attractions at Kings Island.

[[Michelle Creber]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 births, Living people, Canadian voice actors, Canadian singers, People from Vancouver

Michelle Nicole Creber (born September 7, 1999) is a Canadian teen actress, singer, dancer, musician, song-writer and voice actress who is best known for voicing Apple Bloom, as well as the singing voice for Sweetie Belle in My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic. She released her first solo album titled Timeless: Songs of a Century on August 28, 2012. The album features popular musicians from the brony community. She also hosts her own Internet radio show called Saturday Night Songs, on the brony media network "Everfree Network".

[[Bangladesh national cricket team statistics and records]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Bangladesh, Cricket

This is a page list of records and statistics of the Bangladesh Cricket Team.

[[Shakib Al Hasan]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims, Living people

Shakib Al Hasan (সাকিব আল হাসান) বাংলাদেশের জান বাংলাদেশের প্রাণ(born 24 March 1987) is a Bangladeshi international cricketer. He is an all-rounder. He bats left-handed in the middle order. He is a slow left-arm orthodox bowler. He played for Bangladesh at under-19 level, at Youth level at 2005-2006. He made his One Day International (ODI) debut against Zimbabwe in August 2006. He made his test debut the May 2007 against India.

Shakib Al Hasan is also a businessman. His company name is Fiesta Event Management Limited.

[[Tamim Iqbal]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Tamim Iqbal Khan (তামিম ইকবাল খান) (born  20 March 1989) is a Bangladeshi cricketer. Tamim made his One Day International and Test debut at 2007. He is left-handed opening batsman. 

[[Mashrafe Mortaza]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Mashrafe Bin Mortaza (মাশরাফি বিন মুর্তজা) (born 5 October 1983 in Narail District, Jessore) is a Bangladeshi cricketer and politician. He made his test dubut in the national side in late 2001 against Zimbabwe without playing a One Day International. Mortaza captained his country in one Test and seven One Day Internationals (ODIs) between 2009 and 2010. He is the captain of Dhaka Gladiators.

[[Mohammad Ashraful]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims, People from Dhaka

Mohammad Ashraful (মোহাম্মদ আশরাফুল) (born 7 July 1984) is a Bangladeshi international cricket player. He was the captain of national side during 2008-2010. Ashraful captained his country in 13 Tests. But lost in 12 and one ended draw. He also captained 38 One Day Internationals (ODIs) of which Bangladesh won eight. Ashraful scored the fastest fifty in the test among any batsman of the world, also scored the fastest fifty in the ODI and twenty20 international comparing any Bangladeshi batsman. He is the youngest test centurion.

[[Marianne Faithfull]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, Breast cancer survivors, English movie actors, English television actors, Singers from London, 1946 births, Living people

Marianne Evelyn Gabriel Faithfull (born 29 December 1946) is an English singer and actress who has had many hit songs, solo and with other singers. Her singing career began around 1964. Faithfull was born in Hampstead, London, and is of Austrian ancestry.

In 2006, Faithfull was diagnosed with breast cancer. She had surgery later the same year and has recovered. In 2007, she said she was diagnosed with hepatitis C in 1995. In April 2020, during the 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic, it was reported that Faithfull was being treated in hospital for COVID-19.

[[Matlock (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 American television series debuts, 1995 American television series endings, ABC network shows, American crime drama television series, Atlanta, Georgia in fiction, Legal television series, Mystery television series, NBC network shows, English-language television programs

Matlock is an American television drama crime/mystery show. It starred Andy Griffith as defense attorney Ben Matlock. The show was broadcast on ABC and on NBC. The show was set in Atlanta, Georgia. It ran from September 1986 through May 1995. The show had 9 seasons and 195 episodes. The show had several spin-offs such as Jake and the Fatman and Diagnosis: Murder.

[[Peter Haskell]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2010 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television personalities, Actors from Boston, Massachusetts

Peter Abraham Haskell (October 15, 1934 – April 12, 2010) was an American actor. He was mostly known for guest-starring in many famous shows such as Columbo, Matlock, Barnaby Jones, Frasier, The Mary Tyler Moore Show, Medical Center, and in Dr. Kildare.

Haskell was born on October 15, 1934 in Boston, Massachusetts. He studied at Buckingham Browne & Nichols and at Harvard University. Haskell was married to Annie Compton from 1960 until they divorced in 1974. Then he was married to Dianne Tolmich from 1974 until his death in 2010. He had two children, a daughter and son. Haskell died on April 12, 2010 from unknown causes in Northridge, California, aged 75.

[[Humoral immunity]]

CATEGORIES: Immunology

The humoral immune system is a part of the immune system which defends the body against invading organisms and other foreign material.

The humeral part is done by macromolecules outside the cells. These may be secreted antibodies, complement proteins, or certain antimicrobial peptides. Their job is to attack bacteria (and other foreign substances) which are loose in the blood stream or other fluids. In older medicine, these fluids were called "humors". Both the more primitive innate immune system, and the later acquired or adaptive immune system of vertebrates, have humoral components.

The humeral immune system contrasts with the cell-mediated immunity. That  involves the activation of phagocytes, antigen-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes, and the release of various cytokines in response to an antigen.

[[Andrew Shaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Montreal Canadiens players, Living people, Stanley Cup champions

Andrew Shaw (born July 20, 1991 in Belleville, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player that currently plays for the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL). 

He began his hockey career with the Niagara IceDogs of the OHL and played for them for 2 seasons. He also played for the Owen Sound Attack for 1 season. He entered the draft on 2011 and he was drafted with the 139th overall by the Chicago Blackhawks in the 2011 NHL Entry Draft. 

He was assigned to the Rockford IceHogs, the farm team of the Blackhawks. He was called up to the Blackhawks during the 2011-12 NHL season. On January 5, 2012, he got in his first-ever NHL fight on the second shift of his first NHL game. He returned to the game after receiving stitches and score the first goal of his NHL career on his first shot of his first game against Ilya Bryzgalov of the Philadelphia Flyers. On June 24, 2013, He won the Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.

[[Allison Crowe]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian singers, 1981 births, Living people

Allison Crowe (November 16, 1981, British Columbia) is a Canadian singer, songwriter, guitarist and pianist.  Most of the songs she records are written by Crowe. She is known as well for releasing cover versions of certain songs. She is known for releasing independent albums. Cover songs include the Beatles' Let it Be and Imagine from John Lennon. Her distinctive voice is often compared against that of Mahalia Jackson. She appeared in a cameo role in the 2013 movie Man of Steel.

[[Moore's law]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

Moore's law is that the number of transistors on integrated circuits doubles about every two years.  Intel executive David House said the period was "18 months".  He predicted that period for a doubling in chip performance: a combination of the effect of more transistors and their being faster. 

The law is named after Intel co-founder Gordon Moore, who described the trend in his 1965 paper.

The paper stated that the number of components in integrated circuits had doubled every year from the invention of the integrated circuit in 1958 until 1965 and predicted that the trend would continue "for at least ten years". His prediction has proved very accurate. The law is used in the semiconductor industry to guide long-term planning and to set targets for research and development.

The capabilities of many digital electronic devices are strongly linked to Moore's law: processing speed, memory capacity, sensors and even the number and size of pixels in digital cameras. All of these are improving at (roughly) exponential rates as well.

This exponential improvement has greatly increased the effect of digital electronics in the world economy. Moore's law describes a driving force of technological and social change in the late 20th and early 21st centuries.

This trend has continued for more than half a century. Intel stated in 2015 that the pace of advancement has slowed. Brian Krzanich, CEO of Intel, announced that "our cadence today is closer to two and a half years than two".

[[Shahriar Nafees]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims, People from Dhaka

Shahriar Nafees Ahmed (শাহরিয়ার নাফীস আহমেদ) (born 25 January 1986) is a Bangladeshi cricketer. He is a left-handed opening batsman. He made his One Day International (ODI) debut for Bangladesh in 2005. The opposition team was England. In 2005 he played his first Test.

[[Mushfiqur Rahim]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Mohammad Mushfiqur Rahim (মোহাম্মদ মুশফিকুর রহিম) (born 1 September 1988) is a Bangladeshi cricketer and the captain of his national team. He made his Test debut in 2005, at the age of 16. Rahim trained at the Bangladesh Institute of Sports. At the next year he made his ODI debut. At the end of 2011 he was given the captain of his national side.

[[Habibul Bashar]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Qazi Habibul Bashar (কাজী হাবিবুল বাশার) (born August 17, 1972) is a Bangladeshi cricketer. He was the former captain of Bangladesh national cricket team. He captained Bangladesh at 2007 ICC World Cup. The first test victory came under his captaincy against Zimbabwe. He is the most successful captain in Bangladesh cricket's history. Under his captaincy, Bangladesh have beaten Australia, India, South Africa and Sri Lanka in limited overs matches. He is currently one of the chief selectors of BCB

[[Mohammad Rafique (cricketer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims, People from Dhaka

Mohammed Rafique (মোহাম্মদ রফিক) (born September 5, 1970) is a Bangladeshi cricketer. He was the leading wicket-taker for Bangladesh in Test matches.

[[Javed Omar]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims, People from Dhaka

Mohammad Javed Omar Belim (born November 25, 1976) is a Bangladeshi cricketer. He has played Tests and ODI cricket since 2005.

[[Khaled Mashud]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Khaled Mashud (খালেদ মাসুদ) (born February 8, 1976 in Rajshahi) is a Bangladeshi cricketer. He was a wicketkeeper, also a middle order batsman. He was a regular member of the national team between 1995-2007. Former Bangladeshi coach Dav Whatmore said that Khaled Mashud was the best wicket-keeper in Asia.

[[International Cricket Council]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket, International organizations, Sport in the United Arab Emirates, Sports organizations, 1909 establishments

The International Cricket Council (ICC) is the international governing body of cricket. It was founded as the Imperial Cricket Conference in 1909. It was renamed International Cricket Conference at 1965. It was renamed International Cricket Council in 1989.

The ICC has 105 members, 12 Full Members (who play tests) and 93 Associate Members. The membership had been divided into Full, Associate, and Affiliate Members, but the Affiliate category was removed in June 2017, with all Affiliate Members becoming Associate Members.

[[HoboSapiens]]

CATEGORIES: John Cale albums, 2003 albums

HoboSapiens is the fourteenth studio album by Welsh multi-instrumentalist John Cale, former member of The Velvet Underground. It was released in October 2003 as his first full-length album on EMI Records label. The producers are John Cale and Nick Franglen.

[[List of One Day International cricket matches played by Bangladesh and South Africa]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket lists, Sport in Bangladesh, Sport in South Africa

The cricket teams of Bangladesh and South Africa have played against each other in ODIs since 2003. They have met on 14 occasions. South Africa is most successful with 13 victories, Bangladesh have won in only 1 game.

[[Boris Pasternak]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1960 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Disease-related deaths in the Soviet Union, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Jewish writers, Russian Jews, Russian Nobel Prize winners, Russian novelists, Russian poets, Soviet Jews, Soviet writers, Russian translators, Writers from Moscow

Boris Leonidovich Pasternak  (10 Februaryspaced ndash30 May 1960) was a Russian poet, novelist, and literary translator.  His parents were Jewish Ukrainians.  In his native Russia, Pasternak's anthology My Sister, Life, is one of the most influential collections ever published in the Russian language.  Furthermore, Pasternak's translations of plays by Goethe, Schiller and Shakespeare are deeply popular with Russian audiences.

Outside Russia, Pasternak is best known as the author of Doctor Zhivago, a novel which takes place between the Russian Revolution of 1905 and the Second World War.  Due to its independent minded stance on the socialist state, Doctor Zhivago was refused publication in the USSR.  The typescript of Doctor Zhivago was smuggled out of the country to Milan and published in 1957. 

Pasternak was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature the following year, an event which humiliated and enraged the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. In the midst of a massive campaign against him by the CPSU and the Union of Soviet Writers, Pasternak reluctantly agreed to decline the prize. In his letter to the Nobel Committee, Pasternak stated the reaction of the Soviet State was the only reason for his decision. He is still listed as the winner for that year.

By the time of his death from lung cancer in 1960, the campaign against Pasternak had damaged the international credibility of the U.S.S.R. He is still a major figure in Russian literature. Furthermore, the samizdat methods were later continued, expanded, and refined by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn and other Soviet dissidents.

[[Marivan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Marivan Hashiye (مەریوان, Merîwan Hashiye, حاشیه مریوان)  is a city in the Kurdistan Province of Iran, in Iranian Kurdistan. Its population was 111,031 (in 2005 ). The city is located near the border of Iran and Iraq.

"Lake Zarivar" with length 5 km and a width of 1.6 km is located to the west of Marivan. The water of the lake is fresh and has a depth of 6 meters.

Marivans people are mostly Kurds and followers of Islam.

Mariwan is famous for its two boulevards, falakay Penjwen and falakay Halabja.

[[Nyan Cat]]

CATEGORIES: Internet memes, YouTube

Nyan Cat is a moving image on the internet which became famous. It has a cat with a Pop-Tart (a type of food) for a body flying through space, with a colourful rainbow behind it. There is also a song that you can hear when watching the moving image. Nyan Cat was the 5th most watched video on YouTube, the place that has the video, in the year 2011.

[[Sanandaj]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Sanandaj (سنە,Sine, سنندج) is the capital city of Kurdistan Province of Iran, in Iranian Kurdistan. Its population was 311,446, in 81,380 families (at 2006). Its population is mostly Kurds and followers of Islam. 

[[Susanna Hoffs]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from California, American movie actors, 1959 births, Living people

Susanna Hoffs (born 17 January 1959) is an American guitarist, vocalist and actress who has had many hit singles with the group The Bangles. Her hits included Manic Monday and Walk Like an Egyptian. She and the group disbanded in 1990, although the Bangles regrouped nine years later. She also had some solo hit songs during her career. She was born near Los Angeles.

[[Ingrid Michaelson]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from New York, 1979 births, Living people

Ingrid Ellen Michaelson (born December 8, 1979, New York City) is an American musician. She has had five studio albums since 2005. She has not been signed to any major record labels. Her music has been used in several television programs, including The Vampire Diaries and Scrubs. Michaelson performed with singer Sara Bareilles on the hit single Winter Song.

[[Bob Godfrey]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2013 deaths, Academy Award winners, Animators, Artists from New South Wales, BAFTA Award winners, Deaths from natural causes, People from Essex

Roland Frederick "Bob" Godfrey (May 27, 1921 – February 21, 2013) was an English Academy Award-winning animator. He won the Academy Award and the BAFTA Award for his animated short movie Great in 1975.

Godfrey was born on May 27, 1921 in West Maitland, New South Wales, Australia to British parents. He was raised in Ilford, Essex. Godfrey studied at Leyton Art School. He was never married. Godfrey died on February 21, 2013 in England from natural causes, aged 91.

[[Todor Kolev (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2013 deaths, Bulgarian people, Comedians, Deaths from lung cancer, Disease-related deaths in Bulgaria, Movie actors, Bulgarian singers, Stage actors, Television actors, Television presenters, Voice actors

Todor Kolev (Тодор Колев; August 26, 1939 – February 15, 2013) was a Bulgarian actor, singer, comedian, and television presenter. He appeared in more than 30 movies and more than 50 television shows.

Kolev was born on August 26, 1939 in Shumen, Bulgaria. On February 15, 2013, he died in Sofia from lung cancer, aged 73.

[[Vicente Fernández]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Mexican singers, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Grammy Award winners, People from Guadalajara, Latin Grammy Award winners

Vicente Fernández Gómez (born February 17, 1940) is a retired Mexican singer and actor. He is known as Chente or El Rey De La Canción Ranchera (The King of Ranchera Music). He had sold over 50 million copies worldwide. Fernandez had won seven Latin Grammy Awards and one Grammy Award. His career has spanned for over 35 years until his retirement in 2013.

Fernández was born on February 17, 1940 in Jalisco, Mexico. He had three children including Mexican singer Alejandro Fernández.

Fernández was hospitalized after falling at his home in Guadalajara on August 6, 2021.

[[Robin Sachs]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, Actors from London

Robin David Sachs (February 5, 1951 – February 1, 2013) was an English actor. He was known for his roles in Babylon 5: In the Beginning, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, The Lost World: Jurassic Park, Galaxy Quest, and in Resident Evil: Damnation.

Sachs was born on February 5, 1951 in London, England. He was married to Siân Phillips from 1979 until they divorced in 1991. Phillips was Peter O'Toole's ex-wife. Then he was married to Casey Defranco from 1995 until they divorced in 2006. Sachs died on February 1, 2013 in his home in Los Angeles, California from a heart attack, aged 61.

[[Assata Shakur]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, African-American people, American communists, American murderers, American people convicted of assault, American robbers, Criminals from New York City, People from North Carolina, People from Queens, Shakur family

Assata Olugbala Shakur (born July 16, 1947 as JoAnne Deborah Byron) is an African-American activist. She was a member of the Black Panther Party and the Black Liberation Army. She was put into prison, but in 1984 she managed to escape. She now lives in Havana, Cuba, as a fugitive. She was the first woman to be put on the FBI's Most Wanted Terrorists list. Shakur is the step-aunt of Tupac Shakur, a rapper who died in 1996.

[[Phenol]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Phenol is the organic compound with formula C6H5OH. It is a white solid. It has an OH group (hydroxyl group) bonded to a benzene ring. It is an alcohol. Because the aromatic group attracts electrons, it is quite acidic. topolin is produced from petroleum. It is an important molecule because it can be used to make many other products. It is also used in detergents and herbicides.

[[Guerrero, Coahuila]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Coahuila

Guerrero is a city and seat of the municipality of Guerrero, in Coahuila, Mexico. The population was 959 in the 2010 census. 

[[Frontera Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Coahuila

Frontera is one of the 38 municipalities of Coahuila, in north-eastern Mexico. The municipal seat is Ciudad Frontera. The municipality covers an area of 506.8 km².

In 2005, the municipality had a total population of 70,160. 

[[Escobedo, Coahuila]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Coahuila

Escobedo is the municipal seat for the Escobedo Municipality in city in Coahuila, Mexico. The name "Escobedo" honours 19th-century liberal statesman Mariano Escobedo. 

[[Usa, Ōita]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kyushu, Settlements in Ōita Prefecture

Usa is a Japanese city in Ōita Prefecture on the island of Kyushu.

[[Hita, Ōita]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kyushu, Settlements in Ōita Prefecture

Hita is a Japanese city in Ōita Prefecture on the island of Kyushu.

[[Hamada, Shimane]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Shimane Prefecture

Hamada is a Japanese city in Shimane Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[Izumo, Shimane]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Shimane Prefecture

Izumo is a city in Shimane Prefecture, Japan.

[[Imèr]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol

Imèr (Imör) is a city in Italy. It is in the Primiero valley in Province of Trento.

Imèr borders these municipalities: Siror, Canal San Bovo, Mezzano and Sovramonte.

[[Khrushchev's Secret Speech]]

CATEGORIES: 1956, 1950s in the Soviet Union, Speeches, February events

Krushchev's Secret Speech was the speech in which Nikita Krushchev denounced Joseph Stalin after the latter's death. The speech was a spoken report to the Twentieth Party Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union on 25 February 1956. Its title was On the Cult of Personality and Its Consequences.

The report was known as the "Secret Speech" because it was delivered at a closed session of Communist Party delegates, with guests and members of the press excluded. Although the text of the Khrushchev report leaked almost immediately, the official Russian text was published only in 1989 during the glasnost campaign of Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev.

The speech was based on an investigation of the repressions of the delegates of the 1934 XVII Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. They were victims of the Stalinist purges of the 1930s. Estimates of Stalin's role in history were quite changed by the speech. Many in the West who had been Communist Party member, or at least sympathetic fellow-travellers, resigned their memberships and no longer defended the reputation of Stalin. Russian writers like Solzhenitsyn found they were treated with more sympathy. The speech was a significant turning-point in history.

The speech caused such shock to the audience that, according to some reports, some of those present suffered heart attacks, and others later committed suicide. Many Soviet citizens were confused by De-Stalinization. They had been fed on praise of the "genius" of Stalin. This was especially obvious in the Georgian SSR, Stalin's homeland, where rioting ended with the Soviet Red Army crackdown on 9 March 1956.

[[Jeri Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Kentucky, 1968 births, Living people

Jeri Ryan (born on February 22, 1968) is an American actress. She works mostly on television programs. She acted in Star Trek: Voyager and Boston Public. She played Doctor Kate Murphy in the show Body of Proof. She was born near Munich, Germany. She was raised in Paducah, Kentucky.

[[The Master and Margarita]]

CATEGORIES: Russian novels, 1967 books, Novels, Books by Mikhail Bulgakov

The Master and Margarita is a novel by Mikhail Bulgakov (1891–1940), a Russsian author. It has been called one of the masterpieces of the 20th century. Like much of Bulgakov's work, magic realism and fantasy occurs to the background of life in the 1920s Soviet Russia.

[[Padmashali]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Asia, Hindus, Indian people

Padmashali (పద్మళాలి భార్గవ బ్రాహ్మణుల సమాజం) or Padma Bramhana is a Hindu Bramhin in origin,and took up artisan tasks are  predominantly found in South Indian States. The community members are traditionally weavers specialised in making clothes of all kinds. They engage as priests Brahmins for performing all rites and rituals and also perform services as temple Priests for other castes.

[[2012 Trinidad and Tobago Quadrangular Twenty20]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in sports, Cricket, Sport in Trinidad and Tobago, 2012 in North America

The 2012 Trinidad Quadrangular T20 is a Twenty20 cricket tournament. It was held in Trinidad & Tobago. The tournament is played to celebrate the Trinidad and Tobago's 50th year of independence. The tournament was scheduled to be a 6-match Twenty20 series between Trinidad & Tobago, Barbados, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. The matches in this series were not classified as official Twenty20 International matches. But it was classified as practice matches. The champions received a prize money of $50,000.

[[Bijar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Bijar (Bîcar, بیجار) is a city in Kurdistan province in Iran. People of Bijar speak in Sorani and Garusi dialect of Kurdi. They are followers of Islam.

[[Revenge (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 American television series debuts, 2010s American television series, ABC network shows, American soap operas, Mystery television series, Revenge, Television series set in New York, English-language television programs

Revenge is an American television soap opera. It was first shown on 21 September 2011, on ABC. The series is about a woman who comes back to her childhood home to get revenge on her father's friends who betrayed him by accusing him of a terrorist plot that he did not commit.

[[Rachel Dratch]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Massachusetts, Comedians from Massachusetts, 1966 births, Living people

Rachel Dratch (born February 22 1966 in Lexington, Massachusetts) is an American comedy actress. She works mostly in television programs. She was on Saturday Night Live from 1999 to 2006. She was also in the sitcoms 30 Rock and Frasier.

[[Fushimi, Kyoto]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Kyoto Prefecture

Fushimi is one of the eleven wards in the Japanese city of Kyoto in Kyoto Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

In Fushimi ward, Fushimi Inari-taisha, tombs of Emperor Kanmu and of Emperor Meiji are situated.

[[Gobō, Wakayama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Wakayama Prefecture

Gobō is a Japanese city in Wakayama Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[Aminul Islam Bulbul]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims, People from Dhaka

Mohammad Aminul Islam (আমিনুল ইসলাম Āminul Islām) (born February 2, 1968 in Dacca) is a Bangladeshi cricketer. He played 13 tests for Bangladesh. He also played 39 ODIs. 

He scored the first hundred for Bangladesh. 

He, along with other senior players like Minhajul Abedin Nannu and Akram Khan, took Bangladesh towards Test status.

He scored a scintillating 145 against India in their inaugural test, showing all the world of his class, and made the 2nd Bangladeshi test 50 after Habibul Bashar had reached his own. However, Bulbul, as he was affectionately called, lost his form afterwards and only managed to cross 50 twice more in Test mattches.

Now he works for ICC, aiming to develop cricket in countries where it isn't a big sport, like China for instance, and aims to spread cricket throughout the world.

[[Imrul Kayes]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Imrul Kayes (ইমরুল কায়েস; born 2 February 1987) is a Bangladeshi international cricketer. He plays for Khulna Division. He is a left-hand batsman. He is also an occasional wicket-keeper. He made his first-class debut in 2006.

[[Shahadat Hossain]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Kazi Shahadat Hossain (কাজী শাহাদাত হোসেন) (born August 7, 1986) is a Bangladeshi cricketer. He played his first Test match for Bangladesh in 2005.

[[The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire]]

CATEGORIES: History books, Roman Empire

The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is the short title of an important book by the 18th century English historian Edward Gibbon. The book traces the Roman Empire—and Western civilization as a whole—from the late first century AD to the fall of the Eastern or Byzantine Empire. 

Published in six volumes, from volume I in 1776 to volumes IV, V, VI in 1788–89. The work covers the history of the Roman Empire, Europe, and the Catholic Church from 98 to 1590 AD, and discusses the decline of the Roman Empire in the East and its fall in the West. Because of its relative objectivity and heavy use of primary sources, its methodology became a model for later historians. This led to Gibbon being called the first "modern historian of ancient Rome".

[[Aminul Islam (poet)]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Bangladeshi poets, Essayists

Aminul Islam  (born 29 December 1963) is a poet and essayist. He is from Bangladesh. Aminul has written seven books. He written five poetry books. He has been involved in creative writing for 20 years.

[[Aminul Islam (trade unionist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2012 deaths, Bangladeshi people, Trade unionists

Aminul Islam (1973 – April 2012) was a Bangladeshi trade unionist (someone who organises trade unions). He was murdered in 2012.

[[Aminul Islam]]

Aminul Islam may refer to:

[[Mahmudullah]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Mohammad Mahmudullah Riyad (born February 4, 1986 in Mymensingh, Dhaka), is a Bangladeshi cricketer. He is also known as Mahmudullah. Currently he is the vice captain of Bangladesh cricket team.

[[Naeem Islam]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Mohammad Naeem Islam is an international cricketer from Bangladesh. He was born on 31 December 1986 in Gaibandha. He is a right-handed batsman. He is also an occasional off break bowler.

[[Shohag Gazi]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Sohag Gazi (born August 5, 1991, Barisal) is a Bangladeshi cricketer. He made his Test debut in first test against West Indies in 2012. taking six wickets in the second innings.

[[Enamul Haque Jr]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Enamul Haque (born 5 December 1986 in Sylhet), is a Bangladeshi cricketer. He is known as Enamul Haque jr because a Bangladeshi player Enamul Haque played before him. He is a right-handed batsman. He bowls a slow left-arm delivery. 

[[India national cricket team]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket in India, 1932 establishments in India

The Indian Cricket Team is the national cricket team of India. It is ruled by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). It is a full member of the International Cricket Council (ICC). It has Test and One Day International (ODI) status.

[[List of One Day International cricket matches played by Bangladesh and Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket lists, Sport in Bangladesh, Sport in Australia

The cricket teams of Bangladesh and Australia have played against each other in ODIs since 1990. They have met on 19 occasions. Australia is most successful with 18 victories, Bangladesh have won in only 1 game.

[[One Day International]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket

One Day International is a form of limited overs cricket. It is played between 2 teams who has one-day status. It was played first in 1971. The teams were Australia and England. In this format of cricket 50 overs played in each innings. But earlier it was 60 overs.

[[Over (cricket)]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket, Sports words

In a cricket match an over is a set of six balls bowled from one end of a cricket pitch.

In a normal over, a single bowlers delivers six balls. After the over, the umpire calls "over". Some forms of cricket, like T20 cricket, limit the number of overs that can be bowled in a match/innings.

[[Cricket pitch]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket

In cricket match the cricket pitch is the central part of the cricket field. It is 22 yards (20.12 m) long and 10 feet (3.05 m) wide. The surface is very flat, so the ball can bounce on it when bowled to the batsman. At each end of the pitch there is a batsman's ground and a wicket. The bowler must bowl the ball from one end of the pitch (otherwise it is a no-ball) to the batsman or wicket at the other end (it is a wide￼￼ if the ball is not thrown near one of these). 

[[Samizdat]]

CATEGORIES: Literature, Censorship, Soviet Union

Samizdat was the underground literature of the Soviet Union. Since many authors were banned, and could not publish their works, people used typescripts to circulate their work. Penalties for being caught with copies of banned works was severe. Owning a printing press required permission, and all forms of printing required a licence. However, typewriters were common and, with the aid of carbon paper, many copies of the best works were produced and circulated.

Once samizdats were in circulation, they sometimes got into the West. Several important works were published from samizdat and translated, before they were published in the Soviet Union.

[[Mindy Kaling]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Cambridge, Massachusetts, American feminists, Comedians from Massachusetts, Tamil people, 1979 births, Living people

Vera Mindy Chokalingam, known professionally as Mindy Kaling (born June 24 1979 in Cambridge, Massachusetts) is an American actress and comedian. She is also a writer and acts mostly on television programs.

[[Hitoyoshi, Kumamoto]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kyushu, Settlements in Kumamoto Prefecture

Hitoyoshi is a Japanese city in Kumamoto Prefecture on the island of Honshu. 

[[Isesaki, Gunma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Gunma Prefecture

Isesaki is a Japanese city in Gunma Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[Iwakuni, Yamaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Yamaguchi Prefecture

Iwakuni is a Japanese city in Yamaguchi Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[John Everett Millais]]

CATEGORIES: 1829 births, 1896 deaths, English painters, Royal Academicians

Sir John Everett Millais, 1st Baronet, PRA  8 June 1829 – 13 August 1896) was an English painter. He was one of the founders of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, and painted several of their most famous works. 

By the time has was 30 he had changed to become a portrait painter of famous people. He was equally good at that, and became one of the best of the later 19th century. 

His marriage to Effie (Euphemia Chalmers Gray) had a history. She had married John Ruskin, but Ruskin did not consummate the marriage.

When she met Millais some five years after her marriage, she was still a virgin. She left her husband, and their marriage was annulled in 1854. In 1855 she married Millais and they had eight children. The triangle has been used in drama and literature many times.

[[Six Flags Magic Mountain]]

CATEGORIES: Six Flags amusement parks, 1971 establishments in California, Theme parks in California

Six Flags Magic Mountain is a theme park in Valencia, California, United States. It opened on May 29, 1971. From 1971 to 1979, the theme park was named Magic Mountain and independently owned. In 1979, the park was purchased by Six Flags, and it was renamed to Six Flags Magic Mountain in 1980. It is located beside a water park called Six Flags Hurricane Harbor. It has 19 roller coasters (the most in the world) and 60 other kinds of rides, giving a total of 69 rides in the park. Some of its rides include Revolution, Tatsu, X2, Apocalypse, Full Throttle, Scream!, Superman: Escape from Krypton, Gold Rusher, and Twisted Colossus. There are nine themed areas, including DC Universe (an area inspired by DC Comics) and The Movie District (a movie-inspired area). Starting with Wet 'n Wild Orlando, they had replaced

[[ICS Bégué]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 establishments in France, Education in France

ICS Bégué is a French private business school in Paris. It was created in 1957 and is part of IONIS Education Group.

It is recognized by the French State.

[[Enol]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups

An enol is an alkene that has an OH group attached to one end of the double bond. It is called an enolate if the proton on the oxygen atom is taken away.

Enols are tautomers of ketones or aldehydes. Tautomers are molecules which are different only in the position of an hydrogen atom. Enols can be made very easily from ketones or aldehydes using a base. They are quite unstable, because the C=O bond is stronger than the C=C bond. However, they can do many interesting reactions. The best example is the aldol reaction.

Enols of ketones can be made on two different sides. It is important to be able to choose which side to react. The side with less substituents is the easiest one to react: it can be made at low temperature with a bulky base. This is called the kinetic enolate. The other side, with more substituents, is more difficult to react. Higher temperatures are needed. This is called the thermodynamic enolate.

[[Steric effects]]

CATEGORIES: Stereochemistry

Steric effects are the effects seen in molecules that come from the fact that atoms occupy space. When atoms are put close to each other, this costs energy. The electrons near the atoms want to stay away from each other. This can change the way molecules want to react. It can also change the shape (or conformation) of the molecule. The amount of space that a group of atoms takes is called the "steric bulk".

An example of steric effects is steric hindrance. This is when a large group in a molecule makes reactions not work. For example, an SN2 reaction does not happen on carbon atoms that have three substituents. Steric hindrance however can also be a positive thing. Sometimes, chemists would like a reaction to happen in one place rather than another one. A bulky group can block a position. It can also change the shape such that only one diastereomer from a reaction is made.

Steric effects are usually smaller than electronic effects. These affect the molecule's shape and reactivity as well, but they come from the way electrons are placed in bonds.

[[Motherland Party (Azerbaijan)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Azerbaijan, Nationalist organizations in Azerbaijan, Conservative parties

The Motherland Party (Ana Vətən Partiyası) is a nationalist and conservative political party in Azerbaijan. It was founded in 1990. Its members are mainly Azerbaijanis who come from Armenia. The party's leader Fazail Agamali is a former deputy minister for social protection. The party's aim is to create a free, powerful, democratic and entire Azerbaijan.

At the 2010 parliamentary elections, it won 2 out of 125 seats.

[[Barking]]

CATEGORIES: Barking, London Borough of Barking and Dagenham, Towns in London

Barking is a town in Greater London, England. It is densely populated with people from multicultural backgrounds.

[[Kaga, Ishikawa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Ishikawa Prefecture

Kaga is a Japanese city in Ishikawa Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[Hashimoto's thyroiditis]]

CATEGORIES: Autoimmune diseases

Hashimato's thyroiditis or chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis is an autoimmune disease. The cause of Hashimato's thyroiditis is that body starts to produce antibodies against the normal thyroid tissue. This disease was the first disease to be described as autoimmune. for the first time it described by the Japanese specialist "Hakaru Hashimato" in Germany in 1912.

[[Kikuchi, Kumamoto]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kyushu, Settlements in Kumamoto Prefecture

Kikuchi  is a Japanese city in Kumamoto Prefecture on the island of Kyushu.

[[Tsing Ma Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Hong Kong, Steel bridges, Suspension bridges, Transport in Hong Kong

The Tsing Ma Bridge is a bridge in Hong Kong. It is the world's ninth-longest span suspension bridge, and was the second longest at time of completion.  The bridge was named after two of the islands at its ends, namely Tsing Yi and Ma Wan. It has two decks and carries both road and rail traffic, which also makes it the largest suspension bridge of this type. The bridge has a main span of 1377 and a height of 206. The span is the largest of all bridges in the world carrying rail traffic. 

[[Kotohira, Kagawa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Shikoku, Settlements in Kagawa Prefecture

Kotohira is a Japanese town in Kagawa Prefecture on the island of Shikoku. 

[[Sly and the Family Stone]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s music groups, American rock bands, Funk bands, Musical groups from San Francisco, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees, Soul bands

Sly and the Family Stone was an American rock, funk and soul band. The band was formed in 1967 and broke up in 1983. the band played an important park in the development of soul, funk, and psychedelic music. The group was led by Sly Stone. It also included several of his siblings. They are known for their songs "Everyday People" and "Dance to the Music".

In 1993, the band was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

[[Multivitamin]]

CATEGORIES: Vitamins

A multivitamin is any of a group of vitamins used often with minerals needed by the human body to function properly. Multivitamins are available as tablets, capsules, pastilles, powders, liquids, and injections. Besides injections, multivitamins are recognized by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (the United Nations' authority on food standards) as a category of food.

Multivitamins are often provided with minerals. A multivitamin or mineral set is approved in the United States as a (supplement) addition to a diet containing 3 or more vitamins and minerals that does not include herbs, hormones, or drugs.  The terms multivitamin and multimineral are often used interchangeably. There is no scientific definition for either.

[[List of One Day International cricket matches played by Bangladesh and Sri Lanka]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket lists, Sport in Bangladesh, Sport in Sri Lanka

The cricket teams of Bangladesh and Sri Lanka have played against each other in ODIs since 1986. They have met on 30 occasions. Sri Lanka have been more successful with 27 victories, Bangladesh have won in 3 games.

[[Ken Loach]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British socialists, English movie directors, English movie producers, English screenwriters, English television directors, Living people, People from Warwickshire

Ken Loach (born 1936) is a British movie director, producer and writer. He was born in Nuneaton, Warwickshire. He has made many movies about working class life. His films include Cathy Come Home, Poor Cow, The Wind that Shakes the Barley, and Kes. He was educated at St Peter's College, Oxford.

[[La Rioja]]

CATEGORIES: La Rioja

La Rioja is an autonomous community and a province in Spain. It is in the north of the Iberian Peninsula. The capital of La Rioja is Logroño. Other cities and towns in the province are Calahorra, Arnedo, Alfaro, Haro, Santo Domingo de la Calzada, and Nájera.

La Rioja is famous for its wines.

[[Dehgolan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Dehgolan (Dêwlan, دهگلان) is a city in Kurdistan province of Iran. They are followers of Islam. The population of Dehgolan is mainly Kurdish .

[[Divandarreh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Divandarreh (Dîwandere, دیواندره) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, there were 22,842 people, in 5,305 families.

[[Kamyaran]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Kamyaran (Kamyaran, کامیاران) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak in Kurdish. They are followers of Islam. There is also a Shia minority and a few Jewish families in Kamyaran.

At the 2006 census, there were 46,760 people, in 11,186 families.

[[Thomas Robinson, 1st Baronet Rokeby]]

CATEGORIES: 1703 births, 1777 deaths, English architects

Sir Thomas Robinson, 1st Baronet (1703–1777) was an English architect and collector.

Thomas left his brother William his title but not his estates. He left his brother Richard his books, including those on architecture and antiquities. On 2 March 1730, he became a Baronet of Rokeby. Rokeby is in the County of York.

[[Qorveh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Qorveh (Qurwe, قروه)) is a city in Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. Some people also speak Azerbaijani language. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, Qorveh had 65,842 people, in 16,309 families.

[[Ah Boys to Men]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 comedy movies, 2013 comedy movies, Multilingual movies, Singaporean movies

Ah Boys to Men is a 2012–2013 Singaporean comedy movie. It was released in two parts. It was directed by Jack Neo. Jack Neo also was one of the writers, along with Link Sng. It is the highest grossing Singaporean film of all time.

[[Sarvabad]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Sarvabad (Serwawa, سروآباد)) is a city in Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speaks in Kurdi. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, its population was  46,760, in 11,186 families.

[[Side Effects]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 crime movies, 2013 thriller movies, 2010s crime thriller movies, 2010s LGBT movies, American crime thriller movies, American LGBT movies, English-language movies, Infidelity in movies, LGBT crime movies, LGBT thriller movies, Movies about marriage, Movies about murderers

Side Effects is a 2013 American crime thriller movie. It stars Channing Tatum, Catherine Zeta-Jones and Jude Law. The movie is about a young woman under antidepressant drugs. The reviews for Side Effects were positive.

[[Hartola]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Päijänne Tavastia

Hartola is a municipality in Päijänne Tavastia, Finland. It is part of the historical area of Itä-Häme. As of 30 January 2014, over 3,100 people lived there. During summer, the number of people living there almost doubles. The nearest railway station is 62 away. There are several lakes in Hartola, including Jääsjärvi and Rautavesi.

The closest town to Hartola is Heinola. Other nearby municipalities are Joutsa, Luhanka, Pertunmaa and Sysmä. The closes cities are Jyväskylä (about 100km) and Lahti (about 100km). The closest airport is in Jyväskylä.

On the first Saturday of September there is a country market held in Hartola. This makes lot of people come to Hartola. It was first held 1937.

[[Extremadura]]

CATEGORIES: Extremadura

Extremadura is an autonomous community of Spain. Its capital city is Mérida. The provinces Cáceres and Badajoz are a part of Extremadura. Extremadura is bordered by Portugal to the west. To the north, it borders Castile and León. To the south, it borders Andalusia. To the east, it borders Castile-La Mancha.

[[Marugame, Kagawa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Kagawa Prefecture

Marugame is a Japanese city in Kagawa Prefecture on the island of Shikoku.

[[Minobu, Yamanashi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan, Settlements in Yamanashi Prefecture

Minobu is a Japanese town in Yamanashi Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[Yonezawa, Yamagata]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Yamagata Prefecture

Yonezawa is a Japanese city in Yamagata Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[Before and After]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 thriller movies, 1996 drama movies, 1990s drama thriller movies, English-language movies, American drama thriller movies

Before and After is a 1996 thriller drama based on a 1992 book of the same name. Meryl Streep plays Doctor Carolyn Ryan, Edward Furlong plays Jacob and Liam Neeson plays Ben Ryan. The subject of this thriller is murder, deception, coverup and betrayal. The release date was February 23, 1996.

[[Uozu, Toyama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Toyama Prefecture

Uozu is a Japanese city in Toyama Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[Lake Mungo remains]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Australia, Origin hypotheses of ethnic groups, New South Wales, Burials, Fossils, Indigenous Australian history

The Lake Mungo remains are three sets of human fossils. They are Lake Mungo 1 (LM1, or Mungo Lady), Lake Mungo 2 (LM2), and Lake Mungo 3 (LM3, or Mungo Man). The sites are located near Lake Mungo, in New South Wales, Australia, in the World Heritage-listed Willandra Lakes Region. Pieces of skeletons have been found in this region. These pieces have been attributed to over forty human skeletons. The Lake Mungo remains are the most significant of these.

[[Tosashimizu, Kōchi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Shikoku, Settlements in Kōchi Prefecture

Tosashimizu is a Japanese city in Kōchi Prefecture on the Pacific coastline of the island of Shikoku.

[[Civic Solidarity Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Azerbaijan, Nationalist organizations in Azerbaijan, Conservative parties

The.Civic Solidarity Party (Vətəndaş Həmrəyliyi Partiyası) is a nationalist and conservative political party in Azerbaijan. It was founded in 1992. The party's leader is Sabir Rustamkhanli, who is actually a poet. The party's ideology is based on the universal political values of freedom, equality and solidarity.

At the 2020parliamentary elections, it won 3 out of 125 seats.

[[Knockwurst]]

CATEGORIES: Sausage

Knockwurst is a type of sausage. In North America, knockwurst refers to a short, plump sausage that comes from the Holstein region in Germany. They contain ground veal, ground pork, and fresh garlic stuffed into hog casings.  The sausages are aged for two to five days, then smoked over oak wood. Knackwurst is often prepared highly seasoned.

[[Sorority Row]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 buddy movies, 2009 horror movies, 2009 thriller movies, 2000s horror thriller movies, 2000s serial killer movies, American buddy movies, American horror thriller movies, American movie remakes, American serial killer movies, English-language movies, Female buddy movies, Movies set in universities and colleges, Slasher movies, American independent movies

Sorority Row is a 2009 American horror thriller movie. It is a remake of The House on Sorority Row. It was released on September 11, 2009. Rumer Willis plays Ellie, and Audrina Patridge plays Megan. The movie is about a serial killer targeting a group of college students. Sorority Row was filmed in Pennsylvania. The reviews were negative for this movie.

[[Valencia (disambiguation)]]

Valencia is a city in Spain. Valencia might also mean:

[[Amour (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, 2012 romance movies, 2012 drama movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, Austrian movies, French romance movies, French drama movies, German drama movies, French-language movies, Movies directed by Michael Haneke

Amour is an 2012 Academy Award-winning French movie. The director was Michael Haneke. It starred Jean-Louis Trintignant as Georges, Emmanuelle Riva as Anne, and Isabelle Huppert as their daughter.

The movie was about an elderly couple, Anne and Georges, who are retired music teachers who live alone together. Anne suffers a stroke which paralyses her on one side of her body. After she makes Georges very angry, Georges grabs a pillow and suffocates Anne to death.

It received many positive reviews. Roger Ebert gave it four out of four stars. It won an Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for Best Foreign Film.

[[Ishigaki, Okinawa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Okinawa Prefecture

Ishigaki is a Japanese city in Okinawa Prefecture. The city is the most southern city in Japan.  

[[Michael Haneke]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Austrian screenwriters, German movie directors, German movie producers, German screenwriters, People from Lower Austria, People from Munich, Writers from Bavaria

Michael Haneke (born March 23, 1942) is a German-Austrian movie director, movie producer, and screenwriter. He is recently known for directing the Academy Award-winning foreign movie Amour. He was nominated for Best Director and Best Screenwriter at the Golden Globe Awards and at the Academy Awards.

Haneke was born on March 23, 1942 in Munich, Germany. He was raised in Wiener Neustadt. He is remotely related to actor Christoph Waltz. He was raised in Wiener Neustadt. Haneke studied at the University of Vienna. He was married to Susanne Haneke since 1983.

[[Jean-Louis Trintignant]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Actors from Paris, Actors from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, French movie actors, French stage actors, French television actors, French voice actors, Writers from Paris, Writers from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur

Jean-Louis Xavier Trintignant (born 11 December 1930) is a retired French actor. He won an César Award for Best Actor as Georges in the 2012 French movie Amour.

On 20 July, 2018 he announced his retirement from cinema.

Trintignant was born on 11 December 1930 in Piolenc, Vaucluse, France. He was raised in Piolenc and in Paris. Trintignant was married to Stéphane Audran until they divorced. Then he was married to Nadine Marquand from 1960 until they divorced in 1976.

[[Emmanuelle Riva]]

CATEGORIES: BAFTA Award winning actors, 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Paris, Cancer deaths in France, French movie actors, French photographers, French poets, French stage actors, French television actors, French voice actors, Writers from Paris

Emmanuelle Riva (born Paulette Germaine Riva; 24 February 1927 – 27 January 2017) was a French actress, writer, photographer, and poet. She was known for her BAFTA Award-winning role as Anne in Amour. She was nominated for an Academy Award and won an BAFTA Award for her role in Amour.

Riva was born on 24 February 1927 in Cheniménil, France. Her grandfather was Italian. Riva was raised and studied acting in Paris.

Riva died from cancer on 27 January 2017 in Paris at the age of 89.

[[Carmen Montejo]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2013 deaths, Cuban actors, Mexican movie actors, Mexican radio actors, Mexican stage actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors

Carmen Montejo (María Teresa Sánchez González; May 26, 1925 – February 25, 2013) was an Cuban-Mexican actress. She was known for her many television shows. She was one of the last surviving actresses of the Golden Age of Cinema of Mexico.

Montejo was born on May 26, 1925 in Pinar del Río, Cuba. She was married to Manuel González Ortega until his death. Montejo died on February 25, 2013 in Mexico City, Mexico from an illness, aged 87.

[[Isabelle Huppert]]

CATEGORIES: Satellite Award winners, 1953 births, Living people, French movie actors, French television actors, French stage actors, French voice actors, Actors from Paris

Isabelle Anne Madeleine Huppert (born March 16, 1953) is a French actress. She is known for her roles in Violette Nozière, La pianist, and in Amour. 

Huppert was born on March 16, 1953 in Paris, France. She as raised in Ville-d'Avray. Huppert studied at National Conservatory of Dramatic Art of Paris. She was married to Ronald Chammah since 1982. They had three children.

[[Weight loss]]

CATEGORIES: Health

Weight loss is when a person weighs less than before. A person can lose weight by running, swimming or doing any other activity. Also, a person might eat a healthier diet to lose weight. There are many diet and exercises programs available to lose weight. Many people lose weight when they eat less sugar and more vegetables, fruits and lean meat.

[[Shere Bangla National Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Bangladesh, Sport in Bangladesh, Cricket, Dhaka, 2006 establishments in Asia, 21st century establishments in Bangladesh

Sher-e-Bangla Cricket Stadium or Sher-e-Bangla National Cricket Stadium (SBNS)  is a cricket stadium in Bangladesh. Some times it is called Mirpur Stadium. It is in Mirpur of Dhaka. It can hold 26.000 people at a time. It was built in 2006. It was named after Sher-e-Bangla A. K. Fazlul Huq "The tiger of Bangla".

The stadium has hosted Bangladesh's first class, test, ODI, twenty20 and women's cricket matches. It also hosted international matches like ICC World Cup, Asia Cup etc.

[[Sportsbook]]

CATEGORIES: Gambling, Sports

In the United States of America a sportsbook is a place where a player can bet money on many different sports, for example basketball, golf, football, hockey, baseball, soccer, horse racing, boxing and many more.

A bet is when a person thinks that a particular team/contestant will win a competition and gives some money. If he wins the bet - he will receive his money back with some monetary prize. If his team/contestant loses, he will not get his money back.

The Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992 allows only Nevada, Oregon, Montana, and Delaware to legally bet on sports.

There are more Sportbooks that allow betting online or through mobile. With better availability and lower minimum bets, the whole industry is rapidly growing.

Before placing a bet a person should read the terms and conditions of the sportsbook to avoid any problems.

[[Paid survey]]

CATEGORIES: Marketing, Research

A paid or incentivized survey is a type of survey where person for filling out the details will get some reward.

Usual prizes will be small amount of money, simple reward like pen or cup, or entry in to competition to win something.

[[Mirpur Thana]]

CATEGORIES: Dhaka

Mirpur (মীরপুর/মিরপুর) is a place, a thana of Dhaka city, Bangladesh.

[[Lifeline (crisis support service)]]

CATEGORIES: Non-profit organizations, Organisations based in Australia, 1963 establishments, 1960s establishments in Australia

Lifeline is a non-profit organisation that provides free, 24-hour telephone support to people in need. Lifeline Assistance do not make any profit.

A lifeline Assistance called Volunteer Crisis Supporters provides suicide prevention services (trying to persuade people not to kill themselves) and mental health support (helping with depression and other issues). They help people not only by telephone but face-to-face too and online.

Most people that work at the Telephone Lifeline work for free. They are called volunteers. They are very well trained to help people with any problems. More than 400,000 calls are served by the Lifeline Assistance every year.

Some Lifeline Centres also provide other support services that may have group support, assistance with food & bills and support for the old people.

Lifeline has more than 260 retail outlets around Australia that sell clothes and furniture to make enough money to pay for training and office space they use. Some Lifeline Centres have few stores which helps them with day-to-day spending. Some lifelines can provide people in need with free mobile phones thanks to government grants.

The 2010 report recorded 2,361 deaths by suicide in Australia, 480 more deaths than in 2007.

[[List of Bangladesh Test cricketers]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cricketers, Bangladeshi cricketers

This is a list of Bangladeshi Test cricketers. This list is arranged to show the test cricketers of Bangladesh. If more than one player won his first Test cap in the same Test match, then those players are listed alphabetically by surname.

Statistics are correct as of 11 July 2021.

[[List of Bangladesh ODI cricketers]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cricketers, Bangladeshi cricketers

This is a list of One Day International cricketers for Bangladesh. The list is arranged in an order, in which each player won his first ODI cap. If more than one player won his first ODI cap in the same match, then those players are listed alphabetically by first name.

Statistics are correct as at 31 July 2008.

Notes:

[[Mobile advertising]]

CATEGORIES: Advertising, Mobile phones

Mobile advertising is very similar to online or internet advertising. Mobile advertising is method of advertising via mobile phones or other mobile devices like tablets.

More and more people worldwide have mobile phones and spend on them a lot of time so mobile advertising is very successful these days and the whole market is growing fast.

Today there are more mobile phones than TVsFebruary 2013 and computersFebruary 2013 in the world.

In Spain 75% of mobile phone owners receive mobile advertising. In France 62% and in Japan 54% mobile phone owners receive mobile advertising. In Japan today, 44% of mobile phone owners click on ads they get on their phones. Mobile advertising was worth 900 million dollars only in Japan.

There are people and organizations that want to create guidelines for Mobile Advertising (set of rules to follow).

[[List of Australia Test cricketers]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cricketers, Australian cricketers

This article lists Australian Test cricketers as of 14 February 2013.

[[List of England Test cricketers]]

CATEGORIES: English cricketers, Lists of cricketers, Lists about England

This is a list of cricketers that play Test cricket for England.

[[List of India Test cricketers]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cricketers, India-related lists, Cricket in India, Lists of Indian people

This is a list of Test cricketers who have played for India. A Test match is an international cricket match between two of the leading cricketing nations. The list is arranged in the order in which each player won his Test cap. Where more than one player won his first Test cap in the same Test match, those players are listed alphabetically by surname.

[[List of New Zealand Test cricketers]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cricketers, New Zealand sportspeople, New Zealand cricketers

This is a list of cricketers who play Test cricket for New Zealand.

Statistics are correct as of New Zealand v England, 3rd Test, 2007-08 (26 March, 2008)  

Note: 

New Zealand is shown above.

[[List of Pakistan Test cricketers]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cricketers, Pakistani cricketers, Pakistan-related lists

This is a list of cricketers who play Test cricket for Pakistan.

Statistics are correct as of 24 August 2008.

Notes:

[[Lion Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia, 20th century establishments in Indonesia, 1999 establishments in Asia

PT Lion Mentari Airlines, known as Lion Air or Lion Airlines is the largest private airline in Indonesia. Lion Air have their headquarter office in Jakarta, Indonesia. Lion Air goes to places like Singapore, Vietnam, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia.  The airplanes go to 56 different places in Indonesia and world with a fleet of 89 airplanes.

Lion Airlines cannot fly in European Union because they did not passed safety laws set by officials.

On 18 November 2011, the airline informed about order of Boeing planes setting the record for the world's bigge

st single order of 230 planes for a commercial airline worth $21.7 billion.

[[Nasir Hossain (Bangladeshi cricketer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers, Bangladeshi Muslims

Nasir Hossain (born 30 November 1991) is a Bangladeshi cricketer. He is an all-rounder. He made his One Day International (ODI) debut in August 2011 against Zimbabwe. He also made his Test debut in 2011. The opposition team was West Indies.

[[Aryabhata (satellite)]]

CATEGORIES: Satellites, India

Aryabhata was India's first satellite. It got its name from the Indian astronomer of the same name.

[[Jacquard loom]]

CATEGORIES: Machines, Manufacturing

The Jacquard loom is a mechanical loom. It is used to make patterns in clothing material. It was invented by Joseph Marie Jacquard, and first used in 1801. It simplified the process of making textiles with complex patterns.

[[Okinawa, Okinawa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Okinawa Prefecture

Okinawa  is a Japanese city in Okinawa Prefecture on the island of Okinawa.

[[Rude Awakening]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s comedy movies, 1989 movies, English-language movies

Rude Awakening is a comedy movie released in August 1989. It stars Cindy Williams as June and Andrea Martin as April. The movie is set in the late 1960s in New York City. The movie received negative reviews by critics while in theaters.

[[Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Illinois, 1958 births, Living people

Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (November 17 1958) is an American actress. She first became well-known after playing Gina Montana in the 1983 movie Scarface. She also played Carmen in the 1986 movie The Color of Money. Her other movies include Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991) and The Abyss (1989). Mastrantonio was born in Illinois.

[[Armardeh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Armardeh (Armerde, آرمرده) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, its population was 2,062, in 427 families.

[[Buin-e Sofla]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Buin-e Sofla (بووین خواروو, بوئین سفلی) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,069, in 206 families.

[[Kani Sur]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Kani Sur (Kanî Sûr, کانی سور) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,131, in 239 families

[[Yasukand]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Yasukand (Yasûkend, یاسوکند) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, its population was 3,268, in 917 families.

[[Bolbanabad]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Bolbanabad (Bolwanawa, بلبلان آباد) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, its population was 3,464, in 899 families.

[[Zarrineh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Zarrineh (Zerrîne, زرینه) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,272, in 266 families.

[[Babarashani]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Babarashani (Babarreşanî, بابارشانی) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. At the 2006 census, its population was 481, in 128 families.

[[Muchesh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Muchesh (Mûçiş, موچش) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam.  At the 2006 census, its population was 2,950, in 769 families.

[[Chenareh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Chenareh (Çinare, چناره) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam.  At the 2006 census, its population was 433, in 101 families.

[[Kani Dinar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Kani Dinar (Kanî Dînar, کانی دینار) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam.  At the 2006 census, its population was 5,127, in 1,232 families.

[[Delbaran]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Delbaran (Dilberan, دلبران) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam.  At the 2006 census, its population was 6,104, in 1,395 families.

[[Dezej]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Dezej (Dizec, دزج) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, its population was 2,292, in 559 families.

[[Serishabad]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Serishabad (Sirêşawa, سریش آباد) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, its population was 6,563, in 1,742 families.

[[Shuyesheh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Shuyesheh (Şûyşe, شویشه) is a city in the Kurdistan province of Iran. Its people speak Kurdish. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,136, in 280 families.

[[Saheb, Iran]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Kurdistan Province

Saheb (Sahêw, صاحب) is a city in the west side of Iran. They are followers of Islam. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,489, in 344 families.

[[Irtysh River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Russia, Geography of Kazakhstan

The Irtysh River (Иртыш; Ertis / Ертiс; 额尔齐斯河 / zh; Эрчис мөрөн, "Twirl"; İrteş) is a river in Siberia and Kazakhstan. It is the main tributary of the Ob River. The main tributary of the Irtysh is the Tobol River. The Ob-Irtysh forms a major drainage basin in Asia, and covers most of Western Siberia and the Altay Mountains.

[[Interpretations of quantum mechanics]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

In quantum mechanics, the mathematical formalism is very difficult to interpret physically. However, there are many ideas about the interpretations and meanings of quantum mechanics. There are no facts to prove any interpretation over the others, but there are some that are more accepted than others.

[[Planck's law]]

Planck's law describes the spectral density of electromagnetic radiation emitted by a black body in thermal equilibrium at a given temperature T. The law is named after Max Planck, who proposed it in 1900. It is a pioneering result of modern physics and quantum theory.

[[Kure, Hiroshima]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Hiroshima Prefecture

Kure is a Japanese city in Hiroshima Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[Etajima, Hiroshima]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Hiroshima Prefecture

Etajima is a Japanese city in Hiroshima Prefecture on the Etajima Island at the entrance of the bay of  Hiroshima.

[[Hioki, Kagoshima]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kyushu, Settlements in Kagoshima Prefecture

Hioki is a Japanese city in Kagoshima Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[Bagh]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir, Towns in Pakistan

Bagh (تحصیل باغ) is a sub-district of Bagh District, Azad Kashmir, Pakistan.

[[Jason Spezza]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Dallas Stars players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Ottawa Senators players, Ontario Hockey League players, Toronto Maple Leafs players

Jason Anthony Rocco Spezza (born June 13, 1983 in Mississauga, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He currently plays for the Toronto Maple Leafs of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Ottawa Senators and Dallas Stars.

He began his hockey career with the Brampton Battalion of the OHL. He also played for the Mississauga Ice Dogs for 2 seasons, the Windsor Spitfires for 2 seasons and the Belleville Bulls for 1 season. He entered the draft in 2001 and he was drafted with the 2nd overall by the Ottawa Senators in the 2001 NHL Entry Draft.

He was assigned to the Grand Rapids Griffins, the farm team of the Senators. He was called up to the Senators and made his NHL debut in the 2002-03 NHL season. He played 33 games with the Senators and played most of the season with Ottawa's new affiliate, Binghamton Senators. He was called up and played two seasons with the Senators and was sent down to the Binghamton Senators to play a season. After that he joined the Ottawa's main roster full-time.

Spezza was on the cover of 2007 video game, NHL 2K8. He married his girlfriend Jennifer on July 25, 2009. They have two daughters Sophia Donna Spezza (born June 8, 2010) and Nicola Patricia Spezza (born April 1, 2012).

On July 1, 2014, after Spezza had requested a trade, the Senators traded him along with Ludwig Karlsson to the Dallas Stars in exchange for Alex Chiasson, Alex Guptill, Nicolas Paul and a 2015 second-round pick to Ottawa.

[[Cave Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1793 births, 1866 deaths, Politicians from Tennessee, United States Postmasters General

Cave Johnson (January 11, 1793 – November 23, 1866) was a United States Congressman from Tennessee. He was from the Democratic Party.

[[Michelle Monaghan]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Iowa, 1976 births, Living people

Michelle Monaghan (born March 23, 1976) is an American movie and television program actress. She was in the movies Eagle Eye, Made of Honor and Mission: Impossible III. She also acted in the television program Boston Public. Before acting, she appeared on the covers of several magazines. Monaghan was born in Iowa.

[[Hyūga, Miyazaki]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kyushu, Settlements in Miyazaki Prefecture

Hyūga is a Japanese city in Miyazaki Prefecture on the island of Kyushu.

[[Qinghai]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of China

Qinghai Province is a large province in north-west China on the Tibetan Plateau. 

[[Nichinan, Miyazaki]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kyushu, Settlements in Miyazaki Prefecture

Nichinan is a city in Miyazaki Prefecture, Japan.

[[Julia Child]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2004 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, American television personalities, American chefs, Writers from California, Peabody Award winners, Emmy Award winners, People from Pasadena, California

Julia Carolyn Child (Julia Carolyn McWilliams; August 15, 1912 – August 13, 2004) was an American television personality, writer, and chef. She was known for having her own cooking show The French Chef. She won a Peabody Award and an Emmy Award. 

Child was born on August 15, 1912 in Pasadena, California. She studied at Smith College and at Le Cordon Bleu. Child was married to Paul Cushing Child from 1946 until his death in 1994, but they didn't have children. Child died on August 13, 2004 in Montecito, California from kidney failure, two days before her 92nd birthday. 

[[Roy W. Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1986 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American billionaires, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California

Roy William Hill (December 1, 1899 – February 14, 1986) was an American automobile dealer, philanthropist, and businessman. He helped start the Eisenhower Medical Center.

Hill was born on December 1, 1899 in Los Angeles, California. He was married to Madeleine M. Hill from 1924 until they divorced during the 1930s. Then he was married to Faye D Maxwell from 1942 until they divorced in 1969. Then he was married to Anne T. Hill from 1971 until his death in 1986. Hill died on February 14, 1986 from heart failure in his Rancho Mirage, California, aged 86.

[[Meg Hillier]]

CATEGORIES: British politicians, 1969 births, Living people

Meg Hillier (born 1969, Hampstead) is the Labour MP for Hackney South and Shoreditch. She was also the Mayor of Islington, where she lives. She read Philosophy, Politics and Economics at St Hilda's College, Oxford. She is currently Chair of the Public Accounts Committee in Parliament after taking over from Margaret Hodge.

[[St Hilda's College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1893 establishments in England

St. Hilda's College, Oxford is part of the University of Oxford. It was founded as a women's college in 1893 and remained single sex until 2008.

[[St. Hilda]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, 614 births, 690 deaths

Saint Hilda (614-690) of Whitby, Yorkshire was an abbess. Bede writes about her in his history of the church.

[[Whitby]]

CATEGORIES: North Yorkshire

Whitby is a fishing port near Scarborough, North Yorkshire, in northeast England.  13,213 people live there. Its name comes from the Old Norse Witebi, which means the "white settlement".

Whitby is on the edge of the North Yorkshire Moors.  

Its heritage coast is around 35 miles (56 km) long, stretching from Staithes to Flamborough. At Whitby, dinosaur footprints are visible on the beach. The black mineral jet is found in the cliffs and on the moors and has been used since the Bronze Age to make beads.  In Victorian times jet was brought to Whitby by pack pony to be made into decorative items. It was most popular in the mid-19th century when it was chosen for mourning jewellery by Queen Victoria after the death of Prince Albert.

In the Middle Ages, Whitby was home to whaling and herring fishing fleets.  Now, lobsters, brown and velvet crabs are important to the local fishery.  Tourists first began to visit Whitby in the 1800s.  Tourism is now the main source of income for Whitby.

Whitby's East cliff is the home of Whitby Abbey.  On the West Cliff, a whalebone arch commemorates Whitby's fishing heritage.

Captain James Cook, a British explorer who mapped New Zealand, Hawaii and Newfoundland, learnt to sail in Whitby. 

Part of Bram Stoker's story of Dracula is set in Whitby.

[[Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 drama movies, American drama movies, Autism in fiction, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in the 2000s, Movies based on the September 11 attacks, Movies about autism

Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close is an American drama movie released at Christmas 2011. It is based on the novel of the same name. It stars Tom Hanks, Sandra Bullock, Viola Davis, John Goodman, Jeffrey Wright and Max von Sydow with Zoe Caldwell. It is an autistic child whose father is killed in the September 11 attacks. The movie's reviews were negative. It was nominated for Academy Awards for Best Picture and Best Supporting Actor for von Sydow.

[[Eye colour]]

CATEGORIES: Eye, Classical genetics

Eye color is a visible character caused by two factors: the pigmentation of the eye's iris, and way light is scattered as it hits the top layer of the iris.

The human eye is different from its nearest relative, the chimpanzee eye. The eyes of chimps and also gorillas are entirely brown. Humans have the white to their eyes. This difference is thought to be significant. In the apes, individuals do not usually look directly at other members of the family, but all the same they keep a close watch on what is going on with the family group. They tend to look out of the corners of their eyes, as if to keep the glance secret. Perhaps to them a direct look is aggressive. Jane Goodall used to be careful and avoid looking directly at the gorilla families in the bush. She would sit at a distance, appearing to nibble at grass and leaves, while making occasional glances at the gorilla family.

[[Iris (eye)]]

CATEGORIES: Eye anatomy

The iris (plural: irides or irises) is a thin, circular structure in the eye. It controls the diameter and size of the pupils.

Eye colour is the colour of the iris. In humans, the iris may look green, blue, brown, hazel (a combination of light brown, green and gold), grey, violet, or even pink. In response to the amount of light exiting the eye, muscles attached to the iris expand or contract the pupil. The larger the pupil, the more light can enter the eye and reach the retina.

[[Iris]]

Iris may refer to:

[[Fleet Street]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in London

Fleet Street is a road in central London. It used to be where newspapers were made, before they moved east to Wapping.

The street already existed in the 14th century. It connected the City of London to Westminster. It takes its name from the River Fleet.

[[Lisa Blount]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Arkansas, American movie actors, Disease-related deaths in the United States, People from Fayetteville, Arkansas, 1957 births, 2010 deaths

Lisa Blount (July 1, 1957 - October 27, 2010) was an American television series and movie actress and producer who was in notable movies. She starred An Officer and a Gentleman (1982) and in the 2005 movie Chrystal. Blount was born in Fayetteville, Arkansas. She died in Little Rock, Arkansas.

[[Aérospatiale SA-330 Puma]]

CATEGORIES: Aérospatiale, British military aircraft, French military aircraft, Helicopters

The Aérospatiale SA-330 Puma is a transport helicopter designed and built in France. The design was first built by Sud Aviation, and later by Aérospatiale. It was also built by Westland Helicopter in the United Kingdom after an agreement between the two countries It first flew in April 1965. It is mainly used by Armée de l'Air, Royal Air Force, and some other air forces. It is also used by civilians.

[[Ogasawara, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture

Ogasawara is a Japanese village in the Ogasawara Subprefecture of Tokyo.

[[Pope Soter]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Italian popes, 174 deaths

Pope Soter (Soterius; d. 174) was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church who became the 12th Pope, the official title is the Bishop of Rome, from 166 until his death in 174.

[[Kristen Johnston]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Washington, D.C., Actors from Wisconsin, American autobiographers, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, New York University alumni, 1967 births, Living people

Kristen Johnston (September 20, 1967) is an American movie, stage and television program actress who won two Emmy Awards for acting. She acted as Sally Solomon in the sitcom 3rd Rock from the Sun and has been in several movies. She was born in Washington, D.C., though was raised close to Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

[[Ilford]]

CATEGORIES: Ilford

Ilford is a large town in Greater London, the headquarters of the London Borough of Redbridge. It is also identified as a major area in the London Plan, being located about 9.1 miles east of Charing Cross. 

Ilford was once a small settlement in Essex. It started to develop because of its strategic position near the River Roding and the road from London to Colchester. The arrival of the railway in 1839 also boosted this growth, causing trade and development to foster in the area. Ilford became a municipal borough in 1926 as well as expanding and increasing in population. In 1965, however, the municipal boroughs were scrapped and the area was removed from Essex and dissolved into Greater London. Many people still refer to Ilford and other East London areas as being part of Essex. 

Ilford is part of the IG postcode area although some parts are in the E postcode area instead.

[[Ricky Tomlinson]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Lancashire, English activists, English movie actors, English television actors, Political activists, 1939 births, Living people

Ricky Tomlinson (born 26 September 1939) is a British actor and political activist. He was born Eric Tomlinson in Bispham, Blackpool, Lancashire. He is best known for his roles as Bobby Grant in Brookside, DCI Charlie Wise in Cracker and Jim Royle in The Royle Family.

[[Atanasoff–Berry Computer]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

The Atanasoff-Berry Computer was one of the first computers. It was designed in 1937. It was not able to be programmed, and it was designed only to solve groups of linear equations. It was successfully tested in 1942. It was very amazing technology for the time. It was the first machine to use many important things used in modern computing.

[[Ann Sothern]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from North Dakota, American movie actors, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from heart failure, 1909 births, 2001 deaths

Ann Sothern (January 22, 1909 - March 15, 2001) was an American movie, stage and television series actress. She starred in a lot of radio and television shows. She began her career in the late 1920s, and it lasted less than sixty years. She acted in the sitcoms Private Secretary (1953-58) and The Ann Sothern Show (1958-61). Sothern was born in North Dakota. She moved to Idaho after she retired from acting. She died in Idaho from heart failure.

[[Gustavo Santaolalla]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Argentine musicians, Living people, Academy Award winners

Gustavo Alfredo Santaolalla (born 19 August 1951) is an Argentine musician, film composer and producer. He is a two-time Academy Award winner for Best Original Score.

[[Coti]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Argentine musicians, Living people, Argentine singers

Roberto Fidel Ernesto Sorokin, known by his stage name Coti, is an Argentine musician. He is best known for his work with other Spanish-language artists like Andrés Calamaro, Julieta Venegas, Paulina Rubio and Luis Miguel. His 2005 release, Esta Mañana y Otros Cuentos went gold in both Argentina and Mexico. It went double platinum in Spain.

[[Bernardo O'Higgins]]

CATEGORIES: 1778 births, 1842 deaths, Chilean politicians, People from Bío Bío Region

Bernardo O'Higgins Riquelme (1778–1842) was a Chilean independence leader. Along with José de San Martín, he is credited with liberating Chile from Spanish rule. Although he was the second Supreme Director of Chile (1817–1823), he is considered one of Chile's founding fathers. He was also the first leader of a fully independent Chilean state.

[[Scott Mills]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Actors from Hampshire, BBC radio presenters, English LGBT people, English radio personalities, English television actors, English television presenters, Gay men, LGBT broadcasters, People from Southampton, Television personalities from Hampshire

Scott Mills (born 28 March 1974) is a British radio DJ. He has his own daily show on BBC Radio 1. He is also a television presenter and an actor. He was born in Southampton.

Scott Mills began working at 16 in a local radio in Hampshire. He joined BBC Radio 1 in 1998. In May 2004 was given a slot on weekday early-evenings to cover for Sara Cox who was about to have a baby. He now has a slot everyday in the afternoon.

Mills is openly gay.

[[Mitochondrial Eve]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Origin hypotheses of ethnic groups

Mitochondrial Eve is a term from genetics and human evolution. It refers to a woman, whose mitochondrial DNA is a parent of all living humans. To put this more exactly, she is the female most recent common ancestor of all human alive at present. 

[[King Ghidorah]]

CATEGORIES: Monsters, Godzilla, Fictional characters introduced in the 1960s, Fictional dragons, Fictional mass murderers, Supervillains

King Ghidorah is a fictional monster who appears in movies from Japan. He first appeared in Ghidorah, the Three-Headed Monster. Since then, he has appeared in several Godzilla movies. He is a golden three-headed dragon with no arms, large wings, and two tails. He is the strongest monster in the Godzilla movies.

[[Piano Sonata No. 11 (Mozart)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Sonatas, Solo piano pieces

The Piano Sonata No. 11 in A major, K. 331 is a piece of music for the piano. It was written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. It was published in Vienna, Austria by Artaria in 1784. It is the second of a group of three piano sonatas. Mozart probably wrote the group in Salzburg in the summer of 1783. It was then that he brought his wife Constance (Weber) to his hometown to introduce her to his father Leopold. The first sonata in the group is No. 10 in C major, K. 330. The third is No. 12 in F major, K. 332. Mozart numbered this group of sonatas 1 through 3. He spent much time teaching during his early years in Vienna. It is likely that these sonatas were written for his pupils.

The A major sonata is unique among Mozart's piano sonatas. It does not include a movement in sonata form. The first movement is a lilting theme in 6/8 followed by six variations in A major and A minor. The last variation is in 4/4 time.  The second movement is a Menuetto in A major with a contrasting section (called a Trio) in D major. It is written in 3/4 time. The third and final movement is the famous "Alla Turca" (Turkish Rondo) in 2/4 time. It is considered one of the finest examples of Viennese Turkish music that was produced in the late 18th century. The rondo's rolled block bass chords suggest the drum rolls of a Turkish Janissary band. In true classical style, the rondo alternates between major and minor keys, and loud and soft dynamics. The piece is a favorite for amateur recitals.

[[Sandy Dennis]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Nebraska, 1937 births, 1992 deaths, Tony Award winning actors

Sandra Dale "Sandy" Dennis (April 27, 1937-March 2, 1992) was an American actress. She received two Tony Awards for acting. She performed mostly in theater and movies. Her most notable movies included Sweet November (1968), The Out-of-Towners (1970) and The Indian Runner. Dennis was born in Nebraska. She died of ovarian cancer in Westport, Connecticut.

[[Sakai, Osaka]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Osaka Prefecture

Sakai is a city in Osaka Prefecture. It has over 800,000 people. It is known for its ancient burial mounds and its cutlery industry. 

And the largest kofun, Daisen-kofun, the imperial tomb of Emperor Nintoku is located.

[[Nebraska City]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, 1855 establishments in Nebraska Territory, County seats in Nebraska

Nebraska City is a city in eastern Nebraska. It is southeast of Omaha. The city is near the border of southwestern Iowa and northwestern Missouri. It was incorporated in late 1855.

[[Necropolis]]

CATEGORIES: Burial monuments and structures, Cemeteries

Necropolis (city of the dead) is a large cemetery complex. One of the most famous is in Thebes, Egypt.

[[Air (visual novel)]]

CATEGORIES: Anime, 2000 video games

Air is a Japanese adult visual novel developed by Key released on September 8, 2000 playable on Windows PCs. Key later released versions of Air without the erotic content, and the game was ported to the Dreamcast, PlayStation 2 and PlayStation Portable. Comic anthologies and art books were also published, as were audio dramas and several albums of music. Kyoto Animation produced a 13-episode anime television series and a two-episode anime mini-series in 2005, and Toei Animation produced an anime film in 2005.

The story follows the life of Yukito Kunisaki, a traveling showman searching for the "girl in the sky". He arrives in a quiet, seaside town where he meets three girls, one of whom is the key to the end of his journey.

[[Hebrew name]]

CATEGORIES: Judaism, Names, Hebrew language

Hebrew names are names that have come from the Hebrew language. Traditionally they come from the Hebrew Bible.

They are mostly used by people living in Jewish or Christian parts of the world, but some are also adapted to the Islamic world, particularly if a Hebrew name is mentioned in the Qur'an.

When Hebrew-speaking Muslims give names, they do not necessarily use Jewish or Christian names. A typical Hebrew name can have many different forms – an important principle of the Jewish religion worldwide is to give a Hebrew name to a child that is used throughout his or her lifetime.

Not all Hebrew names are strictly Hebrew in origin: some may have been "taken" from other languages since ancient times. These include Egyptian, Aramaic, Phoenician, Greek, Latin, Arabic, Spanish, German, and English.

[[John Gavin]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Ambassadors of the United States to Mexico, American military personnel of the Korean War, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Military people from California, Politicians from Los Angeles County, California, Presidents of the Screen Actors Guild, Stanford University alumni, US Republican Party politicians

John Gavin (John Anthony Golenor; April 8, 1931 – February 9, 2018) was an American politician and actor. He was the Ambassador to Mexico from 1981 through 1986 under President Ronald Reagan. Gavin was in many movies. He was president of the Screen Actors Guild from 1971 through 1973. He was originally to play James Bond in two movies, but was rejected because he was not British.

Gavin was born on April 8, 1931 in Los Angeles, California to an Irish and Mexican family. He studied at St. John's Military Academy and at Stanford University. Gavin was married to Cecily Evans from 1957 until they divorced in the same year. They had seven children together. He married Constance Towers in 1974. He had two step-children.

Gavin died of pneumonia at his home in Los Angeles on February 9, 2018 at the age of 86.

[[Dale Robertson]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Oklahoma, American movie actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in the United States

Dayle Lymoine "Dale" Robertson (July 14, 1923 – February 27, 2013) was an American actor. He was best known for his role as Jim Hardie in Tales of Wells Fargo. He won the Golden Boot Award in 1985.

Robertson was born on July 24, 1923 in Hurrah, Oklahoma. He was raised in Claremore, Oklahoma. Robertson studied at Oklahoma Military Academy. He was married to Susan Robertson until his death in 2013. Robertson died on February 27, 2013 from pneumonia caused by lung cancer in his home in San Diego, California, aged 89.

[[Who is a Jew?]]

CATEGORIES: Judaism

Who is a Jew? (?מיהו יהודי) is the basic question about the identity of Jews, or in other words: which people are considered to be Jewish. 

[[Logo of Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedia, Symbols

The logo of Wikipedia, which is a free, open-source online encyclopedia, that's accessible in many languages, is a picture that shows the following description:

A cut globe made from Jigsaw puzzle pieces with some missing at the top, and has glyphs from many different writing systems. 

As shown on the web pages of the English-language version of Wikipedia, it says "Wikipedia" under it, and there's a text that says "The Free Encyclopedia", in the free open-source font.

[[Registered user]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Internet security

A registered user is a person who uses a program or a website and signs up to them by providing his or her identity information.

Registered users may be different depending on the platform they are using, and could have some advantage over guest users in many aspects - however, criticism on the matter has been a big deal. 

[[Proteome]]

CATEGORIES: Molecular biology

Proteome is a word made from the words protein and genome. It means all the proteins produced by an organism. It was suggested in 1994 by Marc Wilkins, Professor of Biotechnology at the University of New South Wales. 

[[University of New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 establishments in Australia, Buildings and structures in Sydney, Colleges and universities in Australia

The University of New South Wales (UNSW) is a university in Sydney, New South Wales. It is one of the most highly regarded schools in Australia. It was founded in 1949.

[[The Alphabet Killer]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 crime movies, 2000s mystery movies, 2000s thriller movies, American serial killer movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York, Movies set in the 1970s, Rochester, New York, American independent movies

The Alphabet Killer is a 2008 American mystery crime thriller movie. It was given limited release on November 7, 2008. The movie is about the murders of three girls in Rochester, New York between 1971 and 1973. Eliza Dushku plays Megan Paige, an investigator for Rochester Police Department who is investigating the murders. Timothy Hutton plays killer Richard Ledge. This thriller got negative reviews from the critics.

[[Crop (anatomy)]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy

A crop (sometimes called a croup or craw) is a thin-walled expanded portion of the alimentary canal used for storing food before digestion. It is found in many animals. It occurs in birds, some dinosaurs, and invertebrate animals such as gastropods (snails and slugs), earthworms, leeches, and insects.

[[Dassault Rafale]]

CATEGORIES: French military aircraft, Dassault Aviation

The Dassault Rafale is a fighter aircraft made by French airplane company Dassault Aviation. The prototype first flew in 1986 but was introduced in 2001 by the Marine Nationale. Rafale was introduced in Armée de l'Air in 2006.

[[Independence Gate]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Seoul, Gates

The Independence Gate (독립문, 獨立門) is a Korean political memorial gate, in Seoul, South Korea. The gate was designed by Seo Jae-pil.

[[Türkmenabat]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Asia, Geography of Turkmenistan

Türkmenabat (or Turkmenabad; Түркменабат) is a city in Turkmenistan. It used to be called Chardzhou (Чарджоу, Чәрҗев); Persian for "four canals"). It is the capital of Lebap Province. There were about 254,000 people living there in 2009.

[[French Air Force]]

CATEGORIES: French Air Force

The French Air Force (Armée de l'Air, literally Army of the Air) is the air force of France. It was formed in 1909 as the Service Aéronautique de l'Armée, part of the French Army, and finally independent in 1934 in its current form. In 2013 it has an important fleet of aircraft.

[[Show and tell]]

CATEGORIES: Figures of speech, Education

Show and tell is a common expression.  It is about showing an audience something and telling them about it.  

This group exercise is used to teach young children the skills of public speaking.  For example, children will bring an item from home and will explain to the class why they chose that certain item, where they got it, and other relevant information.

[[Spaghetti squash]]

CATEGORIES: Vegetables, Cucurbitaceae

The spaghetti squash (Cucurbita pepo) is an oblong seed-bearing variety of winter squash. The fruit can range either from ivory to yellow or orange in color. The orange varieties have a higher carotene content. Its center contains many large seeds. Its flesh is bright yellow or orange. When raw, the flesh is solid and similar to other raw squash; when cooked, the flesh falls away from the fruit in ribbons or strands like spaghetti.

[[Burning bush]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament, Christian symbols, Judaism

The Burning Bush is an object described in the Book of ExodusExodus. It was said to be on Mount Horeb.  According to the narrative, the bush was on fire, but was not consumed (all burned up) by the flames. This is the reason for the name given to the bush. In the narrative, the burning bush is where Moses was chosen by God to lead the Israelites out of Egypt and into Canaan. 

[[Liana]]

CATEGORIES: Flowering plants, Vines

Lianas are vines which live in rainforests. They are climbing plants which wrap around trees.

[[Doctors of the Church]]

CATEGORIES: Titles, Christian theologians

Doctor of the Church (from Latin docere, to teach) is a title used in some Christian churches. It is given to people who are recognized as having been of particular importance, especially in their contribution to theology or doctrine. In the Catholic Church, this title is given to a saint who has written important works. The honour is given rarely, and only after canonisation. Saint Ambrose (330-397), Saint Augustine of Hippo (53-430), Saint Jerome, and Pope Gregory I are known as the Four Great Doctors (of the Western Church). In the Eastern Church, these are John Chrysostom, Saint Basil of Caesarea (or Basil the Great), Gregory of Nazianzus and Athanasius of Alexandria. Other Doctros of the Church incliude Thomas Aquinas, Anselm of Canterbury, Teresa of Ávila, Thérèse of Lisieux and Hildegard von Bingen.

[[Factoring (finance)]]

CATEGORIES: Finance

Factoring is selling rights to the future payments. People and companies that are receiving money from contracts every some time may be in need of extra money - so they sell rights to receive those payments for cash hence Factoring. This is done especially in construction business where companies are paid for parts of work completed instead of upfront payment. Such a company will sell future payments for small percentage fee and will receive all money they need to continue the work without delays.

The structured settlement factoring transaction can be really helpful for business in financial needs.

It provides business with better financing and more funds on hands in exchange for small percentage of total sum.

Some banks are entering field of Factoring trying to provide same service advertised by well known names.

[[Senigallia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Italy, Settlements in Marche

Senigallia is a comune and seaport in Italy. It is on the Adriatic coastline, in the province of Ancona, in the Marche region. It is the second city of the province, after the capital, by the number of people living there.

It is an important seaside resort in the Marche region, and is visited every year by many person. Its beach is known as Spiaggia di Velluto (Velvet Beach).

[[Free Studio]]

CATEGORIES: Free software

Free Studio is a free set of multimedia programs created by DVDVideoSoft. The software is combination of multiple programs of different use combined in one. You can download them as one in a package or separately.

Free Studio consists of 48 programs, grouped into eight sections: YouTube to MP3 converter, Audio, CD-DVD-BD, DVD & Video, Photo & Images, Mobiles, Apple Devices, 3D.

Free YouTube to MP3 Converter is one of the five most popular software applications according to Chip Magazine.

[[AT&T U-verse]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Cable television, Telephone

U-verse or at&t U-verse is a brand that provides internet connection, premium television channels and VoIP. Launched in June 26, 2006 it is available in 22 US states.

By 2011 U-verse was available to 30 million people. U-verse High Speed Internet had 6.5 million subscribers.

[[Fulfillment house]]

CATEGORIES: Commerce

A fulfillment house or fulfillment centre are modern terms for a packing warehouse.

[[Paulina Rubio]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Actors from Mexico City, Mexican television actors, Mexican singers, Latin singers

Paulina Susana Rubio Rue (born June 17, 1971), is a Mexican singer, actress, hostess, model and businesswoman. She has sold over 20 million records world wide.

[[Skin whitening]]

CATEGORIES: Cosmetics

Skin whitening, skin lightening, or skin bleaching, is a technique of making a person's skin lighter. This is done by reducing the melanin responsible for dark skin. Some chemicals in form of pills and injections are available. Some of those chemicals (such as compounds of mercury) may be toxic. 

Most skin lightening treatments are done to moles and birthmarks, but lightening unaffected skin parts is also possible. More people use such treatments because prices have dropped and there is better availability.

The new methods using both lasers and LED systems are showing good results and are possible alternative to chemicals.

[[Susana Dosamantes]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, People from Guadalajara

Susana Dosamantes (born Susana Dosamantes Rul Riestra on 9 January 1948 in Guadalajara, Mexico), is a Mexican actress.

[[Potter Palmer]]

CATEGORIES: 1826 births, 1902 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Chicago, Burials at Graceland Cemetery, American billionaires, Businesspeople from Chicago, Architects from Chicago

Potter Palmer (May 20, 1826 – May 4, 1902) was an American businessman and architect. Palmer is known for helping creating new streets in the city of Chicago after the Great Chicago Fire during the 1880s.

Palmer was born on May 20, 1826. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. Potter was married to Bertha Honoré from 1871 until his death in 1902. They had two children. On May 4, 1902, Palmer died from heart failure in his home in Chicago, Illinois. He was 75 when he died. He is buried at Graceland Cemetery in Uptown, Chicago.

[[Human chorionic gonadotropin]]

CATEGORIES: Hormones, Reproductive system

Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is a hormone produced during pregnancy. Some tumors might produce this hormone. From December 6, 2011, the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) made illegal selling hCG diet products in pharmacies.

Controversy about injected hCG for weight loss started marketing campaign for injections of "homeopathic hCG" for weight control. The ingredients in these products if prepared from true hCG via homeopathic dilution, will contain either no hCG at all or only small amount of it.

We can measure hCG level with Blood or urine tests. These can be done by pregnancy tests.

Below is a list of hCG levels during pregnancy. (LMP is the last menstrual period dated from the first day of your last period.) The level of hCG grows over the time during pregnancy.

[[Giovanni Bellini]]

CATEGORIES: 15th century Italian painters, 1430 births, 1516 deaths

Giovanni Bellini (c. 143026 November 1516) was an Italian Renaissance painter based in Venice. His father Jacopo and his brother Gentile were also painters, as was his brother-in-law Mantegna. 

Bellini used a coloristic style exemplified by his use of clear oil paints, deep colors, and detailed shadings. His atmospheric landscapes influenced Venetian painting, particularly the work done by his pupils, Giorgione and Titian. 

[[International marketing]]

CATEGORIES: Marketing

International marketing (IM) or global marketing is a marketing done on international level. The International Marketing is based on strategy created in home country of company and distributed to its other offices/affiliations. In most cases it is international company level (company have offices in different countries) market identification and targeting. International Marketing is very similar to Global marketing.

The main difference will be the fact that Global Marketing is focusing on intercontinental point of view.

The example of International Marketing would be where an English company would like to enter Chinese market. It will be done by either developing marketing strategy in their home country that will be then introduced in new market or they will hire a company to create such a plan.

[[Harold Pinter]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2008 deaths, Actors from London, BAFTA Award winners, British anti–Iraq War activists, British movie actors, British Nobel Prize winners, British playwrights, British television actors, British television writers, Cancer deaths in London, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Jewish British actors, Jewish British writers, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Movie directors from London, People from Hackney, Screenwriters from London

Harold Pinter CH CBE (10 October 1930 – 24 December 2008) was a British playwright, screenwriter, director and actor. Pinter was Jewish. He was born and raised in Hackney, east London.

His plays include: The Birthday Party, The Homecoming and Betrayal, all of which he adapted into movies. His adaptations of others' works include: The Servant, The Go-Between, The French Lieutenant's Woman, The Trial and Sleuth.

The critic Irving Wardle called Pinter's early plays "comedies of menace". He meant that the plays begin with an apparently innocent situation. The situation becomes both threatening and "absurd" as Pinter's characters behave in strange ways. Pinter acknowledged that Samuel Beckett influenced his early work. They became friends, sending each other drafts of their works in progress for comments.

Pinter was married to Vivien Merchant from 1956 until they divorced in 1980. He was married to Antonia Fraser from 1980 until his death. He was diagnosed with oesophageal cancer in 2001 and died from the disease in London seven years later when it metastasised to his liver.

[[Structured settlement]]

CATEGORIES: Finance, Insurance

A Structured settlement is an insurance or financial arrangement that is negotiated to end a lawsuit. It is a legal agreement through which an insurance company agrees to make regular payments to a specific individual over a period of time.

Structured settlements created as a way for insurance companies to payout settlements in installments as opposed to large lump sums. Structured settlements may benefit injured people whose settlements might result in their owing taxes, by allowing them to reduce or delay tax payments. They may also benefit younger people or disabled people by providing periodic payments of money over an extended period of time.

Structured settlements require the paper holder (a name for the person who receives payments from the settlement) to wait before they will get money, by spreading payments over a number of years. However there are companies offering to buy such a structured settlement for upfront money. For example, a company might offer to buy a settlement that would be paid in 20 yearly payments for a one-time payment of lower value. Such financing may need to be approved by judge and the insurance company.

In the United States, the sale of a structured settlement may result in tax liability under the Internal Revenue Code.

[[Die Fledermaus]]

CATEGORIES: Operas, Compositions by Johann Strauss II

Die Fledermaus (The Bat) is an opera by Johann Strauss II. Its first performance took place on April 5, 1874 at the Theater an der Wien in Vienna, Austria. The opera has been presented on New Year's Eve in Vienna since the early 1930s. Die Fledermaus is based on the French play Le Réveillon (1872) by Meilhac and Halévy.

[[Term life insurance]]

CATEGORIES: Insurance

Term life insurance or term assurance is life insurance that provides coverage for some sum of money during a given period of time.  After the term stated in original contract expires, the sum of money paid to insurance company will need to be renegotiated and will often increase. Term insurance is the cheapest way of buying life insurance.

Term life insurance is the original form of life insurance and is different to permanent insurance because its rates will not go up, and there is a fixed term contract, which will end in the future. Permanent life insurance contracts can last until the death of insured person, but the rates will slowly increase over time.

Because term life insurance is only death insurance, it is used to cover mortgages (guarantee that the bank will receive their money), payment to the families (upon death of insured person his family will usually receive repayment for funeral costs and in some cases will get some money), repayment of debts.

The simplest form of term life insurance is a one-year contract. The death benefit will be paid if the insured dies. If he does not die during this the coverage period no claims are paid, and a new contract must be written.

Term life insurance is the most affordable type of life insurance because it is temporary and builds no cash value inside the policy over time. Term life is “pure protection”, not an investment.

Level term life insurance is a type of term life insurance plan that has guaranteed level rates and amounts of coverage for the entire term of the policy. 

Level term life plans may offer coverage with level rates for a period of 10, 15, 20 or 30 years. Some term life insurance plans provide life insurance to age 65 or 70, but your rate will increase after the “level term” period.

[[Eisteddfod]]

CATEGORIES: Welsh culture, Festivals in the United Kingdom, Music festivals in the United Kingdom

The Eisteddfod is a Welsh festival of literature and music. The idea of the festival goes back at least to the 12th century.

[[Denbighshire]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Wales

Denbighshire is a shire in northeast Wales, in the United Kingdom. It has over 90,000 people. The largest town is Rhyl.

[[Rhyl]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wales

Rhyl (Y Rhyl), pronounced Rill, is a seaside resort and community in Denbighshire in North Wales. It is in the historic county of Flintshire and the preserved county of Clwyd. In 2011, the town's population was 25,149. This makes it one of the largest settlements in North Wales.

The town was once an elegant Victorian resort. Influences from Liverpool and Manchester, both cities in England, after World War II changed the town. By 1990, the town had declined. However, since then the town has had major regeneration.

It has a number of Grade II listed buildings. An example is the Parish Church of St Thomas in Bath Street. It is listed as Grade II*.

Very old documents refer to a small dwelling in the area called Ty'n Rhyl. There is a manor house with that name that still exists in the town.

[[Mesh networking]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

Mesh networking is a kind of network topology, a way computer networks and other networks are laid out.  In mesh networking, each node is connected to one or more other nodes.  Information is passed from one node to the next, until it reaches its target destination.  Such networks can be very reliable because there is usually more than one path from one node to another.  When a node fails, the data will simply take another route.  

The disadvantage of such networks is that building them can be very expensive.  A network in which each node is directly connected to every other node is called a fully connected network.  Another type of a mesh network is a mobile ad hoc network.  In such a network the nodes are mobile, and the network may reorganize itself while it is running. 

According to Reed's Law, the value of fully meshed networks is proportional to the exponent of the number of subscribers. Metcalf's Law, in contrast asserts that the value is proportional to the square of the number of subscibers.

[[The Emperor's New Clothes]]

CATEGORIES: Fairy tales, Works by Hans Christian Andersen

"The Emperor's New Clothes" is a story by Hans Christian Andersen. The tale was first published on 7 April 1837 with "The Little Mermaid" in the third and final installment of Andersen's Fairy Tales Told for Children. It was published in Copenhagen, Denmark by C. A. Reitzel. The story is based on one from the Libro de los ejemplos del conde Lucanor y de Patronio|Libro de los ejemplos (or El Conde Lucanor, 1335) by Juan Manuel, Prince of Villena (1282–1348). This book was a medieval Spanish collection of fifty-one cautionary tales with various sources such as Aesop and other classical writers and Persian folktales. Andersen did not know the Spanish original, but read the tale in a German translation titled "So ist der Lauf der Welt". In the source tale, a king is hoodwinked by weavers who claim to make a suit of clothes invisible to any man not the son of his presumed father. Andersen altered the source tale to direct the focus on courtly pride and intellectual vanity rather than adulterous paternity.

Andersen's manuscript was at the printer’s when he suddenly changed the original climax of the tale from the emperor’s subjects admiring his invisible clothes to that of the child's cry.  Andersen’s decision to change the ending may have occurred after he read the manuscript tale to a child, or had its source in a childhood incident similar to that in the tale.  In 1872, he recalled standing in a crowd with his mother waiting to see King Frederick VI.  When the king made his appearance, Andersen cried out, "Oh, he’s nothing but a human being!"  His mother tried to silence him by crying, "Have you gone mad, child?". Whatever the reason, Andersen thought the change would prove more satirical.

The story tells of an Emperor who cares for nothing but new clothes. He hires two swindlers who promise him the finest suit of clothes. It will be made from a fabric invisible to anyone who is unfit for his position or "hopelessly stupid". The Emperor's ministers cannot see the clothing, but pretend that they can for fear of appearing unfit for their positions. The Emperor does the same. Finally the swindlers report that the suit is finished. They pretend to dress Emperor. He marches in procession before his subjects. The townsfolk play along with the pretense. Then a child in the crowd cries out that the Emperor is wearing nothing at all. The cry is taken up by others. The Emperor cringes, but holds his head high and continues the procession.

[[Shabbat]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish festivals and holidays

Shabbat is the name of the day of rest in Judaism. Shabbat happens on the seventh day (Saturday) of every week.  In Judaism, the day is defined with the cycle of the sun: The day begins and ends at sunset, not midnight.  So the seventh day of the week, Shabbat, begins Friday when the sun goes down, and ends Saturday night after it gets dark.  The idea of Shabbat comes from the Bible's story of Creation. In that story, God creates the Universe and everything on Earth for six days. On the seventh day, he stops work. In the same way, Jews work on the first six days of the week and rest on the seventh day, Shabbat.

The word Shabbat began as a Hebrew word (שַׁבָּת). The English word "Sabbath" comes from the word "Shabbat". The English word can also be used to refer to Shabbat. The Christian idea of Sabbath came from the Jewish idea of Shabbat. Now, there are many differences between them.

The first part of the Jewish Bible, the Torah, says that work is not allowed on Shabbat. It is a day to rest and study the Torah.

In Jewish law, Shabbat is the most important Jewish holiday. It is even more important than Passover, Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur.  Jewish mystics say that the Shabbat day is meant to be like a perfect world. In this world, everyone knows about God and loves him.  They believe that kind of world has not been seen since the Garden of Eden, and will not be seen again until the Messiah comes.

[[Plural ignorance]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Plural ignorance or pluralistic ignorance is a term which gives a name to  a situation where a majority of group members privately reject a norm, but at the same time, they assume incorrectly that most others accept it. The term describes a context in which "no one believes, but everyone thinks that everyone believes." 

A context of plural ignorance can be caused by the structure of the underlying social network.

A situation of plural ignorance develops when each individual decision-maker in a group of decision-makers does not have the necessary information to solve a problem.

[[Millionaire Hot Seat]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 television series debuts, 2000s television series, Television game shows, Australian television, Television spin-offs, English-language television programs

Millionaire Hot Seat is an Australian television game show. It is a spin-off of the game show Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?. It first aired on 20 April 2009. It is hosted by Eddie McGuire.

[[Bathroom cabinet]]

CATEGORIES: Furniture

A bathroom cabinet (or medicine cabinet) is a cabinet in a bathroom. Most of the time it is located above bathroom sink. The main role of bathroom cabinet is to be place to keep drugs, hygienic equipment and toiletries like toothbrush and perfumes. Having a bathroom cabinet saves a space (it is located above sink which usually is unused space), helps to organize belongings in case of broken pipe or other kind of flooding in the bathroom.

[[Michel Aflaq]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1989 deaths, Eastern Orthodox Christians, Nationalists, People from Damascus, Philosophers, Sociologists, Syrian Christians, Syrian politicians

Michel Aflaq (ميشيل عفلق‎, 1910 – 23 June 1989) was a Syrian philosopher, sociologist and Arab nationalist. He is considered to be the principal founder of Ba'athism.

[[Ba'ath Party (Iraqi-dominated faction)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Asia, 1966 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Iraq

The Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party (also spelled Ba'th or Baath, "resurrection" or "renaissance"; حزب البعث العربي الاشتراكي Hizb Al-Ba'ath Al-'Arabi Al-Ishtiraki), also called the pro-Iraqi Ba'ath movement, is a Ba'athist political party headquartered in Baghdad, Iraq. It is one of two parties which formed in 1966 after split of the original Ba'ath Party. They ruled Iraq between 1968 and the 2003 invasion of Iraq.

[[Ba'athism]]

CATEGORIES: Nationalism, Socialism, Arab world

Ba'athism is an Arab political ideology. It combines socialism, nationalism, and Pan-Arabism. A Ba'athist society seeks enlightenment, renaissance of Arab culture, values and society

[[Denton Cooley]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, People from Houston, Texas, 1920 births, American physicians

Denton Arthur Cooley (August 22, 1920 – November 18, 2016) was an American heart surgeon. He was known for doing the first implantation of a complete artificial heart. Cooley was also the founder and surgeon in-chief of The Texas Heart Institute, chief of Cardiovascular Surgery at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital, consultant in Cardiovascular Surgery at Texas Children's Hospital, and a clinical professor of Surgery at the University of Texas Medical School at Houston.

He studied zoology in the University of Texas and graduated in 1941. He began his medical education at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston. He completed his medical degree and his surgical training at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in Baltimore, Maryland, where he also completed his internship. At Johns Hopkins, he worked with Dr. Alfred Blalock and helped with the first Blue Baby procedure to treat a child's congenital heart defect.

In 1946, Cooley served as chief of surgical services at the station hospital in Linz, Austria for the Army Medical Corps. He was discharged (released) in 1948 with the rank of captain. Then, he returned to Johns Hopkins to remain as an instructor in surgery. In 1950, he went to London to work with Lord Russell Brock.

Cooley died at his home in Houston on November 18, 2016, aged 96.

[[Pizzicato Polka]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Johann Strauss II

The Pizzicato Polka is a piece of orchestral music by Johann Strauss II. Strauss composed it with his brother Josef in 1869 for a trip to Imperial Russia. It was published in 1870. The polka was written for string orchestra and glockenspiel. It was hugely popular, especially in Italy, where it was included on every program Strauss played there. The piece consists of four melodies and the work is arranged in ternary form (A-B-A). The piece is scored for plucked strings.

[[Emeritus]]

CATEGORIES: Titles

Emeritus is a title given to a professor, bishop or other person with an important office. The title says that these people, while still holding their title, no longer practice their function. Usually, this is done because of old age. Usually the emeritus is put after the official title of the person, as in Professor emeritus.

In the time of the Roman Empire, it was used for soldiers, to say that they no longer needed to serve in the army. That way, a Bishop emeritus no longer needs to take part in the celebration of the mass, but he is still able to perform confirmations or to ordain priests. 

[[Mumford & Sons]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s British music groups, 2007 establishments in England, 2010s British music groups, Musical groups from London, Bluegrass bands, Folk music groups, Indie bands, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups established in 2007

Mumford & Sons are an English folk rock band from London. 

The band was formed in 2007 by band members Marcus Mumford, Ben Lovett, Winston Marshall and Ted Dwane. Lead vocalist Marcus Mumford organised the band and their performances and was one of the most visible members of the band because of this the band decided to use the name Mumford & Sons.

They released their debut studio album Sigh No More on 2 October 2009. They later released their second studio album Babel on 21 September 2012. Babel won a Grammy Award for Album of the Year at the 2013 Grammy Awards. They were also a part of the documentary Big Easy Express which won a Grammy Award for Best Long Form Music Video.

[[Kings Island]]

CATEGORIES: Theme parks in the United States, Buildings and structures in Ohio, 1972 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Ohio

Kings Island is the name of an amusememt park in Mason, Ohio. The park is owned and operated by the Cedar Fair company. It operates from late April to Labor Day. The park features 47 rides total and has 14 roller coasters including Vortex, The Bat, Mystic Timbers, Banshee, Diamondback, and other attractions. The park opened to the public on April 29, 1972.  Great Wolf Lodge nearby, is next to the amusement park.

The newest ride at Kings Island is Kings Mills Antique Autos.

[[Symphony No. 94 "Surprise" (Haydn)]]

CATEGORIES: Symphonies, Compositions by Joseph Haydn

The Symphony No. 94 in G major ("Surprise") is a symphony by Joseph Haydn. It was first performed in London on 23 March 1792 under Haydn's direction. It is nicknamed the "Surprise Symphony". It is sometimes called the "Kettledrum­stroke Symphony". The symphony's nickname is derived from the sudden loud chord played by the entire orchestra in the second movement. This movement is a set of variations on a sweet, gentle theme. The chord was Haydn's afterthought; it does not appear in the manuscript. One theory suggests Haydn inserted this loud chord saying, "That will make the ladies jump!". Another theory suggests he inserted it to wake up the music lovers who had dozed off after their dinners and drinks. Another theory suggests he inserted it to make the symphony memorable in light of the competition he faced from a series of London concerts directed by Ignatz Pleyel.

[[MedlinePlus]]

CATEGORIES: Science websites, Medicine

MedlinePlus is a free website that gives free consumer health information for patients, families, and health care providers. The site has information from the United States National Library of Medicine, the National Institutes of Health (NIH), other U.S. government agencies, and health-related organizations.  The U.S. National Library of Medicine produces and maintains the site.  MedlinePlus includes a companion site in Spanish, which offers similar content for the Spanish-speaking community.  It also offers a mobile site in both English and Spanish optimized for display on mobile devices.  Over 150 million people from around the world use MedlinePlus each year.  

MedlinePlus contains:

[[Medical Subject Headings]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) is a way to keep track of for the purpose of journal articles and books in the life sciences; it can also serve as a thesaurus that makes searching easier. Created and updated by the United States National Library of Medicine (NLM), it is used by the MEDLINE/PubMed article database and by NLM's catalog of book holdings.

MeSH was introduced in 1963. The yearly printed version was discontinued in 2007 and MeSH is now available online only. It can be browsed and downloaded free of charge through PubMed. Originally in English, MeSH has been translated into numerous other languages and allows retrieval of documents from different languages.

[[Diseases Database]]

CATEGORIES: Databases, Science websites, Medical manuals

The Diseases Database is a database on a free website that gives information about the relationships between medical conditions, symptoms, and medications. The database is run by Medical Object Oriented Software Enterprises Ltd, a small company based in London, UK.

The site's stated aim is "education, background reading and general interest" with an intended audience "physicians, other clinical healthcare workers and students of these professions". The editor of the site is stated as Malcolm H Duncan, a UK qualified medical doctor.

[[EMedicine]]

CATEGORIES: Databases, Medical manuals, Science websites

eMedicine is an online research tool for clinical studies. It was founded in 1996 by two medical doctors, Scott Plantz and Richard Lavely. The website is searchable by keyword. It has about 6,800 articles, each of which is associated with one of 62 clinical subspecialty textbooks. Pediatrics, for example, consists of 14 subspecialty textbooks (endocrinology, genetics, cardiology, pulmonology, etc.).  For example, 750 articles are the textbook on emergency medicine.  Each article is authored by board-certified specialists in the subspecialty to which the article belongs. The article's authors are identified with their current jobs.  Each article is updated yearly and the date is published on the article.December 2010

[[Nanna (Norse deity)]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

In Norse mythology, Nanna is the goddess of joy and peace. She is a wife of Baldur.

Nanna is also the Norse goddess of the Moon. She dies of a broken heart after Baldur is killed because of Loki convincing Höðr to kill him. 

[[Bristle]]

CATEGORIES: Hair

A bristle is a stiff hair or feather. Also used are synthetic materials such as nylon in items such as brooms and sweepers. Bristles are often used to make brushes for cleaning uses: common examples are the toothbrush and toilet brush. The bristle brush is a common household cleaning tool, often used to remove dirt or grease from pots and pans.

[[La Reyne le veult]]

CATEGORIES: Government of the United Kingdom

"'La Reyne le veult"'' ("The Queen wills it") or ''"Le Roy le veult'" ("The King wills it") is a Norman French line used in the Parliament of the United Kingdom to show that a public or private bill has received Royal Assent from the Monarch.

[[George Herriman]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 births, 1944 deaths, American cartoonists, American comics artists

George Joseph Herriman (August 22, 1880 – April 25, 1944) was an American cartoonist. He is best known for his comic strip Krazy Kat (1913–1944).

[[Sam Champion]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, American television personalities, LGBT broadcasters, American LGBT people, Living people

Samuel James "Sam" Champion (born August 13, 1961) is the weather anchor of ABC's Good Morning America and weather editor of ABC News. Champion was born in Paducah, Kentucky. He has a B.A. in broadcast journalism from Eastern Kentucky University. He worked on Good Morning America as a weatherman, making reportedly $1.5 million per year. On April 7, 2012, he debuted as host of Sea Rescue, an educational and informational television program that focuses on the rescue, rehabilitation, and release of animals back into the wild. 

Champion is active in many charitable organizations in the New York City area including the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, March of Dimes, and "Stopping AIDS Together". He co-hosted the New York City Project's 2002 "Courage Awards". On 20 February 2013 The Wall Street Journal reported that a former Mets teammate of baseball player Mike Piazza's said in 2000 that Piazza and Champion were involved in a homosexual relationship. Piazza denied this in 2002. Champion and his longtime partner Rubem Robierb were married on December 21, 2012. 

Champion left Good Morning America in December 2013, and later moved to The Weather Channel hosting AMHQ from March 2014 until October 2015.

[[Opera House, Royal Tunbridge Wells]]

CATEGORIES: Opera houses, Kent, Buildings and structures in England, Grade II listed buildings, Pubs

The Opera House is a former opera house and current pub in Royal Tunbridge Wells, Kent, England. It is also a Grade II listed building.

[[River Medway]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The River Medway is a river which flows for 70 from the High Weald in Sussex, through Kent to the point where it enters the Thames Estuary. The river becoms tidal after Allington Lock.

[[The Incredible Hulk (roller coaster)]]

CATEGORIES: Roller coasters in the United States, Orlando, Florida, Steel roller coasters, Hulk (Marvel Comics), Roller coasters by name, Launched roller coasters

The Incredible Hulk is a steel launched roller coaster. It is at Islands of Adventure in Orlando, Florida. It is themed and named after Hulk, a popular comic book superhero character. It has a launched tube known as the Gamma Tube that the roller coaster launches from. The ride was manfactured by Bolliger & Mabillard and has 7 inversions. It was the only Bolliger & Mabillard launched roller coaster in the world until Thunderbird opened.

[[Church of King Charles the Martyr, Royal Tunbridge Wells]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in England, Kent, Listed buildings

The Church of King Charles the Martyr is a Church of England parish church in Royal Tunbridge Wells, Kent, England. It is a Grade I listed building. 

[[EADS Harfang]]

CATEGORIES: French military aircraft, Unmanned aerial vehicles

The EADS Harfang is an unmanned aerial vehicle developed for service in the French Air Force.    

[[Jimmy Roberts (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1999 deaths, Singers from Kentucky

Jimmy Roberts (April 6, 1923 - February 6, 1999) was an American singer. He performed on The Lawrence Welk Show from 1955 to 1982. He sang several songs during his years on The Lawrence Welk Show.

Roberts was originally from Kentucky. He was married from 1985 until he died. He had four children. He died in 1999 in Clearwater, Florida.

[[John Ruskin]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1900 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Art critics, British critics, Writers from London

John Ruskin (8 February 1819 – 20 January 1900) was the leading English art critic of the Victorian era. He was also an art patron, draughtsman, watercolourist, a prominent social thinker and philanthropist. He was hugely influential in the last half of the 19th century, up to the First World War. 

Ruskin wrote on a wide range of subjects. These included geology, architecture, myths, ornithology, literature, education, botany, and political economy. In all his writing, he emphasised the connections between nature, art and society. He also made detailed sketches and paintings of rocks, plants, birds, landscapes, and architectural structures and ornamentation.

Ruskin first came to widespread attention with the first volume of Modern Painters (1843), an extended essay in defence of the work of J. M. W. Turner. He argued that the principal role of the artist is "truth to nature". From the 1850s he championed the Pre-Raphaelites who were influenced by his ideas. 

In 1869, Ruskin became the first Slade Professor of Fine Art at the University of Oxford, where he established the Ruskin School of Drawing. He founded the Guild of St George, an organisation that still exists.

[[Apatite]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals

Apatite is a group of phosphate minerals with high concentrations of OH−, F−, Cl− or ions, respectively, in the crystal.

Apatite is characteristic of biological systems. It is one of a few minerals produced and used by biological micro-environmental systems. It hardness defines 5 on the Mohs scale. Hydroxyapatite is the main component of tooth enamel and bone mineral.

Much bone material is in a relatively rare form of apatite. In this form most of the OH groups are absent, and there are many carbonate and acid phosphate substitutions.

Fluorapatite (or fluoroapatite) is more resistant to acid attack than is hydroxyapatite. In the mid-20th century it was discovered that communities whose water supply naturally contained fluorine had lower rates of dental caries.  Fluoridated water allows exchange in the teeth of fluoride ions for hydroxyl groups in apatite. Similarly, toothpaste often includes a source of fluoride anions (e.g. sodium fluoride, sodium monofluorophosphate).

[[Diana Serra Cary]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2020 deaths, American centenarians, American silent movie actors, American child actors, American historians, Actors from San Diego, California, Writers from San Diego, California

Diana Serra Cary (born Peggy-Jean Montgomery; October 26, 1918 – February 24, 2020), known as Baby Peggy, was an American silent movie actress, author, and historian. Cary was one of the last surviving actors from the silent movie area. She retired in 1938. She then wrote books about her career.

Cary was born on October 26, 1918 in Merced, California. She studied at Lawlor Professional School and at Fairfax High School. She was raised in San Diego, California. 

Cary was married to Gordon Ayres from 1938 until they divorced in 1948. Then she was married to Bob Cary from 1954 until his death in 2001. She has one son, Mark Cary.  

Cary died on February 24, 2020 in Gustine, California at the age of 101. 

[[Marie Osborne]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American silent movie actors, American child actors, Actors from Denver, Colorado, Actors from Long Beach, California

Baby Marie Osborne (Helen Alice Myres; November 5, 1911 – November 11, 2010) was an American silent movie actress who was mostly known as Baby Marie. 

Osborne was born on November 5, 1911 in Denver, Colorado. She was raised in Long Beach, California. Osborne was married to Frank J. Dempsey from 1931 until they divorced in 1936. They had one daughter, Joan. Then she was married to Murray F. Yates from 1945 until his death in 1975. Osborne died on November 11, 2010 in her home in San Clemente, California from natural causes, aged 99.

[[Jean Darling]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, American silent movie actors, American child actors, Singers from California, Writers from California, Actors from Santa Monica, California

Jean Darling (August 23, 1922 – September 4, 2015) was an American silent movie actress, singer, and writer. She was been in many movies when she was a child. She was one of the last surviving actors from the silent movie area. 

Darling was born on August 23, 1922 in Santa Monica, California. She was married to Reuben Bowen from 1954 until his death in 1980. They have a son, Roy Bowen. Darling lived in Dublin, Ireland where she writes many books about her career. She died on September 4, 2015 at her son's house in Rodgau, Germany at the age of 93.

[[Lupita Tovar]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 2016 deaths, Mexican movie actors, American centenarians, American silent movie actors, American movie actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Actors from Mexico City, People from Oaxaca

Lupita Tovar (July 27, 1910 – November 12, 2016) was a Mexican-American silent movie actress. She was known for her role in the 1931 Spanish version of Dracula. 

[[Carla Laemmle]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Chicago, American centenarians, American silent movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Deaths from natural causes, Jewish American actors

Rebecca Isabelle "Carla" Laemmle (October 20, 1909 – June 12, 2014) was an American silent movie actress. She was one of the last surviving and oldest actors from the silent movie area. Her best known roles was in Dracula (1931). She retired in 2012 at the age of 103. She was the niece of Carl Laemmle.

Laemmle was born on October 20, 1909 in Chicago, Illinois. She was of German Jewish ancestry.

Laemmle died from natural causes on June 12, 2014 in Los Angeles, California, aged 104.

[[Dear John (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 drama movies, 2010s war movies, American drama movies, American war movies, Autism in fiction, Charleston, South Carolina, English-language movies, Movies based on the September 11 attacks, Movies about autism

Dear John is a 2010 American war drama movie set in Charleston, South Carolina. It stars Channing Tatum and Amanda Seyfried. The movie is about a soldier who falls in love with a college student called Savannah Lynn Curtis.

It is based on the novel of the same name.

[[Theodore Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, African American writers, Writers from North Carolina, Singers from North Carolina

Theodore Taylor (June 23, 1921 – October 26, 2006) was an American author and singer. He wrote more than 50 books, but is mostly known for his Edgar Award-winning book The Weirdo and The Cay. 

Taylor was born on June 23, 1921 in Statesville, North Carolina. He was never married and had no children. Taylor died on October 26, 2006 in his home in Laguna Beach, California from a heart attack, aged 85.

[[Kunani]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Lorestan Province

Kunani (کونانی) is a city in Kohdasht County, Lorestan, Iran. There were 3,746 people living here in 2006.

[[Dazed and Confused]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 comedy movies, 1990s coming-of-age movies, 1990s high school movies, 1990s teen comedy movies, American coming-of-age movies, American high school movies, American teen comedy movies, Austin, Texas, Coming-of-age comedy movies, Cult movies, English-language movies, Movies about drugs, Movies about suburbia, Movies set in Texas, Movies set in the 1970s, American independent movies

Dazed and Confused is a 1993 American comedy movie. It is about the lives of teenagers during their last days of high school in May 1976 in Austin, Texas. Milla Jovovich plays Michelle. Parker Posey plays Darla Marks. This movie was released on September 24, 1993 in the United States. It made only $7.9 million, though reviews were extremely positive.

[[Scrabble (game show)]]

CATEGORIES: Television game shows, NBC network shows, English-language television programs

Scrabble was a television game show that aired from 1984 to 1993. It was based on the Scrabble board game. It was hosted by Chuck Woolery. on July 2 1984-June 11 1993 After NBC on USA Network 1994 During Press Your Luck or Other 2 Slot Number or 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Letter A-Z Like Wheel of Fortune Hangman (1975) on March 1984-June 1993 Both in 1984 One March or July or Other Calendar Year Month Hosted Chuck Woolrey in 1973 Born Until December 25 1981 Finale

[[Inverted roller coaster]]

CATEGORIES: Roller coasters

Inverted Coaster (sometimes known as 'Inverts' by Coaster enthusiasts) is a roller coaster designed by Bolliger and Mabillard and was first conceived in 1992. Unlike the other coaster which above the track, This coaster sits you by the bottom of the track. making a flying sensation. 

[[Will.i.am]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1975 births, American movie actors, American rap musicians from California, Grammy Award winners

William James Adams Jr. (born March 15, 1975), known professionally as will.i.am (pronounced ‘Will-I-am’), is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, DJ, record producer, voice actor, and philanthropist, best known as a founding and lead member of the hip hop group The Black Eyed Peas.

As a solo artist, will.i.am has released four solo albums, beginning with Lost Change, released in 2001 through Atlantic Records. His second solo outing, Must B 21, was released on September 23, 2003. The track "Go!" was regularly used as the theme for the NBA Live 2005 and Madden NFL 2005 seasons. The third album, Songs About Girls, was released on September 25, 2007. He released his fourth studio album, #willpower, in 2013.

As a music producer, will.i.am has produced with other artists including Cheryl, Michael Jackson, Justin Bieber, Kesha, Britney Spears, Miley Cyrus, David Guetta, U2, Rihanna, Lady Gaga, Usher, Justin Timberlake, A. R. Rahman, Nicki Minaj, 2NE1, and Baby Kaely. In collaborations and with the Black Eyed Peas, he has a total of 41 top-40 entries on the UK Singles Chart since 1998, and has sold 9.4 million singles in the UK.

[[Rachel Portman]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, English composers, Academy Award winners

Rachel Mary Berkeley Portman, OBE (born 11 December 1960) is a British composer, best known for composing music for films. She was the first woman to win the Academy Award for Best Original Score

[[Salmon P. Chase]]

CATEGORIES: 1808 births, 1873 deaths, Chief Justices of the United States, United States Secretaries of the Treasury, Governors of Ohio, United States senators from Ohio, Politicians from New Hampshire, Politicians from Vermont, US Republican Party politicians

Salmon Portland Chase (January 13, 1808 – May 7, 1873) was an American politician and jurist who was U.S. Senator from Ohio and the 23rd Governor of Ohio; as U.S. Treasury Secretary under President Abraham Lincoln; and as the sixth Chief Justice of the United States. He was one of the most famous Republicans of his time.

Chase was born on January 13, 1808 in Cornish, New Hampshire. He was raised in Windsor, Vermont and Worthington, Ohio. He studied at Cincinnati College and in Dartmouth College. Chase was married to Katherine Garmiss from 1834 until they divorced. Then he was married to Eliza Ann Smith from 1839 until they divorced. Then he was married to Sarah Dunlop from 1846 until his death in 1873. He had six daughters. Chase died on May 7, 1873 in New York City, New York from an illness, aged 65.

[[America's Next Top Model (season 20)]]

CATEGORIES: America's Next Top Model

America's Next Top Model'', Cycle 20''' (also known as America's Next Top Model: Guys & Girls') is the twentieth season of America's Next Top Model. It is the fourteenth season to be shown on The CW. The season started in summer 2013. Tyra Banks, Kelly Cutrone, Bryanboy, and Rob Evans returned as judges on the show. Like in the previous cycle, the public votes on contestants.

It is the first season of America's Next Top Model to include more than fourteen contestants. It is also the first to have male contestants in the competition. Male contestants has happened previously in Spain's Supermodelo 2008 and Bosnia and Herzegovina's OBN Star Model.

[[Conserved sequence]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics

Conserved sequences are similar or identical sequences which occur in DNA, and cause sequences in RNA, proteins and carbohydrates.

These sequences occur across species. This shows that the sequences has been maintained in evolution despite speciation. The further back up the phylogenetic tree a particular conserved sequence occurs, the more highly conserved it is. Since sequence information is normally transmitted from parents to progeny by genes, a conserved sequence implies that there is a conserved gene.

Conservation of a sequence happens when mutations in a highly conserved region lead to non-viable life forms, that is, a form which is eliminated through natural selection. In other words, the product of the gene is vital to life, and its function is destroyed by almost all changes (mutations) to the sequence.

[[FAMAS]]

CATEGORIES: Assault rifles, France, Military of France, Bullpup rifles

The FAMAS (Fusil dA'''ssaut de la '''M'''anufacture dArmes de S'''aint-Étienne, in English "Assault Rifle from the Saint-Étienne Weapon Factory") is a bullpup-styled assault rifle designed and manufactured in France. It's the main assault rifle of the French Army, French Air Force, and French Navy since 1980. It was also sold for export.

Designed in 1973 FAMAS uses a 5.56mm NATO (.223) caliber cartridge. Muzzle velocity is between 925m/s and 960m/s following variants.

[[Sabbath (disambiguation)]]

Sabbath is a weekly day of rest or worship in Islam, Judaism, and Christianity:

It might also mean:

[[Substitution reaction]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical reactions

In chemistry, a substitution reaction happens when an atom or a group of atoms is replaced by a different one. Substitution reactions can be of many different types.

In organic chemistry, the main ones are nucleophilic substitution and electrophilic substitution. These take their names from electrophiles and nucleophiles. However, substitution reactions can also happen under other conditions. For example, photochemical reactions (reactions that use light instead of heat) are used to put halogens in a molecule. Another example is using free radicals. Choosing the correct solvent and temperature conditions is very important to make sure that the reaction happens. Sometimes an elimination reaction can happen instead.

The product of a substitution reaction is often called a substituted molecule. For example, phenol can be called a substituted benzene.

[[Joey Lauren Adams]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Arkansas, 1968 births, Living people

Joey Lauren Adams (born January 9, 1968) is an American actress. She acts mostly in movies. She has a strong raspy voice. She acted in the comedies Chasing Amy (1997) and Mallrats (1995).

Adams was born in North Little Rock, Arkansas

[[The American President]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1995 comedy movies, 1995 romance movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Rob Reiner, Political movies

The American President is a 1995 romance-comedy movie. It was released in November 1995. The story is about political subjects and romance. Annette Bening and Michael Douglas play the main characters. Martin Sheen and Michael J. Fox also star. This romance-comedy grossed near $108 million in the box office, which was only a modest success, though it remained a favorite for cable and home video. The reviews on this were very positive.

[[Daniel Geale]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Australian boxers, People from Launceston, Tasmania

Daniel Geale (born 26 February 1981) is an Australian professional boxer. He won the Ocean Mastership and the Commonwealth Games.

He started to box as a pro in 2004. He won the International Boxing Organization title in 2007 against Gary Comer. He defended the title five times after he lost it against Anthony Mundine. After he won against the opponent middelweight champion Roman Karmazin, he fought against Sebastian Sylvester, who defended the International Boxing Federation title. Geale won the fight and combined the International Boxing Federation title and the World Boxing Association title after a fight against Felix Sturm. After that, he defended his title against Anthony Mundine, who had beaten him in 2009. He is the reigning Champion of the World Boxing Association (WBA) and the International Boxing Federation (IBF).

[[Japanese empresses]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, Lists of people, Emperors and empresses

Japanese empresses or Empress of Japan means a female imperial ruler.  The term also mean an empress consort.

The wife of Naruhito is Empress Masako. She became the current Empress of Japan when her husband accepted his role as emperor

[[The Last of Us]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 video games, Naughty Dog games, PlayStation 3 games

The Last of Us is a third person survival horror action-adventure video game made by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. It released for the PlayStation 3 on 14th June 2013 and a version of the game with updated graphics called The Last of Us:Remastered was released for the PlayStation 4 on 29th July 2014. This version also has a downloadable content called Left Behind. The story is about two people named Joel and Ellie trying to survive different dangers.

[[Centre Georges Pompidou]]

CATEGORIES: Art museums in France, Buildings and structures in Paris, 1977 establishments in Europe, 1970s establishments in France

Centre Georges Pompidou is an art museum in Paris. It opened in 1977, and is named after Georges Pompidou, a former President of France. It houses the largest museum for modern art in Europe.

[[Swedish House Mafia]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic music bands, Swedish musical groups, Musical groups established in 2008, Musical groups disestablished in 2013

Swedish House Mafia was a Swedish electronic dance music trio. It was made up of three people: Axwell, Steve Angello and Sebastian Ingrosso. They are all DJs and producers. The band was formed in 2008.

Over the years, Swedish House Mafia published two albums and six singles. All of these have been very successful worldwide. Five of their singles reached the top ten in the UK music charts. They have worked with many other artists, like Tinie Tempah.

In 2012 the band said on their website that they would split up at the end of their 2012-2013 tour. The tour, named "One Last Tour," ended at the Ultra Music Festival in Miami, Florida. Their opening and closing sets were on March 15 and March 24, 2013.

[[Rude Boy]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, 2010 songs, Rihanna songs, Dancehall songs, Reggae songs, R&B songs

"Rude Boy" is a hit single sung by Barbadian recording artist Rihanna. It was released in February 2010. The song is from her fourth studio album, Rated R (2009). It combines dancehall and reggae. This single received mixed reviews. It spent five weeks at number one on Billboard Hot 100 in the United States.  It also topped charts in Australia and Israel.  It reached number two in the UK and number seven on the Canadian Hot 100.  It peaked within the top ten of most international charts.  Rihanna has most recently performed the song on her Anti World Tour.

On June 30, 2015, the Recording Industry Association of America certified the song quintuple-platinum for shipments and streams of over five million copies of the song across the US.

[[Applebee's]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 establishments in the United States, American restaurants, Georgia (U.S. state)

Applebee's is an American food company that develops, franchises and operates Applebee's Neighborhood Bar & Grill. There are over two thousand restaurants all across the United States, Puerto Rico and several outside countries. The concept of this company represents casual dining. Their food includes salads, shrimp, chicken, pasta, barbecue ribs and fish. The company is centered in Kansas City, Missouri. It was put into operation on November 19, 1980.

[[Empress Michiko]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese imperial family, 1934 births, Living people, People with cancer, People from Tokyo, Emperors and empresses, Crown Princes and Princesses of Japan, Recipients of the Decoration for Services to the Republic of Austria

Michiko, formerly  Michiko Shōda, is the wife of Japan's Emperor Akihito. 

[[Grappling]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words, Martial art techniques

Grappling is making a move on an opponent in a martial art, combat or combat sport which does not involve striking or the use of a weapon. Some sports like sumo, wrestling or judo are solely about grappling.

[[Saint Joseph's University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Pennsylvania, 1851 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Pennsylvania

Saint Joseph's University is a Jesuit university in Pennsylvania. It was founded in 1851.

[[Ignatius of Loyola]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, 1491 births, 1556 deaths, Spanish people

Saint Ignatius of Loyola (1491-1556) was a Spanish man.  He started the Jesuit order in Catholicism. He is also known for his Spiritual Exercises.

[[Aud Tuten]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1994 deaths, American ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Sportspeople from Alabama, Eastern Hockey League players, Ice hockey defencemen

Audley Kendrick Tuten (January 14, 1915 – May 7, 1994) was an American professional ice hockey player that played 39 games in the NHL for the Chicago Black Hawks.

Tuten also played with the Hershey B'ars/Bears of the EHL for 4 seasons as well as the Baltimore Orioles from the EHL for 1 season. He went on to play for both the Kansas City Greyhounds and Kansas City Americans of the AHA for 1 season each. He entered the NHL and played with the Black Hawks for 5 games before rejoining the Americans. He joined the Black Hawks again and played 34 games with them. He left the Black Hawks and went on to join the Minneapolis Millers of the USHL for 4 games, the Fort Worth Rangers of the USHL for 2 games and the Kansas City Pla-Mors of the USHL for 10 games before ending his playing career with Los Angeles-S.D. of the PCHL. He died on May 7, 1994.

[[Münchausen syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses, Syndromes

Münchausen Syndrome (pronounced "MUNCH-house-in") is a mental illness in which a person repeatedly fakes disease, illness, or psychological trauma to get attention or sympathy from others. It is sometimes called hospital addiction syndrome, thick chart syndrome, or hospital hopper syndrome.

A related mental illness is Münchausen Syndrome by proxy. People with this condition abuse another person, usually a child, in order to get sympathy or attention for themselves.  For example, a parent might make their own child sick in order to get attention and sympathy from friends and medical professionals.

[[The Weeping Woman]]

CATEGORIES: Paintings

The Weeping Woman is an iconic painting. It was painted by Pablo Picasso. It is an oil painting done on canvas. Picasso painted this after his break-up with his mistress, Dora Maar. After the breakup he always said she was weeping there for creating the term of "Weeping Woman". Pablo Picasso used his skill for geometric shapes and design in the painting. You can see multiple dimensions in this picture. Made in 1937 it shows how old  Pablo Picasso would be now, though also how experienced he was then, being born in 1881. The level of experience it would take to be capable of such a level of geometric art work is surprisingly high considering there have been so many artists over the eras who have mastered it.

[[Larry Zeidel]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Canadian Jews, Chicago Blackhawks players, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from renal failure, Detroit Red Wings players, Disease-related deaths in Pennsylvania, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Jewish sportspeople, Philadelphia Flyers players, Sportspeople from Montreal, Stanley Cup champions, American Hockey League players

Lazarus "Larry, Rock" Zeidel (June 1, 1928 - June 17, 2014) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player. He played 5 seasons in the NHL as well as 12 seasons in the AHL.

Zeidel started his hockey career with the Barrie Flyers of the OHA for 28 games and then moved on to play with the Quebec Aces of the QSHL for 3 seasons. After that he played with the Saskatoon Quakers of the WCSHL and then the Detroit Red Wings of the NHL for 19 games before being sent to their AHL affiliate, Indianapolis Capitals for a season. He was called up to the Red Wings and played 9 games with them before he joined the Edmonton Flyers of the WHL and played 1 season with them. He played joined the Chicago Black Hawks of the NHL for 1 season and rejoined the Edmonton Flyers for 1 season. He would then play in the AHL with the Hershey Bears for 8 seasons and the Cleveland Barons for 1 season. He returned to the WHL to play with the Seattle Totems for 2 seasons and joined the Barons again for 2 seasons. He ended his playing career after playing with the Philadelphia Flyers for 2 seasons.

He won the Stanley Cup in 1952 during his time with the Detroit Red Wings.

Zeidel was Jewish and because of this antisemitic remarks were said to him during his playing career. His grandparents were killed in concentration camps by Nazis.

Zeidel suffered from dementia during his last years. He died in Pennsylvania from heart failure and renal failure, aged 86.

[[Charlie Brooker]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Emmy Award winners, English comedians, English journalists, English television presenters, English television producers, English television writers, People from Reading, Berkshire, Television personalities from Berkshire, Writers from Oxfordshire

Charlton "Charlie" Brooker (born 3 March 1971) is a British humourist, journalist, television presenter, screenwriter and producer. He is widely known for creating the Channel 4/Netflix science fiction series Black Mirror (2011–present). He has appeared in panel shows such as Have I Got News For You. He has also hosted his own programmes such as Screenwipe and You Have Been Watching. In 2017, he won two Primetime Emmy Awards for the Black Mirror episode "San Junipero". 

Brooker was born in Reading, Berkshire and grew up in Oxfordshire. He is married to television presenter Konnie Huq. They have two children.

[[Guru Dutt]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1964 deaths, Indian movie directors, Indian movie actors, Bangalore

Vasanth Kumar Shivashankar Padukone (9 July 1925 – 10 October 1964), known by many as Guru Dutt, was an Indian movie director, producer and actor.

[[Symbolism]]

CATEGORIES: Communication, Symbolism

Symbolism is the practice of representing things by symbols, or of investing things with a symbolic meaning or character. A symbol is an object, action, or idea that stands for something other than itself, often of a more abstract nature. Symbolism creates quality aspects that make literature like poetry and novels more meaningful.

[[John Hermansader]]

CATEGORIES: American painters, 1915 births, 2005 deaths

John Hermansader (1915–2005) was an American painter, graphic designer, and jazz fan. He is remembered for his iconic designs of Blue Note record covers.

[[Citizen Ruth]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s comedy movies, 1996 movies, English-language movies

Citizen Ruth is a 1996 comedy movie about pregnancy and abortion controversy. It was directed by Alexander Payne, and starring Laura Dern and Swoosie Kurtz.

[[Play Dead]]

CATEGORIES: Björk, 1993 songs

"Play Dead" is a song by Björk. It was released in 1993. The song is a single in the soundtrack of the crime drama film The Young Americans. The song was added as a bonus track to Debut when the album was released again in November 1993 four months after being first released. The single reached No.7 in the Swedish Singles Chart. Bjork wrote the song with Jah Wobble and David Arnold.

[[Udaijin]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, 702 establishments in Japan

Udaijin was a government position in Japan in the late Nara and Heian periods. 

[[Sadaijin]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, 702 establishments in Japan

Sadaijin was a government position in Japan in the late Nara and Heian periods.

[[Wodan Timbur Coaster]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Baden-Württemberg, Roller coasters by name, Roller coasters in Germany

Wodan Timbur Coaster is a wooden roller coaster in Germany. It is in the Europa-Park in Rust, Baden-Württemberg. The coaster opened on March 31, 2012.

[[Dariusz Michalczewski]]

CATEGORIES: Polish sportspeople, Boxers, 1968 births, Living people

Dariusz Tomasz Michalczewski (May 5, 1968) better known as Tiger is a Polish boxer. He was World Boxing Organization, World Boxing Association, International Boxing Federation and Lineal champion in light heavyweight for nine years. He was undefeated for twelve years.

Michalczewski started his career in 1991. He won the World Boxing Association title against Leeonzer Barber, who was undefeated for 3 years. After that he combined the World Boxing Organization title and the Lineal title. He also won the Wold Boxing Organization title against Nestor Hipolito Giovannini in Cruiserweight. In 1996 he fought against Graciano Rochigani, who was one of the best Light Heavyweight boxer at this time. Michalchewski won at round 7. He combined the World Boxing Organization, World Boxing Association, International Boxing Federation and Lineal after a win against Virgil Hill, who was one of the world's best boxers at that time. In 2000 he fought the second time against Graciano Rocchigani. He won the fight in the tenth round by knockout. After the fight against Derrick Harmon, he needed one win to stop the record of Rocky Marciano, who was undefeated for 49 fights in a row. In his fortyninth fight, he fought in the Color Line Arena, Hamburg against Julio Cesar Gonzalez. Michalchewski wasn't trained and lost by split decision. In 2005 he made a comeback against the World Boxing Association Champion Fabrice Tiozzo. He lost the fight by knockout in round five. After that, he said that he never will fight again. In his best time, he counted with Roy Jones Junior as the best light heavyweight fighter of all time.

[[Suicidal ideation]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses, Suicide

Suicidal ideation is the medical terminology for thoughts of or preoccupation with killing yourself. It varies between fleeting thoughts and self-harm or making suicidal attempts. Most people who undergo suicidal ideation never really kill themselves, though some do. This condition is often triggered through being hopeless, depressed, anxiety, having panic attacks or strong remorse. It can also happen because of being abused, as a result of certain medications, due to bullying or feeling rejected.

[[PlayStation Move]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation

PlayStation Move is a motion-sensing game controller platform by Sony Computer Entertainment which supports the PlayStation 3 and the PlayStation 4. The device uses a PlayStation Eye camera to record movements. It was released on September 15, 2010 in Europe and on September 17, 2010 in North America. Sony announced that the PlayStation Move had sold 15 million units.

in 2016 playstation made a return to the move with the release of the playstation vr and the move can be used to interact with the objects in the virtual world.

[[Daijō-daijin]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, 702 establishments in Japan

The Daijō-daijin or Dajō-daijin was a government position in Japan in the late Nara and Heian periods.  

[[Skra Bełchatów]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball clubs, Sport in Poland, 1930 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Poland

KPS Skra Bełchatów SA  is a volleyball club from Poland. It started in 1930 as a football club, but began playing volleyball instead in 1957. The club plays in the Polish Volleyball League and they play in Bełchatów. Skra Bełchatów's owner is Polish company the Bełchatów Power Station. They won Polish championship in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2014 and Polish Cup in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2012, 2016.

[[Belling the Cat]]

CATEGORIES: Fables, Idioms

Belling the Cat, also known as The Bell and the Cat or The Mice in Council is a story which has become a traditional part of European and Western culture.

[[Crab louse]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

The crab louse or pubic louse is an insect, which is a parasite on humans. It is found most often in pubic hair, but also lives in other areas on the body with dense hair. It can be spread from one human to another by sexual intercourse, but also through garments, towels and besheets, for example in a hotel. Crab lice are still visible with the human eye, they are about 1.5-2mm in size. 

Note that head lice and Body lice are different species.

[[Vera Fischer]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Brazilian actors

Vera Lúcia Fischer (born November 27, 1951 in Blumenau) is a Brazilian actress.

[[Giovanna Antonelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian actors, People from Rio de Janeiro

Giovanna Antonelli (born March 18, 1976 in Rio de Janeiro) is a Brazilian actress.

[[Pauley Perrette]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Louisiana, 1969 births, Living people, American bloggers

Pauley Perrette (born March 27, 1969) is an American actress and homosexual rights advocate. She acts mostly in television programs. She played Abigail Sciuto on the series NCIS.

Perrette was born in Louisiana. She was raised in different regions of the United States.

[[Mehmed Orhan]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1994 deaths, Sultans of the Ottoman Empire, Turkish people

Mehmed Orhan  (11 July 1909  5/12 March 1994) was the 42nd head of the Ottoman dynasty. He succeeded as head of the dynasty on 9 December 1983, after the death of Ali Vâsib. If reigning, he would be Sultan Orhan VII.

[[College of the Holy Cross]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Massachusetts, 1843 establishments in the United States, Patriot League, Worcester, Massachusetts, 1840s establishments in Massachusetts

College of the Holy Cross is a Jesuit university in Worcester, Massachusetts. It was founded in 1843.

[[Centaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Centaurus is a constellation in the southern hemisphere of the night sky.  It is named after a centaur, which is a creature that is half man and half horse.  The astronomer named Ptolemy listed Centaurus when he made a list of 48 constellations.  Centaurus is also one of the 88 constellations that were made by the International Astronomical Union.

In the direction of Centaurus is the Shapley Supercluster or Shapley Concentration (SCl 124). This is the largest concentration of galaxies in our nearby universe.

[[Car chase]]

CATEGORIES: Movie industry, Crime

A car chase is when police follow a car to stop it and catch the person driving it. It is a popular theme in movies and on reality television.

[[Elizabeth Gracen]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Arkansas, 1961 births, Living people, Miss America winners

Elizabeth Ward Gracen (3 April 1961) is a former Miss America Pageant winner and American actress who acted in movies and television programs before 2000. She was crowned Miss America 1982, and Miss Arkansas before that. Her acts included acting as Amanda in the TV show Highlander: The Series. She was born near Ozark, Arkansas and graduated from  Russellville High School in 1979. 

Gracen played roles in other films such as 

She also appeared in  TV series such as

Recently in  2012, Gracen formed Flapper Films; a company that produces inspirational content.

[[Fremont, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area, Settlements in Alameda County, California

Fremont is a city in Alameda County, California, near San Francisco in the East Bay area. It is on the edge of Silicon Valley. It has over 200,000 people, over 50% of whom are Asian-American.

[[Chevron Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in California, Companies based in California

Chevron Corporation (CVX) is a large international energy company, based in San Ramon, California. It employs over 60,000 people. It is one of the six largest oil companies in the world.

In September 1879, the Pacific Coast Oil Company was created. They kept the name until 1906, when it merged with a Standard Oil subsidiary and became Standard Oil Company (California). Standard Oil of California and Gulf Oil merged in 1984, which became the largest merger in history at that time. The company would change its name to Chevron Corporation the same year.

[[Symphony No. 41 "Jupiter" (Mozart)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Symphonies

The Symphony No. 41 in C major ("Jupiter"), K. 551 is a work for orchestra. It was written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in 1788. It is his last symphony. Michael Rodman writes in the All Music Guide to Classical Music that the first movement is "characterized in part by the dramatic and effective employment of unexpected pauses in the rhythmic flow through the use of rests, that irregular and changing phrase length contribute ... to the dramatic impetus." He writes that the serene F major second movement is disrupted by "minor key episodes ... that this light/dark conflict continues throughout". He points out that the gracefulness of the Minuet can be attributed to the flowing, even accompaniment and the "falling chromatic theme". The trio has an "earthier, more overtly dancelike mood", he writes, but is "interrupted by a suddenly more serious" outburst from the full orchestra. The contrapuntal fourth movement is filled with "great tension and dramatic impulse" that is resolved only in the final bars.

==References== 

[[Clarinet Concerto (Mozart)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Concertos

The Clarinet Concerto in A major, K. 622 is a work for clarinet and orchestra. It was written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in 1791 for the clarinet expert Anton Stadler. Stadler first performed the concerto in Prague on 16 October 1791. Mozart probably never heard this performance.

[[Concerto for Flute, Harp, and Orchestra]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Concertos

The Concerto for Flute, Harp, and Orchestra in C major, K. 299 is a piece of music by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. It was written in 1778. It is one of only two true double concertos that Mozart wrote. It is the only piece of music that Mozart wrote for the harp.

[[Forward Kahuta]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir

Forward Kahuta (تحصیل کہتا) is a small city in the Haveli District of Azad Kashmir. Until recently it was part of Bagh District; it is now the administrative headquarters of Haveli District.

[[Chevron]]

Chevron may mean:

[[Julia Duffy]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, Actors from Minneapolis, Minnesota, 1951 births, Living people

Julia Hinds, better known as Julia Duffy (born June 27, 1951 in Saint Paul, Minnesota), is an American actress. She has acted in a number of television situation comedies. She played Penny Davis in the 1970s television soap opera The Doctors. She played Stephanie in the 1980s sitcom Newhart. She played Allison Sugarbaker in season 6 of Designing Women. 

Duffy was born near Minneapolis, Minnesota.

[[Patrouille de France]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 establishments in Europe, French Air Force, 1940s establishments in France

The Patrouille Acrobatique de France (patʁuj akʁɔbatik də fʁɑ̃s, French Acrobatic Patrol), also called the Patrouille de France or PAF, is the aerobatics demonstration team of the French Air Force. They fly Franco-German Alpha Jet training airplanes. The PAF's aircraft are painted in three colours: blue, white, and red. These are the same colors as on the flag of France.

[[A* search algorithm]]

CATEGORIES: Searching and sorting algorithms

A* is a set of steps (an algorithm) that computers can use to figure out how to get somewhere fast between two places. If you have a list of locations, and how hard it is to get from one straight to the other, using A* can quickly tell you the fastest way. It's related to Dijkstra's algorithm, but makes smart guesses so that it doesn't spend as long trying slow ways. It's a good series of steps if you only want the path between two places. If you're going to ask for many paths from the same map, then there are faster ways, that find all the answers at once, like the Floyd–Warshall algorithm. A* will not work if you want to visit several places on one trip (the Travelling salesman problem).

[[Dammam]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Saudi Arabia

Dammam (الدمام ar) is the capital of the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia. Dammam is the largest city in the Eastern Province. It is the fifth largest city in Saudi Arabia. It is part of the Dammam Metropolitan Area. It is an important commercial hub and port.March 2013

King Fahd International Airport (KFIA) is in the northwest of the city. Dammam's King Abdul Aziz Sea Port is the largest on the Persian Gulf. Its import-export traffic in the country is second to the Jeddah Seaport.

[[King Fahd International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Saudi Arabia, 1999 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Saudi Arabia

King Fahd International Airport (مطار الملك فهد الدولي) DMM, also known by the acronym  KFIA, is a Saudi international airport near Dammam.  It is the largest airport in the world in terms of area.

The airport is an airline hub for the national carrier, Saudia. 

[[San Pedro Sula]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Honduras, Cities in Central America, 1530s establishments in North America, 1536 establishments

San Pedro Sula is a city in Honduras. With 873,824 people in the main municipality, and 1,245,598 in its metro area (2010), it is the second largest city, after the capital Tegucigalpa. It is considered the industrial center of Honduras. It is the capital of the Cortés Department.

[[Microfinance]]

CATEGORIES: Finance

Microfinance is the idea to provide services banks and insurance companies provide to those people who usually are not served by such businesses. It is an important form of development aid. Serving these people is usually very expensive for banks and insurance companies; that is why they usually do not do it. Speciaized NGOs provide these services:

As an example, microfinance allows people in underdeveloped countries to start their own businesses for their family.

[[Spokane County, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Spokane County, Washington, 1858 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Washington (state)

Spokane county is a county in the U.S. state of Washington. Its county seat is Spokane, Washington. As of 2010, 471,221 people live in the county. The county has 1,764 square miles, or 4,569 square kilometers, of land, and it was organized in 1858.

[[Grimm (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American drama television series, 2011 American television series debuts, English-language television programs

Grimm is an American television series that started on the NBC television network on October 28, 2011.

[[Symphony No. 3 "Eroica" (Beethoven)]]

CATEGORIES: Symphonies, Compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven

The Symphony No. 3 in E flat major ("Eroica"), Op. 55 is a work for orchestra. It was written in 1803 by Ludwig van Beethoven. It was completed in 1804, and premiered on 7 April 1805 at the Theater an der Wien. Beethoven did not want the symphony to be about Napoleon, but he did want to dedicate it to him. When Beethoven learned Napoleon had declared himself Emperor, he tore the dedication page in pieces. The symphony was published in 1806 with the subtitle "Eroica" (Heroic). The symphony has four movements (parts).

[[Symphony No. 4 "Italian" (Mendelssohn)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Felix Mendelssohn, Symphonies

The Symphony No. 4 in A major ("Italian"), Op. 90 is an orchestral work by Felix Mendelssohn. It premiered in London on 13 March 1833. Mendelssohn subtitled it himself.

[[Songs Without Words (Mendelssohn)]]

CATEGORIES: Solo piano pieces, Compositions by Felix Mendelssohn

Songs Without Words is a collection of short piano pieces by Felix Mendelssohn. The collection was published in eight books of six "songs" each between 1829 and 1845. These pieces are suitable for amateur pianists of varying abilities. A few were given titles by Mendelssohn and his publishers: "Venetian Boat Song", "Duetto", "Folk Song", "Spring Song", "Hunting Song", etc.

[[Claire Dodd]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Iowa, 1911 births, 1973 deaths

Dorothy Arlene "Claire" Dodd (December 29, 1911 - November 23, 1973) was an American actress. She had a short acting career. She acted in several movies. She played secretary Della Street in The Case of the Curious Bride and The Case of the Velvet Claws.

Dodd was born in central Iowa. She died from cancer in Beverly Hills, California.

[[DK Bongos]]

CATEGORIES: Nintendo hardware

The DK Bongos are a special bongo-like controller that can be used in some Donkey Kong games for Nintendo GameCube. The bongos are shaped like the ones seen in the Donkey Kong games. The controller has a built-in microphone to detect clapping. It was introduced in the music video game Donkey Konga.

The DK Bongos are seen in various games from the Super Smash Bros. series. They are a part of Donkey Kong's "Final Smash" attack (a powerful attack that can be used to kill opponents easily).

[[Donkey Konga]]

CATEGORIES: Music video games, 2003 video games, Nintendo GameCube games, Donkey Kong

Donkey Konga is a rhythm video game for the Nintendo GameCube. It was created by Namco and published by Nintendo. It was released in Japan on December 12, 2003, in North America on September 27, 2004, and in Europe on October 15, 2004. It is played with the DK Bongos, a controller that looks like two bongo drums. Two sequels, Donkey Konga 2 and Donkey Konga 3, were made. Donkey Konga 3 was only released in Japan.

The Japanese, European, and American versions all have different song lists. There are 32 songs in the Japanese version, 31 songs in the European version, and 33 songs in the American version. Music from Nintendo game series such as Super Mario Bros. and The Legend of Zelda are included.

[[Eat Bulaga!]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s establishments in the Philippines, 1979 establishments in Asia, 1979 television series debuts, Philippine television series, Quezon City

Eat Bulaga! (commonly known as EB!) is a long-running noon-time variety show from the Philippines. It airs weekdays at 12:00 PM to 2:30 PM and Saturdays at 11:30 AM to 2:30 PM. The show premiered on July 30, 1979 and it's currently celebrating its 33rd anniversary in Philippine television.

Eat Bulaga! became the first Philippine variety show to be franchised by another country when Indonesia's SCTV network adapted a version of the show entitled as Eat Bulaga!

[[Tito Sotto]]

CATEGORIES: Minority leaders of the Senate of the Philippines, Filipino actors, Majority leaders of the Senate of the Philippines, 1948 births, Living people, Television presenters, People from Quezon City

Vicente "Tito" Castelo Sotto III (born August 24, 1948) is an actor, TV host and  a politician in the Philippines.

Sotto was vice mayor of Quezon City, Philippines from 1988 to 1992. He was also in the Philippines' Senate for two terms from 1992 to 2004. In 2010, he was reelected in the Senate.

He is currently a host of Eat Bulaga!.

On May 21, 2018, he became the 29th President of the Senate of the Philippines, replacing Koko Pimentel.

[[Senate of the Philippines]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the Philippines, National upper houses

The Senate of the Philippines (Filipino: Senado ng Pilipinas, also Mataas na Kapulungan ng Pilipinas or "upper chamber") is the upper house of the bicameral legislature of the Philippines, the Congress; the House of Representatives is the lower house. 

The Senate is made of 24 senators who are elected  at-large with the country as one district under plurality-at-large voting.

The Senate shall elect its President and the House of Representatives its Speaker by a vote of all its respective members.

[[Wheel 2000]]

CATEGORIES: Television game shows, CBS network shows, Television spin-offs, 1997 television series debuts, 1998 American television series endings, English-language television programs

Wheel 2000 (full title Wheel of Fortune 2000) was a childrens' television game show. It aired on Saturday mornings on CBS from September 13, 1997 to February 7, 1998. It was a spin-off of the television game show Wheel of Fortune. It was hosted by David Sidoni.

[[Claire Windsor]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Kansas, 1892 births, 1972 deaths

Claire Windsor (14 April 1892 – 24 October 1972) was an American actress who acted primarily in movies in the silent era. Her career lasted close to 27 years, although she made many very notable movies in her career. Windsor was born in Kansas. She died of a heart attack in Los Angeles, California at age 80.

[[1948 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 in the United States, United States presidential elections, November events

The 1948 United States presidential election happened on November 2, 1948. This election was between Harry S. Truman (president at that time) and Thomas E. Dewey (the Governor of New York). Truman won by 303 electoral votes. Dewey got 189 electoral votes. Thurmond got 39 electoral votes including a faithless elector in Tennessee.

This election is best known as an upset because of the election results. Predictions showed that Dewey would beat Truman at the polls. For example, a newspaper in Chicago printed an issue in advance which said that Dewey had won the election. However, Truman won the election instead.

[[Lamar, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, County seats in Missouri

Lamar is a city and county seat of Barton County, Missouri, United States. It is well known as the birthplace of President Harry S. Truman. As of the 2010 census, the city population was 4,532.

[[Violin Concerto (Mendelssohn)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Felix Mendelssohn, Violin concertos

The Violin Concerto in E minor, Op. 64 is a work for orchestra and solo violin by Felix Mendelssohn. He completed the concerto in 1844. It was written for Leipzig concertmaster Ferdinand David. The sonata rondo finale is written in E major. The concerto is a pillar of the classical repertoire.

[[Piano Concerto No. 5 (Beethoven)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, Piano concertos

The Piano Concerto No. 5 in E flat major ("Emperor"), Op. 73 is a piece of music for piano and orchestra by Ludwig van Beethoven. It was written in 1809, and was first performed in Leipzig in November 1811. It is the last of Beethoven's concertos.

Beethoven's growing deafness made it impossible for him to play the first performance. It was played by Friedrich Schneider. The work is written on a grand scale with themes that are martial at times, and at other times intimate and personal.

[[Piano Sonata No. 14 (Beethoven)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, Sonatas, Solo piano pieces

The Piano Sonata No. 14 in C-sharp minor ''"Quasi una fantasia", Op. 27, No. 2, popularly known as the Moonlight Sonata'', is a piano sonata by Ludwig van Beethoven. Completed in 1801 and dedicated in 1802 to his student, Countess Giulietta Guicciardi, it is one of Beethoven's most popular musical compositions for the piano.

[[Denis Napthine]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Premiers of Victoria, Leaders of the Opposition (Australia), Veterinarians, People from Geelong, Liberal Party of Australia politicians

Denis Vincent Napthine (born 6 March 1952) is a Australian politician for the Liberal Party in the state of Victoria. He is a member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly, representing the electoral district of South-West Coast. Following the resignation of Ted Baillieu, he was elected leader of the Parliamentary Liberal Party on 6 March 2013 and was sworn in as the 47th Premier of Victoria later the same day. On 29 November 2014, at the Victorian state election, the Coalition was defeated by Labor and Napthine conceded defeat and his term as Premier ended on 4 December 2014 when the new Labor government was sworn in and he resigned as Liberal leader and was succeeded in the Liberal leadership by Matthew Guy.

[[Constraint]]

Constraint may refer to:

[[Amrapur]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Gujarat

Amrapur is a small village in Jamnagar, Gujarat, India.

The road to it is from Kalavad to Ranuja, Dhutarpur, Summary, Kharavedha, Amrapur.

Amrapur is surrounded on three sides by a dam.

Most people there are farmers. Some of them are connected with animal husbandry.

Mr Vijaybhai Borsadiya is currentlywhen surpanch of the village‍.

[[Ta'if]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Saudi Arabia, 6th-century BC establishments, Establishments in Saudi Arabia

Taif or Ta'if (الطائف, ar) is a city in the Mecca Province of Saudi Arabia at a height of 1879 on the slopes of the Sarawat Mountains (Al-Sarawat Mountains). It has a population of 521,273 (2004 census). Each summer the Saudi Government moves from the heat of Riyadh to Ta'if. The city is the centre of an agricultural area known for its grapes, roses and honey.

[[Loch Morar]]

CATEGORIES: Lochs, Lakes of the United Kingdom

Loch Morar is a lake in Scotland. It is 310 metres deep, which makes it the deepest fresh water lake in Britain, and the third deepest in Europe.

[[Clark County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Clark County, Wisconsin, 1853 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Wisconsin

Clark County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.  As of 2000, 33,557 people lived there. Its county seat is Neillsville.6

[[Violin Concerto (Brahms)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Johannes Brahms, Violin concertos

The Violin Concerto in D major, Op. 77 is  a work for orchestra and solo violin by Johannes Brahms. He completed the concerto in the summer of 1878. It was written for Joseph Joachim. The concerto premiered in Leipzig on 1 January 1879.

[[Fairview Alpha, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, Settlements in Red River Parish, Louisiana, 1912 establishments in the United States, Ark-La-Tex

Fairview Alpha is an unincorporated community in Natchitoches and Red River Parishes in the state of Louisiana. At one time, it was known as Messick and Alpha. Fairview Alpha was founded in 1912.

[[Neillsville, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Clark County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, 1882 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Wisconsin

Neillsville is a city in Clark County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. As of the 2010 census, 2,463 people lived there. Meillsville is the county seat of Clark County.6

[[Natchitoches, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Louisiana, 1714 establishments, Parish seats in Louisiana, Settlements in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, 18th-century establishments in Louisiana

Natchitoches (ˈ NAK; Les Natchitoches) is the parish seat of Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States.6 it is the most populous municipality in Natchitoches Parish. It was established in 1714 by Louis Juchereau de St. Denis as part of French Louisiana. Established in 1714 by Louis Juchereau de St. Denis as part of French Louisiana, the community was named after the indigenous Natchitoches people.

The City of Natchitoches was not incorporated until after Louisiana had become a state (1812), on February 5, 1819. It is the oldest permanent settlement in the region. Natchitoches' sister city is Nacogdoches, Texas. It is also the location of Northwestern State University.

[[Campti, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana, Settlements in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, 1740s establishments in North America

Campti is a small town in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States. The population was 1,057 at the 2000 census. It is part of the Natchitoches Micropolitan Statistical Area. Campti is a flat area of mostly farmland. It sets on the eastern bank of the Red River. Considerable cattle are also raised in the general area.

Lakeview Junior and Senior High School, a modern consolidated school structure housing pre-kindergarten and grades nine through twelve, is located east of Campti on Louisiana Highway 9. The school is 55 percent white in enrollment, but Campti itself is some 75 percent African American in population. Students from as far north as Ashland attend Lakeview.

During the American Civil War, Union General A.J. Smith, with two brigades, reached Campti to assist Admiral David Dixon Porter's trapped gunboats on the Red River there. Smith and his men burned Campti, which then contained only a few buildings and houses. The gunboats were returned safely upriver to Grand Ecore in Natchitoches Parish.

[[Ashland, Louisiana]]

Ashland, Louisiana may refer to:

[[Phytophthora iranica]]

CATEGORIES: Incertae sedis

Phytophthora iranica is a plant pathogen that infects the roots of the Myrtle plants. It was discovered in a commercial nursery in Sardinia, Italy.

[[Grotella binda]]

CATEGORIES: Noctuidae

Grotella binda is a species of moth in the genus Grotella, of the family Noctuidae. This moth species is found in North America. It was first found in Arizona.

[[Many, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sabine Parish, Louisiana, Towns in Louisiana, Parish seats in Louisiana

Many is the parish seat of Sabine Parish, Louisiana, United States. as of the 2010 census, 2,706 people lived in Many. This is a decrease of 183 from the 2000 Census. the town was named for James B. Many, a commander of nearby Fort Jesup.

[[Schizoaffective disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses

Schizoaffective disorder is a mental illness that combines elements of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. People suffering from it usually have symptoms of psychosis like hallucinations, paranoia and delusions. People suffering from it also have mood problems like depression or mania. 

[[Wii MotionPlus]]

CATEGORIES: Wii hardware

The Wii MotionPlus is an expansion device for the Nintendo Wii. It allows the Wii Remote to better capture motion. It was first announced on July 14, 2008 in a press release by Nintendo. The next day, it was shown at that year's E3. It was released in June 2009.

Starting May 9, 2010, new Wii consoles include the Wii Sports Resort video game and the Wii MotionPlus. 

The Wii U supports the Wii MotionPlus in games where use of its touch screen controller is not necessary.

[[Kraft, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, Ark-La-Tex

Kraft is an unincorporated community in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Wood, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana

Wood is an unincorporated community in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States. It is east of Kraft and west of Campti on the Jackson Avenue.

[[Nord N.2501 Noratlas]]

CATEGORIES: French military aircraft, German military aircraft, Nord aircraft

The SNCAN N.2501 Noratlas or simply Noratlas is a post-war military French transport aircraft designed and built by Société Nationale de Construction Aéronautique du Nord. It was use by several air forces like Armée de l'Air, Luftwaffe, and Israeli Air Force. It was built under licence in Germany. It's first flew in septembre 1949 and was introduced in 1953. France retired its last one in 1984.

[[Bipolar disorder in children]]

CATEGORIES: Bipolar disorder, Children, Controversies

Bipolar disorder in children, more well known as pediatric bipolar disorder, is a very serious condition that affects children and adolescents. Identifying bipolar disorder for children and teenagers may be challenging-certain symptoms are very different from adults. Children and teens often have depressed moods mixed with mania taking place almost every day and sometimes at exactly the same time. Diagnosis of bipolar disorder in children and adolescents is controversial, however. This condition often leads to impairments of daily function, and people with bipolar disorder which is prior to 18 years of age are far more likely to commit suicide. Pediatric bipolar disorder is far more acute in children and youth than in the adult population, with diagnoses at very early age. In children or teens, mania often has serious psychotic troubles with mixed mania and depression episodes which are worse and for more erratic times than in adults. Certain medications for this condition may have strong side effects for those under 18. Most bipolar children have attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.

[[Andrea Bowen]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, 1990 births, Living people, American child actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, Actors from Columbus, Ohio

Andrea Bowen (born March 4, 1990 near Columbus, Ohio) is an American actress. She acts mostly in television programs. She acted as the character Julie in the TV show Desperate Housewives. She has gotten a few SAG awards for her television work.

[[Violin Concerto (Beethoven)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, Violin concertos

The Violin Concerto in D major, Op. 61 is a work for solo violin and orchestra. It was written by Ludwig van Beethoven in 1806 for Franz Clement, first violinist and conductor of the Theatre an der Wien orchestra. It met with lukewarm approval. It did not receive its rightful due until 1844 when it was conducted in London by Mendelssohn.

The concerto opens with a few strokes on the timpani that led some music lovers to call the work the "Kettledrum Concerto".   The first movement lasts about 25 minutes. The second movement is serene and free from the dramatic turbulence of the first. The third movement displays a happy liveliness and makes great demands upon the soloist's skills.

[[Girls' Day (Germany)]]

CATEGORIES: Germany

Girls' Day (Mädchen-Zukunftstag) is a German special day for teenage girls.

[[Loch Ness Monster (roller coaster)]]

CATEGORIES: Steel roller coasters, Roller coasters in the United States, Buildings and structures in Virginia, Roller coasters by name

The Loch Ness Monster is a steel roller coaster at Busch Gardens Williamsburg in the U.S. state of Virginia. It was the world's first roller coaster to have interlocking loops. The ride is in the Scottish-themed area of the park. It also has a helix tunnel, two lift hills and a 114-foot (35 m) drop. This roller coaster is classified as an American Coaster Enthusiasts Coaster Landmark.

[[Hans Holbein the Younger]]

CATEGORIES: 1490s births, 1543 deaths, German painters

Hans Holbein the Younger (c. 1497 – between 7 October and 29 November 1543) was a German artist, painter and printmaker. He is best known for the portraits he painted. He is called "the Younger" to distinguish him from his father, Hans Holbein the Elder. Hans Holbein the Younger was the better painter.

[[Newburgh, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indiana

Newburgh is a city in Indiana. It is in southwestern Indiana.

[[Pulse]]

CATEGORIES: Cardiovascular system

A pulse (or heartbeat) is a throbbing of blood vessels as blood goes through them. You can feel someone's pulse in their wrist, thumb or neck, where vessels are closer to the skin. A normal pulse is below 100 beats per minute. Our pulse quickens when we exercise because the muscles being used need more oxygen. Unusually fast or slow or irregular pulse might mean sickness.

There are normally four heart sounds. Two of them, S1 and S2, can be heard with a stethoscope. Two other sounds, S3 and S4, can not be heard, but they can be seen using a machine called a phonocardiograph. 

Pulses is a term for peas, beans and lentils.

[[Caramel apple]]

CATEGORIES: Apples, Desserts

Caramel apples are apples covered in caramel. They are sometimes given to children on Halloween. They are somewhat like candy. They are also sometimes called taffy apples. Some caramel apples have nuts and other treats stuck to them, to improve the flavor. Taffy apples usually refers to this type of caramel apple.

[[Coriaria]]

CATEGORIES: Shrubs, Cucurbitales

Coriaria is a genus of plants. It is the only genus currently known in the Coriariaceae family. About 15-20 species are currently known.

[[Violin Concerto (Tchaikovsky)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Violin concertos

The Violin Concerto in D major, Op. 35 is a work for solo violin and orchestra. It was written by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky in 1878.  It was first performed in Vienna, Austria, on 4 December 1881. John Warrack writes, "Both the principal themes of the first movement are tender and eloquent ... With the Canzonetta that replaced the original Andante Tchaikovsky turns towards pure song ... the Finale is a cheerful little folk-like theme."

[[Rock & Roll Jeopardy!]]

CATEGORIES: Jeopardy!, 1998 television series debuts, 2001 television series endings

Rock & Roll Jeopardy! was a music-themed television game show. It ran from August 8, 1998 to May 12, 2001 on VH1. It was hosted by Jeff Probst. It was a spin-off of the game show Jeopardy!.

[[TV Asahi]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese television networks, 1957 establishments in Asia, 1950s establishments in Japan

TV Asahi (Rising Sun television) is a television network in Japan. It started in 1957. In 1996, Masayoshi Son collaborated with Rupert Murdoch and became the largest shareholder, but the Asahi Shinbun purchased it in 1997. TV Asahi was invaded also by the right-wing yakuza and a president of publisher. For those reasons, former the executive of police organization became a company director.

[[Aydın Aybay]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2013 deaths, Turkish lawyers, Turkish writers, Deaths from respiratory failure

Aydın Aybay (1929 – 6 March 2013) was a Turkish professor of civil law, writer and lawyer. He was one of the founders of the Istanbul University Faculty of Political Sciences, the Maltepe University Faculty of Law and the Cumhuriyet Foundation.

[[Asahi Shinbun]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Japan, English-language newspapers published in Asia, 1879 establishments, Osaka, 1870s establishments in Japan

Asahi Shinbun (Morning Sun Newspaper) is a major newspaper in Japan. It is based in Osaka. It started in 1879. It is left-wing. It publishes a daily English-language edition online.

[[David Blaine]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American autobiographers, American magicians, People from Brooklyn

David Blaine (born David  Blaine White on April 4, 1973) is an American magician. He has set and broken several world records.

[[Spaceport]]

CATEGORIES: Spaceports

A spaceport is a place for spacecraft to launch or land. It may have launch pads for rocket, and many buildings for preparing and launching space flights. In real life, there are very few space ports across the world. They are mostly owned by government agencies, for example NASA. They are used to launch scientific research missions, launch man-made satellites and animals.

However, science fiction stories set in the future often have spaceports that are more like modern airports. In these stories, many spacecraft may come and go each day, and they may transport passengers like a real-life airline.

[[Felicity and Perpetua]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, 200s deaths

Felicity and Perpetua were 3rd century Christian Martyrs in Carthage. They are believed to have died 7 March 203. Their feast day is March 7.

[[Theoretical linguistics]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics

Theoretical linguistics tries to understand how language works. Syntax, phonology, morphology and semantics are studied, also the things or universals that all languages have in common. 

[[Li River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of China

The Li River, also called Li Jiang in Chinese, is a river in Guilin Guangxi, China. It is famous for its Karst landscape of mountains and rivers by water cruise.

[[Stompin' Tom Connors]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2013 deaths, Canadian adoptees, Canadian singers, Country musicians, Disease-related deaths in Ontario, Folk musicians, Musicians from Ontario, Order of Canada, People from New Brunswick, People from Prince Edward Island

Charles Thomas Connors, OC (February 9, 1936 – March 6, 2013) was a Canadian singer-songwriter. He was one of Canada's most well-known country and folk singers.

He received the nickname "Stompin' Tom" when Boyd MacDonald, a waiter at the King George Tavern introduced him as "Stompin' Tom Connors" and because he used to stomp the heel of his left boot to keep rhythm during his songs.

He spent a small time living with his mother in a low-security women's penitentiary before he was taken by Children's Aid Society and he was later adopted by Cora and Russell Aylward of Skinners Pond, Prince Edward Island.

Some of Connors best known songs are "The Hockey Song" (also known as "The Good Old Hockey Game"), "Big Joe Mufferaw", "The Martin Hartwell Story", "Sudbury Saturday Night", "Bud the Spud", "The Black Donnellys", and "Reesor Crossing Tragedy". Connors also had a miniseries on CBC called "Stompin Tom's Canada" where he met people from all around Canada.

Connors was guest on Late Night with Conan O'Brien in 2004 when the show had taped a week's-worth of episodes. He performed a rendition of "The Hockey Song" along with the Toronto audience. This was one of the few times that Connors had performed on American television.

Connors died on March 6, 2013 at his home in Halton Hills, Ontario from kidney failure.

[[Independence Club]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Civil rights, Human rights, History of Korea, 1896 establishments in Asia, 1899 disestablishments, 1890s establishments in Asia, 1890s disestablishments in Asia

The Independence Club (독립협회, 獨立協會) was a Korean association that supported the independence movement during the Joseon dynasty. It was active from 1896 to 1899. The club was an early supporter of human rights and people's democracy in Korea. It was founded by Seo Jae-pil and Yun Chi-ho.

The group helped build the Independence Gate. and set up the People's Joint Association.

[[Pearl S. Buck]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1973 deaths, Cancer deaths in Vermont, Deaths from lung cancer, Writers from West Virginia

Pearl S. Buck (June 26, 1892March 6, 1973) was an American writer. She lived in China for over 20 of 40 years and wrote about the country. Her book The Good Earth was a bestseller in 1931 and 1932. The book won a Pulitzer Prize in 1932.

She won the 1938 Nobel Prize in Literature for a trilogy of novels about a Chinese farm family and biographies about her missionary parents. When she returned to the United States, she became active in charitable and political causes.

[[Cyanosis]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems

Cyanosis is a medical problem.  When a person has cyanosis, their skin and mucous membranes turn blue or purple.  Cyanosis is a sign that the cyanotic (blue) parts of the body are not getting enough blood and oxygen. This can happen because there is not enough oxygen in the blood.  It can also happen when small blood vessels in the body get smaller because of a medical problem (this is called vasoconstriction).

Usually cyanosis is first seen in the extremities (the parts of the body that are farthest away from the heart).  Usually the first parts of the body to become cyanotic are the fingertips (especially under the fingernails), the toes, the lips, the tip of the nose, and the earlobes. 

As the body goes longer without oxygen, more of the body becomes cyanotic.

==References==  

[[Mallinson Girls School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in India, Srinagar, 1912 establishments in Asia, 1910s establishments in India

Mallinson Girls School is a school for girls in Kashmir. It is located in Srinagar. The school was founded by Ms Fitze in 1912 at Fateh Kadal and later moved to Lal Chowk in Srinagar. The school was started by Christian missionaries and named after Mallinson. It still has affiliations with the Church Mission Society. Its motto is 'Faithful in the Least'.

The school's principal is currently Parvez Sameul Kaul.

[[Buzen, Fukuoka]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Fukuoka Prefecture

Buzen is a Japanese city in Fukuoka Prefecture on the island of Kyushu.

[[Chikugo, Fukuoka]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Fukuoka Prefecture

Chikugo is a Japanese city in Fukuoka Prefecture on the island of Kyushu.

[[Salif Keita]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1949 births, Malian people, Musicians

Salif Keita (born 25 August 1949) is a musician from the country of Mali. He writes songs and sings in the style of afro-pop.

[[Bell 206]]

CATEGORIES: Civil aircraft, Helicopters, Bell aircraft, United States military aircraft

The Bell 206 is a light helicopter. It was designed and built in the United States by Bell Helicopters. It was originally designed for civilian purposes. It was changed to be used by the military, including the US Army. It first flew in December 1962. Its manufacturing stopped in 2010. Licence-built were occurred to Italian company Agusta.

[[List of airports in Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Saudi Arabia, Lists of airports

The list of airports in Saudi Arabia includes many locations.

The airline hub airports in Saudi Arabia are King Khalid International Airport in Riyadh and King Fahd International Airport in Dammam

Jeddah is Saudi Arabia's busiest airport, used heavily during the Hajj season.

[[Columbia County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Columbia County, Wisconsin, Wisconsin counties, 1854 establishments in Wisconsin

Columbia County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.  As of 2000, 52,468 people lived in Columbia county.  Portage is the county seat and largest city in the county.6

Columbia County is part of the Madison Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Nintendo Power]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines, 1988 establishments in the United States, Nintendo, 2012 disestablishments, Monthly magazines, Video game magazines

Nintendo Power was a monthly Nintendo news and video game strategy magazine. It ran from 1988 to 2012. The first issue, released in July/August 1988, spotlighted the NES game Super Mario Bros. 2. From 1988 to 2007, the magazine was published by Nintendo of America. Starting in 2007, it was published by Future US, the United States branch of British publisher Future. The last issue was in December 2012, spotlighting the Wii U game New Super Mario Bros. U.

Nintendo Power focused on news, previews, and articles on upcoming Nintendo video games. Other sections included Pulse (letters submitted by readers) and Player Profiles (information and an interview with a person in the video game industry).

[[Portage, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Columbia County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, 1854 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Wisconsin

Portage is a city in Columbia County, Wisconsin, United States.6 It is the county seat Columbia County. As of the 2010 census, 10,662 people lived in Portage.2. It is the largest city in Columbia County. The city is part of the Madison Metropolitan Statistical Area.

Portage was named for the Fox-Wisconsin Waterway. It is a portage between the Fox River and the Wisconsin River. It was found by Jacques Marquette and Louis Joliet during their discovery of a route to the Mississippi River in 1673. The slogan of the city is "Where the North Begins."

Portage is the largest city outside of Dane County in the Madison Metropolitan Area.

[[Dodge County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Dodge County, Wisconsin, 1836 establishments in Michigan Territory

Dodge County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.  As of 2010, 88,759 lived there. Juneau is the county seat of Dodge County.6

[[King Khalid International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Saudi Arabia, Riyadh

King Khalid International Airport RUH (مطار الملك خالد الدولي), also known by the acronym KKIA) is a Saudi international airport which is close to Riyadh.

[[Paris Fire Brigade]]

CATEGORIES: Firefighting, Paris, Military of France

The Brigade des Sapeurs-Pompiers de Paris or BSPP is the Paris fire service. The brigade is part of the French army, and its firefighters are also soldiers. They do not usually take part in military action, but are well-known for taking part in military parades. The brigade covers Paris and the nearby departments of Hauts-de-Seine, Seine-Saint-Denis, and Val-de-Marne. It is also one of the main ambulance services of the area. It also has a lot of special vehicles, such as light boats.

[[Juneau, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Dodge County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin

Juneau is a city in Dodge County, Wisconsin, United States. As of the 2010 census, 2,814 people lived there. It is the county seat of Dodge County.6

[[Paris–Le Bourget Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in France, Buildings and structures in Paris

Paris–Le Bourget Airport is an important airport near Paris, France. It was the international airport for Paris before the building of Paris-Charles de Gaulle Airport and Orly Airport. It is now an airport for all business class aircraft. The Musée de l'Air et de l'Espace (the French aviation and space museum) is there. The famous Paris Air Show happens here.

[[Eau Claire County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Eau Claire County, Wisconsin, 1856 establishments in Wisconsin

Eau Claire County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. Its county seat is Eau Claire.6  Eau Claire is French for clear water. As of 2011, it was estimated that 99,879 people live there.

[[Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin, 1836 establishments in Michigan Territory

Fond du Lac County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. As of 2000, 97,296 people lived there. Its county seat is Fond du Lac.6

The county name is French for bottom (or foot) of the lake.

[[Fond du Lac, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin

Fond du Lac is a city in Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin, United States. The name is French for bottom (or foot) of the lake. It was named this because of its location at the bottom (south end) of Lake Winnebago. As of the 2010 census, 43,021 people lived there.

[[Physical system]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Systems

In physics, a physical system is any object or part of an object that can be analysed with the laws of physics. An atom or the water in a lake can both be considered as physical systems. Everything outside the system is called the environment, which in the analysis is ignored except for its effects on the system.

All matter and energy in the universe could be treated as one big physical system, but often it is much much easier to look at the universe a few particles at a time, and treat these particles as their own quantum systems. There are many many different physical systems that physicists like to study. Some examples are:

Physical systems are different to conceptual systems, which study theoretical objects, ideas or concepts (such as the Turing machine).

[[Grant County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Grant County, Wisconsin, 1837 establishments in Wisconsin Territory

Grant County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. In 2000, 49,597 people lived there. Its county seat is Lancaster.6  Grant County also is in the tri-state area with Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin

[[Parcae]]

CATEGORIES: Roman gods and goddesses

In Roman mythology, the Parcae (singular, Parca) were the female personifications of destiny. They are often called the Fates in English. Their Greek equivalent were the Moirai. They controlled the "thread of life" of every mortal and immortal. Even the gods feared the Parcae. 

The  names of the three Parcae were:

The earliest known documents about these deities are three small stelae (cippi). They were found near ancient Lavinium shortly after World War II. They have the inscription:

Neuna fata, Neuna dono, Parca Maurtia dono

The names of two of the three Roman Parcae are recorded (Neuna = Nona, Maurtia = Morta) and connected to the concept of fata.

One of the sources for the Parcae is Metamorphoses by Ovid, II 654, V 532, VIII 452, XV 781.

[[Lancaster, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Grant County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, 1837 establishments in Wisconsin Territory

Lancaster is a city in Grant County, Wisconsin, United States.6.  As of the 2010 census, 3.868 people lived there. Lancaster is the county seat of Grant County.

[[Kewaunee County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Kewaunee County, Wisconsin, 1850s establishments in Wisconsin, 1859 establishments in the United States

Kewaunee County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.  As of 2000, 20,187 people lived there.  Its county seat is Kewaunee.6 Kewaunee County is part of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Kewaunee, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Kewaunee County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin

Kewaunee is a city in Kewaunee County, Wisconsin, United States. As of the 2010 census,  2,952 people lived there. The city is on the northwestern shore of Lake Michigan. It is the county seat of Kewaunee County.6

Kewaunee is part of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Green Lake County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Green Lake County, Wisconsin, 1858 establishments in Wisconsin

Green Lake County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.  As of 2000, 19,105 people lived there.  Its county seat is Green Lake.6

[[Green Lake, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Green Lake County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin

Green Lake is a city in Green Lake County, Wisconsin, United States. As of the 2010 census, 960 people lived there. The city is on the north side of Big Green Lake. The city of Green Lake is the county seat for the county of Green Lake.

[[Iowa County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: 1829 establishments in the United States, Iowa County, Wisconsin, 1820s establishments in Michigan Territory

Iowa County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. As of 2000, 22,780 people lived there.  Its county seat is Dodgeville.6 It is also the largest city in the county.

Iowa County is part of the Madison Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Dodgeville, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Iowa County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, 1827 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Michigan Territory

Dodgeville is a city in Iowa County, Wisconsin, United States. As of the 2010 Census, 4,698 people lived there. It is the largest city in Iowa county and the 9th largest city within the Madison metropolitan area. It is also the county seat of Iowa County. Dodgeville is part of the Madison Metropolitan Statistical Area. New London, Minnesota

Dodgeville is one of Wisconsin's oldest cities. It is the sixth oldest European settlement in the state. At one time, it was the largest city in Wisconsin.

The city is twinned with Oakham, Rutland, United Kingdom.

[[Steam (service)]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Steam is an internet-based digital distribution, digital rights management, multiplayer and social networking program developed and distributed by Valve Corporation. Steam has its own store where the user can purchase video games and other software. It is available for Microsoft Windows, OS X and Linux. Steam also has an application with fewer functions for smartphones which is available for Android and iOS. Steam can also be used as a communication software, meaning that you can talk with people if they are your friends on Steam.

[[Violin Concerto No. 1 (Bach)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach, Violin concertos

The Violin Concerto No. 1 in A minor, BWV 1042 is a work for solo violin and orchestra. It was written by Johann Sebastian Bach about 1730. It consists of three movements (quick-slow-quick) in imitation of the pattern set by Antonio Vivaldi. The first movement is in quick 2/4 time and written in ritornello structure. The central movement is an aria "without wordslyrical, expressively warm, ever gentle, yet inescapably melancholic..." The last movement is a jig in 3/8 time marked Allegro. Like Bach's two other violin concertos, the solo instrument appears to both compete and cooperate with the orchestra.

[[Violin Concerto No. 5 (Mozart)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Violin concertos

The Violin Concerto No. 5 in A major ("Turkish"), K. 219 is a work for solo violin and orchestra. It was written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in 1775. He wrote five concertos for violin between April and December 1775. These were probably written for his own use as concertmaster of the Archbishop of Salzburg's orchestra. The five concertos are the only violin concertos he wrote.

The concerto begins with a quick Allegro aperto movement which is followed by a slow Adagio second movement. The third and final movement is a rondo in minuet tempo. "Turkish" music was popular at the time this concerto was written. The rondo's wild, frenzied contrasting section gives the concerto its nickname. 

[[Wen Jiabao]]

CATEGORIES: Premiers of the People's Republic of China, 1942 births, Living people

Wen Jiabao (born September 15, 1942 in Tianjin) was Premier of the People's Republic of China from 2003 through 2013. His second term as Premier is due to end in 2013. He has a postgraduate degree in geology.

In his final address as China’s prime minister, Wen warned of the nations growing divisions between rich and poor, the hazards of unchecked environmental degradation and the risks posed by unbalanced economic growth.

[[King Abdulaziz International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Jeddah, Airports in Saudi Arabia, 1981 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Saudi Arabia

King Abdulaziz International Airport (مطار الملك عبدالعزيز الدولي) JED, also known by the acronym KAIA), is a Saudi international airport which is close to Jeddah.

[[Family Fortunes]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1980s British television series, 1990s British television series, 2000s British television series, British television game shows, ITV television programmes, 1980s television series debuts, 2002 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, English-language television programs

Family Fortunes is a British television game show. It is based on the American game show Family Feud. It has aired in various forms since 1980. The current version is called All Star Family Fortunes and is hosted by Vernon Kay. It airs Saturday nights on ITV.

[[Brown College (Minnesota)]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Minnesota, 1946 establishments in the United States, 1940s establishments in Minnesota

Brown College (Minnesota) is a college in Mendota Heights, a southern suburb of Minneapolis-Saint Paul in Dakota county, Minnesota.

[[Grid computing]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

Grid computing is a form of distributed computing whereby a "virtual supercomputer" is made up of a group of networked, loosely coupled computers, working together to perform very large tasks. It is different from cluster computing, where the computers are similar and work together on a large task. The computers involved in grid computing can be quite different from one another. They work on separate pieces of the larger problem.

[[Lee Jung-hee]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Feminists, Lawyers, South Korean politicians, Human rights, Korean activists, Autobiographers, People from Seoul, Living people

Lee Jung-hee (이정희; 李正姬, Yi Jeong-hee, born December 22, 1969 Seoul) is a South Korean human rights activist, politician, lawyer and feminist. She was a member of the 18th National Assembly of South Korea.

[[Spun]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 crime movies, 2000s criminal comedy movies, 2000s crime drama movies, 2002 comedy-drama movies, English-language movies, American criminal comedy movies, American crime drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American independent movies

Spun is a 2002 melodramatic crime comedy movie. It is about meth abuse and drug addiction. Brittany Murphy plays Nikki, John Leguizamo plays Spider Mike and Mena Suvari plays Cookie. This melodramatic comedy was rated NC-17 by the MPAA, although the rating was later surrendered. This movie got negative review from critics when it was released.

[[Stall (flight)]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation

A stall is what happens when an aerofoil can not make enough lift to keep the aircraft in flight. Stalling can be risky and dangerous when caused unintentionally or with lack of enough vertical distance for recovery.

[[Opel Cascada]]

CATEGORIES: Opel automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 2010s automobiles

The Opel Cascada is a car produced by the German carmaker Opel since 2013. The model is sold as the Vauxhall Cascada in the UK. 

[[Opel Adam]]

CATEGORIES: Opel automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 2010s automobiles

The Opel Adam is a car produced by the German carmaker Opel 2012-2019. It was named after its founder Adam Opel and is sold in the UK as a Vauxhall. It's known for having many personalisation options. Production ended in 2019 after a single generation. 

[[Opel Mokka]]

CATEGORIES: Opel automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Opel Mokka is a car from the German carmaker Opel since 2012. The Mokka is a subcompact crossover SUV, and rides on GM's Gamma platform, which is the same platform the Chevrolet Aveo/Sonic and Spark are built on. The Mokka is sold as the Buick Encore and Chevrolet Trax in North America and is sold as a Vauxhall in the UK. The Opel/Vauxhall versions have recently been facelifted and are now called Mokka X. It entered its second generation in 2020 and is now called the Mokka again, it offers petrol, diesel and electric versions.   

[[Opel Antara]]

CATEGORIES: Opel automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Opel Antara is a compact CUV from the General Motors' German automaker Opel since 2006.  The Antara replaced the Opel Frontera a badge engineered version of the compact Isuzu Rodeo SUV. It was sold as the second generation Saturn Vue, as a fleet-only Chevrolet Captiva Sport in America, and as a Vauxhall model in the UK. The Vue was discontinued after Saturn went out of business. The Captiva Sport was discontinued upon the introduction of the Trax. The Antara is expected to be replaced with a rebadged Buick Envision and sold as Opel Antara B.

[[Dassault Mirage IV]]

CATEGORIES: French military aircraft, Dassault Aviation

The Dassault Mirage IV was a twin-engine French supersonic bomber. It first flew in June 1959. It could carry a nuclear bomb AN-22 or a nuclear missile ASMP. It was in active service from 1964 to 2009. From 1990, it was used like a reconnaissance aircraft, after the Armée de l'Air bought Mirage 2000N. Dassault Mirage IV was not sold at export.

An example is from 2000 on exhibit at the Musée de l'Air et de l'Espace, the French aviation and space museum, in Paris–Le Bourget Airport.

[[Opel Insignia]]

CATEGORIES: Opel automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Opel Insignia is a car produced by the German carmaker Opel since 2008. its available as a hatchback, saloon or an estate. Like many Opel models, it is sold as a Vauxhall in the United Kingdom. In the North American market it has sold as the Buick Regal since the 2011 model year as a sedan only. Insignia was originally intended to be the second generation Saturn Aura, but because GM stopped making the Saturn it was instead offered to Buick and was marketed as fifth generation Buick Regal. The model was facelifted in 2013 and as a 2014 model for the Buick. The second generation went go on sale in mid-2017 and a new version of the Buick Regal is also expected, it's also be sold in Australia as the Holden Commodore from early 2018 as Australian production of it stopped in October 2017. 

[[Opel Vivaro]]

CATEGORIES: Opel automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Opel Vivaro is a car made by the German carmaker Opel since 2001. It is also sold as a Vauxhall in the UK where it is made in its factory in Luton.

[[Opel Astra]]

CATEGORIES: Opel Astra, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Opel automobiles

Opel Astra is a car produced by the German carmaker Opel since 1991. The name was first used by Vauxhall in 1980. It has been sold in the US under the Saturn (2007-2009) and Buick (2009-present) brand. Under Saturn it kept its original name, while under Buick it is sold as the Verano.

[[Opel Meriva]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Opel automobiles

Opel Meriva is a car produced by the German carmaker Opel since 2002. It is sold as the Vauxhall Meriva in the United Kingdom. It entered its second generation in 2010. It has rear hinged back doors. In 2017, the Meriva was replaced by a crossover model called the Crossland X.  

[[Lafayette County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Lafayette County, Wisconsin, 1840s establishments in Wisconsin Territory, 1846 establishments in the United States

Lafayette County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.  As of 2000, 16,137 people lived there.  Its county seat is Darlington.6

[[Darlington, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Lafayette County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, 1849 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Wisconsin

Darlington is a city in Lafayette County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. It is the  seat of the county. As of the 2010 census, 2,451 people lived there.8 The city is surrounded by the Town of Darlington.

[[Monroe County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Monroe County, Wisconsin, 1854 establishments in Wisconsin

Monroe County is a county  in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. As of 2000, 40,899 people lived there.  Its county seat is Sparta.6

[[Phosphorescence]]

CATEGORIES: Light

Phosphorescence is a process in which energy absorbed by a substance is released relatively slowly in the form of light. This is in some cases the mechanism used for "glow-in-the-dark" materials which are "charged" by exposure to light. Unlike the relatively swift reactions in a common fluorescent tube, phosphorescent materials used for these materials absorb the energy and "store" it for a longer time as the processes required to re-emit the light occur less often.

[[Sparta, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Monroe County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin

Sparta is a city in Monroe County, Wisconsin, United States.6 It is on the La Crosse River.  Sparta is the seat of Monroe County. As of July 2011, 9,602 people lived there.

[[Pepin County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Pepin County, Wisconsin, 1858 establishments in Wisconsin

Pepin County is a county  in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.  As of 2010, 7,469 people lived there.  Its county seat is Durand.6

Laura Ingalls Wilder was born in Pepin County.

[[Chikuzen, Fukuoka]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fukuoka Prefecture

Chikuzen is a Japanese town in Fukuoka Prefecture on the island of Kyushu.

[[Durand, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Pepin County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, 1856 establishments in Wisconsin

Durand is a city in Pepin County, Wisconsin, United States. As of the 2010 census, 1,931 people lived there. Durand is the seat of Pepin County. The city is in the Town of Durand.

Durand was first named Bear Creek. It is on the banks of the Chippewa River about 15 from its confluence with the Mississippi River.

[[Richland County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Richland County, Wisconsin, 1850s establishments in Wisconsin, 1850 establishments in the United States

Richland County is a county  in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. As of 2000, 17,924 people lived there. Its county seat is Richland Center.6 

[[Richland Center, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Richland County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, 1851 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Wisconsin

Richland Center is a city in Richland County, Wisconsin, United States. It is the  county seat of Richland County. As of the 2010 census, 5,184 people lived there.

[[Sawyer County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Sawyer County, Wisconsin, 1880s establishments in Wisconsin, 1885 establishments in the United States

Sawyer County is a county  in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. As of 2000, 16,196 people lived there. Its county seat is Hayward.6  

[[Hayward, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Sawyer County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin

Hayward is a city in Sawyer County, Wisconsin, United States, It is on the Namekagon River.  As of the 2010 census,  2,318 people lived there. Hayward is the county seat of Sawyer County.  The city is surrounded by the Town of Hayward.

[[Sheboygan County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Sheboygan County, Wisconsin, 1838 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Michigan Territory

Sheboygan County is a county  in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. As of the 2010 census, 115,507 people lived there. Its county seat is Sheboygan.6 The whole county forms the Sheboygan, Wisconsin, Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Sheboygan, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Sheboygan County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, 1846 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Wisconsin Territory

Sheboygan is a city in Wisconsin, United States.6 It is the county seat of Sheboygan County. As of the 2010 census, 49,288 people lived there. It is the main city of the Sheboygan, Wisconsin Metropolitan Statistical Area. The city is located on Lake Michigan at the mouth of the Sheboygan River. It is about 50 north of Milwaukee and 64 south of Green Bay.

[[Taylor County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Taylor County, Wisconsin, 1875 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Wisconsin

Taylor County is a county  in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. As of 2010, 20,689 people lived there. Its county seat is Medford.6

[[Medford, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Taylor County, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin

Medford is a city in Taylor County, Wisconsin, United States. As of the 2010 census, 4,326 people lived there. Memford is the county seat of Taylor County. The city is mostly in the boundaries of the Town of Medford.

[[Washington County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Washington County, Wisconsin

Washington County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. As of 2000, 117,493 people lived there. Its county seat is West Bend.6

[[East China Normal University]]

CATEGORIES: Shanghai, Colleges and universities in the People's Republic of China, 1951 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in China

East China Normal University or ECNU, is a public research university in Shanghai. It is regarded as one of the most prestigious universities in China and is sponsored by the national programs "Project 211" and "Project 985".

[[All Growed Up]]

CATEGORIES: Rugrats, 2001 television episodes

All Growed Up was a telefilm and VHS episode of the Nickelodeon animated series Rugrats. It was made to celebrate the series' 10th anniversary. It was made in July 21, 1999 and aired on July 21, 2001. It is about the Rugrats being 6 years older and going to school in September 1998. The episode led to a spin-off show called All Grown Up! which also aired on Nickelodeon. 

[[The Rugrats Movie]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 movies, 1999 animated movies, Paramount movies, Rugrats

The Rugrats Movie is the first Nickelodeon Rugrats movie. It is about Tommy, the main character, getting a new baby brother named Dil. Tommy is jealous because Dil gets the most attention. Tommy and friends try to return Dil to the hospital in their toy Reptar wagon and manage to get lost in the forest.

[[2013 horse meat scandal]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in the United Kingdom, Horses, Meat, 21st century in the Republic of Ireland

On January 15, 2013, it was announced that horse meat was found in several meat products in England and Ireland.  The horse meat was discovered through DNA testing. In most cases, horse meat was used only as a filler, but in the United Kingdom, items labeled as beef were found to have as much as 100% horse meat. Later it was discovered that horse meat was being sold as beef all over Europe, and nearly every meat seller in Europe was affected. So far, no horse meat labeled as beef has been found outside Europe.

[[Waseda University]]

CATEGORIES: Waseda University, Colleges and universities in Tokyo, 1882 establishments, 1880s establishments in Japan

Waseda University is a well known university in Japan. The main campus is in Shinjuku, Tokyo. It was founded in 1882. Waseda thirty-six departments: thirteen undergraduate schools and twenty-three graduate schools. As of May 2016, there were 42,860 undergraduate students and 8,269 graduate students.  It is called 早稲田大学 in Japanese.

[[Ramsgate]]

CATEGORIES: Ramsgate

Ramsgate is a seaside town in the district of Thanet in Kent. It has a population of around 40,000. The town relies mainly on tourism and fishing for growth. The town has one of the largest marinas on the English south coast.

[[Frederick B. Karl]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2013 deaths, American lawyers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, People from Daytona Beach, Florida, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Politicians from Florida, University of Florida alumni, US Democratic Party politicians, Writers from Florida

Frederick Brennan Karl (May 14, 1924 – March 7, 2013) was an American politician, writer, and lawyer. He served in the Florida House of Representatives, Florida State Senate, and Florida Supreme Court.

Karl was born on May 14, 1924 in Daytona Beach, Florida. He studied at Seabreeze High School, at the University of Florida, and at Stetson University College of Law. 

Karl was married to Faye Brooker Karl from 1948 until their divorce in June of 1971. They had four children. He married Mercedes Jensen Proctor in August of 1971.  Karl had suffered heart disease, Parkinson's disease, and diabetes. Karl died on March 7, 2013 from heart disease in his home in Tampa, Florida, aged 88.

[[Jaime Bayly]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Peruvian journalists, Television news anchors, People from Lima, Emmy Award winners

Jaime Bayly Letts (born February 19, 1965) is a Peruvian writer and journalist. He is known for hosting his own Spanish host show called Bayly. He is known for criticizing many politicians throughout the world. He won three Emmy Awards. 

Bayly was born on February 19, 1965 in Lima, Peru. He was raised in Lima and in Florida. He studied at Markham College, at Colegio San Agustín of Lima, and at Pontificia Universidad Católica del Peru. Bayly was married to Sandra Masías from 1993 until they divorced in 1997. He married Silvia Nuñez del Arco in 2011. He now lives in Miami, Florida.

[[John O. Brennan]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Chief executives, Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency, Politicians from New Jersey

John Owen Brennan (born September 22, 1955) is an American politician. He was the Director of the National Counterterrorism Center from August 2004 through August 2005. Then he was United States Homeland Security Advisor from January 2009 through March 2013. He became the director of the Central Intelligence Agency on March 8, 2013.

Brennan was born on September 22, 1955 in North Bergen, New Jersey to an Irish-American family. He studied at Fordham University and at the University of Texas at Austin. Brennan is currently married to Kathy Pokluda. He now lives in Washington, D.C..

[[Vic Sotto]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Filipino actors, 1954 births, Television presenters, People from Manila

Marvic Castelo Sotto, commonly known as Vic Sotto and Bossing, is a Filipino actor, TV host, comedian, and film producer. He is known for working for Eat Bulaga!.

[[ABS-CBN]]

CATEGORIES: Philippine television networks, Quezon City, 1953 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in the Philippines

ABS-CBN is a television network in the Philippines owned and operated by ABS-CBN Corporation. It is the country's largest and leading television network with an advertising revenues amounted to PHP17.5 billion for 2011. It was launched on 23 October 1953 and is among the first commercial television networks in Asia. Its headquarters is in Quezon City.

[[James Lindenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2009 deaths, Businesspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

James Lindenberg (December 20, 1921 – April 28, 2009) is an American entrepreneur. He was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He is called "The Father of Philippine Television" for founding the Bolinao Electronics Corporation (BEC).

[[Chikujō, Fukuoka]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fukuoka Prefecture

Chikujō, also spelled Chikugo, is a Japanese town in Fukuoka Prefecture on the island of Kyushu.

The Kyushu National Agricultural Experiment Station is at Chikujo.

[[The Price is Right (Australian game show)]]

CATEGORIES: Television game shows, English-language television programs

The Price is Right was an Australian television game show. It aired in various forms from 1981 to 2012. It was based on the American game show of the same name.

[[Centro Escolar University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the Philippines

Centro Escolar University is a private university in the Philippines.

[[Valenzuela, Philippines]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Philippines, Metro Manila

Valenzuela is a city in the Philippines. It is made up of 35 barangays.

[[Stephen Hillenburg]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Disease-related deaths in California, American animators, American television producers, American television writers, American television actors, American voice actors, American television directors, American biologists, People from Lawton, Oklahoma, Actors from Oklahoma, Scientists from Oklahoma, Writers from Oklahoma, People from Anaheim, California, Actors from California, Scientists from California, Writers from California

Stephen Hillenburg (August 21, 1961 – November 26, 2018) was an American marine biologist, animator, writer, producer, actor, voice actor, and director. He was best known for creating the Nickelodeon animated series SpongeBob SquarePants.

Hillenburg was born in Lawton, Oklahoma at a United States Army base. He was raised in Anaheim, California. He studied at Humboldt State University where he majored in marine biology and minored in arts. Hillenburg was inspired by Jacques Cousteau and Max Fleischer.

In March 2017, Hillenburg was diagnosed with Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) which is a terminal illness that affects the nervous system. He died from heart failure as a complication of the disease on November 26, 2018 in San Marino, California at the age of 57.

[[Animation director]]

CATEGORIES: Animation, Filmmakers

An animation director is the director of an animated film responsible particularly in the aspects of the animation process during the production.

[[Late Show with David Letterman]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 American television series debuts, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American comedy television series, American television talk shows, CBS network shows, Emmy Award winning programs, English-language television programs

Late Show with David Letterman was an American late-night talk show. It was hosted by David Letterman. It was on CBS. The show was on the air from August 30, 1993 until May 20, 2015. The show has won many Emmy Awards and TCA Awards.

The band of the show, known as the "CBS Orchestra," was led by Paul Shaffer, who before joining the Late Show was on the TV show Saturday Night Live. The announcer was Bill Wendell from 1993 until he retired in 1995. Alan Kalter started announcing in 1995 and did so until the show ended. The show has had many guests including political figures, athletes, writers, actors, directors/producers, and singers.

There were many well-known episodes such when President Barack Obama was interviewed. Madonna cursed many times during an interview on the show. That episode was one of the most censored episodes in American television history. During David Letterman's birthday, actress Drew Barrymore jumped on Letterman's desk and showed him her breasts.

On April 3, 2014, Letterman announced that he would leave the show in 2015. The last episode of the show aired on May 20, 2015. The Late Show with Stephen Colbert came after this, with Stephen Colbert as host. That show's first episode was on September 8, 2015.

[[Dan Povenmire]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Actors from San Diego, California, Writers from San Diego, California, American animators, American television directors, American television writers, American television producers, American voice actors

Daniel Kingsley “Dan” Povenmire (born September 18, 1963) is an American TV director, writer, TV producer, storyboard artist and actor. He is best known as the co-creator of the Disney animated series Phineas and Ferb.

[[Paul Shaffer]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Canadian voice actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian musical entertainers, Canadian comedians, Canadian writers, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American television personalities, American voice actors, American television actors, American musical entertainers, Comedians from New York City, Writers from New York City, American composers, Actors from Ontario, People from Thunder Bay

Paul Allen Wood Shaffer (born November 28, 1949) is a Canadian-American musician, actor, author, composer, entertainer, and comedian. He is known being the composer for the CBS Orchestra and being the sidekick of David Letterman on the Late Show with David Letterman.

Shaffer was born on November 28, 1949 in Toronto, and raised in Fort William (now part of Thunder Bay), Ontario, Canada, to a Jewish family. He studied at the University of Toronto. Shaffer married Cathy Vasapoli in 1990. They have two children. He now lives in New York City, New York.

[[Daylily]]

CATEGORIES: Asparagales, Flowers

Daylily is the common name of a Hemerocallis. Daylily flowers can have different colors and shapes. The flowers are popular around gardener groups because they are easy to grow and can be easily mutated.

The name Hemerocallis comes from the Greek words ἡμέρα (hēmera) "day" and καλός (kalos) "beautiful". The name suggest that this flower will bloom only for one day, as in H. fulva, also called ditch lily.

The flowers of some daylilies can be eaten and are used in the Chinese kitchen. They are sold in Asian markets as gum jum or golden needles (金针 in Chinese; pinyin: jīnzhēn) or yellow flower vegetables (黃花菜 in Chinese; pinyin: huánghuācài).

[[General contractor]]

CATEGORIES: Construction occupations

A general contractor is usually a person working on construction sites, management of venues, and communication and information.

The general contractor is employed by the company who pays him for completed work.

In UK and countries of commonwealth term Contractor is used to call any person that work for company on fixed term contract rather than regular employment. Advantages of such form of employment is better pay and flexibility for contractor and no employment protection which allows company to terminate contract immediately.

[[Personal injury lawyer]]

CATEGORIES: Law occupations

A personal injury lawyer is a lawyer who provides services to people that claim to have been injured, badly treated or exposed to unnecessary danger by another person, company or organization, and want to get compensation for the injuries that they suffered as a result. Injury may be to a person's body, mental health, property, or reputation. The lawyer may have special knowledge of health, work and safety laws that relate to the injured person's claim.

This type of claim is a civil legal matter, a type of tort involving a dispute between two or more people. The lawyercnwill represent the client by trying to negotiate a settlement of the injury claim, through which an agreed amount of compensation is given to the injured party to resolve their claim.

The lawyer may file a lawsuit on behalf of the injured person. If the case does not settle after a lawsuit is filed, the injury claim will be decided by a court. If the court finds that the injured person suffered a wrongful injury, the court may order the person who caused the injury to pay compensation.

Each country has its own rules and exams that you need to pass to be allowed to work as a lawyer.

Car Accident Lawyer: Every Car Accident Lawyer, Who is also a Personal Injury Lawyer suggests some DO’s and Don’t after a Car accident. These are the requirements that help any Car Accident Lawyer to help you better. Some times In a Car accident injuries may be severe and emotions high.

[[Maryland Heights, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, 1985 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Missouri

Maryland Heights is a city in the eastern part of the state of Missouri. It is west of St. Louis. The city was officially incorporated in 1985.

[[Chinua Achebe]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2013 deaths, Nigerian writers

Chinua Achebe (born Albert Chinụalụmọgụ Achebe, 16 November 1930 - 22 March 2013) was a Nigerian novelist, poet, professor, and critic. He was best known for writing the novel, Things Fall Apart which was first printed in 1958. It is the most widely read book in modern African literature. Achebe went to Nigeria's first university, University College. Achebe wrote his first short story, "In a Village Church," at university.

[[Birthday cake]]

CATEGORIES: Cakes, Birthdays

The birthday cake is part of birthday celebrations in European countries since 19th century. The tradition of adding candles to the top of a birthday cake comes from Germany. Some forms of birthday cakes and such celebrating goes as far as to ancient Rome. Often good wishes are written on the cake using sugar or chocolate. Since long times birthday cakes were a sign of wealth, but since a century they became easily accessible to all parts of society. Around the world many types of the birthday cake are used often looking more like candies and combined sweets. Before the cake is eaten, the person whose birthday it is should make a wish, blow out the candles in one try - this would guarantee that the wish will come true.

[[Miscegenation]]

CATEGORIES: Race, Marriage

Miscegenation (m) is the mixing of different racial groups with marriage, relationship, sexual relations, and procreation.

The word miscegenation has been used since the 19th century. It is often the name given to describe interracial marriage, interracial dating and interracial sex. In the past, it is used to describe the study of human race mixtures.  

Today, the use of the phrase is considered outdated and offensive.

[[Tagalog Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias, Websites established in 2003

The Tagalog Wikipedia is the Tagalog version of the online encyclopedia, Wikipedia. It was started on December 1, 2003. In 2011, it had reached over 50,000 articles.

It is 68th largest edition by article count.

It has over 51,000 articles and is the 51st largest Wikipedia according to the number of articles as of May 31, 2011.

[[WikiPilipinas]]

CATEGORIES: Free encyclopedias, MediaWiki websites, 2007 establishments

WikiPilipinas was an online, free content website. It is a combination "non-academic encyclopedia", web portal, directory and almanac for Philippine-based knowledge. It mostly contains various articles on Philippine-related topics. It was known before as Wikipiniana.

[[Almanac]]

CATEGORIES: Reference works

An almanac is a type of reference that is published yearly. It includes information about weather forecasts, farmers' planting dates and tide tables. Information about astronomy are also found in almanacs, such as the times of the rising and setting of the sun and moon, eclipses, hours of full tide, stated festivals of churches, terms of courts, lists of all types, timelines, and more.

[[Isurus]]

CATEGORIES: Sharks

Isurus is the mako shark or mackeral shark. It is a genus of fast-swimming sharks, the Lamnidae. This is the same family as the great white shark. Isurus ranges in length from 2.5, and can grow to about 800. The genus has a long fossil history.

There are two living species in this genus: the common shortfin mako shark and the rare longfin mako shark. 

[[Ryan Gosling]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Actors from London (Ontario), Canadian movie actors, Canadian musicians, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Canadian writers

Ryan Thomas Gosling (born November 12, 1980) is a Canadian actor, director, musician and writer. He is known for his roles in The Notebook, in Half Nelson, The Big Short, La La Land, and Blade Runner 2049. He was nominated for a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award.

Gosling was born on November 12, 1980 in London, Ontario, Canada. He studied at Cornwall Collegiate, at the Vocational School, and at the Lester B. Pearson High School. He now lives in Los Angeles, California.

[[Pilbara]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Western Australia, Archaean, Regions of Australia

The Pilbara is a large, thinly populated region in the north of Western Australia. The region has (2010) a population of about 48,600.

Pilbara is known for Aboriginal peoples, its stunning landscapes, its red earth and its vast mineral deposits, in particular iron ore. It is a dry region, but it has cyclones every year or two. The cyclones bring a great deal of rain when they do occur.

The area is known for its petroleum, natural gas and iron ore deposits, which make up much of the economy of Western Australia. Other than mining, pastoral activities as well as fishing and tourism are the main industries.

The Pilbara covers an area of 502,000 km². It includes some of Earth's oldest rock formations in the Pilbara craton. This is one of the world's oldest undisturbed rock formations, dating back to the Archaean eon. It includes landscapes of coastal plains and mountain ranges with cliffs and gorges. The major settlements of the region are Port Hedland, Karratha and Newman.

The Pilbara includes the two of the largest national parks in Australia:

[[2000 UEFA Cup semi-final violence]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in association football, 2000s crimes, Murder in the 20th century, Riots, UEFA, 21st century in Turkey

The 2000 UEFA Cup semi-final violence was a number of fights in Istanbul, Turkey between fans of English football team Leeds United and Turkish team, Galatasaray before their UEFA Cup semi-final first leg. It is noted for the deaths of two Leeds fans. 

[[Louis Theroux]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American atheists, American television personalities, American television producers, American television writers, English atheists, English television producers, English television writers, People educated at Westminster School, London, Television personalities from London, Writers from London

Louis Sebastian Theroux (born 20 May 1970) is an English-American broadcaster. He is best known for his investigative series such as When Louis Met, Louis Theroux's Weird Weekends, Louis Theroux's BBC Two Specials.

Theroux was born in Singapore and is a dual citizen. He moved to London when he was a year old. He was educated at Westminster School and Magdalen College, Oxford where he gained a degree in history. In 2013, he moved to Los Angeles. Theroux's mother is British; his father is American writer Paul Theroux.

He is an atheist.

[[Barangay]]

CATEGORIES: Political subdivisions, Barangays

A barangay is a local term for an administrative division in the Philippines. It is the smallest administrative division in the Philippines. As of 2011, it is recorded that there are a total of 42,026 barangays throughout the Philippines. 

[[Malagasy ariary]]

CATEGORIES: Madagascar, Currency of Africa

The ariary (Ar; ISO 4217 code MGA) is the currency of Madagascar. It is equal to 5 iraimbilanja. The ariary is one of only two non-decimal currencies currently being used. The other is the Mauritanian ouguiya.

The names ariary and iraimbilanja come from earlier currency. Ariary was the name for a silver dollar. Iraimbilanja means "one iron weight". It was the name of an old coin worth ⅕ of an ariary.

[[Manila Bulletin]]

CATEGORIES: National newspapers published in the Philippines, 1900 establishments, 20th century establishments in the Philippines, 1900s establishments in Asia

The Manila Bulletin is a broadsheet newspaper in the Philippines. It is the largest newspaper by circulation in the Philippines. It was founded in 1900 as a shipping journal and it is also the second-oldest Philippine newspaper, following The Manila Times. It was previously known as Manila Daily Bulletin and as the Bulletin Today. 

[[Broadsheet]]

CATEGORIES: Newspaper publishing

A broadsheet is a format of a newspaper. It is characterized by long vertical pages measuring 22 inches / 560 millimetres or more. The term "broadsheet" was derived from types of popular prints usually just of a single sheet, sold on the streets and containing various types of material, from ballads to political satire.

[[The Manila Times]]

CATEGORIES: National newspapers published in the Philippines, 1898 establishments in Asia, Establishments in the Philippines

The Manila Times is a broadsheet newspaper in the Philippines.  It is the oldest Philippine newspaper company that was founded on 1898.

[[Sigma Team]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies, Companies of Russia, 2003 establishments in Asia, 2003 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Russia, Novosibirsk

Sigma Team is a Russian video game company. It was founded in the year 2003. The headquarters of the company is in Novosibirsk  and its office will be in Tyumen. Their first game, Alien Shooter was an arcade action game with RPG elements.

[[Henri Bergson]]

CATEGORIES: 1859 births, 1941 deaths, 19th century philosophers, 20th century philosophers, Continental philosophers, Deaths from bronchitis, French Nobel Prize winners, French philosophers, Jewish French academics, Jewish French scientists, Jewish French writers, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Jewish philosophers, Scientists from Paris

Henri-Louis Bergson (18 October 1859 - 4 January 1941), was a French philosopher.

Bergson convinced many thinkers that the processes of immediate experience and intuition are more significant than abstract rationalism and science for understanding reality.

He was born on the Rue Lamartine in Paris, France. His mother, Katherine Levison, was of English and Irish Jewish descent. His father, the pianist Michał Bergson, was of Polish Jewish descent. 

His early childhood was spent mostly in London after his birth. He learned the English language from his mother. He returned to Paris when he was nine years old, and became a naturalized French citizen.

He attended the Lycée Fontanes in Paris from 1868 to 1878. There he was given the 1877 prize for school mathematics, for the solution of a mathematical problem. When he was nineteen, he studied at École Normale Supérieure (ENS). He read many philosophy books, especially Herbert Spencer.

He was given the 1927 Nobel Prize in Literature.

In 4 January 1941, Bergson died in occupied Paris from bronchitis.

[[Lee Radziwill]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2019 deaths, Businesspeople from New York City, American socialites

Caroline Lee Radziwiłł (née Bouvier'; March 3, 1933 – February 15, 2019) was an American socialite. She was the younger sister of former US First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.

[[NH Industries NH90]]

CATEGORIES: Helicopters, Italian military aircraft, Netherlands, Aviation in France, German military aircraft, 1995 establishments in Europe

The NH90 is a European military helicopter. It is built by NH Industries, a company of four countries (France,  Germany, Italy, and Netherlands). It is a stealth technology helicopter. It can do transport. It can also attack submarines with torpedoes.

In France it is called Caïman (in English Caiman) by the French Army and French Navy. The Italian Navy call it SH-90. It first flew in December 1995.

[[The Chase (British game show)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 British television series debuts, 2000s British television series, 2010s British television series, ITV game shows, English-language television programs

The Chase is a British television game show that airs on ITV. It started on 29 June 2009. It is presented by Bradley Walsh. So far, it has run for fourteen series.

The Chasers are Mark Labbett as "The Beast", Shaun Wallace as "The Dark Destroyer", Anne Hegerty as "The Governess", Paul Sinha as "The Sinnerman", Jenny Ryan as "The Vixen", Darragh Ennis as "The Menace" and Dove Windsor as "Medusa". Dove "Medusa" Windsor is the only Chaser who does not feature on the show and only appears as a Chaser on The Chase Ultimate Edition App.

[[Albert Sabin]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1993 deaths, American physicians, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Deaths from heart failure, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Polish Jews, Scientists from New Jersey, Scientists from New York City, Vaccinologists, Virologists, People from Paterson, New Jersey

Albert Bruce Sabin (August 26, 1906 – March 3, 1993) was a Polish-born American medical researcher best known for having developed an oral polio vaccine. He received many awards and honors including the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

[[Dragons' Den]]

CATEGORIES: Reality television series

Dragons' Den is a reality television series that has aired in over 20 countries. The show originated in Japan as Manē no Tora ("Tiger of Money"), first airing in 2001. It has aired in countries such as the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, and Canada. Small companies and investors pitch their ideas to a group of investors known as the "dragons" in exchange for a percentage of their company and the rights to their product. They also have an amount of money they want to get from the dragons. If they do not get at least the amount they are looking for, they get nothing. In the United States, the show is known as Shark Tank, and the investors are known as the "sharks." The format is owned by Sony Pictures Television International.

In the British version the dragons are Touker Suleyman, Deborah Meaden, Sara Davies and Peter Jones. The programme has been produced by BBC Manchester since its inception and was first broadcast on BBC Two on 4 January 2005, and since 2021, it has been broadcast on BBC One.

[[Division of West Sydney]]

CATEGORIES: Former electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1901 establishments in Australia, 1969 disestablishments in Australia

The Division of West Sydney was an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. The division was one of the original 75 divisions created in 1900 for the first federal election in 1901. It was abolished in 1968. It covered the inner western suburbs of Sydney, and at various times included the suburbs of Pyrmont, Darling Harbour, Surry Hills, Balmain and Glebe.

[[Patmos]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Greece

Patmos is a Greek island in the Aegean Sea. There are about 3000 people living there. It is famous for being the place where Saint John wrote the Book of Revelation.

[[Philippine Daily Inquirer]]

CATEGORIES: National newspapers published in the Philippines, English-language newspapers published in Asia, 1985 establishments in Asia, 1980s establishments in the Philippines

The Philippine Daily Inquirer, commonly known as the Inquirer, is a broadsheet newspaper in the Philippines. Its headquarters is in Makati City. It was founded in December 9, 1985. 

[[Makati]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Philippines, Metro Manila

The City of Makati (m mə; Makati), in the Philippines, is one of the sixteen cities that make up Metro Manila. Makati is the financial center of the Philippines. As the host of various embassies, it is also an important center for international affairs.

With 529,039 people, Makati is the 16th-largest city in the country and ranked as the 41st most densely populated city in the world with 19,336 inhabitants per square kilometer.

Makati became the financial center of the Philippines during the 1960s. It is home to the Philippine Stock Exchange and the Makati Business Club.

Makati is notable for its exceptionally multicultural lifestyle, as a significant center for intercontinental matters and for its reputation as a major entertainment center in the metropolis.

The city is also known for its cosmopolitan culture because of its major shopping centers, condominiums, financial hubs, hotels, and entertainment hubs, which are located around the city.

Makati first became as the financial center of the Philippines during the 1960s. The Philippine Stock Exchange and the Makati Business Club are there.

[[John C. Frémont]]

CATEGORIES: 1813 births, 1890 deaths, American botanists, American abolitionists, American military people, Deaths from peritonitis, Disease-related deaths in New York City, People from Savannah, Georgia, Politicians from Georgia (U.S. state), United States senators from California, US Republican Party politicians

John Charles Frémont  or Fremont (January 21, 1813 – July 13, 1890) was an American military officer, and explorer. He was the first candidate of the anti-slavery Republican Party for the office of President of the United States in 1856.

Frémont was born on January 21, 1813 in Savannah, Georgia. He studied at the College of Charleston. Frémont was married to Jessie Benton from 1841 until his death in 1890. They had no children. Frémont died on July 13, 1890 in his home in New York City from peritonitis, aged 77.

[[The Philippine Star]]

CATEGORIES: National newspapers published in the Philippines, 1986 establishments in Asia, 1980s establishments in the Philippines

The Philippine Star is a daily broadsheet newspaper in the Philippines. It was established on July 28, 1986 and is owned and published by PhilSTAR Daily, Inc. by veteran journalists Max Soliven, Betty Go-Belmonte and Art Borjal in the wake of the EDSA People Power Revolution.

[[Cartoon series]]

CATEGORIES: Animation, Television

A cartoon series is a set of animated television programs (cartoons). Episodes are played regularly, and each series will have its own title.

[[Charles Sumner]]

CATEGORIES: 1811 births, 1874 deaths, American abolitionists, American lawyers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Episcopalians, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, United States senators from Massachusetts, US Republican Party politicians

Charles Sumner (January 6, 1811 – March 11, 1874) was an American politician, and lawyer. He was senator from Massachusetts from April 24, 1851 until his death.

[[Epifanio de los Santos Avenue]]

CATEGORIES: Manila, Streets in Metro Manila

The Epifanio de los Santos Avenue, commonly abbreviated as EDSA, is a freeway in the Philippines. The avenue serves the National Capital Region, or the Metropolitan Manila, passing through 6 of the 17 settlements in the region, namely, the cities of Caloocan, Quezon City, Mandaluyong, San Juan City, Makati and Pasay. It is the longest highway in the area that measures about 23.8 kilometres (14.8 mi). 

[[BusinessWorld]]

CATEGORIES: National newspapers published in the Philippines, 1967 establishments in Asia, 1960s establishments in the Philippines

BusinessWorld is a newspaper in the Philippines that is about business. It was established on February 27, 1967 as BusinessDay. Its headquarters is in Quezon City

[[Cebuano Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias, 2005 establishments

The Cebuano Wikipedia (Wikipedya sa Sinugboanon) is the Cebuano-language edition of Wikipedia. This edition started on June 22, 2005. Cebuano is the second most spoken language in the Philippines. As of CURRENTMONTHNAME CURRENTYEAR it has about  articles, most of which are created by Lsjbot. This makes it the second-largest language edition of Wikipedia, and the largest Philippine-based language on Wikipedia.

[[The Call]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s thriller movies, 2010s drama movies, 2013 movies, English-language movies

The Call is a 2013 mystery drama thriller movie focusing on a 911 operator who gets called into rescuing a kidnapped child. Halle Berry plays the operator and Abigail Breslin plays the abducted teenager.

[[Coefficient of friction]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

A coefficient of friction is a value that shows the relationship between two objects and the normal reaction between the objects that are involved. It is a value that is sometimes used in physics to find an object's normal force or frictional force when other methods are unavailable.

The coefficient of friction is dimensionless and it does not have any unit. It is a scalar, meaning the direction of the force does not affect the physical quantity.

The coefficient of friction depends on the objects that are causing friction. The value is usually between 0 and 1 but can be greater than 1. A value of 0 means there is no friction at all between the objects; such is possible with Superfluidity. All objects, otherwise, will have some friction when they touch each other. A value of 1 means the frictional force is equal to the normal force. It is a misconception that the coefficient of friction is limited to values between zero and one. A coefficient of friction that is more than one just means that the frictional force is stronger than the normal force. An object such as silicone rubber, for example, can have a coefficient of friction much greater than one.

The friction force is the force exerted by a surface when an object moves across it - or makes an effort to move across it.

The frictional force or force of friction (static or kinetic) can be expressed as

where

It could also be known as a friction. It is represented as (f).

[[Admission]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 romance movies, 2013 comedy-drama movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New Jersey

Admission is an American romantic comedy-drama movie about life in college. It was released in 2013. Tina Fey acts as Portia and Lily Tomlin acts as Susannah in this movie.

[[New General Catalogue]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical catalogues

The New General Catalogue of Nebulae and Clusters of Stars is a list of stars, nebulae and galaxies. It is abbreviated NGC, and is sometimes called just New General Catalogue. It has 7,840 objects on it. These objects are called "NGC objects". It was created by John Louis Emil Dreyer in 1888. It's the most famous and known deep-sky catalogue for amateur astronomy.

Most of observations were rewarded by William Herschel and his son, and expanded by the known catalogue Index Catalogues I and II, adding about 5000 new objects.

South Hemisphere objects are less studied than North Hemisphere objects, observed by John Herschel. The New General Catalogue had some mistakes, that were corrected in a special revised edition: RNGC

[[Junkers Ju 87]]

CATEGORIES: World War II German aircraft, Military of Germany, German military aircraft

The Junkers Ju 87 or Ju 87 was a German light bomber of World War II. It was used as a dive bomber. Its crew was a pilot with a navigator/radio operator behind him. He also handled the rear machine gun. The Ju 87 could drop 500 kg of bombs. Some Ju-87 were modified as attack aircraft against tanks. More than 6500 were made.

It's universally known as Stuka, an abbreviation of Sturzkampfflugzeug, German for dive bomber.

[[Sturzkampfflugzeug]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft

Sturzkampfflugzeug is a German word that can be translated as dive bomber. Its common abbreviation is Stuka. It was used for two principal types of aircraft: Henschel Hs 123 and Junkers Ju 87.

[[Reye's syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Syndromes

Reye syndrome (also called Reye's syndrome) is an extremely rare though incredibly serious condition that is sometimes fatal. This condition affects primarily the brain and the liver in the body. Aspirin may cause Reye syndrome in teenagers and young adults. The symptoms include but are not limited to vomiting and other problems.

[[Main Page/Sandbox]]

CATEGORIES: Main Page

 

[[Huarache]]

CATEGORIES: Footwear

Huarache shoes are Mexican shoes that are made with leather and worn mostly by females. They date back to the late 1920s. Huaraches come in many shapes and sizes. They are usually worn during late spring or the summer in many countries.

[[Pope Gregory VIII]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, 1100s births, 1187 deaths

Pope Gregory VIII (Gregorius Octavus; c.1100 – 17 December 1187), born Alberto di Morra, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 174th Pope from 25 October 1073 until he died in 1085.

[[University of Birmingham]]

CATEGORIES: Universities in England

The University of Birmingham (or Birmingham University) is a British red brick university in the city of Birmingham, England. It is based in the suburb of Edgbaston. It got its royal charter in 1900, and included the Birmingham Medical School (founded 1825) and Mason Science College (1875). 

Birmingham was the first redbrick university to get university status. It is a member of the Russell Group of research universities and a founding member of Universitas 21. Birmingham is one of the 12 institutions in England with highest entry requirements.

The student population includes around 19,000 undergraduate and 9,000 postgraduate students, making the 11th largest in the UK. As of 2011 it is the seventh most popular English university by number of applications. 

In 2010 Birmingham was ranked as the 10th most popular British university by graduate employers. The annual income of the institution for 2010-11 was £470.7 million, with an expenditure of £443.7 million. Birmingham has the ninth largest financial endowment of any British university at approximately £85 million in 2009.

Birmingham is ranked nationally between 10th  and 23rd. Internationally it is 99th in the 2010 rankings, and 67th in the 2011 rankings. The Sunday Times composite ranking put the university 19th from 1998 to 2007. Birmingham was ranked 12th in the 2008 research assessment.

[[Donkey Kong Land 2]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 video games, Game Boy games, Virtual Console games, Donkey Kong, Platform games

Donkey Kong Land 2 is a Game Boy video game that is a part of the Donkey Kong video game series. This game was released in 1996 by Nintendo and was developed by Rare, Ltd.. There is a predecessor to this game named Donkey Kong Land and a sequel called Donkey Kong Land III.

[[Wild Things]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 crime movies, 1998 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, 1990s erotic movies, 1990s mystery movies, American crime drama movies, American erotic movies, American LGBT movies, American mystery movies, English-language movies, LGBT crime movies, LGBT drama movies, LGBT erotic movies, Miami, Florida, Movies set in Florida, Mystery drama movies

Wild Things is a 1998 American erotic crime drama mystery movie. It is set in Miami, Florida. It stars Kevin Bacon, Matt Dillon, Denise Richards, Neve Campbell and Bill Murray.

[[Invader Zim]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 American television series debuts, Animated television series, Nicktoons, Nickelodeon television series, Black comedy, 2006 American television series endings, English-language television programs

Invader Zim, branded as Invader ZIM, is an American animated television series aired on Nickelodeon. The series premiered on March 30, 2001 and ended on August 19, 2006. The show centers around the eponymous alien from the planet Irk, who inhabitants participate in an event called "Operation Impending Doom 2". After failing it, Zim is determined to prove himself to his leaders, the almighty tallest and conquer Earth. However, the tallest only sent him to his planet as a "secret mission" only to get rid of him. The series has high cost to air and the age demographic was aimed toward children. Nickelodeon cancelled the series on January 17, 2002, before the second season was completed. The rest of the completed episodes were first made available on DVD on October 12, 2004.

[[The Keg]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian restaurants, Companies listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, 1971 establishments in Canada

The Keg (KEG.UN) is a Canadian steakhouse chain of restaurants. It has restaurants in both Canada and the United States.

It was started by George Tidball in North Vancouver, British Columbia in 1971. The chain is currently owned by David Aisenstat and is operating in every province in Canada except Prince Edward Island. It is also operating in Phoenix, Tucson, Dallas/Fort Worth, Denver, and Seattle.

[[Nintendo Vs. System]]

CATEGORIES: Nintendo video games

The Nintendo Vs. System is a series of arcade ports of Nintendo Entertainment System home video games made by Nintendo. It was released in the late 1980s. The games are designed for two-player multiplayer. Some of the games were different from their NES versions. For example, Vs. Super Mario Bros. was more difficult, having levels from the Japanese Super Mario Bros. 2 along with the Super Mario Bros. levels. Others, such as Vs. Duck Hunt, had better graphics.

[[Nicolai Stepanowitsch Turczaninow]]

CATEGORIES: Russian botanists, 1796 births, 1863 deaths

Nicolai Stepanowitsch Turczaninow (1796 - 1863) was a Russian botanist. He was born in Nikitovka, in the south of European Russia near the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv. He first identified several genera and many species of plants. Several species have been named after him.

He is also known as Nikolai Stepanovich Turchaninov and Nikolaus von Turczaninow.

[[Jean Kennedy Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, American philanthropists, People from Brookline, Massachusetts, Ambassadors of the United States to Ireland, Kennedy family, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, US Democratic Party politicians

Jean Ann Kennedy Smith (February 20, 1928 – June 17, 2020) was an American diplomat. She was the Ambassador to Ireland from 1993 to 1998. She is the eighth of nine children born to Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr.. and Rose Kennedy. She was their last surviving child. Her siblings include President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, longtime Senator Ted Kennedy, and Special Olympics founder Eunice Kennedy Shriver.

In 2011, she was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor, by President Barack Obama for her work with Very Special Arts and the disabled.

[[George H. Pendleton]]

CATEGORIES: 1825 births, 1889 deaths, United States representatives from Ohio, United States senators from Ohio, American lawyers, Politicians from Cincinnati, Ohio, US Democratic Party politicians

George Hunt Pendleton (July 19, 1825 – November 24, 1889) or Gentleman George was an American politician and lawyer.

[[Greenwood, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Greenwood is a small city in the Canadian province of British Columbia.

The population of Coquitlam is 708 which makes it the Canada's Smallest City as well as the smallest city in British Columbia. The population was larger at one point but the population decreased when the city shut down the area's industries. The mayor of Greenwood is Colleen Lang.

1200 Japanese Canadians were sent to Greenwood because of the Japanese Canadian internment in 1942. The movie Snow Falling on Cedars was filmed in Greenwood.

[[Katharine Houghton]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Hartford, Connecticut, American movie actors, 1945 births, Living people

Katharine Houghton (born March 10, 1945) is an American actress. She has acted in a few movies. She played Joanna in the 1967 movie Guess Who's Coming to Dinner. Houghton was born in Hartford, Connecticut.

[[Hermóðr]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

Hermodr (Old Norse: Hermóðr - “Spirit of War”) is the messenger of the gods in Norse mythology, and is the fastest among the Æsir. When Baldr died, Hermóðr volunteered to go to Niflheimr to ask Hel to release Odin's beloved son. Hermóðr was said to have galloped on the horse Sleipnir for nine days and nine nights.

[[Hlín]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

Hlin is the goddess of protection. She is one of Frigg's guardians. It is possible that Hlin may be another aspect of Frigg.

[[Hœnir]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

Hœnir is a warrior god in Norse mythology. He is sometimes confused with Vili. Hœnir is part of the Aesir. Hœnir and Mimir were hostages in a war between the Aesir and Vanir gods. He was also an original Aesir god himself. Hœnir usually relied on Mimir. Hœnir is the god of silence, spirituality, poetry and of passion.

Hoenir is the travel companion of Odin and Loki and was also part of the creation of Ask and Embla.

Hœnir goes with Mímir to the Vanir as hostage, in order to seal a truce to the Æsir-Vanir war. During the negotiations, Hœnir heavily relies on Mímir to address any query, as the latter was better informed and knowledgeable. The Vanir perceived this indecision and thus noticing a character flaw within Hœnir, which resulted in beheading Mímir as retaliation, thinking the Æsir cheated them in their hostage exchange. Hœnir is one of the few gods to survive Ragnarök.

[[Kvasir]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

Kvasir is a wise god in Norse mythology. He was made when the spit of the Vanir gods and Aesir gods was mixed after their battle. He became the new god of knowledge and diplomacy. Kvasir walked the world spreading his great wisdom to any who asked for it.

He was killed by two dwarves, Fjalar and Galar, who mixed his blood with honey to make a powerful mead that inspired any who drank it to speak with wisdom and poetry. Odin drank all the mead to gain its knowledge. He spilled a few drops which fell into Midgard and was said to be the source of all the bad poets and artists. Odin is said to give the mead to those he feels worthy and this is the source for all the great poets.

He is also considered to be the god of inspiration.

[[Corpus Christi]]

CATEGORIES: Catholicism, Latin words and phrases, Religious festivals

Corpus Christi is Latin for the Body of Christ. It is a Catholic Festival that occurs every year after Trinity Sunday. In 2013 it was on May 30 or June 2. It celebrates the Real Presence of Christ in the Eucharist.

[[Máni]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

Mani is a god in Norse mythology. He was made when the sparks of the realm of fire were collected. The other gods were not pleased with Mani and his sister Sol. So the gods made them ride in carts. The purpose of the siblings being in the carts was to guide the moon and sun. The reason for the waxing and waning moons is because Mani took two kids so they would cover parts of the moon. The reason for lunar eclipses is Hati (the offspring of Fenrir who is to chase Mani) getting close to Mani. At Ragnarok, Hati will finally consume Mani.

[[Mímir]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

Mimir was one of the Norse gods. After his head was chopped off in a battle between the Aesir and the Vanir, Odin carried it around. The head told him secrets and offered him advice. Mimir is the god of wisdom. He was the thinking part of Hoenir, the silent god.

[[Iridescent shark]]

CATEGORIES: Catfish

The iridescent shark is a shark catfish that is a native to the rivers across Southeast Asia. They are not really sharks. They do, however, look very similar to small sharks. They are found over Mekong Basin and the Chao Phraya River areas and used for food there. The fish are marketed as swai in the United States. They are very similar to the US catfish.

[[Bullets Over Broadway]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 comedy movies, 1994 crime movies, 1990s criminal comedy movies, American criminal comedy movies, English-language movies, Mafia, Manhattan in fiction, Movies directed by Woody Allen, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in the 1920s, Screenplays by Woody Allen

Bullets Over Broadway is a 1994 American crime comedy movie. It is about Broadway theatre and the Mafia. This was released in October 1994 for the United States. Dianne Wiest plays Helen Sinclair, Jennifer Tilly plays Olive Neal and Mary-Louise Parker plays Ellen. This comedy is set in 1928. The director and co-writer of Bullets Over Broadway is Woody Allen. The reviews for this crime comedy were very positive.

[[Rheology]]

CATEGORIES: Fluid mechanics

Rheology is the study of the flow of liquids and soft solids like mud or blood. Rheo means flow in Greek.

[[Arkansas State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Arkansas, Sun Belt Conference, 1909 establishments in the United States

The Arkansas State University is a public university in Jonesboro, Arkansas. It was established in 1909. The university is a division of the Arkansas State University System. The school has over twelve thousand students.

[[Science (journal)]]

CATEGORIES: Science and technology magazines, Weekly magazines, Journals

Science is one of the world's top science journals. It is also referred to as Science magazine. It is published weekly, and a peer-reviewed journal. The publisher is the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Science was founded by John Michaels in 1880 with financial support from Thomas Edison and later from Alexander Graham Bell.

[[Anne Hathaway (Shakespeare)]]

CATEGORIES: 1564 births, 1623 deaths, People from Warwickshire

Anne Hathaway (1555/56 – 6 August 1623) was the wife of English playwright and poet, William Shakespeare. Little is known about her early life. Hathaway married Shakespeare in 1582 at the village of Temple Grafton, near Stratford-upon-Avon. She lived in Stratford all her life, even while Shakespeare was working and living in London. She died in Stratford on 6 August 1623 and is buried next to her husband in the Holy Trinity Church, Stratford.

[[Piano Sonata No. 8 (Beethoven)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, Solo piano pieces, Sonatas

The Piano Sonata No. 8 in C minor ("Pathetique"), Op. 13 is a work for solo piano written by Ludwig van Beethoven. It was written between 1797 and 1798. It was published in Vienna, Austria in 1799. The work is written in three movements. The first opens with a slow and serious introduction. It is followed by an quick section in sonata form. This section is driven forward by tremolando octaves in the left hand. The movement expresses a questing, uncertain mood. The second movement is a slow piece in rondo form. The third movement is a quick, melancholic rondo. Its main theme is accompanied by arpeggios in the left hand. This movement concludes with a brilliant coda.

[[Caloocan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Philippines, Metro Manila, 1962 establishments in Asia, 1960s establishments in the Philippines

Caloocan is one of the cities of Metro Manila in the Philippines. Caloocan is north of Manila. It is the third most populous city in the Philippines with 1,489,040 people as of 2010. 

[[Bhimber]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir

Bhimber (بھمبر) is the main town of the Bhimber District in Azad Kashmir. The town is on the border between Azad Kashmir and Pakistan. It is about 50 km from Mirpur.

[[Backdraft (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 crime movies, 1991 drama movies, 1991 action movies, 1990s crime drama movies, American action movies, American crime drama movies, Movies directed by Ron Howard, Movies set in Chicago, Illinois, Universal Pictures movies

Backdraft is a 1991 American crime drama action movie. It was directed by Ron Howard. The movie is about firefighters in the Chicago metropolitan area. Kurt Russell and William Baldwin star as firefighters of the Chicago Fire Department. Donald Sutherland and Robert De Niro also act in the movie. Backdraft was released in May 1991. It was well liked by the critics. It did well in the box office, earning over $152 million worldwide.

[[La Goulue]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1929 deaths, French models, French dancers, French Jews, Burials at Montmartre Cemetery, Paris

La Goulue was Louise Weber (13 July 1866, Clichy, Paris  30 January 1929), a French can-can dancer. She was always known by her nickname. La Goulue is French slang for 'greedy guts'. It came from her habit of picking up a customer's glass and drinking it while dancing past the table. 

Growing up, Weber was a poor Jewish girl who loved to dance.  She would dressed up and pretended to be a glamorous star on a great stage. At 16, she was working with her mother in the laundry. Without her mother knowing, she began sneaking off to a dance hall wearing a dress she would "borrow" from one of their customers.

Weber quickly became popular because of her dancing at small clubs in Paris. She was liked for her dancing skills and her behaviour. In her routine, she teased the male audience by swirling her raised dress to reveal the heart embroidered on her panties. Another trick of hers was to kick off a man's hat with her toe. 

Later, she met the Montmartre painter Pierre-Auguste Renoir. He introduced her to a group of models who earned money posing for artists and photographers.

[[146 BC]]

CATEGORIES: 146 BC

The year 146 BCE was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lentulus and Achaicus (or, less often, year 608 Ab urbe condita).

[[Pope Leo I]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, 400s births, 461 deaths

Leo I (Leo Primus; c. 400 – 10 November 461), also known as Leo the Great, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 45th Pope from 29 September 440 to his death on 10 November 461.

[[Arthur Darvill]]

CATEGORIES: English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, 1982 births, Living people, Doctor Who

Arthur Darvill (born Thomas Arthur Darvill on 17 June 1982) is a English actor. He is best known for playing Rory Williams in the television series Doctor Who. He has also acted in Terre Haute and Swimming with Sharks. 

[[Donkey Kong 3]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 video games, Arcade games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Virtual Console games, Donkey Kong

Donkey Kong 3 is an arcade video game made by Nintendo in 1984. It is the third game in the Donkey Kong arcade series. A port was released for the Nintendo Entertainment System in 1986. It was later re-released for the Wii Virtual Console in North America and Europe in 2008 and 2009.

[[Costa Rican colón]]

CATEGORIES: Costa Rica, Currency of North America, 1896 establishments in North America, 19th-century establishments in Costa Rica

The colón is the official currency of Costa Rica. It is named after Christopher Columbus, known as Cristóbal Colón in Spanish. The plural is colones in Spanish. The ISO 4217 code is CRC.

The symbol for the colón is a c with two slashes (₡). The symbol for the colón in many English language Windows keyboards can be made by pressing ALT+8353.

The colón sign is not the same as the US cent sign, but the US cent sign is much more commonly available (¢). As such, it is frequently used instead of the colón's own sign in price markings and advertisements.

The colón is divided into 100 centimos

[[Sainte-Mélanie, Quebec]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Quebec

Sainte-Mélanie is a municipality in the Lanaudière region of Quebec, Canada. It is part of the Joliette Regional County Municipality. It is located along the western shores of the L'Assomption River.

[[L'Assomption River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Canada, Geography of Quebec

The Assomption River (in French Rivière l'Assomption, named after the Assumption of Mary) is the most important waterway in the Lanaudière region of Quebec, Canada. It is over 200 long. It has a drainage basin of 4220. It flows from the Mont Tremblant massif. Seven significant rivers flow into the Assomption (de la Boule, Versailles, Noire, la Chaloupe, Ouareau, Saint-Esprit, and Achigan) before it flows into the Rivière des Prairies at Repentigny, Quebec.

About 150000 people live in the drainage area of this river.

[[Long-tailed river stingray]]

CATEGORIES: Rays, Freshwater fish

The long-tailed river stingray (Plesiotrygon iwamae), also known as the antenna ray, is a species of freshwater stingray in the family Potamotrygonidae.

These animals have a long tail, small eyes, and few pectoral-fin radials.

They eat worms, crustaceans, mollusks, and small bottom fish (such as small catfish). They can detect electrical and chemical signals from prey in mud and sand.

The species was mentioned in 1987 by Hugo P. Castello from Museu de Zoologia, University of São Paulo. Examples were then found in other museums that had been given wrong names or identified incorrectly.

This fish does not appear often in the aquarium trade.

[[Lofn]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

Lofn is a goddess in Norse mythology. Lofn is described in the Prose Edda, written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson. She is described as a gentle woman who arranges marriages. She survived the Ragnarök, the battle at the end of the world to determine the fate of the gods.

[[Hawthorne effect]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology, Cognition

The Hawthorne effect is a form of reactivity. When the group which is under study knows about the study and their behavior changes after knowing that they are being studied, this change of behavior is the Hawthorne effect. For example: a group of 10 people are being studied for their health after exercising. Without knowing that they are being studied, they do or not do exercise, but after knowing that they are being studied they regularly do exercise. 

[[Donkey Kong Country (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 television series debuts, Animated television series, Donkey Kong, 1996 establishments in Canada, 1996 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in France, 2000 disestablishments in North America, 2000s disestablishments in Canada, 2000s disestablishments in France, 2000 disestablishments in Europe

Donkey Kong Country was a French/Canadian animated television series. It was based off the video game of the same name. It first aired in France on September 4, 1996. It aired in the United States starting on August 15, 1997. It first aired on the Fox Box, but after 2 episodes, it moved to Fox Family. It aired until July 7, 2000.

The series involved a magical coconut named the Crystal Coconut found by Donkey Kong. It could grant wishes and answer any question. King K. Rool wanted to steal the Crystal Coconut along with taking over Kongo Bongo Island, the show's setting. Despite his efforts, he was never able to steal the Crystal Coconut.

Several things from this show, such as the Crystal Coconut, later appeared in the Nintendo 64 video game Donkey Kong 64. Shigeru Miyamoto was critical of the show, stating his dislike for the show on several occasions.

[[Pac-Man (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 television series debuts, Animated television series

Pac-Man was an animated television series that aired on ABC. It was created by Hanna-Barbera. It was based on the video game series of the same name. It aired from 1982 to 1983. Two seasons of 21 episodes were aired.

The show followed Pac-Man, his wife Pepper, their child Pac-Baby, their dog Chomp-Chomp, and their cat Sour Puss. They live in Pac-Land, a place built mostly of spheres and sphere-like shapes. Episodes were mainly about the Pac family and their battles with their enemies, the Ghost Monsters. The Ghost Monsters were Blinky, Inky, Pinky, Clyde, and Sue. They worked for Mezamaron, whose goal was to locate and control the Power Pellets. The Power Pellets were the food and power source for Pac-Land.

Two special episodes aired. The first one was the Pac-Man Halloween Special, which was two Halloween episodes of the show. It aired in primetime on October 30, 1982. The second was Christmas Comes to Pac-Land, which was a Christmas special where Pac-Man and his family had to help Santa Claus after he crash-landed in Pac-Land.

[[Cerro Chirripó]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Costa Rica, Mountains of North America

Cerro Chirripó is the highest mountain peak of Costa Rica. This mountain is in Chirripó National Park. It is known for its biodiversity. From the mountain, it is possible to see both the Carribean Sea and the Pacific Ocean at the same time on a clear day.

[[Serampore]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, West Bengal

Serampore (শ্রীরামপুর) (also called Serampur, Srirampur, Srirampore, Shreerampur, Shreerampore, Shrirampur, Shrirampore) is a city and a municipality in Hooghly district in the Indian state of West Bengal. It is a part of the area covered by Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority. It is a town on the right bank of the Hoogly River.

Serampore was a colony of Denmark (what is known as Danish India) under the name Frederiksnagore from 1755 to 1845, when it became a British colony.

[[San Isidro de El General]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Costa Rica, San José Province, 1892 establishments in North America, 19th-century establishments in Costa Rica

San Isidro de El General is a city in Costa Rica. It is the capital of Pérez Zeledón canton located in the province of San José. It is located 130 km from San José and 212 km from Paso Canoas, a border town with Panama. 

[[Eau de toilette]]

CATEGORIES: Perfumery

Eau de toilette is a kind of perfume used to make skin smell nice. It is also called "aromatic waters". It is based on alcohol, its main ingredient. It is usually used on the skin after bathing or shaving. It is considered a "weak" and cheap version of perfume. Toilet water is defined as a dilute perfume (perfume is only ingredient mixed with alcohol and few other lowering the production cost). It was originally composed of alcohol and various volatile oils.

[[Newmarket, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Ontario, 1801 establishments, 1800s establishments in Canada

Newmarket is a town in Ontario, Canada. It is north of Toronto. The town was founded in 1801. Actors John Candy and Jim Carrey were born here.

[[Trecento]]

CATEGORIES: Renaissance, History of Italy, 14th century in Europe

Trecento was the Italian word for the Italian culture during the 14th century.

[[Socotra]]

CATEGORIES: Indian Ocean, Islands of Africa, Geography of Yemen

Socotra (سُقُطْرَى ar) is an island east of the Horn of Africa. It lies between the Guardafui Channel and the Indian Ocean. Although Socotra belongs to Yemen, in 2018 it was taken over by the United Arab Emirates.

[[The Ice Sports Forum]]

CATEGORIES: Tampa Bay Lightning, Sports buildings in Florida

The Ice Sports Forum is the official practicing ice area of the National Hockey League's Tampa Bay Lightning. The forum has two NHL approved rinks and a laser tag arena. It is located in Brandon, Florida.

The Ice Sports Forum is the home of the USF Ice Bulls, an ACHA Division III hockey club.

[[The Paper]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Ron Howard, English-language movies

The Paper is a 1994 comedy movie. It was directed by Ron Howard. The movie is about people who work for a newspaper in New York City. It involves personal affairs between members of staff. The movie stars Michael Keaton as Henry, Glenn Close as Alicia Clark and Marisa Tomei as Henry's wife Martha. The Paper was well liked by critics but earned less than $50 million at the box office.

[[Yasujirō Ozu]]

CATEGORIES: Movie directors from Tokyo, 1903 births, 1963 deaths

Yasujirō Ozu (12 December 1903 – 12 December 1963) was a Japanese movie director. He made many movies. These include Tokyo Story in 1953. His movies show Japanese families and their lives. 

[[Even Cowgirls Get the Blues]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1993 comedy-drama movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, 1993 romance movies, American romantic comedy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies

Even Cowgirls Get the Blues is a 1993 drama-comedy-romance movie. It is about homosexuality, use of drugs and political rebellion. It stars Lorraine Bracco as Delores Del Ruby, Uma Thurman as Sissy and Roseanne Barr as Madame Zoe. The movie was not liked by critics.

[[Sacré-Cœur]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in France, Buildings and structures in Paris

Sacre Coeur is a Catholic basilica in Montmartre, Paris. The foundation was laid in 1875. It was finished in 1914. It is named after the Sacred Heart of Jesus. It is built in the Romano-byzantine style.

[[Beit HaNassi]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Jerusalem, Government buildings in Israel

Beit HaNassi ("President's House" in Hebrew), also known as Mishkan HaNassi (משכן הנשיא "Presidential Residence") is the main residence of the President of Israel. It is in Jerusalem. The building was opened in 1971, after the Israeli government approved a state home for the president. In 2011, renovations were started after defects were found in the building.

[[Addicted to Love (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 comedy movies, 1997 romance movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City

Addicted to Love is a 1997 American romantic comedy movie set in New York City. It is about manipulation and revenge. The movie stars Meg Ryan as Maggie and Matthew Broderick as Sam. Addicted to Love was released in May 1997. It got both good and bad reviews by critics.

[[Pyramid (geometry)]]

CATEGORIES: Polyhedra

A pyramid is a three-dimensional shape. It has triangular sides that come together in a point at the top, call the "apex". A pyramid with a square base (bottom) and four sides is called a square pyramid.  A pyramid with a triangular base and is called a tetrahedron.

The formula for the volume of a pyramid is:

This means that one must find the volume by multiplying the base (B) by the height (h), then dividing the product by three.

The base is also known as the product of the length and the width, thus this formula could alternatively be written:

Either way works, but the technical formula for the volume of a pyramid is the former, due to its use of the capital B, which is shorthand for length and width as previously mentioned.

[[Pyramid (disambiguation)]]

A pyramid is a building is the shape of a pyramid.

Pyramid might also mean:

[[People Power Revolution]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 in Asia, 1980s in the Philippines, 20th century rebellions, February events, Protests in the 20th century, Rebellions in Asia

The People Power Revolution was a historic event that happened in the Philippines from 22-25 February 1986. It is also known as the EDSA Revolution, the Philippine Revolution of 1986, and the Yellow Revolution. This case of nonviolent revolution led to the departure of President Ferdinand Marcos from presidency and the restoration of the country's democracy.  It is also referred to as the Yellow Revolution because of the presence of yellow ribbons during the demonstrations following the assassination of Benigno Aquino, Jr.. It was widely seen as a victory of the people against the 20-year running authoritarian, repressive regime of then president Ferdinand Marcos and made news headlines as "the revolution that surprised the world".

[[Land of Israel]]

CATEGORIES: Divided regions, Bible, Ancient Israel and Judah, Israel

The Land of Israel (אֶרֶץ יִשְׂרָאֵל he, he; أرض إسرائيل) is a name for the region also known as Canaan, Palestine or the Holy Land. The name comes from the Torah and the Bible. The area is in the Middle East, and covers the southern part of the Levant.

Before the rise of the Kingdom of Israel, the region was called the Land of Canaan (the home of the Canaanites). In the Bible, the land was referred to as the ’Promised Land’ or the ‘Holy Land’.

[[Eparchy]]

CATEGORIES: Christian terminology, Church organization

Eparchy is the name of a diocese in  the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches. An eparchy is headed by a bishop, who is called eparch. Churches with the Byzantine Rite (or the Rite of Constantinople) also have eparchies.

[[Eparchy (disambiguation)]]

In Ancient Rome the term eparchia was used to refer to a province in the eastern parts of the Roman Empire. Today, the term is used for different concepts:

[[Gibbsite]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals

Gibbsite, Al(OH)3, is one of the mineral forms of aluminium hydroxide. It is often designated as γ-Al(OH)3 (but sometimes as α-Al(OH)3). It is also sometimes called hydrargillite (or hydrargyllite). It is an important ore of aluminium, and one of the main parts of the rock Bauxite.

[[Tel Aviv University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Israel, Buildings and structures in Tel Aviv

Tel Aviv University (TAU) (אוניברסיטת תל־אביב he) is a university in Israel. It is in Tel Aviv, in the Ramat Aviv neighborhood, next to the Land of Israel Museum. It is the second-largest university in Israel, after the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. The Museum of the Jewish People is on the university campus.

[[Haifa University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Israel, Buildings and structures in Haifa

Haifa University is a public university in Haifa, Israel. It was opened in 1963, several years after the opening of the Tel Aviv University. The university's faculties are located in a big tower on the Mount Carmel viewing the Carmel Forest.

[[Ben-Gurion University of the Negev]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Israel, 1970 establishments in Asia, Beer Sheba, 1970s establishments in Israel

Ben-Gurion University is a new public university in Israel. The university was opened in 1970 in Beer Sheba next to the Soroka Medical Center.

[[Mendeleev's predicted elements]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table

In 1869, Professor Dmitri Mendeleev created the first periodic table of chemical elements. He arranged the elements from the lightest one to the heaviest one. When he proposed his periodic table, he placed empty spaces between some elements. He said that the empty spaces were for undiscovered elements. Mendeleev had also predicted the properties of these undiscovered elements.

[[Christopher Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1570 births, 1622 deaths, English people, Mayflower passengers

Christopher Jones (about 1570 – about 5 March 1622) was Master of the Mayflower when the ship carried the Pilgrims to North America in 1620.

[[California Attorney General]]

CATEGORIES: Government of California

The California Attorney General is the State Attorney General of California.  The officer's duty is to ensure that the laws of the state are enforced. The Attorney General does their job through the California Department of Justice.

The Attorney General is elected to a four-year term, with a maximum of two terms.  The election is held at the same statewide election as the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Controller, Secretary of State, Treasurer, Superintendent of Public Instruction, and Insurance Commissioner. 

The current acting Attorney General is Matt Rodriguez.

[[List of Attorneys General of California]]

CATEGORIES: Government of California, California-related lists

This is a list of people who have been Attorneys General of California.

[[Secretary of State of California]]

CATEGORIES: Government of California

The Secretary of State of California is the chief elections officer of that U.S. state.  The Secretary of State is also responsible for the California State Archives, as well as chartering corporations.  The Secretary of State is elected to four year terms, concurrent with the other constitutional officers of California, and is restricted by term limits to only two terms.  The incumbent, Alex Padilla, took office on January 5, 2015. He was elected on November 4, 2014 and his term will end on January 7, 2019.

[[Debra Bowen]]

CATEGORIES: Politicians from California, 1955 births, Living people, People from Rockford, Illinois, State legislators of the United States

Debra Lynn Bowen (born October 27, 1955), is an American politician. She is a member of the Democratic Party. She was the Secretary of State of California from 2007 to 2015. Before that, she was a member of the California State Legislature from 1992 to 2006. In March 2008, she was given the Profile in Courage Award by the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Bowen was unable to run for a third term in 2014 because of term limits.

[[Quesada, San Carlos]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Costa Rica, Alajuela Province, 1991 establishments in North America, 20th-century establishments in Costa Rica

Ciudad Quesada (Quesada City) is a city in Costa Rica. It is the capital of the district of Quesada in the San Carlos canton of Alajuela. Ciudad Quesada is the official name (formerly La Unión) but is commonly called San Carlos (like the canton). Ciudad Quesada is the most populated city of the canton of San Carlos.

The city is the region's economic and political center. Ciudad Quesada and the neighboring area produces 65% of all the milk that the nation of Costa Rica uses.

[[Steak tartare]]

CATEGORIES: Meat dishes

Steak tartare is a dish which is produced using finely chopped or ground meat of beef or horse. In Belgium and Luxembourg the dish is called filet américain. The meat used for producing steak tartare is usually of a very high quality. The name refers to the Tatars, who are said to have had meat under their saddle when riding. Because the dish is usually eaten raw, there are health concerns: The meat may have been contaminated with bacteria or parasites. These risks can be reduced when folling basic rules of hygiene and by using fresh meat.

[[Alajuela]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Costa Rica, Alajuela Province, 1782 establishments in North America, Establishments in Costa Rica

Alajuela is the second largest city in Costa Rica. It is the capital of Alajuela Province. It is the birthplace of Juan Santamaría (the national hero of Costa Rica). It is also the birthplace of Carlos Luis Fallas. Juan Santamaría International Airport of Costa Rica is south of Alajuela's downtown.

[[Cruel Intentions]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 drama movies, 1999 romance movies, 1999 LGBT movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, 1990s teen drama movies, 1990s teen romance movies, American LGBT movies, American romantic drama movies, American teen drama movies, American teen romance movies, Cult movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City, Narcissism in fiction, Teen LGBT movies

Cruel Intentions is a 1999 American romantic teen drama movie set in New York City. It is about seduction, manipulation and lies. 

Sarah Michelle Gellar plays Kathryn Merteuil, Ryan Phillippe plays her stepbrother Sebastian Valmont, Reese Witherspoon plays Annette Hargrove, Selma Blair plays Cecile Caldwell and Swoosie Kurtz plays Regina. Cruel Intentions got mixed reviews while playing in theaters, though it made close to $76 million. The movie became a cult favorite in the years after its release.

[[Nâzım Hikmet Ran]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1963 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Turkish poets, Thessaloniki

Nâzım Hikmet Ran (15 January 1902 – 3 June 1963), commonly known as Nâzım Hikmet, was a Turkish poet, playwright and novelist. He was well liked for the "lyrical flow of his statements". Hikmet  was often arrested for his political beliefs. He spent much of his adult life in prison or in exile. His poetry has been translated into more than fifty languages.

[[Santa Rosa National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Costa Rica, Guanacaste Province

Santa Rosa National Park is a national park in Costa Rica. It is located in the northwestern part of Costa Rica, in the Guanacaste Province. It was originally made to protect the place where the Battle of Santa Rosa happened. It is 36 north of Liberia city.

[[Ariel University]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 establishments in Asia, Buildings and structures in Palestine, Colleges and universities in Israel, West Bank

Ariel University is a public university in Ariel, a Jewish settlement in the West Bank. It used to be called the "Ariel University Center of Samaria". The university was founded in 1982.

[[John Alden]]

CATEGORIES: 1599 births, English people, Mayflower passengers, 1689 deaths, People buried in the Myles Standish Burial Ground, Duxbury, Massachusetts

John Alden (c. 1599 – 1687) was a passenger on the ship Mayflower. He was hired in England to be the cooper (barrel-maker) aboard the ship during her 1620 voyage. It is not known when or where he was born.

The Mayflower left Plymouth, England on 16 September 1620. There were 102 passengers and 30–40 crew. On 19 November 1620, the Mayflower reached land at Cape Cod hook. They landed on November 21. They wrote the Mayflower Compact, which made rules on how they would live and treat each other. The Mayflower was supposed to land in the Virginia Colony, but the ship was too damaged and they were forced to land at Cape Cod now called Provincetown Harbor.

Alden was one of the signers of the Mayflower Compact in November 1620. In Plymouth Colony, he became an assistant to the Governor.

Alden married Priscilla Mullins on 12 May 1622. They had ten children. He died on 12 September 1687.  John and Priscilla were buried in the Myles Standish Burial Ground in Duxbury, Massachusetts.

[[San José Province]]

CATEGORIES: San José Province

San José is a province of Costa Rica. It is in the central part of the country. The provincial capital, and the national capital since 1823, is the city of San José.

[[Frankie Stein (Monster High)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters

Frankie Stein is a fictional character on the television series Monster High. She is the daughter of Frankenstein. The character is voiced by Kate Higgins. 

Frankie is 15 years old. She is clumsy, polite, and athletic, but a good friend. Frankie has black and white hair. Her body is made of stitches and bolts. She is the new ghoul at Monster High. Her best ghoul friends are Draculaura and Clawdeen wolf .when she is nervous her bolts begin to spark and give people a bit of a shock. 

[[Devourment]]

CATEGORIES: American heavy metal bands, Death metal bands

Devourment is an American death metal band from Dallas, Texas. 

[[Relapse Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels

Relapse Records is an independent record label based in Upper Darby, Pennsylvania.

[[Supreme Director of Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Chile

The Supreme Director of Chile was the person in charge of Chile's government after its independence from Spain. Several juntas also ruled the country during this period. The title came before the President of Chile.

[[Limón y Sal]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Julieta Venegas albums

Limón y Sal ("Lemon and Salt") is the fourth studio album released by Mexican singer-songwriter Julieta Venegas.

[[Sí (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Julieta Venegas albums

Sí ("Yes") is the third album by the Mexican singer-songwriter Julieta Venegas. She co-produced the album with Cachorro López and Coti Sorokin.

[[Growth factor]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Proteins

A growth factor is something in the body that allows or deny cells to grow. These factors are normally made up of cell hormones or other proteins within the body. All growth factors occur naturally within cells and are necessary for the cell life progression and death. 

[[Pope Gregory III]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 740s deaths, Popes, Syrian Christians

Pope Gregory III (Gregorius Tertius; died 28 November 741) was an Syrian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 90th Pope from 11 February 731 to 28 November 741.

[[King Kong vs. Godzilla]]

CATEGORIES: Monster movies, Japanese movies, 1962 movies, Giant gorilla movies, Multilingual movies, Godzilla, King Kong, Movies directed by Ishirō Honda, Universal Pictures movies

King Kong vs. Godzilla is a 1962 Japanese comedy-horror action adventure fantasy monster movie. It was produced by Toho Studios. It is the third Godzilla movie and first Japanese King Kong as well as a third movie of the series. It is the first time Godzilla and King Kong appear together in a movie, and the first time they appear in color. The movie involves Godzilla and King Kong fighting on Mount Fuji after King Kong fights a giant octopus and Godzilla attacks Japan.

The movie has the highest box office figures of any Godzilla movie. It sold 11.2 million tickets and made ¥350,000,000. The movie was produced as a part of Toho's 30th anniversary celebration. It was later released in the United States in the summer of 1963.

[[Cyclothymia]]

CATEGORIES: Bipolar disorder

Cyclothymia is a mental illness characterized by mood swings - a mood disorder. The disease is a milder version of bipolar disorder. The mood swings are usually less extreme. Mood swings can be spontaneous, or triggered by an event. 

Cyclothymia is also an old name for bipolar disorder.

[[The Evening Star]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, 1996 comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, English-language movies

The Evening Star is a 1996 romance comedy-drama movie. It is about a dysfunctional family in Houston, Texas. Shirley MacLaine plays Aurora Greenway, Juliette Lewis plays Melanie Horton and Miranda Richardson plays Patsy Carpenter. This movie was released on Christmas 1996 in the United States. It is a sequel to Terms of Endearment The Evening Star got negative reviews from critics. It performed poorly at the box office. The movie is set in the years between 1988 and 1993.

[[Being Julia]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s romantic drama movies, 2004 drama movies, 2004 romance movies, American romantic drama movies, British romantic drama movies, Canadian romance movies, Canadian drama movies, Hungarian movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by István Szabó

Being Julia is a 2004 romance drama movie. Annette Bening stars as Julia. This movie is set in 1938 in London, England. Its subjects are sarcasm, seduction and finding true love. The movie got positive reviews from the critics.

[[Rhode Island Sound]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Ocean, Rhode Island

Rhode Island Sound is an area of sea off the coast of Rhode Island, New England. 

[[State Administration of Foreign Exchange]]

CATEGORIES: People's Republic of China, Agencies, 1978 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in China

The State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the People's Republic of China is agency that controls foreign exchange market activities, and manages Chinese foreign exchange reserves valued at $3.2 trillion. The current director is Yi Gang.

[[South Road, Adelaide]]

CATEGORIES: Adelaide, Roads in Australia

South Road (route A13, B23) is a major north–south road in Adelaide, South Australia. Also known as Main South Road, it is Adelaide's most important road. The road attracts multiple factories, industrial centers and businesses like Castle Plaza Shopping Centre (supermarket) and Toyota Dealership.

South Road is experienced serious traffic most of the day because of its importance as Adelaide's main road. Traffic has also increased recently because of the growth and development of Adelaide. There are plans for upgrades and improvements that will finish by 2020.

[[Hemorrhoidolysis]]

CATEGORIES: Gastroenterology

Hemorrhoidolysis/Galvanic Electrotherapy is a treatment for hemorrhoids that is based on putting pressure with electrode on each hemorrhoid. This causes micro-shock that helps hemorrhoid to get back to norm. More than one hemorrhoid may be treated with each visit - the treatment lasts only a few minutes. The average hemorrhoid case will require only one treatment per hemorrhoid.

[[Cousins (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 comedy movies, 1989 romance movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, Adultery in movies, American movie remakes, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Joel Schumacher

Cousins is a 1989 American romantic comedy movie. It was directed by Joel Schumacher. It is about step-cousins who have an affair. It is a remake of French movie Cousin Cousine. The movie stars Ted Danson as Larry, Sean Young as Tish and Isabella Rossellini as Maria Hardy. This movie was released in February 1989. It got mixed to high reviews from critics.

[[Antonov An-24]]

CATEGORIES: Civil aircraft, Military aircraft, Soviet & Russian aircraft

Antonov An-24 is soviet built twin-engine transport aircraft. It is used by both airlines and air forces. It is a short takeoff and landing aircraft.

It is built under licence in China like Y-7. An-26 is a modernized variant.

[[Symphony No. 6 "Pathétique" (Tchaikovsky)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Symphonies

The Symphony No. 6 in B minor ("Pathétique"), Op. 74 is a work of symphony in B minor for orchestra. It was written by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky in 1893, and published the same year. The publisher choose the subtitle "Pathétique". Tchaikovsky conducted the first performance in 28 October 1893. The work is celebrated for its march-like Scherzo, and its "limping" waltz finale with a 5/4 time signature.

[[Academic Festival Overture]]

CATEGORIES: Overtures, Compositions by Johannes Brahms, Wrocław

The Academic Festival Overture, Op. 80 (1879) is an orchestral work by Johannes Brahms. On 11 March 1879, the University of Breslau in Poland awarded Brahms an honorary doctorate. He thanked them with this Overture. Brahms conducted the first performance in Breslau in 1881. The piece is written in modified sonata form for the largest orchestra among Brahms's 14 orchestral works. The music is based on four student drinking songs. 

== References == 

[[Goldberg Variations]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach, Solo piano pieces, Variations (music)

The Goldberg Variations, BWV 988 is a work for keyboard by Johann Sebastian Bach. It was written about 1741. The work consists of an aria and thirty variations. The aria was not original with Bach, but was probably based on a now lost French dance tune. The work is believed to have been commissioned by a pupil of Bach's named J. G. Goldberg. Goldberg was a celebrated virtuoso, and used the work to lull his insomniac employer Count Keyserkingk to sleep.

The basic harmonies and structure of the aria remain consistent from variation to variation. The work ends with a quodlibet, a humorous combination of two popular tunes. John Keillor writes, "The work is sublime and compassionate, graceful, warm, and relentlessly intricate, a demonstration of unmatched craft in music history and genuine, poetic imagination." In modern times, the work is played on both the harpsichord and the piano.

[[Witches' Sabbath]]

CATEGORIES: Religion, Witchcraft

The term Witches' Sabbath was used to describe the belief that there were people, called witches, who regularly met for secret gatherings. The name is used for the gathering. One part of the name refers to the Sabbath, the day of rest in Judaism and other Abrahamic religions. The term was in common use in the Middle Ages. At that time, the Jews were shown as evil in many European countries. It was believed that the witches killed people in secret rituals or  poisoned wells during the Witches Sabbath. From about the 14th century, the Holy Inquisition used this belief to organise pogroms against people it called heretics. The Catholic Church developed a whole set of ideas about witches. According to this theory, the Witches Sabbath is one of the five elements that characterize a witch. The other elements are witches' flight, a pact with the devil, the idea that they entered into a sexual relationship with the devil, and that they used black magic to harm people. The idea of a conspiracy theory was thematised more and more in the fifteenth century. People feared a secret society or sect of witches and warlocks (male witches) that would do harm. 

[[University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Pakistan, Lahore

The University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore is the oldest engineering university in Pakistan. It is commonly known as UET Lahore.

[[A Midsummer Night's Dream Overture]]

CATEGORIES: Overtures, Compositions by Felix Mendelssohn

A Midsummer Night's Dream Overture, Op. 21 is an orchestral work by Felix Mendelssohn. He wrote the work when he was 17 in 1827. Many years later, he wrote more music for Shakespeare's  play. These additions include the famous "Wedding March". The fairies of the play are represented with light, skipping music, the lovers by romantic themes, and the workmen by clownish music. Bottom is represented by a drone bass that sounds like the bray (call) of a donkey.

[[Punched tape]]

CATEGORIES: Data input

Punched tape is a medium for data storage. It is made of a long strip  with holes in it.  The holes are used to represent information. The principle is the same as that of a punched card, except that the length is variable. Punched tape was widely used in the 1950s and 1960s, but was later replaced by other media. Punched tape was first used to program looms,  in the 18th century. Similar looms are still used for weaving Tartans, but the punched tape is made of metal platelets today. Another use of punched tape is in barrel organs. 

20th century teleprinters also use punched tape. Herman Hollerith used punched tape for a census, in 1890. Gilbert Vernam, a telecommunication engineer developed the Vernam cipher in 1917. This cipher could be used with punched tape. Vernam combined a character of the punched tape, with one of a key, to give the encoded character. Combining the ecoded character with the key again gives the plain text. This is in fact an exclusive disjunction, even though Vernam used a different name. It was an automated one-time pad. The NSA has called this patent "perhaps one of the most important in the history of cryptography."

[[Missouri State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Missouri, 1905 establishments in the United States, Missouri Valley Conference, Missouri Valley Football Conference, Springfield, Missouri

The Missouri State University is a public university which is in Springfield, Missouri. The school started on March 17, 1905. In Autumn 2012, almost twenty-two thousand students were enrolled in this university.

[[Pope Francis]]

CATEGORIES: People from Buenos Aires, Popes, 1936 births, Living people, Current national leaders, Time People of the Year

Pope Francis (Jorge Mario Bergoglio) (Franciscus, Francesco, Francisco; born on 17 December 1936) is the 266th and current pope of the Roman Catholic Church. He was elected on 13 March 2013. He chose the name Francis to honor St. Francis of Assisi.

Francis is the first Jesuit pope. He is also the first pope in more than a millennium who is not European.  He is the first pope ever to come from the Americas, and the first from the Southern Hemisphere.

From 1998 until he was elected as the pope, Francis was the Archbishop of Buenos Aires.  Throughout his life, both as an individual and a religious leader, he has been known for his humility, his concern for the poor, and his commitment to dialogue as a way to build bridges between people of all backgrounds, beliefs, and faiths.  He has expressed concern about the effects of global warming (climate change).  In his 2015 encyclical Laudato si' , he wrote about these issues, and others.

Since his election to the papacy, he has shown a simpler and less formal approach to the office, choosing to live in the Vatican guesthouse and not the papal residence.

[[Woodforest National Bank]]

CATEGORIES: Banks of the United States, Companies based in Texas, 1980 establishments in the United States

Woodforest National Bank is a privately held bank. It's headquarters are in The Woodlands, Texas. It has over 750 branches in 17 different states.April 2012 Woodforest National bank is Walmart's largest retail partner. Woodforest has a few branches that are open 24 hours a day and 364 days of the year. Woodforest National Bank also partners with Sam's Club and Kroger in a few states.

Woodforest National Bank offers regular accounts. They also offer "second chance" checking accounts for customers who have not remained in good standing with ChexSystems. The "second chance" accounts have higher fees and a much longer probation period than PNC Bank as of March 2012. Woodforest National Bank also offers second chance accounts for both consumers and businesses. 

[[Graffiti Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s drama movies, 1990 movies, English-language movies

Graffiti Bridge is a 1990 drama movie. It is about musical and creative talents. This movie stars Prince and Tevin Campbell. It received terrible reviews from the movie critics. It was nominated for a few Razzie awards.

[[The Day After Tomorrow]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 movies, 2000s disaster movies, 2004 science fiction movies, American disaster movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Roland Emmerich, 20th Century Fox movies, Apocalyptic movies, Dystopian movies, Lionsgate movies, Movies set in California

The Day After Tomorrow is a 2004 American/Canadian science fiction disaster movie. It was produced and directed by Roland Emmerich. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was released in Mexico City on May 17, 2004, and worldwide from May 26 to May 28.

The movie follows a series of severe weather events that take place around the world as a result of global warming. Among these events:

These events cause global cooling, which eventually starts a new ice age.

The movie made $186,740,799 in North America and Canada, and $542,771,772 worldwide. It was inspired by the book The Coming Global Superstorm, co-authored by Art Bell and Whitley Strieber.

[[Dartford]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent

Dartford is a town in the borough of Dartford in northwest Kent, England.

[[Ashford]]

Ashford may refer to:

[[Bad Company (1995 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 thriller movies, 1995 drama movies, English-language movies

Bad Company is a suspense thriller from 1995. It is about murder plots, blackmails and romance. Ellen Barkin plays Margaret and Lawrence Fishburne plays Nelson Crowe. This movie got negative reviews from critics when it was released.

[[Carlos Luis Fallas]]

CATEGORIES: Costa Rican people, 1909 births, 1966 deaths, Writers

Carlos Luis Fallas Sibaja (January 21, 1909 – May 7, 1966), was known as Calufa. He was a Costa Rican author and political activist. He was born in Alajuela to a single mother. Fallas only finished the first two years of secondary school. He moved to Limón. There he worked in the banana plantations of the United Fruit Company. Later, he returned to Alajuela at the age of 22 and found work as a shoemaker.

[[Reynaldo Bignone]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Deaths from sepsis, Deaths from fractured hip, Argentine generals, Kidnappers, Murderers, People from Buenos Aires, Presidents of Argentina, Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment

Reynaldo Benito Antonio Bignone (January 21, 1928 – March 7, 2018) was an Argentine general. He was the dictatorial President of Argentina from July 1, 1982 to December 10, 1983. In 2010, he was sentenced to 25 years in prison for his role in the kidnappings, torture, and murders of the Dirty War. Along with Omar Graffigna, he was one of the last two surviving members of the military dictatorship Juntas.

Bignone was born on January 21, 1928 in Morón, Buenos Aires, Argentina. He studied at the National War College. He was never married and had no children. 

On April 20, 2010, Bignone was sentenced to 25 years in prison for his involvement in the kidnapping, torture and murder of 56 people, including guerrilla fighters, at the extermination center in the Campo de Mayo military complex.

On April 14, 2011, Reynaldo Bignone was sentenced to life in prison.

On December 29, 2011, Bignone received a further 15-year prison sentence for crimes against humanity. That was for setting up a secret torture center inside a hospital during the 1976 military coup.

On July 5, 2012, Bignone was sentenced to 15 years in prison. That was for his participation in a scheme to steal babies from parents detained by the military regime. According to the court decision, Bignone was an accomplice "in the crimes of theft, retention and hiding of minors, as well as replacing their identities."

Bignone died on March 7, 2018 at the military hospital in Buenos Aires from congestive heart failure caused by septic shock after suffering a broken hip at the age of 90.

[[HTTP 404]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

The 404 or Not Found is an HTTP error message meaning the web server could be contacted, but the file or webpage trying to be accessed could not be found. It happens when the URL you clicked on was moved, renamed, deleted or does not exist. 

[[Memoirs of an Invisible Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 thriller movies, 1992 comedy movies, English-language movies, Warner Bros. movies

Memoirs of an Invisible Man is a 1992 comedy and suspense movie. It is about an invisible man. Chevy Chase plays the invisible man. Daryl Hannah plays Alice Monroe. This movie received negative reviews from the critics. It performed poorly at the box office.

[[Bar-Ilan University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Israel

Bar-Ilan University (BIU; אוניברסיטת בר-אילן; he) is a public university in Ramat Gan. The university is intended mainly for moderate religious people.

[[Clock rate]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Time

The clock rate is the frequency at which a CPU is running. It is the rate in cycles per second (measured in hertz) or the frequency of the clock in any synchronous circuit. In general, many people think a higher clock speed means a faster processor, but other factors are also come into to picture. You can not compare its performance based on only clock speed. Depend upon the architecture design of the Processor, In some CPUs, a single instruction may be performed in a single clock cycle. In some CPUs, many instructions might be performed in a single clock cycle. For Example, An Intel Core i5 1st generation has a clock speed of 3.2 GHz and the latest Intel Core i5 10th generation has a clock speed of 1.6 GHz. Note: it is important to compare processors from the same brand and generation.

[[Elizabeth Fry]]

CATEGORIES: 1780 births, 1845 deaths, British activists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from stroke, People from Norwich, Quakers

Elizabeth "Betsy" Fry (21 May 1780 – 12 October 1845), née Gurney, was an English prison reformer and social reformer. She was also a Quaker and a Christian philanthropist. She has sometimes been referred to as the "angel of prisons".

[[Alajuela Province]]

CATEGORIES: Alajuela Province

Alajuela is a province of Costa Rica. It is in the north-central part of the country, bordering Nicaragua. The provincial capital is the city of Alajuela.

[[Nikita Filatov]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Living people, Ottawa Senators players, Russian ice hockey players, American Hockey League players

Nikita Vasilyevich Filatov (Никита Васильевич Филатов; born May 25, 1990) is a Russian professional ice hockey player who is currently a member of Salavat Yulaev of the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL). Filatov was loaned to HC CSKA Moscow of the KHL by the Ottawa Senators of the National Hockey League (NHL) in December, 2011.

[[Poás Volcano National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Costa Rica, Alajuela Province

Poás Volcano National Park, in Spanish Parque Nacional Volcán Poás, is a National Park in Costa Rica. The volcano is located in the province of Alajuela . The main crater is 950 deep and is active. There are frequent small geyser and lava eruptions. The last major eruptions were during 1952-54.

The park is frequently closed because of sulphur gas. Over the last decade there have been indications that the volcano is slowly building up for a new eruption.

[[Mr. Saturday Night]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, English-language movies

Mr. Saturday Night is a 1992 comedic-drama movie that puts a focus toward a comedian named Buddy. Billy Crystal, who also produced, wrote and directed, plays Buddy. Helen Hunt plays for Annie Wells. This was released on September 23, 1992 to theaters by Columbia Pictures. Mr. Saturday Night did not perform well in terms of critic reviews or the box office.

[[Pérez Zeledón (canton)]]

CATEGORIES: San José Province, Cantons of Costa Rica, 1931 establishments in North America, 20th-century establishments in Costa Rica

Pérez Zeledón is the name of the 19th canton of the province of San José in Costa Rica. The canton has an area of 1905.51,. It has a population of 134,534. The capital city of the canton is San Isidro de El General.

The canton's boundaries are made by Río Savegre river, Río Guabo river, and the coastal mountain ranges. The canton has the highest mountains peaks of the Cordillera de Talamanca (Talamanca Mountain Range) on the east. In the middle of the canton, the Río General river goes from north to south.

[[San José (canton)]]

CATEGORIES: San José Province, Cantons of Costa Rica, 1848 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Costa Rica, 1840s establishments in North America

San José is the name of the first canton of San José Province in Costa Rica. The canton has an area of 44.62 km². It has a population of 287,619 people.

[[Limón Province]]

CATEGORIES: Limón Province

Limón is a province of Costa Rica. It is in the eastern part of the country along the Caribbean Sea. The provincial capital is the city of Puerto Limón.

[[Limón]]

CATEGORIES: Limón Province, Cities in Costa Rica, 1870 establishments in North America, 19th-century establishments in Costa Rica

Puerto Limón is the capital city of Limón Province in Costa Rica. It is also a major Costa Rican port for exporting and importing. A part of the community has its roots in Jamaican laborers. They worked on the nineteenth-century railroad project. The railroad connected San José to Puerto Limón. Other parts of the population have their roots in the Nicaraguan, Panamanian, and Colombian turtle-hunters who settled in the city. 

Puerto Limon suffered the 1991 Limon Earthquake. This earthquake affected the city and the coastline.

[[Bossier City, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Louisiana, Ark-La-Tex, 1907 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Louisiana

Bossier City is the sixth-largest city in the state of Louisiana. is in Bossier Parish, it is the suburb of Shreveport. The population, as of 2012, is less than 63,000.

[[Reuben sandwich]]

CATEGORIES: Sandwiches

A Reuben sandwich is a type of hot sandwich. It has corned beef, Swiss cheese, Russian or Thousand Island dressing, and sauerkraut. It is made on rye bread.

[[Baconator]]

CATEGORIES: Sandwiches

The Baconator is a sandwich made by Wendy's restaurants. It has two beef patties, two slices of American cheese, six strips of bacon, mayonnaise, and ketchup on a bun. It was introduced in April 2007. In 2009, Wendy's started offering two other versions of the Baconator: the Baconator Single (one patty) and the Baconator Triple (three patties). The original version is now called the Baconator Double.

[[Artemisia (genus)]]

CATEGORIES: Asteraceae

Artemisia is a large genus of plants, with between 250 and 500 species. Most of them grow in temperate zones on the northern hemisphere. The genus belons to the family Asteraceae. Example species in aremisia are mugwort (A. vulgaris), Wormwood, or Sagebrush.

[[University of Wollongong]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Australia, Wollongong, Buildings and structures in New South Wales, 1951 establishments, 1950s establishments in Australia

The University of Wollongong (also simply known as UOW) is a public research university in Wollongong, New South Wales, Australia. In 2012, the University had a total of 30,516 domestic students enrolled, and 11,440 international students enrolled from more than 140 countries. In 2014, over 37,000 students are studying in the University, including over 11,600 international students.

The University of Wollongong marked the University's 60th Founding Anniversary in 2011.

[[All-Russia Exhibition Centre]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Moscow, Convention and exhibition centers

All-Russia Exhibition Centre (Всероссийский выставочный центр — called also: "All-Russian Exhibition Center") is one of the largest exhibition centers in the world. The center is in Moscow, Russia and was opened in 1935 as a Soviet exhibition center.

[[Nobody's Fool (1994 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York

Nobody's Fool is a 1994 American comedy-drama movie. The movie takes place in a fictional town in New York. It stars Paul Newman. Jessica Tandy, Melanie Griffith, Bruce Willis are also members of the cast. Nobody's Fool was released to very good review by critics. It also did  well at the box office.

[[Daphne Blake (Scooby-Doo)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1969, Scooby-Doo characters

Daphne Blake is a fictional character from Scooby-Doo. She usually enjoys a sense of fashion. Daphne has a love interest in Fred Jones.

[[Toccata and Fugue in D minor]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach, Solo organ pieces

The Toccata and Fugue in D minor, BWV 565 is a work for organ by Johann Sebastian Bach. It was written about 1708. It is often identified with melodramatic silent movies and scary movies, and was made famous when Walt Disney included the music in his animated movie Fantasia. Today, though, the original manuscript is lost and the work is known through copies made by Bach's students.

[[Shaggy Rogers (Scooby-Doo)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1969, Internet memes, Scooby-Doo characters

Norville "Shaggy" Rogers is a fictional character from Scooby-Doo. Shaggy is best friends with his dog Scooby-Doo. Shaggy likes to eat a lot of food and gets scared easily and is known for saying his catchphrase, "Like Zoinks".

[[Zachary Levi]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Actors from Louisiana, American television actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, Singers from Louisiana

Zachary Levi Pugh, known as Zachary Levi, (b. September 29, 1980) is an American actor. He is best known for playing Chuck Bartowski in the television series Chuck and Captain Marvel in Shazam! and its upcoming sequel Shazam! Fury of the Gods. He has also acted in Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel and Tangled. Levi was born in Lake Charles, Louisiana. 

Levi played Captain Marvel in the 2019 DC Extended Universe movie Shazam!

[[The Crossing Guard]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 movies, 2000s drama movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Movies about revenge, American independent movies

The Crossing Guard is an independent 1995 American drama movie. Jack Nicholson plays Freddy. Anjelica Huston plays Mary. They are a divorced couple whose daughter was killed by a drunk driver. When Freddy finds out that the man who killed his daughter has been released from prison, he decides to kill him. This movie was released in November 1995. It got very positive marks from the critics.

[[Law & Order]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 American television series debuts, 2010 American television series endings, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American crime drama television series, NBC network shows, Television series set in New York City, English-language television programs

Law & Order was an American television show and is aired on NBC from September 13, 1990 to May 24, 2010. It is a police procedural, violence, bloody violence and drama. It's the longest primetime crime drama show ever in America. Season 0 (Pre-1) (Pilot) could've been aired in 1988.

Many of the crimes in the episodes were "ripped from the headlines", meaning they were based on crimes that really happened. Episodes of the show were usually split into two parts. The first part would show the crime, the police looking for the suspect (the person they think did the crime), and the suspect being arrested. This is the "Law" part. The second part, the "Order" part, would show the trial and whether or not the suspect did the crime.

[[Yeshiva]]

CATEGORIES: Education, Judaism

A yeshiva is a Jewish place of education. It is focused on study of the Torah and Talmud.

[[Helium-4]]

CATEGORIES: Helium, Isotopes

Helium-4 (also written 4He) is an isotope of helium. It is the most common isotope of helium in the universe. Out of all the helium on the Earth, 99.99986% is helium-4. The nucleus (the center) of a helium-4 atom is also known as the alpha particle. Helium-4 is made of 2 protons (the part of an atomic nucleus with a positive charge), 2 neutrons (the part of an atomic nucleus with no charge) and 2 electrons (the part of an atom that goes around the nucleus with a negative charge).

Many helium-4 on Earth is produced from the alpha decay of heavy elements. In the Sun and the whole universe, most helium-4 is made during the Big Bang, the event that created the universe. This "Big Bang helium-4" is known as the "primordial helium". Helium-4 is also made in nuclear fusion at the center of stars. Primordial helium is not found on Earth due to it escaping because of the extremely high temperature of Earths creation.

Helium-4 on Earth was made through radioactive decay (when an atom breaks down into smaller atoms) from other elements, and it is made after the planet cooled and became solid.

One quarter of all the mass in the  Universe is helium-4. The rest is mostly hydrogen.

When helium-4 in its liquid form is cooled to below -271.17 °C (2.71 K), it turns into a superfluid. A superfluid is a special kind of fluid that has properties that are different from normal fluids. For example, if helium-4 as a superfluid is placed in an open container, it will climb the walls of the container and spill out. This is called a "Rollin film". It is caused by a phenomenon in quantum mechanics that is known as the Clausius-Clapeyron relation. The nucleus of helium-4 has a total spin of zero (an integer), and this makes it a boson. Now, the superfluid behaviour is a form of the Bose-Einstein condensate that can only be done by bosons.

Helium-4 can also be found on the Moon. On Earth, it is the most common isotope of helium.

[[William H. Webster]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, Living people, Politicians from St. Louis, Missouri, Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency, Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, US Republican Party politicians

William Hedgcock Webster (born March 6, 1924) is an American attorney, jurist, and current Chairman of the Homeland Security Advisory Council. Previously Webster was the third Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) from 1978 to 1987 and Director of Central Intelligence from 1987 to 1991.

Webster was born on March 6, 1924 in St. Louis, Missouri. He studied at Amherst College and at Washington University in St. Louis. Webster was married to Drusilla Lane Webster from 1950 until her death in 1984. They had three children. He married Lynda Clugston in 1990. He now lives in Washington, D.C..

[[Brent Scowcroft]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2020 deaths, American generals, American Latter Day Saints, Columbia University alumni, People from Ogden, Utah, Politicians from Utah, United States National Security Advisors, US Republican Party politicians

Brent Scowcroft (March 19, 1925 – August 6, 2020) was a United States Air Force Lieutenant General. He was the United States National Security Advisor under U.S. Presidents Gerald Ford and George H. W. Bush.

Scowcroft was born on March 19, 1925 in Ogden, Utah. He studied at Columbia University. Scowcroft married to Marian Horner in 1951. They had one daughter.

Scowcroft died on August 6, 2020 at his home in Falls Church, Virginia at the age of 95.

[[Ramallah]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Asia, Cities in the West Bank

Ramallah (رام الله Rāmallāh Ar-Ramallah.oga is a Palestinian city, in the West Bank. It is 10 north of Jerusalem. It currently serves as the de facto capital of the State of Palestine, Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian National Authority. The constitutional capital is Jerusalem. Ramallah has over 27,000 people living there. Ramallah was historically a Christian town, but today Muslims form the majority of the population, with about 25% of the people Christians.

The name of the city is made of "Ram", an Aramaic word that means "high place or mountain", and "Allah", the Arabic word for God. It translates as "Height of God".

[[Kiss of Death (1995 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 thriller movies, 1995 drama movies, English-language movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by Barbet Schroeder

Kiss of Death is a 1995 suspense-thriller movie. A former convict living in New York City tries to go straight. He is derailed when he gets into transportation of stolen cars. Samuel L. Jackson plays Detective Calvin, Helen Hunt plays Bev Kilmartin, David Caruso plays ex-con Jimmy Kilmartin and Nicolas Cage plays Little Junior Brown. This movie was released in April 1995 and received mixed reviews from the critics.

[[Maximum and minimum]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

Minimum means the least you can do of something. For example, if the minimum amount of dollars you must pay for something is seven, then you cannot pay six dollars or less (you must pay at least seven). You can do more than the minimum, but no less. Maximum means the most you can have of something. For example, if the maximum amount of oranges you can juggle is five, you cannot juggle more than five oranges. You can do the maximum or less.

[[Alexandria, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Louisiana, Parish seats in Louisiana, 1818 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Louisiana

Alexandria is the largest city in the Central Louisiana region, ninth-largest in the state and parish seat of Rapides Parish in the state of Louisiana. Alexandria was incorporated in 1818, and its 2010 population is near 48,000.

[[Disclosure (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 drama movies, 1994 thriller movies, 1990s drama thriller movies, American drama thriller movies, English-language movies, Legal movies, Movies set in Seattle, Washington, Warner Bros. movies

Disclosure is a 1994 American drama thriller movie starring Michael Douglas and Demi Moore. It is about sexual harassment, lies and corporate matters. The movie was released in December 1994 and got mixed reviews by critics, though it performed well on box office.

[[Stall]]

Stall may refer to:

[[Michael Rapaport]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from New York, 1970 births, Living people

Michael Rapaport (born March 20, 1970 in New York City) is an American comedian and actor. He works mostly in movies. He played a racist skinhead in the movie Higher Learning. He played Paul in Beautiful Girls. He has also worked in television programs.

[[Jagged Edge (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 drama movies, 1980s legal movies, 1985 mystery movies, 1980s thriller movies, American drama thriller movies, American legal movies, American mystery movies, English-language movies, Movies about murderers, Movies set in San Francisco, Mystery thriller movies

Jagged Edge is a 1985 American courtroom drama thriller movie set in San Francisco. It is about manipulation, lies and murder. Jeff Bridges stars. Glenn Close plays Teddy Barnes. This movie did well at the box office.

[[Self Control]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 songs

"Self Control" is an international song performed by Laura Branigan and released in 1984. The song has been remade many times, the most notable is by Ricky Martin. The single has been performed through other musicians over the years.

[[Costa Rican people]]

CATEGORIES: Costa Rican people

Costa Ricans, (costarricenses in Spanish) are also called ticos. They are from a multiethnic Spanish speaking nation in Central America. It is called Costa Rica. Costa Ricans do not consider their nationality one ethnicity. This is because there are many ethnic backgrounds. Costa Ricans are mostly criollos, castizos and mestizos. There are four small minority groups: Mulattos, Blacks, Amerindians and Asians.

The 2011 Census states Costa Rica has a population of 4,301,712 people.

[[Tarrazú (canton)]]

CATEGORIES: San José Province, Cantons of Costa Rica, 1868 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Costa Rica, 1860s establishments in North America

Tarrazú is the name of the 5th canton of San José Province in Costa Rica. The canton has an area of 297.50 km².

[[Red Dawn (1984 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 action movies, 1980s thriller movies, 1980s war movies, American action movies, American war movies, English-language movies, Movies set in the 1980s, Spanish-language movies

Red Dawn is a 1984 American war action movie. It was released in August 1984 with both good and bad reviews.  It starred Patrick Swayze, Lea Thompson, Charlie Sheen and Jennifer Grey. The film is set in an alternative 1980s in which the United States is invaded by the Soviet Union and its Cuban and Nicaraguan allies. World War III is mentioned in the movie, but is not fully explained. The story follows a group of American high school students who resist the occupation with guerrilla warfare, calling themselves Wolverines, after their high school mascot. The movie was the first to use a rating of PG-13.  The movie did very well at the box office.

[[Pope Callixtus I]]

CATEGORIES: Popes, 220s deaths

Pope Saint Callixtus I or Callistus I (217-222 C.E.) was the sixteenth Pope, the official title is the Bishop of Rome of the Catholic Church, during the reigns of the Roman Emperors Elagabalus and Alexander Severus. He is considered a saint of the Roman Catholic Church.

He was a slave of a Christian who had educated him.  He went into business but the business failed.  After some trouble, he was sent to the mines in Sardinia but was freed due to the efforts of Pope Victor I.  Callistus went to work for Pope Zephrynus and became a great influence upon him.

He was a very unpopular pope to the theologians of the day.

His tomb was discovered in 1960 in the cemetary of Calepodius and can be seen even today.  His feast day is celebrated on October 14.

[[Pope Callixtus II]]

CATEGORIES: 1060s births, 1124 deaths, French popes

Calixtus II (or Calistus II) (died 13 December 1124), born Guy de Burgundy, the fourth son of William I, Count of Burgundy, was elected Pope on 1 February 1119 after the death of Pope Gelasius II. His pontificate was shaped by the Investiture Controversy, which he was able to settle through the Concordat of Worms (in 1122).

[[Lolita Davidovich]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian movie actors, 1961 births, Living people

Lolita Davidovich (born 15 July 1961) is a Canadian actress. She has had many notable movie roles. She played Blaze Starr in the 1989 movie Blaze. She was in the 1991 movie JFK. She also acted in the television series The L Word. Davidovich was born near London, Ontario.

[[Virtual International Authority File]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments, Websites, Databases

The Virtual International Authority File (VIAF) is a joint project of several national libraries and operated by the Online Computer Library Center (OCLC).

[[Guarding Tess]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 comedy movies, 1994 thriller movies, American comedy movies, American thriller movies, English-language movies

Guarding Tess is a 1994 American suspense-comedy with its subject revolving around a United States Secret Service agent whose job is to protect a former First Lady. Nicolas Cage plays as Secret Service Agent Doug, and Shirley MacLaine plays former First Lady Tess Carlisle. The movie also stars Edward Albert as Barry Carlisle and Richard Griffiths as Frederick. This suspense-comedy was released March 11, 1994, and received very positive reviews from the critics.

[[Moscow Center of SPARC Technologies (MCST)]]

CATEGORIES: Technology companies, Moscow, Companies of Russia

MCST (акционерное общество (АО) «МЦСТ») is a microprocessor company that was set up in the 1992s. Different types of processors made by MCST were used in personal computers, servers and computing systems.

MCST develops microprocessors based on 2 different  instruction set architecture (ISA): Elbrus and SPARC

[[Mega Man 10]]

CATEGORIES: Mega Man games, Wii games, Xbox 360 Live Arcade games, PlayStation 3 games, 2010 video games, Capcom games, Video game sequels

Mega Man 10 is a platform video game made by Capcom for the Wii's WiiWare service, Xbox Live Arcade, and Playstation Network. It is the sequel to Mega Man 9. Like Mega Man 9, it has the same graphics as the Nintendo Entertainment System Mega Man games. It was released during March 2010.

In Mega Man 10, players can play as one of two characters. They can play as Mega Man or Proto Man. In April 2010, Capcom released download content for the game which makes a third character, Bass, playable as well. The player chooses their character at the start of the game. Once they select their character, it cannot be changed.

Like in Mega Man 10, three difficulty settings are available. In higher difficulties, enemies and bosses have different attacks. Easy Mode is available for players who want an easier game.

[[Mega Man Xtreme]]

CATEGORIES: Mega Man games, Game Boy Color games, Capcom games, 2000 video games, Video game spin-offs

Mega Man Xtreme is a platform video game made by Capcom for the Game Boy Color game console in 2000. It is a spin-off game in the Mega Man X series which started on the Super NES. It was followed by a sequel, Mega Man Xtreme 2, in 2001.

The game has three difficulty levels. Normal has four levels, Hard has four different levels, and Xtreme has all eight levels. Stages, enemies, bosses, and music from Mega Man X and Mega Man X2 are re-used in the game.

[[Kiss of Death]]

Kiss of Death may refer to:

[[Classic NES Series]]

CATEGORIES: Game Boy Advance games

The Classic NES Series (Famicom Mini in Japan and NES Classics in Europe and Australia) are a series of video games originally released for the Nintendo Entertainment System (the Famicom in Japan) re-released for the Game Boy Advance in 2004 and 2005. They were released for the 20th anniversary of the Famicom in Japan. 12 games were released in the United States, Europe, and Australia, while 30 games were released in Japan. The games released include Super Mario Bros., The Legend of Zelda, and Pac-Man. A special Game Boy Advance SP which looks like a NES controller was released to go along with the games.

[[Quadrangular space]]

CATEGORIES: Limbs and extremities

The quadrangular space is an area in the arm. It is between the following:

The axillary nerve and posterior humeral circumflex artery are in the space.

[[Leonardo De Lorenzo]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 births, 1962 deaths, Italian composers

Leonardo De Lorenzo (29 August 1875 – 29 July 1962) was an Italian flautist, composer and music educator. 

De Lorenzo was born in Viggiano, province of Potenza. He studied flute at Naples. He emigrated to the United States in 1909. He performed with many American orchestras. From 1923 to 1935, he taught flute at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, New York. He died in Santa Barbara, California.

[[Malachi Throne]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from New York City, American child actors, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from lung cancer

Malachi Throne (December 1, 1928 – March 13, 2013) was an American actor. He was known for his role as False-Face in Batman and as Noah Bain in It Takes a Thief. He had a small role in Steven Spielberg's 2002 movie Catch Me If You Can.

Throne was born on December 1, 1928 in New York City, New York. He studied at Brooklyn College. His acting career began when he was ten years old. 

Throne was married to Judith Merians from 1965 until they divorced in 1992. They had two children. Then he was married to Marjorie Throne from 1992 until his death in 2013. 

Throne died on March 13, 2013 in his home in Brentwood, Los Angeles, California from lung cancer, aged 84.His remains were cremated. 

[[Bel-Air]]

CATEGORIES: Neighborhoods of Los Angeles

Bel Air (or Bel-Air) is a neighborhood in the Los Angeles Westside, in the foothills of the Santa Monica Mountains. It was founded in 1923. It is a lightly populated residential district. The people are older, well-educated, and have high incomes.

[[Urinary system]]

CATEGORIES: Urinary system

The urinary system (the urinary tract) is a  system of  organs that makes urine/pee and takes it out of the body. 

Urine is watery waste of the body. Our body needs to collect this waste and get rid of it. Our body makes urine in two organs - the kidneys. To make urine, kidneys filter blood from blood vessels. 

[[Bachelor Party (1984 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 comedy movies, 1980s sex comedy movies, American sex comedy movies, English-language movies

Bachelor Party is a 1984 American comedy movie. It is about a school bus driver and a bachelor party thrown for him. Tom Hanks plays Rick Gassko, the bus driver. This movie got mixed to negative reviews from critics.

[[Death and the Maiden (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 thriller movies, 1994 drama movies, English-language movies, American drama movies, British drama movies, French drama movies, Movies directed by Roman Polanski

Death and the Maiden is a 1994 drama movie. It was directed by Roman Polanski. The movie is based on the play by Ariel Dorfman. It starred Sigourney Weaver, Ben Kingsley and Stuart Wilson. The movie was released in December 1994.

[[Irish music]]

CATEGORIES: Irish culture, Music by nationality

Irish music is the music of Ireland. Ireland shares folk music traditions with other Celtic nations such as Scotland, but many of its more modern artists such as U2, Sinead O' Conner, Thin Lizzy, The Corrs, Clannad, Enya, Snow Patrol and The Cranberries are also internationally famous.

[[Sinéad O'Connor]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Bisexual people, Christians, Irish LGBT people, Irish rock musicians, Irish singer-songwriters, LGBT musicians, People with bipolar disorder, Singers from Dublin, Muslims, People excommunicated by the Catholic Church

Sinéad Marie Bernadette O'Connor (born 8 December 1966) is an Irish singer-songwriter. She is perhaps most famous for performing the 1990 Prince song "Nothing Compares to U" which was nominated for three Grammy Awards. In 1991 she refused her Grammy Award for Best Alternative Album.

She is an Independent Catholic priest, rejecting the authority of Rome. She is openly bisexual, and has four children, each by a different father. All her four marriages ended in divorce. She was diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 2005.

She has released nine studio albums. Her most recent album, How About I Be Me (And You Be You)? was released in 2012. She released the second single from it, "4th and Vine" in February 2013.

In October 2018, O'Connor she had converted to Islam, calling it "the natural conclusion of any intelligent theologian's journey."

[[Benigno Aquino Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: Corazon Aquino, 1932 births, 1983 deaths, Assassinated people, Filipino politicians, Filipino Roman Catholics, Filipino journalists, Murder victims

Benigno Kheng Hon "Ninoy" Aquino, Jr. was a Filipino senator and a former Governor of Tarlac. He was born on November 27, 1932 and died on August 21, 1983 at the age of 50. His father was Benigno Aquino, Sr..

Aquino, Gerry Roxas and Jovito Salonga formed the leadership of the opposition to the government of President Ferdinand Marcos. Shortly after that, he was arrested in 1973 for seven years. Aquino was allowed to travel to the United States for medical treatment following a heart attack. He was killed at the Manila International Airport in 1983 upon returning from his self-imposed exile.

Aquino's death caused his widow, Corazon Aquino, to run for President in 1986. She became the 11th President of the Philippines. His son, Benigno Aquino III, became president in 2010.

[[Steve Lillywhite]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, British record producers, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Surrey

Stephen Alan "Steve" Lillywhite, CBE (born 15 March 1955) is an English record producer. He is a five-time Grammy Award winner. He was born in Egham, Surrey. He is best known for his work with U2. He produced their first three albums, Boy, October and War. He has worked with many other artists including The Rolling Stones, Dave Matthews Band, Bruce Foxton (of The Jam), Big Country, Peter Gabriel, Talking Heads, Morrissey, Thirty Seconds to Mars, The Killers, The Pogues, David Byrne, XTC, Siouxsie and the Banshees, Simple Minds, The Psychedelic Furs, Beady Eye, Phish, Counting Crows and Joan Armatrading. 

Lillywhite was married to singer Kirsty MacColl from 1984 to 1994. They had two sons, Jamie and Louis. He has been married to Patricia Louise Galluzzi since 29 May 2004.

Lillywhite was awarded the  Commander of the Order of The British Empire (CBE) in 2012 for his contributions to music.

[[Tarlac]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Tarlac (Lalawigan ng Tarlac) is a landlocked province of the Philippines in Central Luzon. Tarlac is surrounded by Pampanga at the south, Nueva Ecija at the east, Pangasinan at the north and Zambales at the west. It is a part of Central Luzon. Tarlac is populated by 1,273,240 people as of 2010.

[[Crooklyn]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 drama movies, English-language movies, American drama movies, American independent movies, Movies directed by Spike Lee

Crooklyn is a 1994 semi-autobiographic drama movie. It was directed by Spike Lee. He also wrote the movie and acted in it. The movie takes place in the 1970s in Brooklyn, New York. The stars Alfre Woodard, Delroy Lindo, David Patrick Kelly, and Zelda Harris. Crooklyn was released in May 1994 and did well at the box office.

[[Mixed Nuts]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s comedy movies, 1994 movies, English-language movies

Mixed Nuts is a 1994 Christmas comedy movie. It is about incidents during the holiday season. Juliette Lewis, Madeline Kahn and Parker Posey are in the cast. This was released on December 21, 1994 for the United States. The movie received very bad reviews from critics. It did not make much money.

[[Corazon Aquino]]

CATEGORIES: Corazon Aquino, 1933 births, 2009 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Filipino Roman Catholics, Nonviolence advocates, Presidents of the Philippines, Time People of the Year

Maria Corazon Sumulong "Cory" Cojuangco-Aquino (January 25, 1933 – August 1, 2009) was a Filipina politician who was the 11th President of the Philippines, the first woman to hold that office, and the first female president in Asia. She is known as "The Mother of Philippine Democracy". She led the 1986 People Power Revolution, which fled Ferdinand Marcos and restored democracy in the Philippines. She was named Time magazine's "Woman of the Year" in 1986.

Her husband was Benigno Aquino, Jr., a Filipino senator. She is the mother of Benigno Aquino III, the previous President of the Philippines.

[[Turhan Bey]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Austrian movie actors, Austrian television actors, Austrian stage actors, Austrian voice actors, Actors from Vienna, American movie actors

Turhan Bey (30 March 1922 – 30 September 2012) was an Austrian born  actor. Bey was active in Hollywood from 1941 to 1953. Bey was born as Gilbert Selahettin Shahultavey. He was the son of Turhan Bey a Turkish Diplomat and of Irma Meyer a Czech Jewish lady. In 1930, he moved to the United States. There he studied with Ben Ard at the School of Dramatic Art and at the Pasadena Playhouse. 

Bey began using his stage name soon after moving to the United States. He moved with his Jewish mother from Vienna to escape the Nazis. His popular nickname was "The Turkish Delight". This was a reference to his good looks that made him an very good partner for exotic actresses such as Maria Montez movies set in faraway places.

He began his career in Hollywood in 1941. He became one of the actors who almost always appeared in the Universal movies with Maria Montez. The movies he appeared with her include Raiders of the Desert, Bombay Clipper, Arabian Nights, White Savage, Ali Baba and the 40 Thieves, Follow the Boys and Bowery to Broadway.

Bey acted with the big stars of that time in movies such as A Night in Paradise, Out of the Blue, and The Amazing Mr. X until the popularity of the genre lessened in the 1950s. 

Bey moved back to Vienna and worked as a photographer. He did some work as a stage director, and also one of the founder of the Pro Circumcision Group "Eurocirc". He returned to Hollywood for a short time in the 1990s. During this time, he worked on both television and movies. He was nominated for an Emmy Award for his work as Turval on the space fantasy TV series Babylon 5.

Turhan Bey died in Vienna on September 30, 2012 after being ill with Parkinson's disease for a long time. He was cremated on October 8, 2012. 

[[Cadillac Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 comedy movies, 1990 movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Roger Donaldson

Cadillac Man is a 1990 comedy movie. It was directed by Roger Donaldson. The movie stars Robin Williams and Tim Robbins. The movie is about the problems of a car salesman in New York City. These problems include his wife wanting alimony, his two mistresses, his missing daughter and money owed to the Mafia. The movie was released in May 1990.

[[Bures, England]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Villages in Essex

Bures is a village in England. Some of it is in Suffolk and some is in Essex. Bures was listed in the Domesday Book as Bura/Buro. It has a church called St Mary.

[[Pacific Heights (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 thriller movies, 1990 drama movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by John Schlesinger

Pacific Heights is a melodramatic 1990 suspense drama movie. It is about apartment tenants who are at first welcomed, but later evicted and forced to leave the apartment. Michael Keaton, Melanie Griffith and Laurie Metcalf are in the cast. This movie was released on September 1990, and the reviews were mixed. However, the movie performed very well at the box office, earning back almost $45 million.

[[Aldham, Essex]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Essex, Civil parishes in Essex

Aldham is a village and civil parish in Colchester borough, Essex, England. In 2011 there were 491 people living in Aldham. It has a church called St Margaret.

[[Mount Bures]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Essex, Civil parishes in Essex

Mount Bures is a village and civil parish in Colchester borough, Essex, England. It is above the River Stour, north-west from Colchester and south-east of Sudbury.

Mount Bures takes its name from the "Mount" or "Mound" which is at the centre of the village, and "bur" which means building or dwelling. Mount Bures was previously called Bures Saint John, Little Bures or Bures Sackville to distinguish it from Bures Hamlet and Bures Saint Mary.

The railway opened in 1848 and runs through the centre of the village. The nearest railway station is at Bures Hamlet. The village has a church called St John's Baptist Church. It is close to the mount.

The parish has no main focus of settlement, but many scattered small settlements around tyes or greens; for example, Downing Tye, Mount Green, Janks Green, and Piotts Green. In 2011, there were 249 people living in Mount Bures.

Mount Bures has a rich historical background in relation to the Boudiccan revolt. The motte (mound) of Mount Bures is most commonly recognised as Boudicca’s Mount; due to the ideology that the queen’s warriors were buried here.

[[Bookmaker]]

CATEGORIES: Gambling, Financial occupations

A bookmaker, bookie or Turf Accountant is person or company that collect bets for sporting events. Bets are placed and winnings are paid when the chosen team wins or event happens. The most popular bet will be for winning team. If chosen team wins - person betting will win their money back with some earnings.

Bookmakers are very popular in UK and Ireland. The person betting can chose from many variations. Most bets are made in sports like football, horse racing and rugby. Some bets can be placed for events too, like Oscar or presidential winners.

The first bookmaker was Harry Ogden opened in 1790s.

[[Origen]]

CATEGORIES: 180s births, 254 deaths, Christian theologians, Egyptian Christians, People from Alexandria, Ancient Roman writers

Origen (or Origenes, also Origen(es) Adamantius) was an early Christian scholar. He lived in Alexandria in the 3rd century. He was born in the year 185 or 186, and proably died around the year 254. Today, he is regarded as one of the Church Fathers, but not as a Saint. This is probably because he had some ideas, which were declared to be false later on. These ideas included that the human soul existed before conception, and entered the human body before birth (generally known as pre-existence). Another idea was that of the souls  entering a different human body after death. A third idea, called Apocatastasis, is that the reign of god would be restored when the world ends. These ideas were discussed by church fathers, but it was decided that they were false beliefs. The Ecumenical Council  of Constantinople in 453 CE posthumously excommunicated Origen, and the 2nd Council of Constantinople in 553 CE declared apocatastasis as heresy. However, in recent years the idea has found some reconsideration especially among Restorationist Christian groups.

His writings are included in the general collection of early Church Fathers. However, unlike many church fathers, Origen was never canonized by the Catholic Church, because some of his teachings (for example, that every man and woman, and even the devil and his demons, would ultimately be saved) directly contradicted the teachings and actions of the apostles.

Origen wrote about many branches of theology, including textual criticism, biblical exegesis and hermeneutics, philosophical theology, preaching, and spirituality. Some of his teachings, however, quickly became controversial. Notably, he frequently referred to his hypothesis of the pre-existence of souls. In the beginning all intelligent beings were united to God. In his writingas, Origen also considered the possibility, that in the end all beings, perhaps even the arch-fiend Satan, would be reconciled with God in what is called the apokatastasis ("restitution"). 

Origen saw the Son of God as subordinate to God the Father. Even though this view of the Trinity was common at the time, it became controversial during the Arian controversy of the fourth century. A group who came to be known as Origenists, and who firmly believed in the preexistence of souls and the apokatastasis, were declared anathema in the 6th century. This condemnation is attributed to the Second Ecumenical Council of Constantinople (553), though it does not appear in the council's official documents.

[[Angels & Insects]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s romantic drama movies, 1995 movies, English-language movies

Angels & Insects is a 1995 romantic drama movie. The movie stars Mark Rylance, Kristin Scott Thomas and Patsy Kensit. It got good reviews from the critics.

[[Before Sunrise]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, Multilingual movies, Vienna, American independent movies

Before Sunrise is a 1995 romantic drama movie. The movie stars Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. In the movie, a man named Jesse (Hawke) and a woman named Celine (Delpy) meet on a train and get off the train in Vienna. A romantic encounter begins from there. Before Sunrise was released January 27, 1995. It was very well liked by critics.

It was followed by sequels Before Sunset and Before Midnight.

[[Pope Lando]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, Year of birth unknown, 910s deaths

Pope Lando (913-14) (Landus; died 914) was the 122nd Pope from July or August in 913 until February or March in 914. 

[[Point Place, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, Unincorporated communities in Louisiana, Census-designated places in Louisiana

Point Place is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States. Point Place is the suburb of Natchitoches.

[[Sosúa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dominican Republic, 1978 establishments in North America, 1970s establishments in the Dominican Republic

Sosúa is a Dominican municipality in the Puerto Plata province, on the north coast of the country.

Sosúa is a taíno name of the small river (Sosúa River) that crosses the city and ends in the Atlantic Ocean, on the western part of the Sosúa Bay.

[[Now and Then (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, English-language movies

Now and Then is a 1995 comedy-drama movie. It is about four women in two different time periods: 1970 and 1991. Demi Moore plays Samantha Albertson, Christina Ricci and Rosie O'Donnell play Roberta Martin, Thora Birch and Melanie Griffith act as Tina "Teeny" Tercell. Lolita Davidovich plays Samantha's mom. It was released on October 20, 1995. Reviews for this comedy-drama were very negative, although Now and Then has since become a classic.

[[Perseus Arm]]

CATEGORIES: Local galaxies

The Perseus Arm is one of two major spiral arms of the Milky Way galaxy. The second major arm is called the Scutum–Centaurus Arm.

The Milky Way is a barred spiral galaxy with two major arms and a number of minor arms or spurs. The Perseus Spiral Arm, with a radius of about 10,700 parsecs, is between the minor Cygnus and Carina–Sagittarius Arms. It is so named because it is seen in the same direction as the constellation Perseus.

The local spur known as the Orion–Cygnus Arm, which includes the Solar System and Earth, may be a branch of the Perseus Arm, but this is unconfirmed.

The Perseus Spiral arm contains a number of Messier objects:

It also contains a star 100 times larger than the sun. AC130

[[Jack Greene]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2013 deaths, American country musicians, American singer-songwriters, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Musicians from Tennessee

Jack Greene (January 7, 1930 - March 14, 2013) was an American country musician. His nickname was the "Jolly Green Giant" because of his height and deep voice. Greene was a long-time member of the Grand Ole Opry. He was nominated for three Grammy Awards.

Greene was born on January 7, 1930, in Maryville, Tennessee, he learned to play guitar at age ten. He was married to Barbara Stitem the mother of his 5 children, Wayne Greene, Lynn Greene (deceased), Tony Greene, Jan Greene & Marty Greene. Greene died on March 14, 2013 in his home in Nashville, Tennessee from Alzheimer's disease, aged 83.

[[Beverly D'Angelo]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Ohio, 1951 births, Living people

Beverly Heather D'Angelo (born November 15, 1951) is an American actress. She acts mostly in movies. She first became well known in the 1983 movie National Lampoon's Vacation. She also acted in many other movies, particularly comedy movies. She was born in Columbus, Ohio.

D'Angelo was in the 1980 movie Coal Miner's Daughter. She shared the Country Music Association award for Album of the Year for that movie's soundtrack.

[[Staten Island Ferry]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in New York City, Staten Island, Manhattan, 1817 establishments in the United States, 1810s establishments in New York (state)

The Staten Island Ferry is a free ferry service that runs between the New York City boroughs of Staten Island and Manhattan. The service started in 1817 as the Richmond Turnpike Company. It leaves and arrives in Manhattan from the Staten Island Ferry Whitehall Terminal near Battery Park City. In Staten Island, it leaves and arrives from the Saint George Ferry Terminal near Richmond Terrace. The trip takes around 25 minutes each way. Service is provided 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Late-night service is one trip per hour and, during rush hours, four per hour.

The ferry carries bicycles.  The ground entrance to the ferry is only for bicycle riders.  Automobiles were also carried for a fee of $3.00 per automobile.  This ended after the September 11, 2001 attacks.

Over 21 million people ride the Staten Island Ferry a year. Around 75,000 ride on a weekday.

[[You Belong with Me]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Taylor Swift songs

"You Belong with Me" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift. The song was written by Swift and Liz Rose, producer by Nathan Chapman and Swift.The song was released in 2009 in the United States. It is about a boyfriend having an argument with his girlfriend. The reviews of this song were mixed to positive. The song was also covered by Selena Gomez.

[[This Is 40]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, English-language movies, Midlife crisis movies, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies about marriage, Movies set in Los Angeles, California

This is 40 is a 2012 American comedy drama movie. It is a spin-off to the movie Knocked Up. The movie stars Paul Rudd and Leslie Mann. Megan Fox and Melissa McCarthy also appear. It was released in December 2012 and received mixed reviews from critics.

[[My Girlfriend's Boyfriend (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010 movies, English-language movies

My Girlfriend's Boyfriend is a 2010 romantic comedy movie. It is about a novelist and problems around him.  The movie stars Alyssa Milano, Beau Bridges and Carol Kane. It was released in May 2010 in the United States. The movie received very positive reviews from the critics.

[[Corcovado National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Costa Rica

Corcovado National Park is a national park in Costa Rica. It was established on 24 October 1975. It has an area of 425 km² (263 mi²). National Geographic called this park "the most biologically intense place on Earth in terms of biodiversity". The park very popular with tropical ecologists. Visitor can see a lot of wildlife.

[[Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica]]

CATEGORIES: Costa Rica, National legislatures

The Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica is unicameral. It is the legislative branch of the government of Costa Rica. The Legislative Assembly's building is in San José city.

[[Cruelty to animals]]

CATEGORIES: Animal rights, Types of crime

Cruelty to animals is when a person harms or even kills an animal or pet. There is a fine in some countries and in more serious cases one can go to jail. The animal that suffers could be stolen, or it could be the owner abusing their own pet. Some ways in which people could abuse the animal would be by locking it, keeping it tied to a chain, giving it little or no  food or water, kicking and hurting it, yelling and scaring it or leaving it outside in cold or hot weather for a long period of time. Sometimes people will also abandon their pet. Some examples of animal cruelty are neglect, hoarding, or physical abuse.

[[Rand Paul]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American Presbyterians, Politicians from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 2016 United States presidential candidates, United States senators from Kentucky, US Republican Party politicians

Rand Paul (born January 7, 1963) is an American politician. He is the United States Senator from Kentucky (serving with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell). He is a Republican and the son of Ron Paul.

Paul is a member of the Tea Party movement.

Paul used to be a doctor. 

Paul was diagnosed in 2020 with the coronavirus, one of the first senators with it. 

[[Marco Rubio]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American conservatives, American political writers, Writers from Miami, Florida, Politicians from Miami, Florida, American lawyers, American Roman Catholics, 2016 United States presidential candidates, United States senators from Florida, State legislators of the United States, University of Florida alumni, US Republican Party politicians, 21st-century American politicians

Marco Antonio Rubio, Jr. (born May 28, 1971) is the senior United States Senator from Florida. He is a Republican. He was elected to the Florida House of Representatives in 2000, and he served as the Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives from 2006 to 2008. 

[[Irssi]]

CATEGORIES: IRC clients

irssi is an command-line IRC client. It is commonly used on Unix machines, but is also available for Windows.

[[Greedy (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 comedy movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Jonathan Lynn

Greedy is a 1994 comedy movie. It is about greed between relatives of a business tycoon. Nancy Travis plays Robin and Michael J. Fox plays Danny. This comedy had mixed reviews and a weak box office revenue when it was released.

[[Russian Academy of Sciences]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Moscow, Companies of Russia, National academies of sciences

The Russian Academy of Sciences (Российская академия наук, shortened to РАН, RAN) consists of the national academy of Russia and a network of scientific research institutes from across the country. It also includes other scientific and social groups like libraries, publishing units and hospitals.

Like the French Academy of Sciences and unlike The Royal Society in Britain, the Russian Academy of Sciences has two types of membership. The top-level members are academicians (844 scientists, as of April 2021). The next-level members are corresponding members (1079 scientists). There are also professors of the RAN (604 scientists). 3 professors became academicians and 137 professors became corresponding members. These are now counted twice: as professors and as members. The last elections were organized in November 2019. To be elected to the Academy is a great honor for any researcher.

[[Big Business (1988 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 comedy movies, 1980s buddy movies, American buddy movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies, Female buddy movies, Movies about sisters, Movies about twins, Movies based on plays, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in the 1940s, West Virginia

Big Business is a 1988 American comedy movie set in  Two pairs of identical twin girls are switched at birth in West Virginia and go into two different settings in New York City. Bette Midler acts as Sadie, Lily Tomlin plays Rose. This movie was released in June 1988. It received lukewarm reviews by critics, although it performed quite well at the box office.

[[Solar car]]

CATEGORIES: Electric vehicles, Solar energy

Solar cars (or solar vehicles) are a special type of electric vehicle that only get their power from the sun.  They use solar cells on the surface of the car to produce electricity and the electricity makes a motor turn, and that turns the wheels.  They are not useful for normal driving, but once built, they can drive all day and not make any pollution.   There are also some solar-powered vehicles for unusual cases, like the first rovers on Mars.

Also, there are electric vehicles that can be charged from separate solar panels, and those panels can be as big as needed.  This can work to power an electric car for most daily needs.  But this is not called a solar car, since it doesn't have the solar panels right on the car.

[[Laws of Attraction]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 romance movies, 2004 comedy movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, British romantic comedy movies, Irish movies, German romance movies, German comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City

Laws of Attraction is a 2004 Irish-British-German romantic comedy-drama movie. It is about two high-profile divorce lawyers in New York City. It stars Julianne Moore, Pierce Brosnan and Parker Posey. The movie got bad reviews from critics when it was released, but it earned back its budget revenue.March 2013

[[Don Keefer]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, Deaths from natural causes, People from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

Donald H. "Don" Keefer (August 18, 1916 – September 7, 2014) was an American actor. He was known for his roles in Death of a Salesman, Creepshow, The Twilight Zone, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Gunsmoke, and in Liar Liar.

Keefer was born on August 18, 1916 in Highspire, Pennsylvania. He studied at The Actors Studio. Keefer was married to Catherine McLeod from 1950 until her death in 1997. They had three children: Donald, John and Thomas.

Keefer died from natural causes on September 7, 2014 in Sherman Oaks, California. He was 98.

[[Fritz Weaver]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American television personalities, Actors from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Tony Award winning actors

Fritz William Weaver (January 19, 1926 – November 26, 2016) was an American actor. He was known for his guest-star roles in The Twilight Zone, Night Gallery, The X-Files, Matlock, and Demon Seed. He was also known for his role as Dexter in Creepshow. He won a Tony Award in 1970.

Weaver was born on January 19, 1926 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He was raised in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Weaver studied at Peabody High School. He was married to Sylvia Short from 1953 until they divorced in 1979. Then he married Rochelle Oliver in 1997. Weaver had two children with Short.

From 1995 until his death, Weaver has worked primarily as a voice actor, providing narration for programs on the History Channel.

Weaver died at his home in Manhattan on November 26, 2016, aged 90.  No cause of death was immediately available.

[[Hans Schnitger]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Dutch Olympic bronze medalists, Field hockey players, People from Enschede, Sportspeople from Overijssel

Henri Carel Willem "Hans" Schnitger (August 5, 1915 – March 2, 2013) was a Dutch field hockey player who competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics. Schnitger was a member of the Dutch field hockey team, which won the bronze medal. He played all five matches as forward.

Schnitger was born in Enschede, where he lived until his death on March 2, 2013 from natural causes, aged 97.

[[Chemtrail conspiracy theory]]

CATEGORIES: Conspiracy theories, Aviation

A chemtrail is a trail of chemicals left by an airplane at a high altitude. According to a conspiracy theory, the chemicals are said to be deliberately sprayed for reasons that are kept secret by the government. Most scientists and workers in the aviation industry say that the trails left by planes are just a form of condensation. These are called contrails (condensation trails).

People who believe the theory have speculated about what purpose chemtrails may serve. Some say it is to change the weather or stop global warming. Others say that it is to control the population by spreading chemicals that are harmful to the human reproductive system. Some more recent versions of the theory say that chemtrails are being spread by companies that make genetically-modified (GMO) crops. The chemtrails supposedly contain herbicides that will only kill normal (organic) crops and will not affect the genetically-modified crops.

Some claim that specially modified planes, supposedly owned and operated by the government, are necessary to create a chemtrail. The chemicals are said to either come from the engine or from special nozzles on the plane. In some versions of the theory, the chemical is said to be barium or a barium compound, but in other versions it is aluminum oxide, or a mixture of barium compounds and aluminum oxide.

Chemtrails are not to be confused with the spraying of chemicals over short distances at a low altitude, such as aerial firefighting or crop-dusting.

[[Robert Conquest]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2015 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American historians, American poets, British historians, Deaths from respiratory failure, People with Parkinson's disease, English poets, Disease-related deaths in California, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Worcestershire

George Robert Acworth Conquest, CMG (July 15, 1917 – August 3, 2015) or Robert Conquest was an English-American historian and poet. He was best known for his influential works of Soviet history. They include The Great Terror: Stalin’s Purges of the 1930s. He received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in November 2005.

Conquest was born on July 15, 1917 in Great Malvern, Worcestershire, England. He studied at Magdalen College, Oxford. 

He was married to Joan Watkins from 1942 until they divorced in 1948. Then he was married to Tatiana Mihailova from 1948 until they divorced 1962. Then he was married to Caroleen MacFarlane from 1964 until they divorced in 1978. Then he was married to Elizabeth Neece Wingate from 1979 until his death in 2015. He had two sons from Watkins and one step-daughter from Wingate. 

Conquest died in Stanford, California from respiratory failure caused by Parkinson's disease at the age of 98.

[[Alan Greenspan]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, American chief executives, American economists, Bankers, Chairs of the Federal Reserve, Businesspeople from New York City, Jewish businesspeople, Libertarians, New York University alumni, Republicans (United States), United States Council of Economic Advisers

Alan Greenspan (born March 6, 1926) is an American economist.

[[Ed Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American movie directors, Actors from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey, Drama Desk Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Edward Allen "Ed" Harris (born November 28, 1950) is an American actor, writer, and director. He is best known for his roles in Pollock, Appaloosa, The Rock, The Abyss, A Beautiful Mind, A History of Violence, Enemy at the Gates, The Right Stuff, Gone Baby Gone, and Paris Trout. He won an Golden Globe Award, an Drama Desk Award, and an Screen Actors Guild Award.

Harris was born on November 28, 1950 in Inglewood, New Jersey. He was raised in Tenafly, New Jersey. Harris studied at Tenafly High School and at Columbia University. He married Amy Madigan in 1983. They have one daughter, Lily Dolores, born in 1993. Harris now lives in Los Angeles, California. His father was actor Bob L. Harris. 

[[Module (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In abstract algebra, a module is the generalization of a vector space. Modules are defined with respect to a ring. A vector space uses vectors and scalars, it defines the operations of additions and multiplication of these two. 

Modules also generalize the idea of abelian group. Abelian groups are modules over the ring of integers.

[[Moravia (canton)]]

CATEGORIES: San José Province, Cantons of Costa Rica, 1914 establishments in North America, 20th-century establishments in Costa Rica

Moravia is a canton in San José Province of Costa Rica.

[[Wild Orchid (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 movies, 1980s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Rio de Janeiro

Wild Orchid is an 1989 erotic suspense movie. It was directed by Zalman King. The movie stars Mickey Rourke, Carré Otis, Jacqueline Bisset, Bruce Greenwood, Oleg Vidov and Assumpta Serna. Wild Orchid deals with stalking, deception and blackmail in Rio de Janeiro. The first version of the movie was too sexual for an R rating. The MPAA threatened give the movie an X rating. King edited the movie down to get the R rating. The movie got very bad reviews by critics, including Roger Ebert, but it was successful in terms of international box office earnings.March 2013

[[Amphitrite]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

Amphitrite was the Greek goddess of the sea springs and ocean life. Married to Poseidon, usually said to be a Nereid but sometimes said to be an Oceanid.

[[Sankt Georgen Graduate School of Philosophy and Theology]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 establishments in Europe, Buildings and structures in Frankfurt, Colleges and universities in Germany, Education in Hesse, 1920s establishments in Germany

The Sankt Georgen Graduate School of Philosophy and Theology (German: Philosophisch-Theologische Hochschule Sankt Georgen) is an academic seminary in Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

[[Isthmus of Tehuantepec]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Mexico

The Isthmus of Tehuantepec is an isthmus in Mexico. It is the shortest route between the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Ocean. Before the Panama Canal opened, it was a major shipping route known as the Tehuantepec Route

[[Laura Chinchilla]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Presidents of Costa Rica, Living people, People from San José, Costa Rica

Laura Chinchilla Miranda (born 28 March 1959) served as the President of Costa Rica from 2010 to 2014. She is Costa Rica's first female president. She is the sixth woman to be elected president of a Latin American country. She was one of Óscar Arias Sánchez's two vice presidents. She was his administration's Minister of Justice. She was the governing PLN candidate for President in the 2010 general election. She won with 46.76% of the vote.

[[Finding Bliss]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2009 movies, English-language movies

Finding Bliss is a 2009 movie. It is a romantic comedy about the adult film industry. The movie stars Leelee Sobieski, Denise Richards and Kristen Johnston. It was released in June 2010 in the United States. The movie was given very negative reviews by critics.

[[Battle of the Plains of Abraham]]

CATEGORIES: Battles, History of Canada, Quebec, 1759, Seven Years' War, 18th century in North America, September events

The Battle of the Plains of Abraham  was a battle that happened on September 13, 1759. It was part of the French and Indian War, which was part of the big Seven Years' War. The Plains of Abraham are close to the Saint Lawrence River in Quebec City. It is named after Abraham Martin. The battle was the French against the British. The French leader was Louis de Montcalm, and the British leader was James Wolfe.  Both were young men.  The French were wearing blue and the British were wearing red. 

The French were in their fort on the Plains of Abraham, waiting for the British to arrive. They knew the British were coming, from rumours and spies.  But when the British arrived in June, the French were not prepared, and they did not have all their troops with them.  The siege lasted three months.  The French attacked; each side had about 4500 troops in the battle. Many of the French troops were not trained as well as the British troops.  Montcalm and Wolfe both died.  The French retreated, and Quebec surrendered on September 18, 1759. The war continued in 1760, and the British captured Montreal and New France was defeated.  This took Canada away from France and made it part of the British Empire.  France, however, still had the Louisiana Territory. 

[[E. G. Marshall]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1998 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, American voice actors, Actors from Minnesota, Emmy Award winning actors

E. G. Marshall (Everett Eugene Grunz; June 18, 1914 – August 24, 1998) was an American actor. He was best known for his roles as Lawrence Preston on The Defenders and as David Craig on The Bold Ones: The New Doctors. He won two Emmy Awards in 1962 and in 1963. He was also known for his roles in 12 Angry Men and Creepshow.

Marshall was born on June 18, 1914 in Owatonna, Minnesota to a Norwegian-German family. He studied at Carleton College and at the University of Minnesota.

Marshall was married to Helen Wolf from 1939 until they divorced in 1953. Then he was married to Emy de Haze Winkelman until they divorced. Then he was married to Judith Coy until his death in 1998. He had five children. Marshall died on August 24, 1998 in Bedford, New York from lung cancer, aged 84.

[[Death Wish (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Series of movies, American action movies, American crime thriller movies

The ''Death Wish'' movie series is a series of action movies. It was created by Michael Winner in 1974. It is based on the book of the same name by Brian Garfield, written in 1972.

[[Adrienne Barbeau]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Singers from Sacramento, California, Writers from Sacramento, California, People from San Jose, California, Actors from Sacramento, California

Adrienne Jo Barbeau (born June 11, 1945) is an American actress, singer, and writer. She is known for her roles in Creepshow, Grease, and in Escape from New York. She is known for her television roles in Maude and in Batman: The Animated Series.

Barbeau was born on June 11, 1945 in Sacramento, California. Her ancestry include Armenian, German, Irish, French, and Canadian. Barbeau was raised in San Jose, California. She studied at Del Mar High School. 

Barbeau was married to John Carpenter from 1979 until they divorced in 1984. Then she married Billy Van Zandt in 1992. She had one son with Carpenter and twin sons with Zandt. She now lives in Los Angeles, California. 

[[Lame duck]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A lame duck is an elected politician who is about to leave office, either because of term limits or because he/she lost an election.  Lame duck politicians sometimes don't get much accomplished. They sometimes make controversial decisions because they know it won't make them lose an election.

[[Cantons of Costa Rica]]

CATEGORIES: Cantons of Costa Rica, Geography-related lists

This is a list of the cantons of Costa Rica.

Costa Rica's seven provinces (provincias) are divided into 81 cantons. Cantons divided into districts (distritos).

[[Moravia (disambiguation)]]

Moravia is a region in the Czech Republic. It might also mean:

[[Pitjantjatjara]]

CATEGORIES: Pitjantjatjara

Pitjantjatjara (b̥ɪɟɐɲɟɐɟɐɾɐ) is the name of a nation of native Australian people. They live in the central Australian desert. The people call themselves Aṉangu, a word which means "person" or "people" in their own language. The group is considered part of the Western Desert cultural bloc. Pitjantjatjara people are closely related to their two closest neighbours: the Yankunytjatjara and the Ngaanyatjarra. They can understand much of each other's languages. There are currently about 4,000 people from this nation living in small communities spread out across their homeland.

The homeland of the Pitjantjatjara covers north-western South Australia and the south-west of the Northern Territory. More communities are located a short distance over the border in Western Australia. The land they live in is special to them. It forms a large part of their culture and beliefs. In South Australia, they mostly live in the Aṉangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands. This area is where the Pitjantjatjara language is strongest. In the Northern Territory, their country is on the south side of Lake Amadeus. It is centred around Uluṟu and Kata Tjuṯa, two of their most sacred sites. 

Pitjantjatara are historically a nomadic people. They lived in small family groups, travelling from one rock hole to another depending on the water and food that was available. In the mid-20th century, most families settled in new communities they built together. They have kept their culture and identity despite outside influences and attempts to force them to change. These influences come from the wider Australian community.

[[Edge of Darkness (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 thriller movies, 2010 drama movies, 2010s drama thriller movies, American drama thriller movies, British thriller movies, British drama movies, English-language movies, Political movies

Edge of Darkness is a 2010 drama thriller movie. It is about a detective who gets involved with the murder of his political activist daughter and gets caught up in conspiracy. The movie stars Mel Gibson. It was released in January 2010 in the United Kingdom and the United States. The reviews for this were mixed.  It earned $81 million in the box office.

[[Going the Distance (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 comedy movies, 2010 romance movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in San Francisco

Going the Distance is a 2010 American romantic comedy movie directed by Nanette Burstein. It stars Drew Barrymore, Justin Long and Christina Applegate. It is about Erin, a graduate school student from San Francisco who meets a man in New York City and tries to keep the relationship going when she returns home. The movie was released in September 2010. It received mixed reviews from critics, but did very well at the box office.

[[Gyroscope]]

CATEGORIES: Machines, Measuring tools

A gyroscope is a device used to measure or maintain an angular position. It works using the principles of angular momentum. The gyroscope is made up of a spinning wheel or disc, as well as (in some cases) many other moving parts. It helps with navigation, and plays a part in such things as a gyrocompass and artificial horizon.

[[Heart Attack (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 songs, Pop songs

"Heart Attack" is a 2013 single from singer Demi Lovato. It is about heart issues being caused from lovesick feelings. This single became a hit in certain areas and a strong charting song overall. It received good reviews from music critics.

[[San Jose]]

San José is Spanish for Saint Joseph.

San Jose or San José might also mean:

[[Areyonga, Northern Territory]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian communities, Pitjantjatjara

Areyonga (also called Utju in Pitjantjatjara) is a small town in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is located about 220 km west of Alice Springs. About 300 people live in the town, most of whom are Aboriginal. The people are mostly Pitjantjatjara, with some Arrernte and Walpiri families. The town is governed by Areyonga Aboriginal Community.

Areyonga was founded during the 1920s. A long drought forced Pitjantatjara families to leave Kaḻṯukatjara and other places in the Petermann Ranges. They originally moved to Hermannsburg and then set up a new community at Areyonga. A Lutheran mission was established in the settlement in the 1940s. In the 1970s, many people from the mission moved back to the community at Kaḻṯukatjara. The Lutheran mission at Areyonga was closed in 1990, and the land was given back to the native people as part of the Haasts Bluff Aboriginal Land Trust.

[[Ross and Cromarty]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland

Ross and Cromarty is an area of the Highlands of Scotland. It has many mountains and few people.

[[Irrunytju, Western Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Western Australia, Indigenous Australian communities

Irrunytju (also called Wingellina) is a small Aboriginal community  in Western Australia. It is located in the Goldfields-Esperance region, about 12 southwest of the Surveyor Generals Corner (where the borders of Western Australia, South Australia and the Northern Territory meet). There are about 150 people living in the community, most of whom are Ngaanyatjarra.

The town is surrounded by the Wingellina Hills, a set of large granite hills with mulga and mallee growth. The name of the community, irrunytju, comes from the name of a sacred site located in the hills to the south.

[[Rusyn language]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic languages

Rusyn (Rusyn: русиньска бесїда or русиньскый язык) is an East Slavic language. It is spoken by the Rusyns of Central Europe. In English, it is also called Ruthene or Ruthenian. Some linguists treat it as a distinct language. Some Ukrainian scholars think it is a dialect of Ukrainian.

Rusyn is spoken in the Transcarpathian Region of Ukraine, in northeastern Slovakia, in Vojvodina, in southeastern Poland, in Hungary and in northern Romania.

In Serbia, Rusyn is an official minority language. Since 1995, Rusyn has been an official minority language in Slovakia. In some Slovak municipalities, it is an official language.

Rusyn is listed as a protected language by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages in Slovakia, Serbia, Croatia and Romania.

[[Tjuntjuntjara, Western Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Western Australia, Indigenous Australian communities, 1980s establishments in Australia, Pitjantjatjara

Tjuntjuntjara is a remote Aboriginal community in the southeast of Western Australia. It is located in the Great Victoria Desert, inside the Great Victoria Desert Nature Reserve. It is about 700 east of Kalgoorlie. The nearest place with more people is the town of Laverton, 460. Tjuntjuntjara is connected to Irrunytju in the north by a dirt track.

There are about 160 people living at Tjuntjuntjara. They speak a southern variety of the Pitjantjatjara language. They identify as belonging to a group of people known as pilanguṟu (meaning "from the spinifex plains"). This group of people are among those that were removed from their homelands in the 1950s and 1960s due to nuclear weapons testing at Woomera Test Range. Most of the people now living at Tjuntjuntjara were previously living at Cundeelee, then a Christian mission, further to the west. Other communities of pilanguṟu people include Oak Valley and Yalata, over the border in South Australia.

Tjuntjuntjara was founded in the late 1980s. Cundeelee was being closed, so a group of elders led members back east to their homelands to set up a new community. The first choice for a location was Yakadunya (about 160 of Tjuntjuntjara). A water bore was drilled and a temporary camp was formed, but there was not enough water in the ground. The community moved northward to what is now Tjuntjuntjara.

Tjuntjuntjara has since grown into a large community. It acts as a service centre for several outstations. These outstations are occupied at certain times of the year for hunting and gathering and ceremonies. The community is governed by a local council. Facilities and services are managed by the Paupiyala Tjarutja Aboriginal Corporation, a non-profit organisation. The community has its own health clinic. The community school, Tjuntjuntjara Remote Community School, was opened in 2008. Both the clinic and the school are helped by the federal government. Mail is flown in by plane once per week. A truck delivers food supplies to the community once every two weeks. There is no police station.

The Spinifex Arts Project was set up in 1997 for the community to create artworks.

The community is growing. There were about 40 living at Tjuntjuntjara during the 1980s. In the 2006 census, there were 150 people, and in the 2011 census there were 162 people living in 17 houses.

[[The Switch (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010 movies, English-language movies

The Switch is a 2010 movie. It is a romantic comedy about a woman who wants to get pregnant. The movie stars Jennifer Aniston, Jason Bateman, Patrick Wilson and Juliette Lewis. The Switch was the last movie to be distributed by Miramax before that company was sold by Disney. It was released on August 20, 2010.  The movie was not well liked by critics. It made almost 50 million dollars at the box office.

[[Paneuropean Union]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 establishments in Europe, International organizations, Political organizations based in Europe, Politics of Europe

The Paneuropean Union was a movement to join the countries of Europe. It was founded in 1923.

[[Union of European Federalists]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, European Union, Political organizations based in Europe, 1946 establishments in Europe

The Union of European Federalists is a non-governmental organisation in the European Union. Its aim is to promote European integration. It was founded in 1946 after World War II.

[[Acrididae]]

CATEGORIES: Orthoptera

The Acrididae are the main family of grasshoppers, with 10,000 of the 11,000 species of the entire suborder Caelifera. The Acrididae are best known because all locusts (swarming grasshoppers) are of the Acrididae. However, not all Acrididae are locusts: 'locust' is a term which is only given to those grasshoppers which swarm.

Acrididae grasshoppers have relatively short and stout antennae, and drum-like tympana on the side of the first abdominal segment.

The name Acrididae is derived from Greek akris, meaning locust.

[[The Proposal (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 romance movies, 2009 comedy movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Alaska, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City

The Proposal is a romantic comedy movie from 2009. It is about a Canadian executive chief of staff working at a New York City book publishing company. She learns she will be deported due to an expired visa unless the visa matter is taken care of. Sandra Bullock plays the executive. Ryan Reynolds plays her assistant. This movie was released in June 2009. The reviews were mixed to negative. The Proposal took in over $317 million in the box office. It became the highest grossing romantic comedy in 2009.

[[Farsi1]]

CATEGORIES: Television networks, Iran, 2009 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in Iran

Farsi1 is a Persian language satellite television channel. It was created in 2009. The channel is broadcast into Iran from Hong Kong by a company co-owned by Rupert Murdoch. Since the channel's creation, Farsi1 has become the most popular TV channel in Iran.  The channel broadcasts TV series from Korea, Latin America and the United States. Its most popular series tend to be Colombian telenovelas. 

[[Selen Soyder]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, People from İzmir, Beauty pageant winners, Turkish models

Mükerrem Selen Soyder (born in Alsancak, İzmir, Turkey on December 26, 1986) is a Turkish model. She was Miss Turkey in 2007.

[[Wherry Lines]]

CATEGORIES: Railway lines of England, East of England

The Wherry Lines are railway lines in England, from Norwich to Great Yarmouth and Lowestoft. These lines go through The Broads. The line is part of the Network Rail Strategic Route 7, SRS 07.11 and is a rural line. The name of the line is taken from the Norfolk wherries, which played an important role in the transport of goods and people around the broads before road and rail transport became widespread.

[[Norfolk wherry]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, Norfolk, Boats

The Norfolk wherry is a type of boat on The Broads in Norfolk, England. Three main types were made over its life, all using gaff rig with a single, tall sail and the mast stepped well forward.

[[Scalpel]]

CATEGORIES: Medical equipment, Cutting tools

A scalpel is a very sharp knife, made to be used for surgery. Scalpels were developed for cutting through tissue. In 2013, most scalpels used for surgery had blades which are only used once. The blade is replaced after use. Sometimes, the lower part of the scalpel is re-used. The blades are made of different kinds of metal or steel. In some cases, titanium, diamond or obsidian are used. Magnetic resonance imaging uses magnetism to generate an image. This means that people performing operations in such an environment cannot use metal tools. In some cases, scalpels are replaced with lasers, or with electrocautery. Ancient Egyptian medicine used scalpels for enbalming; the material used was obsidian, it is still in use today. Medicine in ancient Rome used over 150 different tools, among them, the scalpel.

[[Ferney Park]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Northern Ireland

Ferney Park is a football stadium in Ballinamallard, Northern Ireland. Ballinamallard United F.C. play there 

[[Ælfthryth, wife of Edgar]]

CATEGORIES: 940s births, 1000s deaths, Kings and Queens consort of England

Ælfthryth (945 - 1000 or 1001, also Alfrida, Elfrida or Elfthryth)  was the second or third wife of King Edgar of England. Ælfthryth was the first king's wife known to have been crowned and anointed as Queen of the Kingdom of England. Mother of King Æthelred the Unready, she was a powerful political figure. She was linked to the murder of her stepson King Edward the Martyr and appeared as a stereotypical bad queen and evil stepmother in many medieval histories.

[[Paralegal]]

CATEGORIES: Law occupations

A paralegal is the professional of legal science that performs as part of a legal assistance system. Paralegals know the law, and they use their knowledge to help people who are charged with a crime, people who want to charge someone with a crime, people who want to sue someone, and people who are being sued. Paralegals are similar to lawyers, but not as educated in the law. They sometimes only do what lawyers ask them to do, but can sometimes work alone.

Some companies hire paralegals instead of lawyers, because they are less expensive to hire. Paralegals go to school for a shorter amount of time than lawyers do, and they do not make as much money.

[[Joss Stone]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Actors from Devon, Actors from Kent, Brit Award winners, British soul musicians, English singer-songwriters, English television actors, Grammy Award winners, Joss Stone, Musicians from Devon, Musicians from Kent

Joss Stone (born Jocelyn Eve Stoker on 11 April 1987) is a British soul singer-songwriter and actress. She was born in Dover, Kent and spent her teenage years in Ashill, Mid Devon. She still lives in Mid Devon. Stone became famous in late 2003 with her album The Soul Sessions. It was nominated for the Mercury Prize. Stone's first single "Fell in Love with a Boy" was released in 2004. It reached number 18 in the UK Singles Chart. "You Had Me" was released as the first single from Stone's second album. It is Stone's most successful single. She sang on the 2004 number one Christmas single "Do They Know It's Christmas?" as part of Band Aid 20. Her second album Mind Body & Soul went straight to number one in the UK Albums Chart. Stone sung on "Anniversary" on Lemar's 2006 album The Truth About Love. Stone's third album Introducing Joss Stone was released in 2007. It was produced by Raphael Saadiq. Stone won Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals for her cover of "Family Affair" with John Legend and Van Hunt. In 2009 Stone's fourth album Colour Me Free! was released. Stone sang on the song "Who's Your Daddy" on Ringo Starr's 2010 album Y Not. In 2011 LP1 was released. In 2012 The Soul Sessions Vol.2 was released by Stone'd Records.

[[Death of Diana, Princess of Wales]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 deaths, 1990s crimes in Europe, 1990s in France, Accidental deaths in France, Conspiracy theories, Crime in Paris, History of Paris, Road accident deaths

Diana, Princess of Wales and her boyfriend, Dodi Al-Fayed, were killed in a car crash in Paris, on 31 August 1997. Their driver, Henri Paul, who was drunk, was also killed. Many people left flowers, candles, cards and personal messages for her in public places. She had a big funeral in London.

Concerts for Diana took place shortly after her death. The concerts involved Elton John and many others. John released a new version of his song, "Candle in the Wind," in memory of Diana.

[[Mid Devon]]

CATEGORIES: Mid Devon

Mid Devon is a borough in the county of Devon in South West England. Its administrative headquarters are in Tiverton.

[[Progeroid syndromes]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic disorders, Syndromes

Progeroid syndromes (PS) describes a range of genetic disorders where the affected person appears to grow older faster. All these disorders are monogenetic, meaning they come from mutations of a single gene. Most known PS mutations lead to either defects in the DNA repair mechanism, or defects in a protein known as  lamin A/C.

Progeroid means "resembling old age". This definition can be applied to many different diseases. Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease affects only one tissue. 

In most cases, the term progeroid syndrome is used for cases where the affected people only show some of the features of aging, but not all of them. In these cases, many different kinds of tissue are affected. 

Individuals with PS-related disorders often have a reduced lifespan. The most widely studied of the progeroid syndromes are Werner syndrome (WS) and Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome (HGPS), because they resemble natural aging.

Because of its property of accelerated aging (senescence), progeroid syndomes have been widely studied in the fields of aging,regeneration, stem cells and cancer.

[[Pope Gregory IV]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, 790s births, 840s deaths

Pope Gregory IV (Gregorius Quartus; c. 795-25 January 844) was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 102nd Pope from 11 February 731 to 28 November 741.

was Pope from October 827 to 25 January 844. 

[[Forgetting Sarah Marshall]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, 2008 comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, English-language movies, Universal Pictures movies

Forgetting Sarah Marshall is a 2008 romantic comedy-drama that looks at romances, break-ups and arguments. Kristen Bell plays Sarah Marshall and Mila Kunis plays Rachel Jansen. This romance comedy-drama was released April 18, 2008, with very positive box office revenue and very high reviews.

[[Boeing 737 Next Generation]]

CATEGORIES: Boeing 737

The Boeing 737 Next Generation, often called the 737NG, is a family of Boeing 737s. The 737-600, -700, -800 and -900 are all 737NG aircraft. It is the third family of Boeing 737. The family which came before it is the 737 Classic (−300/-400/-500)  family. They have been made since 1996 by Boeing Commercial Airplanes. All 737s are twin-engined, narrow-body airliners. This means that they all have two engines and only have one aisle between seats.

4,293 737NG aircraft have been delivered (as of December 2012). More than 6,300 have been ordered by airlines. Southwest Airlines has more 737NGs than any other airline. Ryanair, a low-cost airline from Ireland, also has a lot of 737NGs. The only planes Ryanair has are 737-800s. The main rival of the 737NG family is the Airbus A320 family. The Boeing 737 MAX will eventually replace the 737NG.

[[List of presidents of Costa Rica]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Costa Rica, Lists of heads of state

The President of Costa Rica is the head of state and government of Costa Rica. The President is  elected in direct elections. He or she is elected for four years. Two Vice Presidents are elected at the same time with the President. The President appoints the Council of Ministers. Due to the abolition of the military of Costa Rica in 1948, the president is not a Commander-in-chief.

Here is a table that has a list of the junta chairmen, presidents and heads of state of Costa Rica since independence from Spain and Mexico. From 1824 to 1838 Costa Rica was a state in the Federal Republic of Central America. After that it has been an independent nation.

[[Toyo Ito]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Japanese architects, Pritzker Prize winners, People from Seoul

Toyo Ito is a Japanese architect.  

He was born in Seoul. In 2013, Ito won the Pritzker Prize.

[[Horrible Bosses]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 buddy movies, 2011 comedy movies, 2011 crime movies, 2010s black comedy movies, 2010s criminal comedy movies, American black comedy movies, American buddy movies, American criminal comedy movies, Buddy comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about murderers, Warner Bros. movies, Workplace comedies, Movies about dentistry

Horrible Bosses is a 2011 American black comedy movie. It was directed by Seth Gordon. The story is about sexual harassment, corrupt bosses and plots to murder. Jason Bateman, Jason Sudeikis, Charlie Day, Kevin Spacey, Jennifer Aniston, Colin Farrell,  Jamie Foxx and Donald Sutherland star in the movie. The movie was released in July 8, 2011. It received positive reviews. It made less than $210 million worldwide. Horrible Bosses is 98 minutes long. A sequel, Horrible Bosses 2, was released on November 28, 2014.

[[Rock of Ages (2012 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2012 movies, English-language movies

Rock of Ages is a 2012 romantic comedy movie. Catherine Zeta-Jones, Julianne Hough and Tom Cruise are in this movie. The movie is about the 1980s and on rock bands. This movie got mixed reviews from the critics. Its box office intake was very low.

[[Federal Republic of Central America]]

CATEGORIES: History of Central America, 1823 establishments in North America, 1838 disestablishments, 19th century disestablishments in North America

The Federal Republic of Central America was known as the United Provinces of Central America in its first year of creation. It was an independent nation in Central America. It was made up of the former territories of the Captaincy General of Guatemala. It existed from September 1821 to 1841. It was a republican democracy. 

The republic was made up of the present-day countries of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica  (Panama was part of the Republica de Colombia in 1821). Los Altos was added to the republic in the 1830's. Its capital was Quetzaltenango. Although the nation was independent of Spain, it had been annexed by the First Mexican Empire.

[[Guanacaste Province]]

CATEGORIES: Guanacaste Province

Guanacaste is a province of Costa Rica. It is in the northwestern part of the country, bordering Nicaragua. The provincial capital is the city of Liberia.

[[Saint Joseph's Day]]

CATEGORIES: Christian holidays

Saint Joseph's Day is a Catholic festival to remember Joseph, the husband of Mary, the mother of Jesus. It is on March 19. It is also Father's Day in Spain, Portugal and Italy. Some churches outside the Roman Catholic Church also remember Joseph on this day.

[[Wipeout]]

CATEGORIES: Reality television series, Television game shows, ABC network shows, 2008 American television series debuts, English-language television programs

Wipeout is an American reality game show that airs on ABC. Contestants compete in a series of obstacle courses in what is called the "world's largest obstacle course." The series started on June 24, 2008. It is hosted by John Henson and John Anderson; with Vanessa Lachey acting as a "on-location" host.

There are four rounds of gameplay. In the first round, 24 players play in the "qualifier" obstacle course. The 12 players who complete the course in the fastest time move on to the next round. In the second round, 12 players compete in another obstacle course. The first 6 players to complete the obstacle course move on to the third round. The third round is a third obstacle course. Here, the first 3 players to complete the obstacle course move on to the fourth and last round. The fourth round is the "Wipeout Zone." The 3 players left compete in one more obstacle course to complete the course in the fastest time. The player who completes it in the fastest time wins $50,000.

[[The Back-up Plan]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 comedy movies, 2010 romance movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Pregnancy movies

The Back-up Plan is a 2010 American romantic comedy movie. It is about relationships and pregnancy. Melissa McCarthy and Jennifer Lopez are among the cast. This movie was released in April 2010. It got mixed reviews by critics. However, its box office intake was over $77 million.

[[Jimmy Durante]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1980 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, American television personalities, American radio personalities, American pianists, Democrats (United States), Actors from New York City, Singers from New York City, Writers from New York City, Emmy Award winning actors, National Radio Hall of Fame inductees

James Francis "Jimmy" Durante (February 10, 1893 – January 29, 1980) was an American singer, pianist, comedian, writer, and actor. His famous nickname was The Great Schnozzola (a reference to his big nose). He was also known for his deep raspy voice when he said "Ha-Cha-Cha-Cha-Cha-Chaaaaa!". He won an Emmy Award in 1952.

[[Gríðr]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

In Norse mythology, Gríðr (Old Norse: "greed", "vehemence, violence" or impetuosity") is a female jötunn and a lover of the god Odin. By Odin, she is the mother of Víðarr, the god of vengeance. When Loki schemed to have Thor killed, she gave Thor a number of magical items, which included a pair of gauntlets known as Járngreipr and a staff, Gríðarvölr. 

[[Robert A. Taft]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1953 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Majority leaders of the United States Senate, William Howard Taft, US Republican Party politicians, United States senators from Ohio, Politicians from Cincinnati, Ohio

Robert Alphonso Taft (September 8, 1889 – July 31, 1953) was an American politician for the Republican Party. He was the son of President William Howard Taft. He served as the Senator of Ohio from January 3, 1939 until his death in July 31, 1953. Taft was also the Senate Majority Leader from January 3, 1953 until his death on July 31, 1953. He is thought to be one of the greatest Senators in American history. He ran for President four times from 1940, 1944, 1948, and in 1952.

Taft was born on September 8, 1889 in Cincinnati, Ohio. He studied at Taft School, at Yale University and at the Harvard Law School. Taft was married to Martha Wheaton Bowers from 1914 until his death in 1953. They had four sons. Taft died on July 31, 1953 in a hospital in New York City, New York from a cerebral hemorrhage, aged 63.

[[Jay Inslee]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, 2020 United States presidential candidates, American Protestants, American environmentalists, Governors of Washington, Politicians from Seattle, Washington, United States representatives from Washington, US Democratic Party politicians

Jay Robert Inslee  (born February 9, 1951) is an American politician. In 2013, he became the 23rd Governor of the US state of Washington. Before becoming the governor, he was a United States Congressman in the House of Representatives for more than 20 years. He is a member of the Democratic Party.

Inslee is known for climate change policies and for his education reforms in Washington state. He was Chair of the Democratic Governors Association from 2018 to 2019.

On March 1, 2019, Inslee announced his campaign for President of the United States. He ended his campaign on August 21, 2019.

[[Scientific Research Institute of System Development]]

CATEGORIES: Technology companies, Moscow, Companies of Russia

Scientific Research Institute of System Analysis (abbrev. SRISA/NIISI RAS, НИИСИ РАН, Научно-исследовательский институт системных исследований Российской Академии Наук) is a research and development institution in Russia. It works to resolve complex applications by combining fundamental and applied mathematics and methods of practical computing. It is a project of the Russian Academy of Sciences. The institute was founded on October , 1986, by the Decree no. 1174 of the Presidium of the USSR Academy of Sciences.

[[Takeshi's Castle]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 television series debuts, 1990 television series endings, 1980s television series, 1990s television series, Japanese television series, Television game shows

Takeshi's Castle was a Japanese game show. It aired from 1986 to 1990 on the Tokyo Broadcasting System. It involved players going through tough physical challenges given by Japanese actor Takeshi Kitano. Between 100 and 142 players competed in an episode. Episodes finished with a "Final Challenge" where the players who were left faced against Kitano. Here, players had to hit a paper ring or hit the sensor on Kitano's cart with a water gun. If a player did so, Kitano's cart was deactivated, the castle was "taken," and the player won the game. Winning players won one million yen. Only nine players won during the show's run.

The show has been shown in over 20 countries. Episodes would have an announcer of the country's language commenting on the action. It has become a popular show around the world.

[[Boomerang (1992 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 romance movies, 1992 comedy movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, African-American movies, English-language movies

Boomerang is a 1992 romantic comedy movie. It talks about relations between African-American adults. Eddie Murphy, Robin Givens, Martin Lawrence, Eartha Kitt, Halle Berry and Kenn Michael are among the cast. The movie has a runtime of around 117 minutes. The release date was July 1, 1992. The reviews for this romantic comedy were mixed to negative. But the box office revenue intake of $131 million made this movie a strong performer.

[[French Kiss (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Lawrence Kasdan

French Kiss is a 1995 American romantic comedy movie. Meg Ryan, Kevin Kline and Timothy Hutton are in the cast. The movie is about long-distance relationships. This movie was released in May 1995. The reviews were mixed to negative. The box office intakes was strong, however.

[[Molly (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, 1999 comedy-drama movies, English-language movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies about autism

Molly is a romanctic comedy-drama movie from 1999. It is about autism and relationships. Elizabeth Shue plays the title character. This movie got bad reviews. Its box office intake was very weak.

[[Kristinia DeBarge]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from California, American movie actors, 1990 births, Living people, People from Pasadena, California

Kristinia DeBarge (born March 8, 1990) is an American singer. She sings mostly pop music. She is also an actress. DeBarge was born in Pasadena, California.

[[Britt Nicole]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainers from Charlotte, North Carolina, Christian music singers, 1984 births, Living people

Brittany Nicole Waddell  (known by her stage name,Britt Nicole; born August 2, 1984cn) is an American singer. She sings Christian pop music. Her song "Gold" was released in late 2012. Britt was born in Charlotte, North Carolina.

[[Mann Ranges]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of Australia, Mountains of South Australia, Mountains of the Northern Territory, Pitjantjatjara

The Mann Ranges are mountain ranges in central Australia. They are in the far northwest of South Australia, with a small section running over the border into the Northern Territory. Tha ranges are part of the geological region known as the Musgrave Block, which also includes the Petermann and Musgrave Ranges. Mountains in this region were formed in the Petermann Orogeny (600–550 million years ago).

This area is part of the traditional country of the Pitjantjatjara nation. They associate it with spiritual stories about Wati Ngiṉṯaka (the perentie lizard man), a creation spirit from the Dreamtime. He is said to have created the landforms while travelling through the area during the Dreamtime. His route forms a network of songlines that are spiritually important to native people. The largest communities in the area are Kaṉpi and Nyapaṟi.

The first European person to visit the area was William Gosse in 1873. With the help of local Aboriginal people, Gosse and his team explored the Mann Ranges after seeing the range from the top of Uluṟu. From the Mann Ranges, he went west to the Tomkinson Ranges, but turned back rather than trying to cross the Great Victoria Desert. He came back to the Mann Ranges and then went eastward to the Musgrave Ranges.

[[Curtin Springs]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Territory, Buildings and structures in Australia, Farms, Agriculture in Australia, 1943 establishments, 1940s establishments in Australia

Curtin Springs is a large working cattle station in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is on the Lasseter Highway, 85 east of Yulara. The property is 416400 in size. Mount Conner is inside the southern border of the property. Curtin Springs was built in 1943 and is owned and operated by the Severin family. It also includes a roadhouse, an inn and a campground.

In September and October 2012, bushfires destroyed over 250000 of bush, nearly a quarter of its pasture land.

[[27 Dresses]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 comedy movies, 2008 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about weddings, Movies set in New York City

27 Dresses is a 2008 American romantic comedy movie. Katherine Heigl plays a bridesmaid. The movie got mixed reviews. The movie made a lot of money.

[[Edie Brickell]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Texas, American singers, 1966 births, Living people

Edie Arlisa Brickell (born March 10 1966) is an American singer and recording artist. She performs pop-rock music. She was very popular in the late 1980s. Brickell was born in Dallas, Texas. She is married to singer and songwriter Paul Simon. In 2013 she recorded an album with comedian Steve Martin.

[[Mine (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Taylor Swift songs

"Mine" is a song written and recorded by American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift. The song was produced by Nathan Chapman and Swift. The song tells of running away from relationships due to observing heartache and breakups. The song was released August 4, 2010. It got good reviews from the music critics.

[[Pope Gregory II]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, 660s births, 731 deaths

Pope Gregory II (Gregorius Segundus; 669 – 11 February 731) was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 89th Pope from 19 May 715 to his death on 11 February 731.

[[Beijing Planning Exhibition Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in China, Convention and exhibition centers, Buildings and structures in Beijing, Urban planning, 2000s establishments in China, 2005 establishments in Asia

Beijing Planning Exhibition Hall  (北京規劃展覽館) is a museum dedicated to urban planning. The museum is in Beijing, China. It was opened in 2005 and was the first museum in China dedicated to urban planning. After it was opened, many urban planning museums were opened in Chinese cities. 

[[Peter Shirayanagi]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2009 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, People from Tokyo, Roman Catholic archbishops

Peter Seiichi Shirayanagi was a Japanese priest of the Roman Catholic Church. He was a Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church and Archbishop of Tokyo.

[[Redoak, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Red River Parish, Louisiana

Redoak is an unincorporated community in Red River Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Federal Military Memorial Cemetery]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Moscow, National cemeteries, Military monuments and memorials

the Federal Military Memorial Cemetery (Федеральное военное мемориальное кладбище) is a National cemetery in north-west Moscow, Russia. The cemetery is considered as the Russian equivalent to Arlington National Cemetery. 

The cemetery has been opened on June 2013, after 5 years of construction.

[[Colors (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 crime movies, 1988 drama movies, 1980s buddy movies, 1980s crime drama movies, Antisocial personality disorder in fiction, American buddy movies, American crime drama movies, American gangster movies, Buddy cop movies, Buddy drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Spanish-language movies, American independent movies

Colors is a 1988 American police procedural crime drama movie. It was directed by Dennis Hopper and stars Robert Duvall and Sean Penn. They play Los Angeles Police Department officers Bob Hodges and Danny McGavin who tackle gang crime.

[[Peter Takeo Okada]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2020 deaths, People from Chiba Prefecture, Roman Catholic archbishops

Peter Takeo Okada was a Japanese priest of the Roman Catholic Church. He was the Archbishop of Tokyo until 2017.

[[Two World Wars and One World Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Songs

"Two World Wars and One World Cup" is a football song sung by fans of the England national football team. It is about the British wins in the World Wars and England's win in the 1966 FIFA World Cup.

[[Haifa International Convention Center]]

CATEGORIES: Convention and exhibition centers in Israel, Buildings and structures in Haifa

Haifa International Convention Center is a convention center in Haifa, Israel. It opened in 1996. The convention center is located in the south entrance to Haifa, near to the hi-tech park and the new internatioanl stadium. 

[[Sokolniki Exhibition and Convention Centre]]

CATEGORIES: Convention and exhibition centers, Buildings and structures in Moscow

Sokolniki Exhibition and Convention Centre is a convention centre in Moscow, Russia. It is in Sokolniki Park. The convention hall was opened in 1959, during the Soviet Union. It was the first commercial hall after the opening of the All-Russia Exhibition Centre in 1935.

[[Boeing 737 MAX]]

CATEGORIES: Boeing 737

The Boeing 737 MAX is a new family of Boeing 737. It is made by Boeing Commercial Airplanes. These airplanes replace the Boeing 737 Next Generation family. It is the fourth family of 737. The biggest change is the engines.  The 737 MAX has new, better CFM International LEAP-1B engines.  The outside of the plane also got changes. The very first 737 MAX was delivered in 2017, 50 years after the first Boeing 737 took off. Boeing had 1,285 orders for the 737 MAX as of May 14, 2013. Larger and smaller versions have different capacity and range.

After two fatal crashes of MAX 8 aircraft in October 2018 and March 2019, regulatory authorities around the world ordered airlines to stop using MAX 8 and MAX 9 airplanes until the reason for the crashes is found.

[[Kellie Pickler]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from North Carolina, 1986 births, Living people, American country musicians, American Idol contestants

Kellie Dawn Pickler (born June 28, 1986) is an American country music singer,songwriter-actress and television personality. She has had several hit songs. She was born in Albemarle, North Carolina.

[[Walter E. Washington Convention Center]]

CATEGORIES: Convention and exhibition centers in the United States, Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C.

The Walter E. Washington Convention Center is a convention center in Washington D.C., United States. The convention hall is one of the largest convention buildings in the world. It replaced an old convention building that was demolished in 2004.

[[Port of London]]

CATEGORIES: Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom

The Port of London was the main port of London. It no longer operates as a port: see London Docklands for an account. The river now operates as an alternative means of travel for work and recreation. It is not a major commercial port for importing and exporting goods. The Port of London Authority is still the legal authority controlling all use of the river.

The port was in the Thames at the city center. Major import and export trade is now done at the container port at Felixstowe in Suffolk. In 2010 the British government started building a new port outside the city, on the north bank of the river in Thurrock, Essex. The new project is called: London Gateway.

[[Tel Aviv Port]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Tel Aviv, Ports and harbours of Israel

Tel Aviv Port (נמל תל אביב; Namal Tel Aviv) was an old port in Tel Aviv, Israel. It was used between the years 1938 and 1965. It was next to the mouth of the Yarkon River. After it closed in 1965, it was moved to Ashdod Port and became a warehouse area. In the 2000s, it was renovated and became a ​​commercial and recreational area. Programs of reconstruction and rehabilitation are being carried out after more than ten years. The Tel Aviv Port was a part of a big development area called the Yarkon River Peninsula. It was built beside the Orient Fair and looks like a peninsula from above. The area around the port was built in the 1930s.

[[Jaffa Port]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Tel Aviv, Ports and harbours of Israel

Jaffa Port is an ancient port in Old Jaffa, Israel. The port has history from the time of the Bible until the 20th century. In 1936 the Tel Aviv Port was opened on the mouth of the Yarkon River to replace Jaffa Port. In 1965 the Ashdod Port next to Lakish River and was built to replace the ports at Jaffa and Tel Aviv. In the 2000s, the port area was renovated and become an area of commercial and recreation for tourists and visitors.

[[Acre Port]]

CATEGORIES: Ports and harbours of Israel

Acre Port is an ancient port in the old city of Acre, Israel. The port has a 2000-year-old history. Recent archaeology suggests that the port was originally in the south of Acre, at the mouth of Na'aman River. The port was closed in the time of the British Mandate, which chose to use the Haifa Port instead of Acre. In 1965, a new breakwater was built. In 1982, the port became a marina.

[[Abbotsford International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Canada

Abbotsford International Airport YXX is a public airport in Abbotsford, British Columbia, Canada. It is about 4.1 km (2.5 mi) southwest of Abbotsford's city centre. 

It is the second-largest airport in the Lower Mainland after Vancouver International Airport. In 2010, it was the nineteenth busiest airport in Canada by aircraft movements (102,128) and passengers (503,693).

[[List of governors of Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Washington, People from Washington

The Governor of Washington is the leader of the Executive branch of the State of Washington's government. Jay Inslee is currently serving as governor.

[[Airliner]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft

An airliner is a type of transport aircraft for transporting passengers and air cargo. Such aircraft are most often operated by airlines. The largest airliners are called "wide-body aircraft". These aircraft are frequently called twin-aisle aircraft because they generally have two separate aisles running from the front to the back of the passenger cabin. These aircraft are usually used for long-haul flights between airline hubs and major cities with many passengers. A smaller, more common class of airliners is the "narrow-body aircraft" or single aisle aircraft. These smaller airliners are generally used for short to medium-distance flights with fewer passengers than their wide-body counterparts.

[[Ghosts of Girlfriends Past]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 comedy movies, 2009 romance movies, 2000s fantasy movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, American fantasy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies

Ghosts of Girlfriends Past is a 2009 American romantic comedy fantasy movie. Emma Stone, Lacey Chabert, Michael Douglas and Anne Archer make up the cast. This movie looks at failures, heartache, rejection, love and romantic pain. It was released in May 2009. The reviews were negative. However, the movie did quite well at the box office.

[[The Spokesman-Review]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in the United States, Spokane, Washington, 1894 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Washington (state)

The Spokesman Review Is a newspaper based in Spokane, Washington, in the United States. It is a broadsheet newspaper, meaning it is a lot longer than it is wide. A new one is written every day. It is Spokane's only daily newspaper.

[[Teresa Palmer]]

CATEGORIES: Australian movie actors, 1986 births, Living people, Actors from South Australia, People from Adelaide

Teresa Mary Palmer (born 26 February 1986) is an Australian actress, model, writer and producer. She acts mostly in movies. She acted in The Grudge 2 in 2006, in December Boys, and in Bedtime Stories with Adam Sandler.

[[21 & Over]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 comedy movies, English-language movies

21 and Over is a party comedy movie released in early 2013. The movie looks at underage drinking and college partying. This movie got very bad review by critics. The box office intake was positive.

[[Broken City]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 crime movies, 2013 drama movies, 2013 thriller movies, 2010s crime drama movies, 2010s crime thriller movies, 2010s drama thriller movies, American crime drama movies, American crime thriller movies, American drama thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City

Broken City is an American crime drama thriller movie. Catherine Zeta-Jones and Mark Wahlberg are in the cast. The movie is about murder and betrayal over seven years. It got bad reviews from movie critics. It did not make much money.

[[Bed bug infestation]]

CATEGORIES: Parasites

A bed bug bite can cause skin rashes and allergic reactions. Bed bug bites can cause visible marks on a person's skin. To be certain that marks on the skin come from bites, person needs to find bed bugs around the sleeping area. Treatment involves the elimination of the insect.

Because of growth of population and constant growth of developed countries, bed bug bite cases have been rising a lot in 1980s–1990s. The reason behind it is unclear - most think that it is caused by increase in international traveling, increase in second hand furniture market and growing immunity to anti bed bug sprays. Bed bugs have been known to human for thousands years.

[[Virginia Madsen]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Chicago, 1961 births, Living people

Virginia Madsen (born September 11, 1961) is an American actress who acts mostly in movies. Her career began in the 1980s and has included many notable television and movie roles. Her best known role was Helen in Candyman (1992). Madsen was born in Chicago.

[[Joe Lieberman]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American lawyers, Independent politicians in the United States, Jewish American politicians, 2004 United States presidential candidates, Jewish lawyers, People from Stamford, Connecticut, United States senators from Connecticut, Yale University alumni

Joseph Isadore "Joe" Lieberman (born February 24, 1942) is a former United States Senator from Connecticut. Before that he was the Attorney General of Connecticut and a member of the Connecticut Senate. When he was a senator, he had another position, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. He was a former member of the Democratic Party, he was the party's nominee for vice president in the 2000 election. He is currently an Independent.

[[Vatican Library]]

CATEGORIES: National libraries in Europe, Vatican City, 1475 establishments

The Vatican Library is the library of the Holy See. Its official name is Vatican Apostolic Library (Bibliotheca Apostolica Vaticana). It was formally established in 1475. Its collections are very significant, it contains over 75,000 codices. There are over 150,000 manuscripts, and over 8,300 innucables. In total, there are over 2 million books and manuscripts.  There is also a school for librarians, and a workshop to restore ancient tets and to create facsimile copies.

[[Very Large Telescope]]

CATEGORIES: Telescopes, Astronomical observatories in Chile

The Very Large Telescope (VLT) is a telescope operated by the European Southern Observatory. It is on Cerro Paranal in the Atacama Desert of northern Chile.

[[Pope Gregory V]]

CATEGORIES: German popes, 972 births, 999 deaths

Gregory V (Gregorius Quintius; c. 972-18 February 999), also known as Bruno of Carinthia, was a German priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 139th Pope from 3 May 996 to 18 February 999. 

[[TeleFutura]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Florida, 2013 disestablishments in the United States, 2010s disestablishments in Florida

[[Man on a Ledge]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 crime movies, 2012 thriller movies, 2010s action movies, 2010s crime thriller movies, American action movies, American crime thriller movies, English-language movies, Heist movies, Movies about siblings, Movies set in Manhattan

Man on a Ledge is a 2012 American action crime thriller movie. It is set in New York City. It is about an escaped convict who threatens to kill himself by jumping from a ledge on the 21st floor of a Manhattan hotel. It stars Sam Worthington, Elizabeth Banks and Jamie Bell. This movie did not get good reviews. It only barely got back its actual budget. The rating was PG-13.

[[Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (U.S. game show)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 American television series debuts, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, ABC network shows, American television game shows, First run syndicated television programs, Television quiz shows, English-language television programs

Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (sometimes called Millionaire) is an American quiz show based on the British show of the same name. One can win up to one million United States dollars ($1,000,000) on the show for answering fourteen (or fifteen in older versions) multiple choice trivia questions in a row.

The first version of the show was hosted by Regis Philbin and it aired on primetime on ABC. It aired from August 16, 1999 to June 27, 2002. The current syndicated version started airing on September 16, 2002. Meredith Vieira hosted it for eleven seasons, leaving to work on other projects. Cedric the Entertainer was signed up to be the next host, and episodes with Cedric started in September 2013. Cedric announced on April 30, 2014 that he would not return for a second season because of his busy schedule. Terry Crews was signed up to be the next host, and episodes with he started in September 2014. Terry announced then that he would not return for another season because of his busy schedule. Chris Harrison was signed up to be the next host, and episodes with him started in September 2015.

The format of the show has changed several times since the show has been on the air. The original format featured fifteen multiple choice questions that got harder as a player continued, and the money amounts got higher. Starting in 2008, the show started using a clock and contestants were timed. If time ran out, they were forced to walk away with the last prize amount they won. The format changed again in 2010 where the first ten questions had random money amounts and difficulty. The second round is then similar to the older Millionaire shows. There are only fourteen questions in this version.

The format was changed back in 2015, the format featured fourteen multiple choice questions that got harder as a player continued, the money amounts got higher, the first 10 question amounts are no longer randomized.

[[Married to the Mob]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 comedy movies, 1988 crime movies, 1988 romance movies, 1980s criminal comedy movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, American criminal comedy movies, American gangster movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Jonathan Demme, Movies set in Miami, Florida, Movies set in New York City

Married to the Mob is a 1988 American gangster romantic comedy movie. It was directed by Jonathan Demme. The story is about a woman trying to distance herself from Mafia networks. Michelle Pfeiffer, Joan Cusack and Nancy Travis are in the cast. The reviews of this movie were very positive. The box office intake was very high for this movie.

[[Pope Adrian I]]

CATEGORIES: 700s births, 795 deaths, Italian popes

Adrian I  (c. 700 – 25 December 795) was Pope from 772 until his death in 795. Soon after he became pope, there was a threat from Desiderius, king of the Lombards. Adrian was forced to ask Charlemagne for help. In 787, there was the Second Council of Nicaea. The council allowed to venerate icons, in certain cases. 

[[Overvoltage]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

An overvoltage is whenever power circuits are raised beyond their desired levels. The conditions of an overvoltage are sometimes hazardous. Incidents that may lead to an overvoltage may include a solar flare or lightning.

[[Viverridae]]

CATEGORIES: Viverrids

The Viverridae is a family of small to medium-sized mammals, the viverrids. They are in the Feliformia, the cat-like carnivores.

The family is made up of 15 genera and 33 species. It was named by John Edward Gray in 1821. They are found all over the Oriental region, all over Africa and into southern Europe. 

As they live in Madagascar and Celebes, this shows they also lived in the tropics of the Old World, and beyond it, over Wallace's line.

Viverrids mostly live in tropical rainforest. They also live in woodland, savanna and mountains.

[[Tubular bells]]

CATEGORIES: Bells, Percussion instruments

Tubular bells, also known as chimes, are a percussion instrument. They make a bell sound when hit with a mallet. They are used in Mike Oldfield's album Tubular Bells.

[[Marco Belinelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Italian sportspeople, Chicago Bulls players, Golden State Warriors players, Toronto Raptors players, New Orleans Hornets players

Marco Stefano Belinelli (born March 25, 1986 in San Giovanni in Persiceto) is an Italian basketball player. He used to play for the Golden State Warriors, for the Toronto Raptors, and for the New Orleans Hornets. In 2012, he started playing for the Chicago Bulls.

[[Tjunti]]

CATEGORIES: Caves of Australia, Geography of the Northern Territory, 1977 establishments in Australia, Indigenous Australian communities, Waterholes of Australia

Tjunti is a soakage site near Kaḻṯukatjara, in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is where the Hull River cuts through the Petermann Ranges. It is about 36 to the southeast of Kaḻṯukatjara (41 km by road, along the Tjukaruru Road). Tjunti is the site where the famous gold prospector Harold B. Lasseter took refuge on his fatal search for Lasseter's Reef. An outstation was established here in 1977, and belongs to a Pitjantjatjara family.

The gap in the mountains is formed here by the Hull River, a sandy creek that is usually dry. It splits the Curdie Range in the south from the Mannanana Range in the north. There are several soaks and rockholes in the area.

The small cave where Lasseter took refuge is Kuḻpi Tjuntinya (now commonly called Lasseter's Cave in English). This is an opening in a rock formation in the Mannanana Range (Tjuntinya). Lasseter took shelter here for about 25 days during January 1931. He was trying to find a rich gold deposit that he claimed to have discovered in the area on an earlier expedition. His camels ran away, and he was stranded in the desert without food. While taking shelter in the cave, Lasseter wrote about his journey in his diary. He was later found by a local Pitjantjatjara family, who gave him food and water. After this, Lasseter decided to leave the cave and tried to walk the 140 to Kata Tjuṯa. He was weak from dehydration, malnutrition and exhaustion, and he died three days later, after walking about 55.

[[Nate Robinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, Chicago Bulls players, New York Knicks players, Golden State Warriors players, Boston Celtics players, Oklahoma City Thunder players, Sportspeople from Seattle, Washington, American basketball players

Nathaniel Cornelius "Nate" Robinson (born May 31, 1984 in Seattle, Washington) is an American professional basketball player. In 2012, he  started playing for the Chicago Bulls. He played for the New York Knicks, for the Boston Celtics, for the Oklahoma City Thunder, and for the Golden State Warriors.

[[Tom Thibodeau]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Chicago Bulls head coaches, Sportspeople from Connecticut

Tom Thibodeau (born January 17, 1958 in New Britain, Connecticut) is an American basketball coach. He was the head coach of the Chicago Bulls. He was the assistant coach for many teams in the National Basketball Association including the Philadelphia 76ers, for the New York Knicks, and for the Boston Celtics. 

He won NBA Coach of the Year in 2011and in 2012 he won the NBA All-Star Game head coach. In 2012, he became the fastest coach in NBA history to earn 100 victories and finished as the runner-up for Coach of the Year.  

[[Doug Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, James Norris Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, People from Ottawa, San Jose Sharks players, 1957 births

Douglas Frederick Wilson (born July 5, 1957 in Ottawa, Ontario) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman that played in National Hockey League and the current general manager of the San Jose Sharks. 

Wilson was drafted by both the Chicago Black Hawks with the 6th overall pick in the 1977 NHL Draft and the Indianapolis Racers with the 5th overall pick in the 1977 WHA Amateur Draft.

Wilson played 14 seasons with the Chicago Black Hawks and was then acquired by the San Jose Sharks before the Sharks first season. He played 2 seasons with the Sharks and brought credibility and respect to the young franchise before announcing at the Sharks training camp during the 1993-94 NHL season that he was going to retire from professional hockey.

He was inducted into the Chicago Sports Hall of Fame in September 1999. He replaced Dean Lombardi when he was hired as general manager of the San Jose Sharks on May 13, 2003. His brother Murray Wilson also played professional hockey in the NHL and won four Stanley Cups with the Montreal Canadiens.

[[The Bling Ring]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 crime movies, 2013 drama movies, 2010s biographical movies, 2010s crime drama movies, 2010s satirical movies, American biographical movies, American crime drama movies, American satirical movies, British biographical movies, British crime drama movies, English-language movies, French crime movies, French drama movies, German drama movies, Japanese movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies set in the 2000s, American independent movies

The Bling Ring is an American-British-French-German-Japanese biographical crime drama movie that was released in June 2013. A gang of young burglars use the Internet to find and rob celebrities' houses. Leslie Mann and Emma Watson have parts in the movie. The movie has an MPAA R rating.

[[The Vow (2012 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: American romantic comedy movies, 2012 movies, English-language movies

The Vow is a 2012 romance comedy drama movie. The cast includes Rachel McAdams, Channing Tatum and Jessica Lange. The subjects in this movie are amnesia, marriage and love. This romantic comedy got negative reviews while in theaters. However, the movie made over $196 million worldwide and became a success.

[[Indecent Proposal]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 drama movies, 1993 romance movies, 1990s erotic movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, Adultery in movies, American erotic movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Adrian Lyne, Movies set in Las Vegas

Indecent Proposal is a 1993 American romantic drama movie. It was directed by Adrian Lyne. Robert Redford, Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson make the cast. The movie is about a gambler who offers a couple one million dollars if he can spend a night with the wife. Reviews for Indecent Proposal were mixed. The box office intake was good.

[[Liam Jurrah]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1988 births, Indigenous Australian sportspeople, Australian rules footballers, People from the Northern Territory

Liam Jungarrayi Jurrah (born 22 September 1988) is a professional Australian rules footballer. He used to play for the Melbourne Football Club. Jurrah was recruited by Melbourne Football Club from the Yuendumu Magpies (CAFL) in 2008. His first game was against Essendon at Etihad Stadium in the 2009 season.

Jurrah was born in Yuendumu, in the Northern Territory. He was the first indigenous person from a remote community in central Australia to play in the Australian Football League. He is an initiated member of the Warlpiri people. His skin name is Jungarrayi. He grew up speaking four different dialects of the Western Desert, and learned English at school. Jurrah began playing Australian rules football when he was very young. He played for the local team, the Yuendumu Magpies, against other communities such as Papunya, Lajamanu and Hermannsburg.

[[Furuset Forum]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Norway, Buildings and structures in Norway, Stadiums in Europe, Oslo, 1979 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Norway

Furuset Forum is a sports arena in Oslo, Norway. The seating capacity of the arena is 1,498 people. It was built in 1979. The main sport played on it is ice hockey. It is also used by other sports for training and events. These include handball and floorball. It is near the metro which makes it popular and easy to get to. The arena has disabled parking spots, food and drink facilities. It is the home of the Furuset ice hockey team.

[[Eric Nesterenko]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian ice hockey centres, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, 1933 births, World Hockey Association players, Ontario Hockey League players

Eric "Sonja" Nesterenko (born October 31, 1933 in Flin Flon, Manitoba) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey centre that played 21 seasons in the National Hockey League.

Wilson played 5 seasons with the Toronto Maple Leafs and 16 seasons with the Chicago Black Hawks. He also played for the Chicago Cougars of the World Hockey Association in 1973–74 as well as coached a year in Switzerland. He won the Stanley Cup with the Black Hawks in the 1960-61 NHL season. He retired from professional hockey in 1971 and since that time he has worked as a disc jockey, a stockbroker, a travel broker, a freelance writer, a university professor and a ski instructor. He also acted in the movie, Youngblood, where he played the father of Rob Lowe's character Dean Youngblood.

[[Yuendumu, Northern Territory]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian communities, Towns in the Northern Territory, 1946 establishments in Australia

Yuendumu is a town in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is one of the larger remote communities in central Australia. It is 293 km northwest of Alice Springs. There are about 817 people living at Yuendumu; most are Warlpiri and Anmatyerre Aboriginal people. The town is within the Yuendumu Aboriginal Lands Trust area on traditional homelands and includes many outstations.

Yuendumu was established in 1946. In 1947, a Baptist mission was started there. By 1955, many Warlpiri families had settled in the town. In 2006, Yuendumu has three community stores, a school, airstrip, swimming pool, a large community of Aboriginal artists, a media organisation, a church, an old people's centre, women's centre and safe house.

[[Valley Girl (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 comedy movies, 1983 romance movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, 1980s teen comedy movies, 1980s teen romance movies, American romantic comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, American teen romance movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, American independent movies

Valley Girl is a 1983 American romantic comedy movie set in Los Angeles. It is about school partying, attitude and relationships. Nicolas Cage and Colleen Camp are part of the cast. The reviews were very good.  The movie made over $17 million.

[[Marg Helgenberger]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Nebraska, 1958 births, Living people, Emmy Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, People's Choice Award winners

Mary Margaret "Marg" Helgenberger (November 16, 1958) is an American actress. She acts in both television programs and movies. She has won the People's Choice,  Emmy  and Screen Actors Guild Awards.  Helgenberger is best known for her action on the TV series CSI. She was born in Fremont, Nebraska. 

[[Pink Cadillac (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 comedy movies, 1989 action movies, American action comedy movies, English-language movies

Pink Cadillac is a 1989 action comedy movie. The movie is about white supremacists from whom a woman tries to get away driving a pink Cadillac. Clint Eastwood, Bernadette Peters, Geoffrey Lewis, and Frances Fisher have roles in this comedy. The reviews of Pink Cadillac were negative. Its box office intake was very weak.

[[Wayne Hicks]]

CATEGORIES: American ice hockey players, Boston Bruins players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, People from Aberdeen, Washington, Philadelphia Flyers players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Sportspeople from Washington, Stanley Cup champions, 1937 births, American Hockey League players

Wayne Wilson Hicks (born April 9, 1937 in Aberdeen, Washington) is a retired American professional ice hockey right winger that played 6 seasons in the National Hockey League.

Wilson played 1 game with the Chicago Black Hawks during the 1961 Stanley Cup Finals and helped them win a Stanley Cup. He then played 1 season with the Boston Bruins before joining the Montreal Canadiens for 1 season. After his season with the Canadiens was finished, he moved to the Pittsburgh Penguins for 1 season and then the Philadelphia Flyers for 1 season. He retired from professional hockey in 1974 after 4 season with the Phoenix Roadrunners of the Western Hockey League.

His son Alex Hicks also played hockey in the NHL with the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, Pittsburgh Penguins, San Jose Sharks, and Florida Panthers. He is widely considered to be a human.

[[Ye Wanyong]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 births, 1926 deaths, Korean educators, Korean politicians, Autobiographers

Ye Wanyong (이완용, Hanja: 李完用, 17 July 1858 – 12 February 1926), also known as Yi Wanyong, was a politician, diplomat and writer of during the Korean Joseon dynasty. He was prime minister of the Korean Empire in 1896 and from 1907 to 1909. He signed the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1910. His penname was Ildang (일당, 一堂).

[[Cantonese]]

Cantonese might mean:

[[Lenovo]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments in Asia, Companies based in Beijing, Technology companies of Asia, 1980s establishments in China

Lenovo is a Chinese computer company that makes computers, laptops, tablets, and other devices.

Lenovo was founded in Beijing in 1984 as Legend and was incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988. Lenovo acquired IBM's personal computer business in 2005 and agreed to acquire its Intel-based server business in 2014.  In January 2014, Lenovo agreed to acquire the mobile phone handset maker Motorola Mobility from Google, and in October 2014 the deal was finalized.

[[Park Je-sun]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 births, 1919 deaths, Korean educators, Korean politicians, Autobiographers

Park Je-sun (박제순; 朴濟淳, 7 December 1858 - 20 June 1919) was a Korean politician and diplomat during the Joseon dynasty. He was the Prime Minister of the Korean Empire between 1905 to 1907, and 1909 to 1910. He was a very important person of the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1910.

[[Julie & Julia]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s biographical movies, 2009 comedy-drama movies, American biographical movies, American comedy-drama movies, English-language movies

Julie & Julia is a 2009 drama-comedy movie. The movie is about two women who have similar first names and like to do similar things. Meryl Streep plays Julia Child. This movie was rated PG-13 by the MPAA. Reviews for Julie & Julia were mostly positive.  The overall intake was $129 million.

[[East Point, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Red River Parish, Louisiana

East Point is an Unincorporated community in Red River Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Project Runway (season 1)]]

CATEGORIES: American reality television series, American television seasons, 2000s television seasons

Project Runway Season 1 was the first season of Project Runway series. The season aired first on December 1, 2004. The winner was Jay McCaroll. He won several prizes including an Elle spread, a $100,000 cash prize to start his own line and more. Austin Scarlett later appeared in Project Runway: All Stars in 2012, where he finished runner-up. Wendy Pepper, in the same year, competed in the second season of the All Stars edition placing 12th out of 13.

[[Pope Gregory VI]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 1048 deaths, Italian popes

Pope Gregory VI (Gregorius Sextus; died 1048), born 	Johannes Gratianus, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 149th Pope from 1 May 1045 until his abdication on 20 December 1046.

[[Royal Palace, Oslo]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Norway, 1849 establishments, Palaces, Oslo, 1840s establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in Norway

The Royal Palace (Slottet, Det kongelige slott or Det kongelige slottet) in Oslo, Norway is the official home of the present Norwegian monarch. It was built in the early 19th century as the Norwegian home of King Charles III. He was King of Sweden as well as Norway. The palace has 173 rooms.

