[[Collingwood, Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Melbourne

Collingwood is a suburb in Melbourne, Australia. It was named after Baron Cuthbert Collingwood (1748 - 1810), an admiral of the Royal Navy.

[[George M. Dallas]]

CATEGORIES: 1792 births, 1864 deaths, United States senators from Pennsylvania, Vice Presidents of the United States, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19th-century American politicians

George Mifflin Dallas (July 10, 1792 – December 31, 1864) was an American politician and diplomat. He was the 11th vice president of the United States from 1845 to 1849, under James K. Polk. Before becoming vice president, he was a Senator from Pennsylvania.

Dallas was born in Philadelphia and graduated from the College of New Jersey (now the Princeton University) in 1810.

[[William R. King]]

CATEGORIES: 1786 births, 1853 deaths, Vice Presidents of the United States, United States senators from Alabama, Politicians from North Carolina, Presidents pro tempore of the United States Senate, Deans of the United States Senate, 19th-century American politicians

William Rufus deVane King (April 7, 1786 – April 18, 1853) was a U.S. representative from North Carolina, a senator from Alabama, and the thirteenth vice president of the United States. Excluding John Tyler and Andrew Johnson — both of whom ascended to the presidency — he was the shortest-serving person to occupy that office (45 days, see List of vice presidents of the United States by time in office).

[[Harnett County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1850s establishments in North Carolina, 1855 establishments in the United States

Harnett County is a county in the state of North Carolina, United States.  In 2000, 91,025 people lived there.  Its county seat is Lillington.

[[Chatham County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1771 establishments, 1770s establishments in North Carolina

Chatham County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 49,329 people lived there.    Now the population is more than 60,000.  Its county seat is Pittsboro.

[[Carteret County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Carteret County, North Carolina, 1739 establishments, 1730s establishments in North Carolina

Carteret County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 59,383 people lived there.  Its county seat is Beaufort. Most of the county is part of the Crystal Coast.

[[Doctor (Doctor Who)]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

The Doctor is the central character in the long-running BBC science fiction television series Doctor Who. 

She is an alien, a Time Lord from the planet Gallifrey. The Doctor travels in his space-time-ship, the TARDIS, (Time And Relative Dimensions In Space) with which she can go anywhere in time and space. Because the TARDIS' chameleon circuit is broken, it looks like an old British police-call box permanently. The Doctor often takes other people with him, who are usually called "companions" or "assistants". They are always 21st century humans in the modern series, however the classic series often had human-looking aliens or people from the past or future. The most recent companions are Yaz and Dan.

[[Roger Penrose]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Academics of the University of Oxford, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, Alumni of University College London, British Nobel Prize winners, English mathematicians, English physicists, English science writers, Fellows of the Royal Society, Jewish British academics, Jewish British scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Jewish Wolf Prize winners, Order of Merit, People from Essex, Theoretical physicists

Sir Roger Penrose Kt OM FRS (born 8 August 1931) is an English mathematical physicist. He is Emeritus Rouse Ball Professor of Mathematics at the Mathematical Institute, University of Oxford and Emeritus Fellow of Wadham College.

He is renowned for his work in Astrophysics with Stephen Hawking, in particular his contributions to general relativity and cosmology. He is also a recreational mathematician and philosopher.

Roger Penrose is the brother of mathematician Oliver Penrose and chess grandmaster Jonathan Penrose. His sister, now Shirley Hodgson, is a notable geneticist. He was born in Colchester, Essex, England. He was awarded the Copley Medal in 2008. 

In 2020, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics alongside Reinhard Genzel and Andrea M. Ghez.

Penrose has a Jewish background (his mother is Jewish).

[[Arthur (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 American television series debuts, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American children's television series, Emmy Award winning programs, PBS Kids shows, Arthur (TV series), English-language television programs

Arthur is a Canadian-American animated series airing on PBS Kids in the United States. The main age range for this series is 3 to 9. It is based on the Arthur book series that is written and illustrated by Marc Brown. The series has 250 episodes (including specials) made between September 1996 and January 2020, in twenty-three seasons so far. A twenty-third season is currently in production. The show is focused on the life of Arthur, and deals with normal childhood problems.

It has won four Emmy Awards.

[[Langur]]

CATEGORIES: Old World monkeys, Mammals of Asia, National symbols of India

The Gray langur or Hanuman langur (Semnopithecus) is a genus of colobine monkey. They are found in southeast Asia. The word "langur" means 'having a long tail'. It is commonly called the leaf monkey. They usually live in small groups of between 2 and 10 individuals. They mainly eat leaves, as well as some fruit. Langur spend most of their time in trees. They have white fur and black faces. They are considered sacred animals therefore the "National social mammal of India".

[[WWE Raw]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 American television series debuts, American television series, WWE Raw, English-language television programs

WWE Raw is the Monday night professional wrestling television program, made by WWE in 1993. WWE Raw is usually seen as WWE's flagship program over its sister programs, WWE SmackDown, WWE NXT and WWE Main Event, due to its longer history and the way it is promoted.

[[Doctor Who companions]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

The companions or assistants of the Doctor of the Doctor Who television series are people who travel with him. 

The Doctor is an alien. He is a Time Lord from the planet Gallifrey. He travels in his spaceship called the TARDIS. It allows him to go anywhere in time and space. "TARDIS" stands for Time And Relative Dimension In Space. The Doctor usually takes other people with him, who are usually called "companions" or "assistants". The Doctor and his companions travel through space and time, have a lot of adventures, and often save many people.

The character of the companion was there so that the people watching the series could identify and feel close to a character. The companions were often present-time humans. People could relate to them because they knew as much as the viewers. Because of this, the Doctor could explain things to his companions, and at the same time to the viewers. 

Most of the Doctor's companions have been human. Many have been aliens or robots.

Companions are named under the Doctors they travelled with, and sorted by the order in which they appear.

[[Moomba]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals, Melbourne, Australian culture

The Moomba Waterfest is a yearly festival in Melbourne, Australia. It takes place over the Labor Day weekend.

[[Astrid Peth]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Barbara Wright (Doctor Who)]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Grace Holloway]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Ian Chesterton]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Susan Foreman]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Ludwig Wittgenstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1951 deaths, 20th century philosophers, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from prostate cancer, Gay men, LGBT writers, Writers from Vienna

Ludwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein (ˈjoːzɛf ˈjoːhan ˈvɪtgənʃtaɪn in German) (April 26, 1889 – April 29, 1951) was an Austrian philosopher. He worked mainly in the basics of logic, the philosophy of mathematics, the philosophy of mind, and the philosophy of language. He is regarded as one of the most important philosophers of the twentieth century.

Before his death at the age of 62, the only book Wittgenstein had published was the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. His second book Philosophical Investigations was published shortly after he died. Both of these works are regarded as very important for analytic philosophy.

[[Wittgenstein (disambiguation)]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames

Wittgenstein may refer to:

[[Adam Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Vislor Turlough]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Kamelion]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Peri Brown]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Mickey Smith]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[John C. Breckinridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1821 births, 1875 deaths, American esotericists, American lawyers, Confederate Army generals, Deaths from cirrhosis, Freemasons, People from Lexington, Kentucky, United States representatives from Kentucky, United States senators from Kentucky, US Democratic Party politicians, 19th-century American politicians

John Cabell Breckinridge (January 16, 1821 – May 17, 1875) was a lawyer, U.S. representative, U.S. senator from Kentucky and the 14th vice president of the United States. He was from Kentucky. He served in the House from 1851 to 1855. He served as Vice-President from 1857 to 1861, under President James Buchanan. Breckinridge was the youngest vice president in U.S. history.

Breckinridge was also a Southern Democratic candidate for President in 1860. In the election of 1860, the Democratic Party split, with Southerners voting for Breckinridge and Northerners voting for Stephen Douglas. He carried most of the Southern states, but lost to Abraham Lincoln.

When the South seceded, Breckinridge was briefly a U.S. Senator from Kentucky, but was kicked out of the Senate. After that, he became active in the Confederacy. During the American Civil War, he was a general in the Confederate States Army. He fought in Tennessee and the Shenandoah Valley. He was the Confederate commander at the Battle of New Market. Breckinridge was the last Confederate Secretary of War. After the war, Breckinridge left the country for four years. He returned to Kentucky in 1869 and died in 1875.

[[Michael Dante DiMartino]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, American animators, American editors

Michael Dante DiMartino (born July 18, 1974) is an American animation director. He is best known as the co-creator, executive producer, and story editor of the TV series Avatar: The Last Airbender on Nickelodeon.

[[Barbara Meier]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, People from Bavaria, German models

Barbara Meier (born 25 July 1986 in Amberg, Germany) is a model. She is the winner of the second cycle (season) of Germany's Next Topmodel (GNTM), presented by Heidi Klum.

[[Bryan Konietzko]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Animators

Bryan Konietzko (born June 1, 1975) is the co-creator and executive producer of the animated series Avatar: The Last Airbender. He has also worked as a character designer for the animated series Family Guy. He was a storyboard artist and art director for the Nickelodeon animated series Invader Zim.

[[Hannibal Hamlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1809 births, 1891 deaths, Ambassadors of the United States, American lawyers, Governors of Maine, United States representatives from Maine, United States senators from Maine, US Democratic Party politicians, US Republican Party politicians, People from Bangor, Maine, 19th-century American politicians

Hannibal Hamlin (August 27, 1809–July 4, 1891) was a politician from Maine. Hamlin served as a lawmaker in Maine, governor of Maine, in the U.S. House of Representatives, and in the U.S. Senate. He began his career as a Democrat but later became a Republican. He was the first Republican to serve as Vice President of the United States, elected as Abraham Lincoln's Vice President in the 1860 presidential election.

[[Busan subway]]

CATEGORIES: Busan, Rapid transit systems, Transport in South Korea, 1985 establishments in Asia, 1980s establishments in South Korea

The Busan Metro (부산 도시철도) is a subway system in Busan, South Korea. Busan is one of four cities in South Korea with a subway system; the others are Seoul, Daegu and Incheon. Subway systems are also being built in Gwangju and Daejeon. Planning for the Busan Subway began in 1979 and building started in 1981. The first stage, a 16.2 line with 17 stations between Nopo-dong and Beomnaegol opened on the 19 July 1985. There are now 102 stations, four lines, and 106.8 of tracks.

The system is operated by Busan Transportation Corporation. It was first launched in 1985 when Line 1 (Nopo-dong(노포동)~Beomnaegol(범내골)) was opened. Now there are 6 lines with 114 stations, 116.5 kilometers of tracks. Busan Transportation Corporation publishes a name of 'Humetro' as a brand identity.

[[Tsing Hua University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Beijing, Technical colleges and universities in Asia, 1911 establishments

Tsing Hua University or THU (simplified Chinese: 清华大学; traditional Chinese: 清華大學; pinyin: Qīng Huá Dà Xué), is a university in Beijing, People's Republic of China. It is regarded as one of the best and most selective universities in China. It was established in 1911 as a school for Chinese graduates wanting to go further with their studies at universities in other countries, especially the United States and the UK.

[[THU]]

Thu is most often an abbreviation for Thursday.

It can also mean"

[[Yui]]

Yui or YUI can mean:

[[Yui Horie]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese singers, 1976 births, Living people, Actors from Tokyo, Japanese voice actors

Yui Horie (堀江 由衣, Horie Yui, born on 20 September 1976) is a Japanese singer and voice actress. Her real name is Yoshiko (堀江 由子 Horie Yoshiko), and she is sometimes nicknamed "Ho'chan ほっちゃん Hocchan)" by her Japanese fans. She hosted aradio show called Yui's Angel Eggs (or 堀江由衣の天使のたまご Horie Yui No Tenshi No Tamago in Japanese) which airs every Monday morning at 0.30 am (local Tokyo time). She is the founding member of the band Aice5. She is also a member of the band Kurobara Hozonkai under the nickname YUI-EL. Her blood type is B and her hobbies include shoulder massage, reading and food.

[[Bathymetry]]

CATEGORIES: Cartography, Oceanography

Bathymetry is the study of the underwater terrain of lakes or ocean floors. It is the same as topography, except that it looks at the underwater topography. It is a field of oceanography. The name comes from Greek βαθύς (bathus), meaning "deep", and μέτρον (metron), meaning "measure". Bathymetric (or hydrographic) charts are often made to support the safety of underwater navigation and exploration. Most of these underwater topographic maps use contour lines (called depth contours or isobaths) to show the terrain of the sea floor, and how deep it is. They usually also give surface navigational information.

Originally, bathymetry involved the measurement of ocean depth through sounding. Early techniques used heavy rope or cable lowered over a ship's side. This method measures the depth of the water at a single location each time. It was not a very accurate method. The data used to make bathymetric maps today usually comes from an echosounder (sonar). This device is attached to the bottom or the side of a boat.

[[Cave painting]]

CATEGORIES: Painting, Caves, Ancient history, Stone Age

Cave paintings are paintings on cave walls and ceilings. Usually these paintings were made in prehistoric  times. Most cave paintings date from 10,000 to 20,000 years ago. The oldest are from about 32,000 years ago, but scientists still disagree if this dating is correct.

It is not known why these paintings were made. They may have had a function  for rituals. They may also have been a way to transit information; to tell other people about something. Most paintings are in caves that are difficult to get at.  

Today, there are about 350 caves known which have paintings in them. Many are in France and Spain. The best known are probably the caves of Altamira (in Spain), Lascaux (in France), or Creswell Crags in England. Sometimes, paintings were also done on cliff faces. Fewer of those have survived though, because of erosion. One such example are the rock paintings of Astuvansalmi (in Finland).

Most often, animals or hunting scenes were painted. Sometimes hands are there too. Rarely, there are also more abstract patterns.

The paintings were drawn with red and yellow ochre, hematite, manganese oxide and charcoal. Sometimes the silhouette of the animal was put into the rock first.

[[Radiocarbon dating]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeology, Carbon, Radiometric dating

Radiocarbon dating, also known as the C14 dating method, is a way of telling how old an object is. It is a type of radiometric dating. 

The method uses the radioactive isotope carbon-14. Most organic matter contains carbon. Carbon has different isotopes, which are usually not radioactive. 14C is the radioactive one, its half-life  (time it takes to reduce its radioactivity by half)  is about 5,730 years. This makes it possible to tell the age of substances that contain carbon. The method works to about 60,000 years old. Dates obtained are usually written as before present ('present' is 1950). 

Plants take up atmospheric carbon dioxide by photosynthesis, and are eaten by animals, so every living thing is constantly exchanging carbon-14 with its environment as long as it lives. Once it dies, however, this exchange stops.

In 1958 Hessel de Vries showed that the concentration of carbon-14 in the atmosphere varies with time and locality. The relatively short-lived 14C is constantly renewed by cosmic ray bombardment on atmospheric nitrogen. Since the bombardment is slightly variable, and for other reasons, the 14C taken into organic matter is also slightly variable. That leads to errors in the chronology. However, under about 20,000 years the results can be compared with dendrochronology, based on tree rings. For the most accurate work, variations are compensated by means of calibration curves. 

The method was developed by Willard Libby and his colleagues at the University of Chicago in 1949. In 1960, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for this work. He first demonstrated the accuracy of radiocarbon dating by accurately estimating the age of wood from an ancient Egyptian royal barge of which the age was known from historical documents.

[[Passage tomb]]

CATEGORIES: Prehistoric buildings and structures, Burial monuments and structures

A passage tomb or passage grave is a tomb which can be reached through a (usually low) passage. Most of these tombs were constructed during prehistoric times. Most often, large stones, called Megaliths were used to construct them. These kinds of tombs can be found in large numbers in Ireland and Scotland.

[[Hallstatt culture]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history, Archaeological sites in Europe, Austrian culture

The Hallstatt culture is named after Hallstatt, a city in Austria in which the first artifacts were found. It lasted from about 1200 BC to about 275 BC. 

There were different periods that are now told apart mainly by the kinds of brooches used. The brooches changed rather rapidly and permit a good estimate. Hallstatt culture sites have been found in the east of France, in Switzerland, in the south of Germany, in Austria, in Slovenia and Croatia, northwestern Hungary, southwestern Slovakia and southern Moravia.

In this time, the social structure developed into a hierarchy. That can be documented by various things that were added to graves, such as at Magdalenenberg. In the Bronze Age, people lived in big settlements. As iron became available, trade routes changed. A new upper class could establish itself. Unlike before, the upper class liked to live in big houses in the countryside to show their power.

Funerary cults also changed, from cremation burials, to burials with sarcophagi. The new upper class used its wealth for import goods, mostly from the Mediterranean. People started settling there around the 2nd millennium BC.

[[La Tène culture]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history

The La Tène culture existed from about 500 BC to about 100 AD. Named after a town in Switzerland near Neuchâtel, it was greatly influenced by the Roman and the Greek cultures. There are two sources for this:

The Celts basically lived in clans, which were led by leaders, the druids and the bards. Women were much better off than under the Romans and were of a similar status to men. There were both polygyny  (a man could have several women) and polyandry (a woman could have several men).

[[Ringfort]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in the Middle Ages, Fortification

A ring fort is a fortified settlement. Ring forts were made to protect villages, mostly in the Middle Ages. In Ireland where many such forts can be found, they are also known as ráth, caiseal, cathair and dún in the early Irish sources.

A ráth (anglicised rath), was made of earth, caiseal (northwestern Ireland, anglicised cashel) and cathair (southwestern Ireland) were built of stone. A dun is a more prestigious site, the seat of some kind of ruler, the term is applied to promontory forts as well.

[[Capitol]]

Capitol can mean:

[[Beowulf]]

CATEGORIES: Germanic mythology, Epic poems

Beowulf is an Old English heroic epic poem. It is not known who wrote it, and there is no agreement as to when it was written. Estimates for the date range from AD 608 right through to AD 1000, and there is no consensus. The poem has only one manuscript source, written about 1010. Beowulf is 3182 lines long.  Tolkien describes and illustrates many of the features of Old English poetry in his 1940 essay On translating Beowulf.

The protagonist of the poem is Beowulf. In the poem, Beowulf fights three monsters: Grendel and Grendel's mother, and later in his life an unnamed dragon. 

[[Melanie Bush]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Ace (Doctor Who)]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Romana (Doctor Who)]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

Romana, short for Romanadvoratrelundar,  is a fictional character in the British science fiction television series Doctor Who. She is a Time Lady from the planet Gallifrey, and she was a companion of the Fourth Doctor.

Because she was a Time Lord, Romana was able to regenerate, having two on-screen incarnations with somewhat different personalities (called Romana I and Romana II by fans). Romana I was played by Mary Tamm from 1978 to 1979. When she became pregnant and chose not to return for another series, the part was recast. Romana II was played by Lalla Ward from 1979 to 1981.  

[[K-9 (Doctor Who)]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Adric]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Tegan Jovanka]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

Tegan Jovanka is a fictional character in the long-running British science fiction television series Doctor Who. She was played by Janet Fielding. Tegan Jovanka was an Australian airline stewardess who was a companion of the Fourth and Fifth Doctors, she was a regular in the programme from 1981 to 1984. Tegan was the longest-serving companion in terms of years on the series (3 years, 1 month), although Jamie McCrimmon was in the most episodes and stories.

[[Leela (Doctor Who)]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Stigma (botany)]]

CATEGORIES: Flowers, Plant anatomy

A stigma is a part of a flower that gets pollen from pollinators such as bees.  The stigma is part of the female reproductive part of a flower, the pistil. The stigma is on top of the style. The stigma can be either hairy or sticky, or both to trap pollen. When the pollen lands on the stigma, the pollen will grow a pollen tube down the style, and into the ovary of the pistil.

[[Empress Dowager Cixi]]

CATEGORIES: 1835 births, 1908 deaths, Emperors and Empresses of China

Empress Dowager Cixi  (November 29 1835 – November 15 1908), often known in China as the West Dowager Empress  was from the Manchu Yehe Nara Clan.

Cixi was a powerful and charismatic figure who became the de facto ruler of the Manchu Qing Dynasty and ruled over China for 47 years from 1861 to her death in 1908.She was one of the wives of Emperor Xianfeng and also the mother of Emperor Tongzhi.She quickly took over the power after the death of Emperor Xianfeng.Though her exact origins are unclear it is very likely that she came from an ordinary Manchu family. She was chosen by the Xianfeng Emperor as a concubine. She gained almost total control over the court when the rule of her son the Tongzhi Emperor started. He and her nephew the Guangxu Emperor attempted unsuccessfully to rule in their own right.

As the source tells it, Cixi had a partnership with the #1 concubine Zhin, who had been raised to Empress. The two women ruled together, with Cixi as the more dominant personality.

She was in charge during the Opium Wars, First Sino-Japanese War, and the Boxer Rebellion. She was largely conservative during her rule, and some historians consider her reign despotism, and think that she might be responsible for the fall of the Qing Dynasty, and therefore Imperial China, as a result of Cixi's rule.

[[Human trafficking]]

CATEGORIES: Organized crime, Slavery

Human trafficking (or Trafficking in human beings) is a way to exploit people. People are sold, bought, traded much like slaves , and are even sold to couples who don't have children. It is estimated to be a $5 to $9 billion-a-year industry.  Trafficking victims typically are recruited by using force or because they are deceived, or fraud is used, power is abused, or they are simply abducted.  Threats, violence, and economic problems can often make a victim consent to exploitation.

Human trafficking should not be confused with human smuggling.

[[Controversy]]

CATEGORIES: Controversies

A controversy is a  prolonged public dispute or debate, with people having different opinions. There may be several groups of people who have different opinions and who cannot agree. Examples for controversial topics are the question of whether abortion should be legal, or whether research on embryonic stem cells should be permitted. Controversies can happen when there is not a lot of understanding about a topic. A controversy may also happen when different people interpret the same information differently based on their own biases. 

Any opinion that has opposing sides or points of view can become a controversy. In the winter of 2015, consumers argued over the color and design of Starbucks Christmas cup. Some suggested a boycott of the coffee brand to protest.

[[Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund]]

CATEGORIES: Trade unions in Germany

Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund is a confederation of German trade unions. It was a national trade union center of Germany.

The DGB hat 8 German trade unions with more than 7 million people (31.12.2004). It was founded in Munich in 12 October 1949.

[[The Best Damn Thing (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs, Avril Lavigne songs

The Best Damn Thing is the fourth single off the album The Best Damn Thing  by Avril Lavigne. The song was released June 13, 2008.

[[Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft]]

CATEGORIES: Trade unions in Germany

ver.di is a large German trade union. It is the largest trade union in the world, with 2.6 million members. "ver.di" is an abbreviation for Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft, which means "United Services Union."

In 2001 ver.di was formed when the Deutsche Angestellten Gewerkschaft (DAG) (German Salaried Employees) merged with four unions of the Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund (DGB) (DPG, HBV, ÖTV, IG Medien).

[[Deutscher Beamtenbund]]

CATEGORIES: Trade unions in Germany

Deutscher Beamtenbund (dbb) (Civil Service Federation) is a national trade union center of Germany. 

The DBB was started in 1918 and organizes workers of public administration. 

DBB has a membership of 1,250,000 members. President is Peter Heesen

[[Gewerkschaft Deutscher Lokomotivführer]]

CATEGORIES: Trade unions in Germany

Gewerkschaft Deutscher Lokomotivführer (GDL) (German Train Drivers' Trade Union) is a trade union of Germany. Its president is Claus Weselsky , who took over from Manfred Schell in 2008.

The GDL has a membership of 34,000.  Most members live in the old East Germany.

GDL is a member of the Deutscher Beamtenbund (dbb).

[[TRANSNET Gewerkschaft]]

CATEGORIES: Trade unions in Germany

TRANSNET, which stands for Transport, Service, and Networks, is a trade union in Germany. It representation 283,000 workers, and is one of eight industrial affiliations of the Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund (DGB). Its president is Norbert Hansen.

[[Can-can]]

CATEGORIES: Dances, French culture, American movies

The can-can (also spelled cancan or Can Can) is a music hall dance, performed by a chorus line of female dancers who wear costumes with long skirts, petticoats, and black stockings, like the fashions of the 1890s. The can-can was first danced in low class ballrooms of Montparnasse in Paris about 1830. The dancers of the 1890s, such as La Goulue and Jane Avril, were highly paid for their appearances at the Moulin Rouge and elsewhere. The female dancers of the French Second Empire and the fin de siècle developed the various cancan moves.

The Galop from Jacques Offenbach's Orpheus in the Underworld is the tune most often played with the can-can (a somewhat simplified form and a more evolved one Can-Can (Orpheus in the Underworld). Performed on the accordion https://web.archive.org/web/20070111005415/http://www.hevre.co.il/images/Forum_Attachments/15280777.mp3).

The can-can was adapted as an American movie titled "Can Can"(1960), acted by Frank Sinatra and Shirley MacLaine  with music by Cole Porter.

[[Jacques Offenbach]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1880 deaths, French composers

Jacques Offenbach (20 June 1819, in Cologne – 5 October 1880, in Paris) was a French composer and cellist of the Romantic era. He is seen as one of the originators of the operetta form.  Of German-Jewish descent, he was one of the most influential composers of popular music in Europe in the 19th century. Many of his works are still played today.

Offenbach's many operettas, such as Orpheus in the Underworld, and La belle Hélène, were extremely popular both in France and elsewhere in the 1850s and 1860s.  They combined political and cultural satire with witty grand opera parodies.  His popularity in France declined in the 1870s after the fall of the Second Empire. He fled France, but during the last years of his life, his popularity came back. Several of his operettas are still performed.  While his name remains most closely associated with the French operetta and the Second Empire, it is Offenbach's one fully operatic masterpiece, Les contes d'Hoffmann (The Tales of Hoffmann), composed at the end of his career, that has become the most familiar of Offenbach's works in major opera houses.

[[Shane MacDougall]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian comedians, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Shane MacDougall is a Canadian stand-up comedian, former columnist, television writer, and documentarian. Best known for his 1999 challenge to Queen Elizabeth II to a kickboxing match or math test for the monarchy of Canada, the challenge resulted in him receiving death threats but also brought much media attention to the burgeoning Canadian republican movement.

He is also known for The Dark Show, which in the late 1990s was Canada's longest running independent comedy show. Held at Toronto's famous Rivoli club, The Dark Show featured some of Canada's top comedians doing material on topics from school shootings to date rape, and also generated protests from some citizens.

For two years Shane was a comedy reporter and humorist for eye Weekly in Toronto, then in 2000 moved to New York City where he worked as a writer for various MTV shows. 

In 2005, MacDougall completed filming on a documentary entitled "Wiener Takes All", which followed the competitive dachshund racing circuit. The documentary screened such venues as the San Francisco Documentary Film Festival, the 27th Atlantic Film Festival, BendFilm, the Laguna Beach Film Society/Museum of Art, and the Oklahoma City Museum of Art.

[[Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec]]

CATEGORIES: 1864 births, 1901 deaths, French painters, French printmakers, Infectious disease deaths in France, People from Occitanie

Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, (24 November 1864 – 9 September 1901) was a French painter of the Post-Impressionist period. He was born into a noble family, but lived for most of his life among the actors, dancers and prostitutes of Paris. He is famous for painting the lives of these people, the entertainment of Paris, and many portraits. 

He was expert at drawing and also made many printed posters to advertise entertainments.

In a 2005 auction at Christie's auction house a new record was set when La blanchisseuse, an early painting of a young laundress, sold for $22.4 million U.S.

[[Feeling]]

Feeling can mean:

[[Alleghany County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Alleghany County, North Carolina, 1859 establishments in North Carolina

Alleghany County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina. In 2000, 10,677 people lived there. Its county seat is Sparta.

[[Sparta, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Carolina, Alleghany County, North Carolina, County seats in North Carolina

Sparta is a town in Alleghany County, North Carolina, United States. The population was 1,817 people as of the year 2000. It is the county seat of Alleghany County.

[[Anson County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Anson County, North Carolina, 1750 establishments, 1750s establishments in North Carolina

Anson County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 25,275 people lived there.  Its county seat is Wadesboro.

[[Wadesboro, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Anson County, North Carolina, Towns in North Carolina, County seats in North Carolina

Wadesboro is a town in Anson County, North Carolina, United States. The population was 3,552 people as of the year 2000. It is the county seat of Anson County.

[[Alexander County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1847 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in North Carolina

Alexander County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 33,603 people lived there.  Its county seat is Taylorsville.

[[Ashe County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1799 establishments in the United States, 1790s establishments in North Carolina

Ashe County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 24,384 people lived there.  Its county seat is Jefferson.

[[Long March]]

CATEGORIES: 1934, 1935, 1930s in China

The Long March is the  retreat of Mao Zedong and the Communists in 1934-35. The communists went to their stronghold away from Chiang Kai-shek and the Nationalists. Here they were able to join together and start fighting again to beat the Nationalists. They trekked 6,000 miles over 370 days, and only 8,000 survived out of 100,000 people. However, because they had survived such a difficult trial together the survivors were very dedicated and created a more cohesive group. Mao Zedong rose up as a leader during this time. 

The long march was over 12400 km, in one year.  About 300,000 people started, and fewer than 10% finished.  They climbed some mountains more than 4000 meters high,

[[Avery County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1911 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in North Carolina

Avery County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 17,167 people lived there.  Its county seat is Newland. It is known for growing Fraser Fir Christmas trees. Avery County is part of the High Council of Governments. 

[[Hersfeld-Rotenburg]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Hesse, Kassel (district)

Hersfeld-Rotenburg is a Kreis (district) in the east of Hesse, Germany.

[[Rings of Rhea]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons

The Saturnian moon Rhea may have a thin ring system with three narrow bands in a disk of solid particles. These would be the first rings seen around a moon. The discovery was announced in the journal Science on March 6 2008.

In November of 2005 the Cassini orbiter found that Saturn's magnetosphere near Rhea did not have energetic electrons. According to the discovery team, this is best explained by assuming they were absorbed by solid material in the form of an equatorial disk having denser rings or arcs, with particles perhaps many decimeters to about a meter in diameter.

[[Werra-Meißner-Kreis]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Hesse, Kassel (district)

Werra-Meißner is a Kreis (district) in the north of Hesse, Germany.

[[Waldeck-Frankenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Hesse, Kassel (district)

Waldeck-Frankenberg is a Kreis (district) in the north of Hesse, Germany.

[[Schwalm-Eder-Kreis]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Hesse, Kassel (district)

Schwalm-Eder is a Kreis (district) in the north of Hesse, Germany.

[[Velvet Revolver]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 establishments in the United States, 2000s American music groups, 2000s establishments in California, American hard rock bands, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups established in 2002, Musical groups from California, Orange County, California

Velvet Revolver (VR), was a Grammy Award-winning rock supergroup that started in 2002. The members of the band are Slash (guitarist), Duff McKagan (bassist, backing vocals), Matt Sorum (drums) of Guns N' Roses, and Dave Kushner (guitarist) of Wasted Youth. Scott Weiland of Stone Temple Pilots was previously the lead singer. He joined the band after Stone Temple Pilots broke up in 2003. The band got success with their first album Contraband and released their second album Libertad in 2007. Scott Weiland left the band in 2008, though he did one more one-off show with the band in 2012. Velvet Revolver have had several searches for a new singer since then, but have yet to announce a replacement.

[[Manchu]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in China

The Manchu people are a Tungusic people who came from Manchuria (today's Northeastern China). During their rise in the seventeenth century they conquered the Ming Dynasty and founded the Qing Dynasty, which ruled China until  the Xinhai Revolution in 1911, which established a republican government in its place.

The Qing Dynasty required by law that all males must wear a hairstyle called the Manchu queue, in which men had to shave the front of their heads and wear a long braid on the back of their heads.

The Manchu have largely assimilated with the Han Chinese.

[[Kristanna Loken]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Actors from New York, LGBT people from New York, Models from New York, American movie actors, American television actors, Bisexual people, LGBT actors, LGBT models

Kristanna Sommer Loken or Kristanna Sommer Løken (born October 8, 1979) is an American actress known for her work in both film and television, and a former fashion model. She is perhaps known as T-X from the movie Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003) and Rayne from the movie Bloodrayne (2006).

All of Loken's four grandparents were immigrants to the United States from Norway. She is openly bisexual.

[[Geneva]]

CATEGORIES: Geneva, Municipalities of Geneva

Geneva (dʒɨˈniːvə, Genève ʒənɛv, Genf gɛnf, Ginevra dʒiˈneːvra, Genevra) is the second biggest city in Switzerland. Only Zürich is bigger. Geneva is the biggest city in Romandy (the French-speaking part of Switzerland).

Geneva is the capital of the Republic and Canton of Geneva. It is situated where the Rhône River leaves Lake Geneva (called in French Lac Léman).

Geneva is a very important financial and diplomatic center. There are many international organizations in Geneva, including the United Nations and the Red Cross. A 2009 survey states that Geneva has the third highest quality of living in the world (narrowly outranked by Zürich).

Internationally, Geneva is strongly associated with the Geneva Conventions.

[[Concubinage]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage

Concubinage is the state of a woman in a relationship with a man of higher social status that gives her less rights than a marriage. In most of the cases the man has an official wife and one or more concubines. Concubines have only limited rights of support from the man, and their children have lower status than children born by the official wife or wives; these legal rights distinguish a concubine from a mistress.

Historically, the family of a girl were in favour of a concubinage with an mighty man, as it meant economic security for the woman. But concubinage could also mean sexual slavery of one member of the relationship, typically the woman, who was a pleasure slave to the man.

In the Western world there is no legal status of concubines, as only monogamous marriages are allowed.  Any other relationship does not enjoy legal protection; the woman is necessarily a mistress.

[[Mistress (lover)]]

CATEGORIES: Adultery

A mistress is a man's long term female sexual partner and companion who is not married to him. This term is especially used when the man is married to another woman.  The relationship is generally stable; however, the couple do not live together openly.  Also, the relationship is usually but not always secret. Rather often the man is paying for some of the woman's living expenses. A mistress has no legal relationship to the man, that makes the difference to the status of a concubine.

The term can also be used to describe the "other" companion in a female same-sex marriage. Likewise, a woman may be married to a man and have a mistress of her own.

[[Eastern Front]]

Eastern Front can be one of the following:

[[Italian Campaign]]

Italian Campaign can mean the following:

[[List of counties in Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Wisconsin counties, Lists of counties of the United States

The following is a '''list of the counties of Wisconsin:

[[Eastern Front (World War I)]]

CATEGORIES: World War I

The Eastern Front of World War I was the theatre in which Germany and Austria-Hungary fought against the Russian Empire. Planning places to concentrate forces was very important because there were few railways on the Eastern Front, and troops could not be moved and reinforced as quickly as on the Western Front. 

Russia lost many battles, but its overall situation improved as Russia improved its forces, and more and more allies entered the war. The Eastern Front ended when the Russian Civil War broke out in 1917. The communists signed a peace treaty with Germany so that they could focus on winning the civil war.

[[Gibbon]]

CATEGORIES: Apes

Gibbons belong to the group of lesser apes. They are known for their ability to swing from one tree to another with great agility and swiftness. 

There are four genera of gibbons. Gibbons live in dense tropical forests, for example, in Sumatra, Thailand, and Malaysia.

[[Same-sex marriage]]

CATEGORIES: Same-sex marriage

Same-sex marriage (also known as gay marriage) is a term for a relationship in which two people of the same sex live together as a family in a governmentally, socially, or religiously recognized marriage. It is sometimes called marriage equality, especially by supporters.

[[Chiron (hypothetical moon)]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons

Chiron is the name given to a moon of Saturn claimed to be sighted by Hermann Goldschmidt in 1861. It has since been determined that it does not exist as it was never seen again.

[[Dual monarchy]]

CATEGORIES: Monarchy

Dual monarchy  is a union of two monarchies where the thrones of each monarchy are combined. A typical case is a personal union in which the crowns of the separate kingdoms are held by one person. The following are examples of dual monarchies, listed alphabetically with the dominant or co-dominant nation first:

[[Union]]

Union generally means that two or more things are joined into one. That can be an organization of several people or organizations, several objects combined into one, and so on. The term may mean:

[[Carl von Moers]]

CATEGORIES: 1871 births, 1957 deaths, Equestrians, German Olympic silver medalists, German sportspeople, Sportspeople from Rhineland-Palatinate

Carl von Moers (9 December 1871 in Neuwied – 26 May 1957) was a German horse rider who competed in the 1912 Summer Olympics.

He and his horse May-Queen won the silver medal as members of the German team at the 1912 Summer Olympics.  But he was 15th in the individual eventing competition.

He also participated in the individual dressage event at the 1912 Summer Olympics with his horse New Bank. They finished twelfth.

[[Burnham Grammar School]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1960s establishments in England, Grammar schools in England, Schools in Buckinghamshire

Burnham Grammar School (BGS) is a grammar school in Burnham, Buckinghamshire. It was started in 1960. It is a community school. The school takes children from the age of 11 to the age of 18. The school has about 900 pupils. They are split into five houses.

The school has an all weather sports pitch which the Wycombe Wanderers first team sometimes train on.

In September 2004 the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) awarded the school status as a Science College.

The current head teacher is Dr Andrew Gillespie who took over from Cathy Long in January 2008.

[[Avant-garde]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Art

Avant-garde (pronounced /ɑvɑ̃ gɑʁd/) in French means "front guard", "advance guard", or "vanguard". The term is commonly used in French, English, and German for people or works that are experimental or innovative, particularly in the areas of art, culture, and politics. 

Avant-garde represents a going against what is accepted as the norm, especially in culture. 

[[Avant-garde (disambiguation)]]

Avant-garde refers to experimental work in art, music, culture, or politics. It can also refer to:

[[Dumb Luck]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 movies, American independent movies

Dumb Luck is a 2001 movie written and directed by Craig Clyde and starring  Scott Baio, Tracy Nelson, Hal Linden and Eileen Brennan.

[[Gil Fates]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2000 deaths, American television producers, American stage actors, American game show hosts, American television directors, American television writers, Businesspeople from Newark, New Jersey, Screenwriters from New Jersey

Gil Fates (born Joseph Gilbert Fates on 29 September 1914 in Newark, New Jersey, United States; died 1 May 2000 in New York City, United States) was an American television producer. Fates who also hosted CBS Television Quiz, which was the first television game show to be shown often. Before World War 2, he was a stage actor.

[[Innovation]]

CATEGORIES: Innovation, Science

The classic definitions of innovation include: 

In economics, business and government policy,- something new - must be substantially different, not an unimportant change. In economics the change must increase value, customer value, or producer value. Innovations are intended to make someone better off, and the succession of many innovations grows the whole economy. 

[[Innovation (disambiguation)]]

Innovation may refer to one of the following.

[[Santieh River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Taiwan

The Santieh River is a river in Taiwan. It flows through Tainan County for 35.

[[Scott S. Sheppard]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), American astronomers

Scott S. Sheppard is an astronomer in the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism at the Carnegie Institution of Washington. He graduated from the Institute for Astronomy at the University of Hawaii.

He discovered many small moons of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune, the second known Neptune Trojan, 2004 UP10 as well as several Kuiper Belt Objects, Centaurs, and near Earth asteroids.

[[List of rivers of Taiwan]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Taiwan, Lists of rivers of Asia, Lists of rivers by country

This is a list of rivers in Taiwan that are 19 kilometers or longer:

[[List of mountains in Taiwan]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Asia, Geography of Taiwan, Geography-related lists

Taiwan has a lot of mountains, and mountain climbing is a favorite activity of the and many Taiwanese people.  A list of One Hundred Mountains Ranking (百岳排行) was created in 1971, which listed the best mountains for climbing on the island.  Climbing all one hundred mountains is the greatest challenge for Taiwanese climbers.

[[Mario Kart DS]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, Mario Kart games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games

Mario Kart DS is a racing game developed and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS. It is the fifth game in the series and the first which used Nintendo's free online service, Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. The game was released in the North America, Australia, and Europe in November 2005, and in Japan in December 2005, and in South Korea in which it is the very first Wi-Fi Connection game launched in April 2007.

It got positive reviews, and scored an average of 91% from Metacritic.

Like other games in the Mario Kart series, Mario Kart DS involves characters from  Mario games racing each other in go-karts on tracks themed from locations in the Mario series.  The game, like other Mario Kart games, employs various weapons or items that players can use to help themselves or slow down others.  These weapons make Mario Kart different from other racing games.

DS is the first Mario Kart game ever to have computer opponents in battle mode. In battle mode, up to eight carts have four balloons and battle each other until one wins. Another change is that players start with one balloon and must blow into the microphone to blow up other balloons.  With fewer balloons, players get better items, but run the risk of getting knocked out early.  With more balloons, they are safer, but get items that are not as good.February 2012

DS is also the first online Mario Kart title.  It used the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection.  Players used "friend codes" and pick four tracks to race.  Some tracks cannot be played over Wi-Fi because the game might slow down due to large obstacles.

[[Metacritic]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment websites

Metacritic is a website which collects expert reviews for movies, TV, video games, music and formally books. It provides a Metascore, an average score out of 100 possible points based on published reviews. It has the score in one of three colours, red being negative, yellow being mixed and green being positive.

[[Marktbreit]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bavaria, Kitzingen Rural District

Marktbreit is a town in Germany, near Kitzingen in Bavaria. It is on the river Main. 

It is the birthplace of Alois Alzheimer, after whom Alzheimer's disease is named.  

[[Eclipse]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical phenomena, Eclipses

An eclipse is an astronomical event.  It is when one object in the sky moves into the shadow of another such object.  When an eclipse happens within a system of stars, like the Solar System, it makes a type of syzygy. This means that three or more objects in the sky are lined up in a straight line in the same gravitational system.

The term eclipse is most often used to describe a solar eclipse, when the Moon's shadow crosses the Earth's surface, or a lunar eclipse, when the Moon moves into the shadow of Earth. No solar eclipse can last longer than 7 minutes and 58 seconds because of the speed at which the Earth and Moon move. 

When the Sun is not involved, the event is called occultation. 

[[Lena Gercke]]

CATEGORIES: German models, 1988 births, Living people

Lena Johanna Gercke is a model. She is the winner of the first cycle (season) of Germany’s Next Topmodel by Heidi Klum.

After a casting, Lena Gercke made it to the last 12 girls and eventually won the competition.

[[Twilight (series)]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century American novels, Romance novels, Series of books, Vampire novels, Young adult novels

Twilight is a series of fantasy/romance books by Stephenie Meyer. A movie adaptation of Twilight came out in 2008, New Moon in 2009, Eclipse in 2010, and Breaking Dawn, which was divided into two parts; the first part in 2011 and the second part in 2012.

[[Karl Popper]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1994 deaths, 20th century philosophers, Austrian educators, Austrian Jews, Austrian scientists, Austrian writers, British philosophers, Companions of Honour, Fellows of the Royal Society, Jewish British academics, Jewish British scientists, Jewish British writers, Jewish philosophers, Knights Bachelor, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Refugees from Nazism, Scientists from Vienna, Teachers

Sir Karl Popper CH FRS FBA (28 July 1902 – 17 September 1994) was an Austrian and British philosopher and a professor at the London School of Economics.

He is considered one of the most influential philosophers of science of the 20th century. He also wrote on social and political philosophy, especially the evils of totalitarian ideas and politics. Popper is known for the idea of empirical falsification.

[[Eclipse (disambiguation)]]

Eclipse can be any of the following:

[[Castle (disambiguation)]]

A castle is a fortified structure used to defend a territory.

Castle or Castles can mean:

The Castle may also refer to:

[[The Warriors]]

The Warriors can mean:

[[Eliot Spitzer]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of New York, US Democratic Party politicians, 1959 births, Living people

Eliot Laurence Spitzer (born June 10, 1959) is an American lawyer and politician. He is a member of the Democratic Party. He was the New York State Attorney General before becoming Governor of New York in 2007.

Spitzer resigned as Governor of New York on March 17, 2008 because of a prostitution incident. Spitzer's lieutenant governor, David Paterson, became Governor. Spitzer hosted In the Arena on the Cable News Network (CNN). He was hired by CNN President Jonathan Klein to co-host a different program along with a conservative debating him called Parker Spitzer. The other co-host left, and the show was renamed In the Arena. The show was cancelled by CNN in 2011.

[[Banda]]

Banda can be any of the following:

[[Arena, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wisconsin, Iowa County, Wisconsin

Arena is a village in Iowa County, Wisconsin, USA. There were 685 people living in the village of Arena as of the 2000 census. The village of Arena can be found inside of the town of Arena.  The village has an area of 1.1 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.

[[List of rivers of Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Wisconsin

The following is a list of rivers in the U.S. state of Wisconsin, by letter:

[[List of rivers of Africa]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of Africa

The following is a list of rivers of Africa, by region.

[[Community Identification Number]]

CATEGORIES: Geocodes, Law

The Official Municipality Key, which used to be called the Official Municipality Characteristic Number or Municipality Code Number, is a group of numbers used to tell the difference between different municipalities and areas.  

[[Volta]]

Volta can be any of the following:

[[List of rivers of Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Alabama

The following is a list of rivers of Alabama, by letter:

[[List of rivers of Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Alaska, Alaska-related lists

The following is a list of rivers in Alaska:

[[List of rivers of Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Arizona, Arizona-related lists

This is a list of rivers in Arizona:

[[List of rivers of Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Arkansas, Arkansas-related lists

This is a list of rivers in Arkansas:

[[List of rivers of California]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of California, California-related lists

The following is a list of rivers in California, by location:

[[Hexadecimal]]

CATEGORIES: Numbers

The hexadecimal numeral system, often shortened to "hex", is a numeral system made up of 16 symbols (base 16).  The standard numeral system is called decimal (base 10) and uses ten symbols: 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9.  Hexadecimal uses the decimal numbers and six extra symbols. There are no numerical symbols that represent values greater than nine, so letters taken from the English alphabet are used, specifically A, B, C, D, E and F.  Hexadecimal A = decimal 10, and hexadecimal F = decimal 15. 

Humans mostly use the decimal (base 10) system where each digit can have one of ten values between zero and ten.  This is probably because humans have ten fingers on their hands. Computers generally represent numbers in binary (base 2).  In binary, each "binary digit" is called a bit and can only have one of two values: one or zero.   Since a single bit's two possible values represents one fifth the information potentially conveyed by of decimal digit's ten possible values, binary representations of integer values can require many more (binary) bits than decimal digits.   

For example, the three digit decimal value 219 requires eight bits to be represented in binary (11011011).  Humans find reading, remembering, and typing long strings of bits inconvenient. Hexadecimal allows groups of four bits to be more conveniently represented by a single "hex" digit, so the eight bit binary value 11011011 only requires two hexadecimal digits "DB." 

Computer memory is organized as an array of strings of bits called bytes.   On modern computers, each byte generally contains eight bits, which can be conveniently be represented as two hexadecimal digits.   Engineers and computer scientists frequently refer to each of these four-bit values as a nibble (sometimes spelled nybble, see computer jargon).

To avoid confusion with decimal, octal or other numbering systems, hexadecimal numbers are sometimes written with a "h" after or "0x" before the number. For example, 63h and 0x63 mean 63 hexadecimal. 

[[List of rivers of Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Colorado

The following is a list of rivers and streams in the American State of Colorado, by letter:

[[List of rivers of Albania]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Albania, Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of Europe

The following is a list of Albanian rivers, by letter:

[[List of rivers of Antarctica]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers by continent, Rivers of Antarctica

The following is a list of rivers of Antarctica.

[[Battle of Tannenberg (1914)]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 in Europe, 20th century in Poland, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving Russia, Battles of World War I

The Battle of Tannenberg was a decisive engagement between the Russian Empire and the German Empire in the first days of World War I. It was fought by the Russian First and Second Armies and the German Eighth Army between 17 August and 2 September 1914. The battle ended with the almost complete destruction of the Russian Second Army. 

The battle took place near Allenstein.  The Germans named it after Tannenberg.  They wanted to express that they had made good their defeat at the medieval Battle of Tannenberg or (Grunwald).  In that 1410 battle the Lithuanians finally defeated the Teutonic Knights. 

[[List of rivers of Argentina]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers by country, Rivers of Argentina, Lists of rivers of South America

The following is an incomplete list of rivers in Argentina, by letter:

[[List of rivers of Asia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of Asia

The following is a list of the major rivers of Asia, by letter. See the articles for tributaries and other information.

[[List of rivers of Assam]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of Asia, Rivers of Assam, India-related lists

This is a list of rivers in Assam, India:

[[List of rivers of Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of Oceania, Rivers of Australia, Australia-related lists

The following is a list of rivers in Australia, by letter:

A

B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

J

K

L

M

N

O

P

Q

R

S

T

V

W

Y

[[Erich Ludendorff]]

CATEGORIES: 1865 births, 1937 deaths, German generals, German military personnel of World War I

Erich Friedrich Wilhelm Ludendorff (sometimes given as von Ludendorff) (April 9, 1865 – December 20, 1937) was a German Army officer, Generalquartiermeister during World War I, victor of Liège, and, with Paul von Hindenburg, one of the victors of the battle of Tannenberg.  

After the war, he briefly supported Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party.  He was not found guilty for his role in the Nazis' unsuccessful Beer Hall Putsch.  He became disillusioned with politics and retired from public life that year.

[[List of rivers of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Austria, Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of Europe

This is a list of rivers in Austria:

[[List of rivers of Bangladesh]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bangladesh, Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of Asia

This is a list of rivers in Bangladesh, by letter, with some Bangladeshi names given for some of the rivers; there are at least 31 known rivers of Bangladesh:

[[List of rivers of Delaware]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Delaware, Delaware-related lists

This is a list of rivers in Delaware, by type and letter:

[[List of rivers of Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Florida, Florida-related lists

This is a list of rivers in Florida, by region:

[[Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in Austria, History of Hungary, 1867, Austria-Hungary

The Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867 (Ausgleich, Kiegyezés) established the dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary. It was signed by Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria and a Hungarian delegation led by Ferenc Deák. The compromise followed a series of failed constitutional reforms of the Habsburg Empire. 

The Hungarian nobles wanted and got the Emperor's coronation as King of Hungary. This showed Hungary's historic presence. A separate parliament at Budapest was created. It could make laws for the lands of the Hungarian crown.

[[Franz Joseph I of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: 1830 births, 1916 deaths, Austrian people, Emperors and empresses, Kings and queens

Franz Joseph I (in German Franz Josef, in Hungarian Ferenc József, in English Francis Joseph) (August 18, 1830 – November 21, 1916) of the Habsburg Dynasty was Emperor of Austria, King of Hungary, King of Bohemia from 1848 until 1916. His 68-year reign is the third-longest in the recorded history of Europe (after those of Louis XIV of France and Johannes II, Prince of Liechtenstein).

[[Cantuta]]

CATEGORIES: Solanales

A cantuta (Cantua buxifolia) is a type of a flower. It is most commonly found in Central and South America. The cantuta is the national flower of both Peru and Bolivia. 

[[Mie Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Mie Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Mie Prefecture is a prefecture of in the Kansai region of Japan on the island of Honshu.  The capital city is Tsu.

[[Tree of Life]]

Tree of life may mean:

[[WWE Studios]]

CATEGORIES: WWE

WWE Studios (formerly known as WWE Films) is a World Wrestling Entertainment movie and television production company that is starring, produced or directed by WWE talent.

[[776 Berbericia]]

CATEGORIES: Asteroids

776 Berbericia is a minor planet orbiting the Sun in the asteroid belt. This main-belt asteroid was found by A. Massinger at Heidelberg January 24, 1914. It was named in honor of Adolf Berberich (1861-1920), a German astronomer.

In the late 1990s, a network of astronomers worldwide gathered lightcurve data that was mostly used to conclude the spin states and shape models of 10 new asteroids, including (776) Berbericia.

Richard P. Binzel and Schelte Bus added more to the knowledge about this asteroid in a lightwave survey published in 2003. This project was known as Small Main-belt Asteroid Spectroscopic Survey, Phase II or SMASSII, which built on a previous survey of the main-belt asteroids. The visible-wavelength (0.435-0.925 micron) spectra data was gathered between August 1993 and March 1999.

[[Chris Benoit]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Murderers who committed suicide, Murder-suicides in the United States, Sportspeople from Montreal, Sportspeople who committed suicide, Suicides by hanging in the United States, 1967 births, 2007 deaths

Christopher Michael Benoit (May 21, 1967 - June 24, 2007) was a Canadian professional wrestler. He was first noticed in the United States when he started wrestling for ECW in 1994. He would later go to WCW the next year. Within a year, he became a member of the Four Hoursemen (with Ric Flair, Arn Anderson, and Brian Pillman). He joined the WWF in January 2000. In January 2004, Benoit won the 30 man Royal Rumble match which allowed him to main event WrestleMania. He would go on to win the World Heavyweight Championship at WrestleMania XX on March 14, 2004. On June 24, 2007, Chris Benoit committed suicide by hanging after murdering his wife and son. Their dead bodies were found on June 25. Benoit's father, Michael Benoit, says that Benoit had brain damage. This is what caused Benoit to kill his family. Because brain damage can be caused by concussions, WWE no longer allows wrestlers to hit each other in the head with steel chairs.

[[Glitch]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

A glitch is something that goes wrong in a computer system, usually in games. This is also sometimes called a "bug". Sometimes when a glitch happens on a computer, a message appears, telling the user that something went wrong.

[[Jack (Tekken)]]

CATEGORIES: Tekken characters

Jack is a character in the Tekken series. He has many successors since Jack bots are usually destroyed.

[[Subsonic]]

Subsonic can be the following:

In computing:

[[My Little Lover]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands, Pop music groups

[[Beaufort County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1730s establishments in North Carolina, 1739 establishments

Beaufort County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 44,958 people lived there.  Its county seat is Washington.

[[Bertie County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1722 establishments, 1720s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in North Carolina

Bertie County (said like BURT-TEE) is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 19,773 people lived there.  Its county seat is Windsor.

[[Bladen County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1734 establishments, 1730s establishments in North Carolina

Bladen County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 32,278 people lived there.  Its county seat is Elizabethtown.

[[Brunswick County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1764 establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 1760s establishments in North Carolina

Brunswick County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 73,143 people lived there.  Its county seat is Bolivia.

[[Buncombe County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1791 establishments in the United States, 1790s establishments in North Carolina

Buncombe County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2006, 222,174 people lived there. Its county seat is Asheville.

[[List of rivers of Georgia (U.S. state)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Georgia (U.S. state)

This is a list of rivers in Georgia (U.S. state):

[[List of rivers of Hawaii]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Hawaii, Lists of rivers of the United States, Hawaii-related lists

This is a list of rivers and streams in Hawaii:

[[Alph River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Antarctica

The Alph River is a river in Antarctica.  The river was named by Griffith Taylor during the British Antarctic Expedition from a poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.  The Xanadu Hills that are close by are also named after this poem.

[[Escapology]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment

Escapology is the practice of escaping from restraints or other traps. Escapologists (also called escape artists) escape from handcuffs, straitjackets, cages, steel boxes, barrels, bags, burning buildings, fish-tanks and other such traps, usually doing more than one of these at once. One well-known escapologist is Harry Houdini.

==Related pages== 

[[Burke County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1777 establishments in North Carolina

Burke County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 89,148 people lived there.  Its county seat is Morganton.

[[Rezovski Creek]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Antarctica

Rezovski Creek (Bulgarian: Rezovski Potok \'re-zov-ski po-'tok\) is a melt-water stream that can be found in Livingston Island, Antarctica.  It is 500 meters long.  It flows through the northwestern slope of the Balkan Snowfield found between Hesperides Hill, Atlantic Club Ridge, Krum Rock and Sinemorets Hill in eastern Livingston Island.

[[Raidió Teilifís Éireann]]

CATEGORIES: Television networks, Radio, Republic of Ireland, 1926 establishments in Europe

Raidió Teilifís Éireann, known as RTÉ, is the main television and radio broadcaster in the Republic of Ireland. RTÉ began broadcasting radio programmes on January 21st, 1926 and began broadcasting television programmes on December 31st, 1961. RTÉ is one of the oldest television and radio broadcasters in the world. RTÉ is owned by the Irish government but is controlled by an independent body. Today RTÉ broadcasts two television stations and four radio stations. Raidió teilifís éireann are the words of the Irish language (gaeilge) that mean "radio and television of Ireland".

[[Onyx River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Antarctica

The Onyx River is a meltwater stream that flows to the west through the Wright Valley between the Wright Lower Glacier to Lake Vanda.  The Onyx River is one of the sites studied by the US Antarctic Program of the National Science Foundation.   It is the longest river in Antarctica. It is 32 kilometers long.

[[Wailua River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Hawaii

The Wailua River is a river on the island of Kauai in the U.S. state of Hawaii.  It is very active and gets attention from people visiting Hawaii.  It is also the only river that a vessel bigger than a boat can travel up.

[[Waimea River (Hawaii)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Hawaii

The Waimea River is a river on the island of Kauai in the U.S. state of Hawaii.  It is about 12 miles long. Lots of people used to live in the valleys of the Waimea River and its tributary, the Makaweli River.

[[Cabarrus County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1792 establishments in the United States, 1790s establishments in North Carolina

Cabarrus County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina. In 2000, 131,063 people lived there.  Its county seat is Concord.

[[ZX Spectrum]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Computers, Video game consoles

 The ZX Spectrum was a range of home computers based on the Z80 microchip and sold by Sinclair Research Ltd, the business company owned by British inventor Sir Clive Sinclair. The computer was first produced in April of 1982 as part of a project to sell computers for a low price that any family could afford. The ZX sold more than any other computer at that time in Britain and Spain. The first ZX was especially known for being very small and relatively cheap. The keyboard was made of rubber and the casing was made of plastic.

Sinclair's company produced seven different ZX computers, but other companies had deals with Sinclair Research to build their own version of ZX computers. The biggest of those companies was the American electronics manufacturer Timex who produced three different ZX based computers. Timex were selling between 18,000 and 20,000 of the ZX Spectrum based home computer every month by June 1981 but the Timex computer did not work properly so they had to stop selling them in 1983. Timex were the manufacturers who made most of the Sinclair Research ZX for Europe but the European versions worked correctly. The Sinclair Research version of ZXs were made until 1990 but other companies around the world copied the ZX and made many versions after that. When Sinclair Research stopped making the ZX Spectrum there had been more than 10,000 different games available and lots of peripheral equipment. Some companies still sell new games for the ZX.

[[Home computer]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics, Computer science, Home appliances

A home computer is the name given to early personal computers made in the 1980s and 1990s that could be plugged into a television set. They were used for playing video games and doing school work and were usually owned by children.

[[Z80]]

CATEGORIES: Computer processors, Computer science

The Z80 microchip was one of the  most popular CPU microchips for computers in the 1980s. The Z80 was created by the Zilog company in 1976. Zilog made less than 50% of all Z80s. They are made by Sharp (company), Toshiba, NEC and many other manufacturers around the world. As of 2010, it is still manufactured for use in embedded systems.

[[Caldwell County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1840s establishments in North Carolina, 1841 establishments in the United States

Caldwell County is a county in the state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 77,415 people lived there.  Its county seat is Lenoir.

[[Sinclair Research Ltd]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics companies, Computer science

Sinclair Research Ltd. is a business company who sells inventions. They are known for making new technology for a low price. They specialise in transport devices like wheelchairs, scooters and underwater scooters. They invented a wheelchair that can raise the passenger up on two wheels and climb up stairs.

[[Kane (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Actors from Tennessee, American movie actors, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Tennessee, WWE wrestlers, Libertarians

Glenn Jacobs (born April 26, 1967) is an American professional wrestler. He is currently signed to the WWE. He is best known by his ring name, Kane. He is a former holder of multiple WWE championships; having held the WWE (once), Intercontinental (twice), Hardcore (once), World Heavyweight (once), ECW (once), WWE World Tag Team (nine times), and WWE Tag Team (twice) championships. His most recent championship was an eight-month run with the WWE Tag Team Championship in 2012 and 2013 alongside Daniel Bryan. He's best known for being called "The (Big Red) Monster", "The Big Red Machine", and "The (Devil's Favorite) Demon".

[[Hipparchus]]

CATEGORIES: 190 BC births, 120 BC deaths, Ancient Greek astronomers, Greek geographers

Hipparchus (Greek Ἵππαρχος; ca. 190 BC – ca. 120 BC) was a Greek astronomer, geographer, and mathematician. He lived in the Hellenistic period. He was born in Nicaea (now Iznik, Turkey), and probably died on the island of Rhodes. He worked as an astronomer at least from 147 BC to 127 BC. Hipparchus is considered the greatest ancient astronomical observer. Some people see him as the greatest overall astronomer of antiquity.  

Hipparchus was the first Greek whose quantitative and accurate models for the motion of the Sun and Moon survive. To do this, he used the observations and perhaps the mathematical techniques accumulated over centuries by the Chaldeans from Babylonia. He had a trigonometric table. It looks like he  solved some problems of spherical trigonometry with the table. With his solar and lunar theories and his trigonometry, he was perhaps the first to develop a reliable method to predict solar eclipses.  His other well-known achievements include the discovery of precession, and the compilation of the Hipparchus Catalog, the first comprehensive star catalog of the western world.

He might also have invented the astrolabe, and the armillary sphere which first appeared during his century and which he used in making the star catalog. It would be three centuries before Claudius Ptolemaeus' synthesis of astronomy would make the work of Hipparchus obsolete; it is heavily dependent on it in many areas.

Craters on the Moon and on Mars are named for Hipparchus, as are an asteroid and the Hipparcos satellite.

[[Battle of Verdun]]

CATEGORIES: Battles of the Western Front (World War I), 1916 in France

The Battle of Verdun was a battle of the First World War.  It started when the German Fifth Army attacked French positions, near Verdun, on February 21, 1916.  It ended on December 18 of that year but the front line had not changed very much.  Both sides lost about 337,000 soldiers each.  Never before was industrialisation so visible in war.  They also speak about the Hell of Verdun or the Blood pump.  The Battle of Verdun is considered the biggest and longest in world history.

Never before or since has there been such a long battle, involving so many men, fought on such a tiny piece of land.  There were many attacks and counterattacks; one small village changed hands 16 times.  The battle, which lasted from 21 February, 1916 until 19 December 1916 caused over an estimated 700,000 casualties (dead, wounded and missing).  About 300,000 died. The battlefield was not even a square ten kilometres.  From a strategic point of view, there can be no justification for these terrible losses.  The battle lowered into a matter of prestige for the two nations, and started being fought for the sake of fighting and honor, according to German command Paul Von Hindenburg.

The French commander, Marshall Philippe Pétain, used a system of rotation by which every division in France fought for a short time at Verdun.  After the battle the landscape was left as one of the worst battlegrounds on all of France, filled with craters of the artillery, the trenches, the odor left by the dead, etc.  During the battle the chief of the German General Staff, Erich Von Falkenhayn, was relieved from duty and sent to lead a joint Austrian, German and Bulgarian attack on Romania, leaving Paul Von Hindenburg as Chief of Staff.

[[Bank of America Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in New York City, 2003 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in New York (state), Buildings and structures in Manhattan

The Bank of America Tower is a skyscraper in New York City, United States.  It is 452.4 meters (1,484 feet) tall and has 60 floors.  It was built in 2003. It is one of the tallest buildings in the world.

[[The New York Times Building]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in New York City, 2007 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in New York (state), Buildings and structures in Manhattan

The New York Times Building is a skyscraper in New York City, United States.  It is 319 tall and has 52 floors.  It was built in 2007 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world. The architect of the building is Renzo Piano.

[[GameShark]]

CATEGORIES: Video game technology

A GameShark is a cheating device for console video game systems and Microsoft Windows computers. It lets the player of a video game do things that the game does not normally let players do, like walk through walls or have unlimited items. To use it, players load cheat codes through a disk or cartridge, then load the game to use them.

[[70 Pine Street]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in New York City, 1932 establishments in North America, 1930s establishments in New York (state), Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks

70 Pine Street (also the American International Building) is a skyscraper in New York City, United States.  It is a 67-floors, 952-foot (290 m) office building located at the corner of Pearl Street and running to Cedar Street in the Financial District of Manhattan, New York City, New York, United States. It was built in 1932 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

[[King penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Penguins, Animals of Antarctica

The king penguin (Aptenodytes patagonicus) is a type of penguin. It is the second largest species of penguin, as it is smaller and shorter than the emperor penguin.

[[Citigroup Center]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in New York City, 1977 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in New York (state), Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks

Citigroup Center is a skyscraper in New York City, United States.  It is 279 meters (915 feet) tall and has 59 floors.  It was built in 1977 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world.

[[Industrial engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

Industrial engineering is a type of engineering. It is one of the fastest growing areas of engineering. It looks at what makes organizations work best. An industrial engineer tries to find the right combination of human and natural resources, technology, equipment, information and finance to do the work best. Industrial engineering is important to finding the answers to many important problems in manufacturing, distribution of goods and services, health care, utilities, transportation, entertainment, and the environment. Industrial engineers design and change how things are done to increase quality, safety and productivity.

[[Trump World Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in New York City, Donald Trump, 2001 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in New York (state), Buildings and structures in Manhattan

Trump World Tower is a skyscraper in New York City, United States.  It is 262 meters (861 feet) tall and has 72 floors.  It was built in 2001 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

[[30 Rockefeller Plaza]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in New York City, 1933 establishments in the United States, 1930s establishments in New York (state), Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks

30 Rockefeller Plaza is a skyscraper at Rockefeller Center in Manhattan, New York City, United States. It was known in the past as the RCA Building, the GE Building, and the Comcast Building. 30 Rockefeller Plaza is 850 tall and has 69 floors.  It was built in 1933 and was one of the tallest buildings in the world when it opened.

[[Roger Taney]]

CATEGORIES: 1777 births, 1864 deaths, Chief Justices of the United States, People from Maryland, United States Attorneys General

Roger Brooke Taney (March 17 1777 – October 12 1864) was a Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. He came after John Marshall and despite the many influential things done by his predecessor, still was able to write several major opinions. His decision in Dred Scott to send a slave living in a free state back to his master in a slave state canceled out several compromises that had been keeping the Union together. When president Abraham Lincoln began using powers not normally given to the presidency to put certain rights on hold, Taney kept on trying to overrule him. These attempts were ignored and rumored to have almost led to Taney's arrest.

When Taney County, Missouri was officially organized in 1837, it was named in his honor. At the time Abraham Lincoln became president, Taney swore in Lincoln.

[[Supreme court]]

CATEGORIES: National supreme courts, International law

A supreme court is generally the highest court in a country. This means that, in many countries, it is the court of last resort and it has more power than other courts. Decisions of lower appellate courts can be overruled here. However, not all highest courts are named as such. Civil law countries do not tend to have only one high court. Additionally, the highest court in some jurisdictions is not named the "Supreme Court". For example, the High Court of Australia. In some places the court named the "Supreme Court" is not the highest court. Examples include the New York Supreme Court, the Supreme Courts of several provinces and territories of Canada and the former Supreme Court of Judicature of England and Wales. Decisions made in these courts are all subject to higher Courts of Appeal.

[[Lee Chaolan]]

CATEGORIES: Tekken characters

Lee Chaolan is a video game character in Tekken. The first time he was in Tekken was the first Tekken game.

[[Scooter]]

CATEGORIES: Land vehicles, Cycling

A scooter is a bicycle or tricycle with very small wheels. Some scooters have a motor, some have pedals, and some are pushed with the foot. Scooters with motors are called motor scooters. There are many different kinds of scooters. They include motor scooters and kick scooters.

Some scooters have four wheels. People who don't have much balance can drive that kind.

In some places, riders of motor scooters need a driver's license for driving a motorcycle. In other places, they only need a licence for driving a moped. Some scooters can hold two people.

[[Tricycle]]

CATEGORIES: Human-powered vehicles, Cycling, Motorcycles

A tricycle is a vehicle with three wheels. It can be also called a trike. Tricycles can have pedals, an electric motor or a petrol engine.

[[ECW World Heavyweight Championship]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment championships

The Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) World Heavyweight Championship was a professional wrestling world championship in Extreme Championship Wrestling from 1994 through 2001 and World Wrestling Entertainment from 2006 through 2010.

[[List of rivers of China]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of Asia, Rivers of China

The following is a list of rivers in China, by where they flow into:

[[List of rivers of Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Idaho, Idaho-related lists

This is a list of rivers in Idaho:

[[List of rivers of Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Illinois

This is a list of rivers in Illinois:

[[List of rivers of Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Indiana

The following is a list of rivers in Indiana, by letter:

[[The Golden Compass (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, 2000s fantasy movies, British fantasy movies, American fantasy movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books

The Golden Compass is a fantasy movie, which was released on December 5, 2007 by New Line Cinema and Warner Bros. The movie is based on the book Northern Lights (also known as The Golden Compass), the first novel in Philip Pullman's trilogy His Dark Materials.

The cast includes Dakota Blue Richards, Nicole Kidman, Ian McKellen, Christopher Lee, Daniel Craig, Ian McShane, and Sam Elliott.

[[Independent body]]

CATEGORIES: Public services

An independent body is a group employed to give a view without bias. Independent bodies are mainly employed to review public services. Some news groups claim to be independent bodies. In the United States, they are called an independent agency or an independent regulatory agency.

[[Limbourg brothers]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch painters, Nijmegen, Renaissance

The Limbourg brothers, or in Dutch Gebroeders van Limburg (Herman, Paul, and Johan; fl. 1385 – 1416), were famous Dutch Renaissance miniature painters from the city of Nijmegen. They were active in the early 15th century in France and Burgundy.  They created what is certainly the best known late medieval illuminated manuscript, Les Très Riches Heures du Duc de Berry.

[[Anthony Head]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, English movie actors, Musical theater actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Whedonverse

Anthony Stewart Head (born 20 February, 1954) is an English actor and musician who has appeared in theatre, television and movies. He is most well known for his role as Rupert Giles in the American television drama series Buffy the Vampire Slayer, as the Prime Minister in the British comedy show Little Britain, as Dr. Frank N Furter in the London revival of The Rocky Horror Show and for a series of coffee adverts in the United Kingdom and the United States. He is credited by his full name on American television, and sometimes as Tony Head elsewhere.

[[Uluru]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of the Northern Territory, World Heritage Sites in Australia, Pitjantjatjara

Uluru, also called Ayers Rock, is a name given to a huge rock near Alice Springs in the Australian Outback and located in Uluṟu-Kata Tjuṯa National Park. This is a holy place for some Aboriginal Australians. It is in the Western Desert, in the middle of Australia. It was listed as a World Heritage site in 1987 because of its geology. In 1997 it was again listed as a World Heritage site, this time because of its importance to the Anangu people. It was the second place in the world to be listed as culturally significant, and it is one of the few places in the world to have two listings.

[[Elapid]]

CATEGORIES: Elapidae

The Elapidae, or elapids, are a family of venomous snakes. These snakes can be found in tropical and subtropical regions around the world. They can also be found in  the Indian Ocean and the Pacific. They are characterized by a set of hollow, fixed fangs through which they inject venom.  There are snakes of different sizes,  from only 18 cm (Drysdalia) up to 6 m in length (King Cobra). Currently, 61 genera with 231 species are known.

[[Colubrid]]

CATEGORIES: Colubrids

A colubrid (from Latin coluber, snake) is a snake that is a member of the Colubridae "family". Colubridae is the largest snake family, and includes about two-thirds of all known living snake species. However, colubrids are certainly not a natural group, and many are more closely related to other groups, such as elapids, than to each other. This family has classically been a dumping ground for snakes that do not fit anywhere else. There is on-going mitochondrial DNA research which will sort out the familial relations within this group.

A colubrid's body is almost completely covered in scales. Most colubrids are not venomous and are normally harmless. A few groups, such as genus Boiga, can produce medically significant bites. In addition, the Boomslang and African twig snake have both caused human fatalities. The venom-injecting fangs associated with venomous colubrids are almost always in the back of the mouth, in contrast to vipers and elapids. 

[[Central Finland]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Finland

Central Finland, Keski-Suomi, is a region of Finland with about 270,000 inhabitants. Neighbouring regions are Pirkanmaa, Southern Ostrobothnia, Central Ostrobothnia, Northern Ostrobothnia, Northern Savonia, Southern Savonia and Päijänne Tavastia.

[[Sea snake]]

CATEGORIES: Elapidae

A Sea snake, or "coral reef snake", is a venomous elapid snake. They live in marine environments for most or all of their lives. At present, 17 genera are described as sea snakes, with 62 species.

They evolved from snakes that lived on the land. Some sea snakes still have some of the behaviour and traits of their ancestors, such as Laticauda, which can move a little on land. Most sea snakes are unable to move on the ground at all, but they are well adapted to living in the water.

Sea snakes are found in warm coastal waters from the Indian Ocean to the Pacific. They live in the tropical and warm regions, but not in the Atlantic Ocean, or the North American coast above the Gulf of California.

[[Archduke]]

CATEGORIES: Nobility, Austria, Titles, Holy Roman Empire

The title of Archduke (feminine: Archduchess) (German: Erzherzog, feminine form: Erzherzogin) is a rank above Duke and under King. It is very rare. It was used only by males of the House of Habsburg. 

[[Trench warfare]]

CATEGORIES: War

Trench warfare is a war tactic, or way of fighting. It was commonly used on the Western Front in the First World War but also at other wars and other places.

In trench warfare, the two sides fighting each other dug trenches in a battlefield. These trenches had many different parts, such as places for sleeping, for headquarters, for storage, and for artillery and machine guns. Between the front trenches on a battlefield, was an area called "no man's land". This area was often covered with barbed wire and land mines. Soldiers on either side would try to cross the no man's land to get to the enemy's trench and attack. Tanks were commonly used to cross this land.

Trench warfare was used because it gave soldiers cover while defending themselves against attack. It also gave soldiers bunks to sleep in, although the bunks were very unclean and uncomfortable.

World War I started in 1914 and ended in 1918. While fighting, soldiers needed self-defense. So, they dug holes. The holes were two meters deep. These holes were called trenches. Most soldiers fought in the trenches. The trenches were not very far apart. For example, they could have been as short as thirty meters in between each trench. This open space was called No Man’s Land. Death was frequent, even when there was no fighting (for example, by diseases). This was called trench warfare.

Trench warfare was also an important part of the Iran-Iraq War.

[[Port-de-Paix]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Haiti

Port-de-Paix (Kréyòl: Pòdepè or Pòdpè; in English means "Peace Port") is a city and the capital of the département of Nord-Ouest in Haiti on the Atlantic coast.

The city is close to the mouth of the river Trois-Rivières, one of the most important river in Haiti. It has a population of 115,000 (2003 census), with 25,000 living in the city.

Christopher Columbus came to this region on 15 December 1492 and he gave it the name Valle del Paraíso or Valparaiso (Spanish for "Paradise Valley") because he found that this was a very beautiful valley.

A ferry operates between the town and Tortuga Island (La Tortue) situated just across the water.

The town was founded in 1665 by French buccaneers (a kind of pirates in the Caribbean) from Tortuga Island when they had to leave the island. In 1676 the town saw the first black slave revolt; its leader was Padre Jean (also Padrejean and Pedro Juan) and who was killed by buccaneers in 1679 in the mountains close to Port-de-Paix.

The area saw great success during the 19th century and Port-de-Paix was an important port; from here, bananas and coffee were sent to other countries. In 1902 the town was almost entirely destroyed by fire.

Port-de-Paix is also the chief town of an arrondissement (a part of a department) of the same name. The arondissement consists of four communes (like municipalities): Port-de-Paix, Bassin Bleu, Chansolme and Tortuga Island.

[[Device controller]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Electronics

A device controller is a system that handles the incoming and outgoing signals of the CPU. A device is connected to the computer via a plug and socket, and the socket is connected to a device controller. Device controllers use binary and digital codes. An IO device contains mechanical and electrical parts. A device controller is the electrical part of the IO device.

[[Rostov-on-Don]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Russia, 1749 establishments, 18th century establishments in Russia

Rostov-on-Don (Rostov-na-Donu) is a city in the European part of Russia. It is on the River Don, about 46 km before it flows into the Sea of Azov. The city is the administrative center of Rostov Oblast and the Southern Federal District of Russia. About 1 million people live in the city (as of 2002).

[[Staples Center]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in Los Angeles, California, WrestleMania host

The Staples Center is a indoor multi-purpose arena in downtown Los Angeles, California.  It is home to the Los Angeles Lakers and Los Angeles Clippers basketball teams, the Los Angeles Kings hockey team, and the Los Angeles Sparks WNBA team. They have the Grammy Awards here every year. The building hosted World Wrestling Entertainment's Pay-per-view WrestleMania 21 in 2005.

[[Camden County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1777 establishments in North Carolina

Camden County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 6,885 people lived there.  Its county seat is the community of Camden. Camden County is the first and only consolidated city-county in North Carolina.

Camden is the original home county of Nikita Pavlunenko.

[[Caswell County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1777 establishments in North Carolina

Caswell County is a county  in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 23,501 people lived there.  Its county seat is Yanceyville.

[[Internet forum]]

CATEGORIES: Internet communication

One type of a forum is an online discussion site on the Internet. Users can type messages for others to see, and reply to other user's messages. Messages (or "posts") are organised by topic (or "thread"), with each poster either replying to an existing topic or creating a new topic for a new conversation.

Forums can be found on a lot of websites. Internet forums are often used to show people information. Things like pictures hyperlinks and images can also be put on the board, or "posted".

Many Internet forums have rules against things such as spamming and trolling. If people do those kind of things, they will be warned, and if they continue, they will be banned.

Forums also have their own set of rules. A rule which is used by many forums is not to comment or bring up old threads because those forums were made to discuss the newest events.

There are usually three different types of rankings on a forum:

People participating in a forum may make friends with each other and may form groups with the same ideas.

[[Catawba County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1842 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in North Carolina

Catawba County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 141,685 people lived there.  Its county seat is Newton.

[[Stone tool]]

CATEGORIES: Stone Age

Stone tools are tools made of stone. They are the reason the stone age was given its name. They were the first known tools used by mankind, and were used by all human species, such as Homo habilis and Homo erectus. Recently it was learned that stone tools were used before the genus Homo evolved. These oldest tools come from the shores of Lake Turkana in Kenya, and date to 3.3 million years ago.

They are 700,000 years older than any tools found before.

Volcanic ash and minerals around the tools allow them to be dated. The tools look like those described as Oldowan. They might have been made by members of species such as Australopithecus afarensis or Kenyanthropus platyops. The research team has proposed the term "Lomekwian" for these tools, and say they mark the start of archaeology. The palaeoenvironment was wooded.

[[DJ BoBo]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, DJs, Swiss entertainers, Swiss singers, Songwriters, Dancers

Peter René Baumann (born 5 January 1968) better known as DJ BoBo, is a Swiss singer, songwriter, dancer and music producer. He mixed a song called "Chihuahua" in 2005. It was a remix from a Spanish single in 2002. DJ BoBo is also famous for his entry in the Eurovision Song Contest of 2007.

[[Cherokee County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1839 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in North Carolina

Cherokee County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 24,298 people lived there.  Its county seat is Murphy.

[[Chowan County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1739 establishments, 1730s establishments in North Carolina

Chowan County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 14,526 people lived there.  Its county seat is Edenton.

[[Clay County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 19th-century establishments in North Carolina, 1861 establishments in the United States

Clay County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina. During the 2000 United States Census, 8,775 people lived there. Its county seat is Hayesville.

[[Character (computing)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Typography, Encodings

For computers, a character is a letter, number, or punctuation mark that can be shown on a screen, or printed.  There are also some unseen characters, called control characters.  An example of a control character is the carriage return or line feed that tells the software to start a new line.  A glyph is the shape of the character that is seen when put on screen or on paper.

Since computers only use numbers, they use number codes to represent characters. For example, in ASCII, the number 65 represents the letter 'A'. The computer knows, when working in ASCII, to put the glyph for 'A' on the screen when it sees the number 65.  The glyph can change shape slightly depending on the font that is used, if it is bold or in italics, etc.  But it is still stored as a 65 in the computer, that does not change.

[[Optical disc drive]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Machines, Electronics

An optical drive is usually a CD drive or DVD drive. Optical means it uses lenses. The drive uses a light called a laser. A laser is the most exact and powerful sort of light but the laser in the drive is very, very small. The CD or DVD disk is similar to a mirror and the laser light reflects off it. The disk has very small (microscopic) codes written on it. The drive has a very small camera lens beside the laser which can read the codes. Another part of the drive is plugged in to the computer by a wire (inside) and the code goes through the wire as a signal to the computer. 

[[WWE Heat]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment television programs, 1998 American television series debuts, 2008 American television series endings

WWE Heat was a professional wrestling show made by the World Wrestling Entertainment.

During its televised history in the United States it was shown on the USA Network, MTV and Spike TV.

From 2005 to 2008 it was streamed on WWE.com on Fridays for North American viewers. However it was still televised in internationally. The final episode was streamed on May 30, 2008.

Internationally it was replaced by WWE Vintage Collection a program which featured matches from past WWE events and hosted by WWE 2006 Hall of Fame inductee "Mean" Gene Okerlund.

[[Sarojini Sahoo]]

CATEGORIES: Indian writers, 1956 births, Living people

Sarojini Sahoo (born 1956) is an Indian writer, who has been enlisted among 25 exceptional women of India by ‘Kindle’ English magazine of Kolkata.

She has been given the Orissa Sahitya Academy Award (1993), the Jhankar Award (1992), the Bhubaneswar Book Fair Award and the Prajatantra Award.

Sahoo was born in a small town of Dhenkanal in Orissa (India). Sarojini has MA and PhD degrees in Oriya Literature and a Bachelor of Law from Utkal University. She now teaches at a degree college in Belpahar, Jharsuguda, Orissa.

Sarojini is the second daughter of Ishwar Chandra Sahoo and (late) Nalini Devi. She is married to Jagadish Mohanty, a veteran writer of Orissa. They have a son and a daughter.

[[Eddie Guerrero]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2005 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from El Paso, Texas, WWE Hall of Fame

Eduardo "Eddie" Gory Guerrero Yañez (October 9, 1967 – November 13, 2005) better known as Eddie Guerrero, was an American professional wrestler from a legendary Mexican wrestling family. He  wrestled in Mexico, Japan, Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW), World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and, most famously, in World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).

[[Nabta Playa]]

CATEGORIES: Prehistoric buildings and structures, Archaeological sites in Egypt, Ancient Egypt

Nabta Playa was once a large basin in the Nubian Desert. It is about 500 miles south of modern-day Cairo or about 100 kilometers west of Abu Simbel of southern Egypt, 22° 32' north, 30° 42' east. Many archaeological sites have been found there.

[[Video card]]

CATEGORIES: Computer graphics

In computing, a video card, graphics card or graphics accelerator is a special circuit board that controls what is shown on a computer monitor and calculates 3D images and graphics.

A video card can be used to display a two-dimensional (2D) image like a desktop, or a three-dimensional (3D) image like a computer game. Computer-Aided Design (CAD) programs are often used by architects, engineers and designers to create 3D models on their computers. If a computer has a very fast video card, the user can create very detailed 3D models.

Most computers have a basic video and graphics capabilities built-in to the computer's motherboard.  These "integrated" video chips are not as fast as in separate or "discrete" video cards. Normally, they are fast enough for basic computer use and old or simple computer games on lower graphic settings. If a computer user wants faster and/or more detailed graphics, a video card can be installed.

[[Barahona, Dominican Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dominican Republic, 1802 establishments in North America, 19th-century establishments in the Spanish West Indies

Barahona, also known as Santa Cruz de Barahona, is the head municipality of the Barahona province, on the southwest of the country.

It is the largest city of the Dominican southwest and the centre of the region.

[[Jamie McCrimmon]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Victoria Waterfield]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Zoe Heriot]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Sindh]]

CATEGORIES: Sindh, Provinces of Pakistan

Sindh (سنڌ) (صوبہ سندھ) is a province in Pakistan. The provincial capital of Sindh is Karachi. Sindh has a population of 30 million people and an area of 54,407 mi² or (140,914 km²); in terms of area the provincial region of Sindh is greater in area than Greece but smaller than Tajikistan. There is a southern boundary with the Indian state of Gujarat.  This is in dispute see: Kori Creek

[[Khyber Pakhtunkhwa]]

CATEGORIES: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, 1972 establishments in Asia, Provinces of Pakistan

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (صوبہ سرحد پاکستان) is a province in northwest Pakistan. The capital is Peshawar and it has a population of 14 million people and an area of 28,773 mi² or (74,521 km²). The province was created in 1901 during British rule when it was separated from a  Punjab province of the British India Empire.November 2010  A referendum was held in the North West Frontier Province on 2 July 1947. The majority of voters wanted to join with Pakistan, with only a very small number voting to join with India. The province became a part of Pakistan, because of this referendum.

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is divided into 26 districts. There are 21 Settled Area Districts and 5 Provincially Administered Tribal Areas (PATA) Districts. The administration of the PATA districts is the responsibility the President of Pakistan and the Governor of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

[[Balochistan (Pakistan)]]

CATEGORIES: Balochistan (Pakistan), Provinces of Pakistan

Balochistan (صوبہ بلوچستان) is a province in Pakistan. The capital of Balochistan is Quetta. Balochistan has a population of about 10 million people and an area of 134,051 mi2 or (347,190 km2). It covers 45% of Pakistani territory; in terms of area the province of Balochistan is greater in area than Republic of the Congo but smaller than Germany. 

Baluchistan (Chief commissioners province) - seceded from British India and became part of Pakistan in 1947.  On the 30th of June in 1947 the Khan of Kalat joined Pakistan; tribal gathering and municipality of Quetta also declared for Pakistan.  Baluchistan States Union - The BSU was formed after the formal Accession of four individual princely states into the new Dominion of Pakistan on the 31st of March in 1948, apart from the enclave of Gwadar that was in cessation from Oman to Pakistan on the 8th of September in 1958.  Both CCP & BSU became the New Province of Balochistan on the 1st of July in 1970, after the dissolution of the former West Pakistan and is an “Integral Part of Pakistan”.

In common with the other provinces of Pakistan, Balochistan has a parliamentary system of government.  The ceremonial head of the province is the Governor, who is appointed by the President of Pakistan on the advice of the provincial Chief Minister.  The chief executive of the province is the Chief Minister who is normally the leader of the largest party or alliance in the provincial assembly. The unicameral Provincial Assembly of Balochistan comprises 65 seats of which 4% are reserved for non-Muslims and 16% for women only. The judicial branch of government is carried out by the Balochistan High Court, based in Quetta, and headed by a Chief Justice. For administrative purposes, the province is subdivided into 30 districts:

[[Italian Campaign (World War I)]]

CATEGORIES: Battles of World War I, 1910s in Italy, 20th century in Austria, 20th century in Hungary, 1915 in Europe, 1916 in Europe, 1917 in Europe, 1918 in Europe

The Italian campaign was a series of battles fought between Austria-Hungary and Italy in the mountains of northern Italy between 1915 and 1918. 

Italy did not fight for the Triple Alliance, despite promises to Germany and Austria-Hungary, in 1914, when World War I started. In 1915, Italy joined the Triple Entente to take part of Austria-Hungary. Italian irredentism wanted the province of Trento (Trentino), the port of Trieste and the province of Bolzano-Bozen (Alto Adige/Südtirol), Istria, and Dalmatia.

Italy had hoped to begin the war with a surprise attack to act quickly and capture several Austrian-held cities. However, the war in Italy soon turned to trench warfare, which was similar to that of the Western Front.  

[[Choudhary Rahmat Ali]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1951 deaths, Pakistani culture, Pakistani politicians, Punjabi people

Chaudhry Rahmat Ali or Rehmat Ali Khan (November 16, 1897 - February 12, 1951) was an Indian Muslim who was one of the first people to ask for the creation of the state of Pakistan. He is famous for coining the name, or term  "Pakistan" on January 28, 1933. 

In Pakistan he has considerable importance. His articles are taught in  the course books of Pakistani schoolsSeptember 2014.

[[Abbottabad]]

CATEGORIES: Hill Stations in Pakistan, Abbottabad, 1863 establishments, 1860s establishments in Pakistan

Abbottabad is a city in Pakistan. It is in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and is the capital of Abbottabad District. Well over a million people live in Abbottabad, which is also known as the "city of the pines". One of the most important places for army training in Pakistan, the Pakistan Military Academy,  is in Kakul, near Abbottabad.

[[Abbottabad District]]

CATEGORIES: Abbottabad District, Districts of British India

Abbottabad District is a district in the Hazara Division of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The district has an area of 1,969 km2, with the city of Abbottabad being the capital. Neighbouring districts are Mansehra to the north, Muzaffarabad to the east, Haripur to the west, and Rawalpindi to the south.

[[Bannu District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Bannu District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Bannu is the capital.

[[Battagram District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Batagram District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Batagram is the capital.

[[Buner District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Buner District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. 

[[Charsadda District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Charsadda District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Charsadda is the capital.

[[Dera Ismail Khan District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Dera Ismail Khan District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Dera Ismail Khan is the capital. It is the most southern district of KPK and has an area of 7326 and a population of 852,995 as of the 1998 Census. The main language of the district is a dialect of Saraiki. 

[[Hangu District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Hangu District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Hangu is the capital.

[[Haripur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Haripur District is a district in the Hazara Division of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Haripur is the capital.

[[Karak District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Karak District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Karak is the capital. This district is the second smallest district in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa after Hangu. The area of this district is 3395 km2.

[[Kohat District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Kohat District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Kohat is the capital. The Kohati dialect of the north-western Punjabi (or Hindko) language is spoken in this very district, although outside the province it is influenced by inhabitants of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

[[Kohistan District, Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Kohistan District is a district in the Hazara Division of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The town of Dassu is the district headquarters. The area is also called Abasin Kohistan or Indus Kohistan, after the Indus River that runs through the middle of the district.

Kohistan District is divided into  4 Tehsils (subdivisions):

Farming and growing livestock are the main focus of the economy there. Growing timber has also become more important in recent years.  The district has one of the lowest literacy rates in Pakistan, about 10% of the people can read and write. Education is spreading though.

[[Lakki Marwat District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Pakistan

Lakki Marwat District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province of Pakistan. The city of Lakki Marwat is the capital.

[[Lower Dir District]]

CATEGORIES: Lower Dir District

Lower Dir (لر دیر ，دیر زیریں) is one of the 27 districts in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is in the north-western part of the province and has an area of 1583 square kilometers.  Timergara city is the district headquarters and largest city.

It used to be one district named Dir but in 1996 it was divided into two, Upper Dir and Lower Dir.

[[Malakand District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Malakand District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. 

[[Mansehra District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Mansehra District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Mansehra is the capital.

[[Mardan District]]

CATEGORIES: Mardan District

Mardan District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Mardan is the capital.

[[Nowshera District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Nowshera District is a district of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in Pakistan. The city of Nowshera is the capital.

[[Peshawar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Peshawar District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Peshawar is the capital. In 1998, the population of the district was 2,019,000, of which 49% were urban.

[[Shangla District]]

CATEGORIES: Shangla District

Shangla District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Alpuri is the capital.

The district is split into the following tehsils:

[[Middle Eastern theatre of World War I]]

CATEGORIES: Middle East, World War I

The Middle Eastern theatre of World War I was a large theatre during the first World War. Battles here were fought between the Allied Powers (especially Britain and Russia) and the Central Powers (especially the Ottoman Empire).

This theatre was the largest of all the theatres of WWI. It was made of four main campaigns. In the Sinai and Palestine Campaign, mainly British forces defeated the Turkish army. In the Mesopotamian Campaign, British forces, mainly the Army of India, also defeated the Turkish army. In the Caucasus Campaign, Turkey fought against the Russian Empire and other forces. In the Dardanelles Campaign the Turkish army defeated British forces, mainly colonial. There were also minor campaigns in Arabia and Southern Arabia, Aden, and Persia.

Fighting here began on October 29, 1914 and ended on October 30, 1918. A peace treaty was signed on August 10, 1920. 

[[Swabi District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Swabi District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Swabi is the capital.

[[Swat District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Swat District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.  The capital of Swat is Saidu Sharif, but the main city in Swat is Mingora. It was a princely state until 1969, when it was dissolved and made part of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. It is the third largest district in KPK with a population of 2,309,570.

With many lakes, green meadows and mountains, it is popular with tourists.

[[Tank District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Tank District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Tank is the capital.

[[Upper Dir District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Upper Dir is one of the 26 districts in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is located in the north-western part of the province and has an area of 3,699 km square kilometers.  Dir is the district headquarters. 

It used to be one district named Dir but in 1996 it was divided into two, Upper Dir and Lower Dir District.

[[Bannu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Bannu is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Bannu District.

[[Battagram]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Batagram (بٹگرام) is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Batagram District.

[[Charsadda]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Charsadda is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Charsadda District.

[[Chitral District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Regions of Pakistan

Chitral (ضلع  چترال) is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It has population of about 318,689 people at the 1998 Census, which grew to about 378,000 people by 2004. It has one of the highest mountains of the world, Tirich Mir. It is the largest district in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, with an area of 14,850 sq. kilometres.

[[Dera Ismail Khan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Dera Ismail Khan is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Dera Ismail Khan District.

[[Hangu (Pakistan)]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Hangu is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Hangu District.

[[Haripur, Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Haripur is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Haripur District.It was founded by a Sikh General in 1822.And now it's the main city of Hazara division

[[Karak, Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Karak is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Karak District. The main source of income of the people of Karak is agriculture. One of the main qualities of the people of Karak is that they are highly educated.

[[Kohat]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Kohat is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Kohat District.

The majority of the people in this city speak Kohati dialect of Hindko language mostly.

[[Lakki Marwat]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Lakki Marwat is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Lakki Marwat District.

[[Mansehra]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Mansehra is a city in Pakistan. It is in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and is the capital of Mansehra District.

The district has 3 sub divisions namely Mansehra Tehsil, Oghi Tehsil and Balakot. It also has a tribal territory called Kala Dhaka, which has however now been given a separate district status also. The district currently has 1.5 million people. The important towns in the district are Baffa, Shinkiari, Kaghan, Naran,Garhi Habibullah, Balakot,Phulra, Oghi, Darband and Khaki.

The Karakoram Highway (or KKH) goes through this district and has a 60 km stretch in the district. Likewise the Mansehra-Naran-Jalkhan-Naran (MNJC). Road also commences in the district and has a 200 km stretch up to Babusar Pass passing through the district. The MNJC is being developed as an alternate route to the Northern Areas of Pakistan.

[[Mardan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan, Mardan District

Mardan (Pashto: مردان), known as The city of hospitality, is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. The city is the capital of Mardan District.

[[Nowshera]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Nowshera is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Nowshera District.

[[Alpuri]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Shangla District, Cities in Pakistan

Alpuri is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. It is the capital of Shangla District. It is the headquarters of Alpuri Tehsil.

[[Saidu Sharif]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Saidu Sharif is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Swat District.

[[Tank, Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Tank is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and is the capital of Tank District.

[[Theatre (warfare)]]

CATEGORIES: War

In warfare, a theatre or theater is an area where there are many battles. Theatres are bordered by peaceful areas.

Some wars are fought in one theatre. Many wars, for example the Seven Years' War have been fought in many different theatres. There were many theatres in World War I and World War II. The Napoleonic wars were the first multi-theatre war in modern times. The use of the word "theatre" for war was first seen in the book "On War" by Carl von Clausewitz.

[[Charlotte Perrelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Swedish singers, Eurovision Song Contest winners, Eurovision Song Contest entrants

Charlotte Perrelli (born Anna Jenny Charlotte Nilsson on October 7, 1974 in Hovmantorp, Kronobergs län) is a Swedish singer,television host and actress, perhaps most famous for winning Melodifestivalen 1999 and subsequently the Eurovision Song Contest 1999 with her song Take Me To Your Heaven. Since then she has released six singles and four albums. Perrelli won Melodifestivalen 2008 on March 15, she represented Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest 2008 in Belgrade, Serbia.

[[Attock District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Rawalpindi Division

Attock District (ضلع اتوکک) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Attock is the capital.

[[Bahawalnagar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Bahawalpur Division

Bahawalnagar District (ضلع بہاولنگر) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Bahawalnagar is the capital.It is 192 miles south of Lahore and about 120 miles east of Bahwalpur. River Satluj passes on the northern side at a distance of about 6 miles.

[[Bahawalpur District]]

CATEGORIES: Bahawalpur Division

Bahawalpur District (ضلع بہاولپور) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Bahawalpur is the capital. The Riasti dialect of the language of the Punjab is spoken here and the neighboring areas in the Bahawalpur area of Cholistan.

[[Bhakkar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Sargodha Division

Bhakkar District (ضلع بھککر) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Bhakkar is the capital.

[[Chakwal District]]

CATEGORIES: Chakwal District, Rawalpindi Division

Chakwal District (ضلع چکوال) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Chakwal is the capital.

[[Dera Ghazi Khan District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Dera Ghazi Khan Division

Dera Ghazi Khan District (ضلع درہ غازی خان) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Dera Ghazi Khan is the capital.

[[Faisalabad District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Faisalabad Division

Faisalabad District (ضلع فیصلآباد) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Faisalabad is the capital.

[[Gujranwala District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Gujranwala Division

Gujranwala District (ضلع گوجرانوالہ) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Gujranwala is the capital.

[[Gujrat District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Gujranwala Division

Gujrat District (ضلع گجرات) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Gujrat is the capital.

Gujrat District, had many Sikh Sardars, ruling villages, Islam was a majority, With 10% Sikhs and Hindus together in the District. Islam had a good influence over the Jatts of Gujrat District, 98% of Jatts them followed Islam, The People of this region are mainly Jatts, Rajputs, Gakhars, Balochi, Pathans, etc. 

[[Hafizabad District]]

CATEGORIES: Gujranwala Division

Hafizabad District (ضلع حفزآباد) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Hafizabad is the capital.

[[Jhang District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Faisalabad Division

Jhang District (ضلع جھنگ) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Jhang is the capital.

[[Jhelum District]]

CATEGORIES: Rawalpindi Division

Jhelum District (ضلع جہلم) is in the Punjab province of Pakistan. According the 1998 census, the district had 936,957 people, of which 31.48% were urban. Jhelum is known for providing many soldiers to the British and later to the Pakistan armed forces due to which it is also known as city of soldiers or land of martyrs and warriors. The district of Jhelum stretches from the Jhelum River almost to the Indus. Salt is quarried at the Mayo mine in the Salt Range. There are two coal-mines, the only ones worked in the province, from which the North-Western railway gets some of coal. The chief centre of the salt trade is Pind Dadan Khan. The district is crossed by the main line of the North-Western railway, and also traversed along the south by a branch line. It is in the north of the Punjab province, Jhelum district is bordered by Sargodha to its south, Gujrat and the Jhelum River to its south and east, Chakwal to its west, Mirpur to its east, and Rawalpindi to its north.

[[Kasur District]]

CATEGORIES: Lahore Division

Kasur District (ضلع کسر) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Kasur is the capital.

[[Khanewal District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Multan Division

Khanewal District (ضلع خانیوال) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Khanewal is the capital.

[[Khushab District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Sargodha Division

Khushab District (ضلع خوشاب) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Khushab is the capital.

[[Lahore District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Lahore Division

Lahore District (ضلع لاہور) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Lahore is the capital.

[[Layyah District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Dera Ghazi Khan Division

Layyah District (ضلع لیّہ) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Layyah is the capital. 

Layyah District shares borders with the districts of Bhakkar (north), Muzaffargarh (south), Jhang (east) and D.G. Khan (west).  The District is of semi rectangular shape and has sandy land.February 2012 The total area of the district is 6291 km2.February 2012  It is 88 km from east to west & 75 km from north to south.November 2010 It is made up of the three tehsils of:

Layyah District has an extremely hot climate. The temperature in winter is low because it is near the Koh-Suleman mountains.February 2012 The tehsil Chaubara is almost barren and is made up of forest and sand dunes. The tehsil of Layyah and Karor Lal Esan are better developed agriculturally but they have also large areas of sand dunes and uncultivated land. The river Indus passes from north to south on western side of the district and touches D.G. Khan.November 2010

[[Lodhran District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Multan Division

Lodhran District (ضلع لودھراں) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Lodhran is the capital.

[[Mandi Bahauddin District]]

CATEGORIES: Gujranwala Division

Mandi Bahauddin District (ضلع مندی بہوددیں) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Mandi Bahauddin is the capital.

The district has three tehsils, these are:

[[Mianwali District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Sargodha Division

Mianwali District (ضلع میانوالی) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Mianwali is the capital.

[[Multan District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Multan Division

Multan District  (ضِلع مُلتان) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. According to the 1998 census of Pakistan it had a population of 3.117 million (1.315 million or 42.2% in urban areas). Its capital is the city of Multan.

[[Muzaffargarh District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Dera Ghazi Khan Division

Muzaffargarh District (ضِلع مُظفّرگڑھ) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Muzaffargarh is the capital.

[[Nankana Sahib District]]

CATEGORIES: Lahore Division

Nankana Sahib District or Khairpur Bhattian (ضلع ننکانہ صاحب) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Nankana Sahib is the capital.

[[Narowal District]]

CATEGORIES: Gujranwala Division

Narowal District (ضلع نارووال) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Narowal is the capital. The Darhab dialect of the Punjabi language is spoken in this very district and the surrounding areas.

[[Okara District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Sahiwal Division

Okara District (ضلع وکرہ) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Okara is the capital.

[[Taito Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies, Electronics companies

The Taito Corporation is an innovator of coin operated video games. Taito was founded in 1953 to import peanuts and vodka to Japan. They also made vending machines for the vodka and peanuts. The next year (1954), Taito began making jukeboxes and other amusement machines. These machines were designed by other companies but in 1956 Taito designed and produced Japans first jukebox. Taito started to buy, sell, and lease pinball machines in 1956. Taito became the manufacturer of Seeburg corporation (USA) jukeboxes in 1962. Taito produced Japans first crane-type coin operated machine in 1965. The Japanese Ministry of International Trade and Industry gave Taito a commendation prize for enterprise in 1970. In 1973 Taito made Pro Hockey and Soccer video games as well as Elepong. Elepong was the first Japanese designed coin operated game. Taito are most famous for making Space Invaders in 1978. Taito says "Space Invaders was a worldwide phenomenon".  Taito has been one of the leading makers of coin operated video games in the world for more than thirty years.

[[Pakpattan District]]

CATEGORIES: Sahiwal Division

Pakpattan District (ضلع پاکپتن) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Pakpattan is the capital.

[[Rahimyar Khan District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Bahawalpur Division

Rahimyar Khan District (ضلع رحیم یار خان) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Rahimyar Khan is the capital.

[[Space Invaders]]

CATEGORIES: Arcade games

Space Invaders is a video game made by the Taito Corporation. Space Invaders is one of the most famous early video games. The game is about defending the Earth from Space Invaders (aliens) by shooting them down before they can land. There have been seven versions of Space Invaders made by the Taito Corporation. Space Invaders was designed by the Taito Corporations man in charge of the game making department, Toshihiro Nishikado. Nishikado was inspired to make the game after watching Star Wars and War of the Worlds. At first Space Invaders was a coin-operated machine but has been made available for almost every games console and home computer. Before making Space Invaders, Nishikado worked on games called Soccer and Interceptor. He says the hardest part of making a video game is designing the computer inside it. Taito describes Space Invaders as "an international phenomenon".July 2013

[[Rajanpur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Dera Ghazi Khan Division

Rajanpur District (ضلع راجنپور) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Rajanpur is the capital.

[[Rawalpindi District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Rawalpindi District, Rawalpindi Division

Rawalpindi District (ضلع راولپنڈی) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Rawalpindi is the capital. The district is divided into seven tehsils, these are:

In 1901 Punjab Census, the Sikhs numbered 26,363, Hindus 57,325, and the Muslims being 466,918 83%. But between 1901-1931, there was a large number of Hindus converting to Sikhism. By 1947, there would have been more than 100,000 Sikhs In this district, and also the population growing.

[[Sahiwal District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Sahiwal Division

Sahiwal District (ضلع ساہیوال) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Sahiwal is the capital.

Sahiwal is on GT Road. It is 167 km from Lahore.

[[Sargodha District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Sargodha Division

Sargodha District (ضلع سرگودھا) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Sargodha is the capital.

[[Sialkot District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Gujranwala Division

Sialkot District (ضلع سیالکوٹ) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Sialkot is the 

It is recorded that Masses of Jatts of Sialkot district, converted to Islam, under Daud Bandagi Kirmani (1513-1575), of Shergarh during the reign of Emperor Akbar between, 1556-1605. The Clans that converted included Sandhu, Ghumman, Bajwa, Virk, Maan, Cheema, Basra, Kahlon, Goraya, Sahi, Hanjra, Dehothar.

[[Toba Tek Singh District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Faisalabad Division

Toba Tek Singh District (ضلع توبہ تک سنگھ) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Toba Tek Singh is the capital.

[[Vehari District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Multan Division

Vehari District (ضلع وہاڑی) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Vehari is the capital.

[[Attock]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Attock is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Punjab province and is the capital of Attock District.

[[Bahawalnagar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Bahawalnagar is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Punjab province. It is the capital of Bahawalnagar District. It is located near the India–Pakistan border.

[[Bahawalpur]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Bahawalpur is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Punjab province and is the capital of Bahawalpur District.

[[Bhakkar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Bhakkar (بھکر, Seraiki: بھکر) is the capital city of Bhakkar District, Punjab, Pakistan. It is located at 31°37'60N 71°4'0E at an elevation of 159 metres and lies on the left bank of the Indus river. It has a population of almost 300,000 and was given status of district in 1981. It is also the capital of the tehsil of the same name (Bhakkar Tehsil).

[[Chakwal]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Chakwal is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Punjab province and is the capital of Chakwal District.

[[Dera Ghazi Khan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Dera Ghazi Khan is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Punjab province and is the capital of Dera Ghazi Khan District.

[[Faisalabad]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Faisalabad, formerly known as Lyallpur, is the third largest metropolis in Pakistan. It is in the Punjab province and is the capital of Faisalabad District. The city is an important centre of trade and industry.

[[Union councils of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Pakistan, Local government of Pakistan

A Union Council or Village Council in Pakistan is an elected local government body that has 21 councillors. They are elected by the people. Each Union Council is headed by a Nazim, which is similar to a mayor, and a Naib Nazim (similar to a deputy mayor).

[[Seer Gharbi]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Seer Gharbi is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of the country of Pakistan. It is in the southeastern part of the province, bordering the Rawalpindi District of Punjab province.

[[Tranmere Rovers F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 establishments in England, Birkenhead, English football clubs

Tranmere Rovers Football Club is an English football club, They were a member of The Football League until 2015, when they were relegated to the Football Conference. Their main rivals are Chester, Wrexham, Bolton and Everton.

[[Corumbá]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mato Grosso do Sul

Corumbá is a Brazilian city of the state of Mato Grosso do Sul. It has about 120,000 inhabitants and an area of 64.960,86 km².

[[Christopher Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from London, Actors who played Bond villains, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from respiratory failure, English movie actors, English radio actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Singers from London, Writers from London

Sir Christopher Frank Carandini Lee CBE, CStJ (27 May 1922  7 June 2015) was an English actor. He was a direct descendent of Marie Carandini and Robert E. Lee.

Lee was best known for his many movie characters. For example, Dracula and Fu Manchu in many movies during the 1950s through the 1970s. He became even better known as Scaramanga in the Bond movie The Man with the Golden Gun, Saruman the White in  The Lord of the Rings trilogy and Count Dooku in Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones.

He performed roles in 275 movies since 1946. He appeared in over 75 television programs. Lee was also a voice actor, providing his voice in over 50 movies. This made him the Guinness World Record holder for most movie acting roles ever. Lee was also a singer and his latest album was released in 2013.

Lee lived in London. He was married to Danish model Birgit Kroencke.

[[Liv Tyler]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Actors from Maine, Actors from Manhattan, American movie actors, Models from Manhattan

Liv Tyler (born July 1, 1977) is an American actress and former model. She is best known for her roles of Grace Stamper in Armageddon and Arwen in The Lord of the Rings movie trilogy. She is the daughter of Aerosmith's singer, Steven Tyler.

Tyler was born Liv Rundgren at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, New York City, New York. She is the first born daughter of Bebe Buell, a model, singer, and was the Playboy Playmate of the month Miss November 1974, and Steven Tyler, the lead singer of Aerosmith. Her maternal grandmother, Dorothea Johnson, founded the Protocol School of Washington. Her mother named her after Norwegian actress Liv Ullmann. At birth, Bebe Buell claimed that rock star Todd Rundgren was Tyler's biological father. Tyler spent most of her childhood living with that understanding, only finding her true parentage at age nine, after meeting Steven Tyler at a Rundgren concert in Boston. Also, when Tyler was growing up, Steven Tyler started coming to visit. Then at another meeting in 1988, seeing that Steven Tyler's other daughter, Mia, looked very similar to herself, she asked her mother. The truth about Tyler's paternity did not become public until 1991, when she changed her name from Rundgren to Tyler, but kept the old one as a middle name. Buell's reason for the decision was that Steven Tyler was too heavily addicted to drugs at that time. Since knowing the truth about her paternity, Liv and Steven Tyler have had a close relationship. They have even made their careers intertwine when Liv performed in Aerosmith's video "Crazy" and when Aerosmith wrote and performed many of the songs in Liv's movie Armageddon.

Tyler went to the Congressional School of Virginia, Breakwater Elementary and Wayneflete schools (in Portland, Maine) before returning to New York City with her mother at the age of twelve. She went to York Prep in NYC for Junior High and High School, graduating in 1995. One month later Tyler set off for Italy, to star in Stealing Beauty.

[[Dourados]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mato Grosso do Sul

Dourados is a Brazilian city of the state of Mato Grosso do Sul. It has about 200,000 inhabitants and an area of 4,086.

[[Carlo Gesualdo]]

CATEGORIES: 1566 births, 1613 deaths, Renaissance composers, Italian composers, Murderers, Lutenists

Carlo Gesualdo, known as Gesualdo da Venosa (born probably 8 March  1566; died  8 September 1613), Prince of Venosa and Count of Conza, was an Italian music composer, lutenist and murderer.  He lived in the late part of the Renaissance period.   He is famous for his beautifully expressive madrigals which are written in a very chromatic style (using lots of sharps and flats).  He is also remembered for committing a horrible murder.

[[Nanny (disambiguation)]]

The Nanny may mean:

[[AdventureQuest]]

CATEGORIES: Online games, Role-playing video games

AdventureQuest is an RPG (role-playing game) made by Artix Entertainment.

[[Conflict]]

CATEGORIES: Conflicts, War

A conflict is a struggle between people which  may be physical, or between conflicting ideas. The word comes from Latin conflingere Conflingere means to come together for a battle. Conflicts can either be within one person, or they can involve several people or groups. Conflicts arise because there are needs, values or ideas that are seen to be different, and there is no means to reconcile the dispute. 

Very often, conflicts lead to fights, or even wars (in the case where conflicts are solved with weapons). Conflict between ideas is usually  fought with propaganda.

[[Constructed script]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems

A constructed script (also artificial script, neography, and conscript for short) is a kind of writing system. It is a writing system that is specifically created by an individual or group, and is not like an evolved natural script. In contrast, natural scripts evolve and grow as part of a natural language or culture.

Some constructed scripts are made to be used for constructed languages. Other constructed scripts are used in linguistic experimentation or for other more practical uses in existing languages.

[[An Inspector Calls]]

CATEGORIES: British plays

An Inspector Calls is a play written in 1945 by the British playwright J. B. Priestley, but set in 1912. Its socialist views ran against the capitalist views of many theatres visitors. It was first performed in 1946 in two Moscow theatres.  It was then first produced in London at the New Theatre on 1 October 1946. 

The play shows the way in which people are all connected, and reflects Priestley's socialist views while outlining the problems he saw with capitalism. The main themes in the play are an equitable (fair) society, responsibility and love.

[[Justice and Equality Movement]]

CATEGORIES: Darfur conflict, Rebel militia groups in Africa

The Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) is a rebel group involved in the Darfur conflict of Sudan.  It is led by Khalil Ibrahim.  Together with other rebel groups such as the Sudan Liberation Army, they are fighting against the government-supported Janjaweed militia.  The JEM is also a member of the Eastern Front, a rebel coalition.  After the Eastern Front signed a peace deal with the central government, the JEM lost access to its funding from Eritrea.

The JEM traces its foundation to the writers of the Black Book, a manuscript published in 2000 that shows some problems.  JEM has an Islamist ideology, and the government links the group to Hassan al-Turabi, although leaders of the group and Turabi himself deny the claim. However, al-Turabi blames the government for making the situation worse". 

On January 20, 2006, the group merged with the Sudan Liberation Movement, along with other rebel groups, to form the Alliance of Revolutionary Forces of West Sudan.  However, the JEM and SLM negotiated as separate groups with peace talks with the government in May 2006.

In October of 2007, the JEM attacked an oilfield in the Kordofan region of Sudan. This olified is controlled by a Chinese consortium.  The next month, a group of 135 Chinese engineers arrived in Darfur to work on this field. Ibrahim told reporters, "We oppose them coming because the Chinese are not interested in human rights. It is just interested in Sudan's resources." The JEM claims that the revenue from oil sold to China funds the Sudanese government and the Janjaweed militia.

On the morning of December 11th, 2007, Khalil Ibrahim claimed that JEM forces fought and defeated Sudanese government troops guarding a Chinese-run oilfield in the Kordofan region.  Khartoum officials, however, denied that any oil fields had come under attack.  Ibrahim said that the attack was part of a JEM campaign to rid Sudan of Chinese-run oilfields and stated that "JEM want all Chinese companies to leave. They have been warned many times. They should not be there."

[[Holden (disambiguation)]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames

Holden is the name of an Australian brand of automobile. Holden can also mean:

[[Languages constructed by J. R. R. Tolkien]]

CATEGORIES: Middle-earth, Constructed languages

This article is about the constructed languages of J. R. R. Tolkien, used in his Middle-earth universe.

[[Lope de Vega]]

CATEGORIES: 1562 births, 1635 deaths, Spanish poets, Playwrights

Lope de Vega (also Félix Lope de Vega y Carpio or Lope Félix de Vega Carpio) (25 November 1562 – 27 August 1635) was a Spanish Baroque playwright and poet. His reputation in the world of Spanish letters is second only to that of Cervantes, while the sheer volume of his literary output is unequalled: 

he is estimated to have written between 1,500 and 2,500 fully-fledged plays – of which some 425 have survived until the modern day – together with a plethora of shorter dramatic and poetic works.

He was "The Phoenix of Wits" and "Monster of Nature" by Miguel de Cervantes because he did so much work. Lope de Vega renewed the Spanish theatre when people were becoming interested in it. Along with Calderón de la Barca and Tirso de Molina, he improved Spanish theater. He is considered a great dramatist and his plays are often performed. He is also one of the famous Spanish poets and authors.

[[Pedro Calderòn de la Barca]]

CATEGORIES: 1600 births, 1681 deaths, Spanish writers

Pedro Calderón de la Barca y Henao (January 17, 1600 – May 25, 1681), was a dramatist of the Spanish Golden Age.

Calderón was born in Madrid. His mother, who was of Flemish descent, died in 1610; his father, who was secretary to the treasury, died in 1615. Calderón was educated at the Jesuit College in Madrid, the Colegio Imperial, with a view to taking orders; but instead, he studied law at Salamanca.

[[Chemical vapor deposition]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Chemical processes

Chemical vapor deposition is a method of putting a thin layer of materials on to a surface using very low heat. It is specially useful for coating thin glass with metal without damaging the glass, using such a thin layer of metal that the glass can be seen through. This technology was invented by the Head of the Chemistry Department of Harvard University, Professor Roy Gordon, in the 1970s and perfected by his team during the 1980s. Chemical vapor deposition has a vast range of uses. Hip replacement joints are coated using chemical vapor deposition to make them lighter, stronger, and longer lasting. TFT displays (flat screen televisions and computer monitors) are made using chemical vapor deposition. This technology is also used to prevent double glazing windows and supermarket freezers from steaming up. Chemical vapor deposition can be used to create synthetic diamonds.

[[States of Sudan]]

CATEGORIES: States of Sudan

Below is a list of the 25 states of Sudan. As Sudan was under British rule, they are organized by their original provinces under British rule. Arabic language versions are in parentheses.  States that were not provinces before 1994 are marked with (*).  Transliterations from Arabic to English may vary; in particular, the article "al" is sometimes transliterated as "el".  Numbers correspond to those of the map at right.

[[WrestleMania XXIV]]

CATEGORIES: WrestleMania, 2008 in professional wrestling, Sports in Orlando, Florida, 2008 in American television, 2000s in Orlando, Florida, 2008 in Florida

WrestleMania XXIV was the twenty-fourth yearly WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view event made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on March 30, 2008 at the Citrus Bowl in Orlando, Florida. It was the first WrestleMania to be held in the state of Florida, and the second WrestleMania to be held outdoors the whole time, the other being WrestleMania IX. The official theme songs were "Light It Up" by Rev Theory and "Snow ((Hey Oh))" by the Red Hot Chili Peppers. The tagline was "The Biggest WrestleMania Under the Sun."

Tickets went on sale to the public on November 3, 2007. For the second year in a row, WrestleMania broke the record for the highest-grossing pay-per-view in WWE history and for the Citrus Bowl, grossing in $5.85 million in ticket sales. The record-breaking Citrus Bowl attendance record of 74,635 consisting of people from twenty-one countries, all fifty states, and five Canadian provinces, pumped an estimated $30 million into the local economy. The Central Florida Sports Commission thought that the event created many jobs, and brought around 60,000 visitors to the city for the event. WWE and the city of Orlando hosted festivities that spanned a five-day period within the central Florida area, bringing many branding opportunities and television coverage, leading up to the event at the Citrus Bowl.

The event was a joint-promotion pay-per-view, having performers from the Raw, SmackDown, and ECW brands. The main match on the Raw brand was a Triple Threat match for the WWE Championship between Randy Orton, Triple H, and John Cena, which Orton won by pinning Cena. The main event and featured match on the SmackDown brand was Edge versus The Undertaker for the World Heavyweight Championship, which Undertaker won by forcing Edge to submit with the Gogoplata. The main match on the ECW brand was Chavo Guerrero against Kane for the ECW Championship, which Kane won by pinfall after performing a chokeslam. Main matches on the undercard included Floyd Mayweather, Jr. versus The Big Show in a No Disqualification match, an interpromotional Money in the Bank ladder match, and Ric Flair versus Shawn Michaels.

[[Nazim]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani people

A Nazim is a person who is responsible for administration of cities, districts and the Union Councils of Pakistan. The job of a Nazim is similar to that of a mayor.

[[Dogon people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Africa, Malian people

The Dogon are a group of people who live in Mali in West Africa. They live south of the River Niger near the city of Bandiagara. They are famous for their types of stories, dancing, buildings and art. They make wooden statues.

[[Ipswich]]

CATEGORIES: Hanseatic League, Ipswich, Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Port cities and towns of England, County towns in England

Ipswich is a large town in the East Anglian county of Suffolk England. It is the county town of Suffolk. It is near the estuary of the River Orwell. 117,069 people live there. In the Tudor period Ipswich was famous for the Wool Trade and there are still a lot of Tudor buildings which survive to this day. Thomas Wolsey, who was a famous adviser to Henry VIII was born in Ipswich. In modern times Ipswich became infamous as in 2006 a serial killer murdered five sex workers over a short space of time.

The town is home to Ipswich Town F.C., an association football team.  They play in the town at a stadium called Portman Road.

Ipswich is one of the oldest towns in England.

[[Self-esteem]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Self-esteem is the way people think about themselves and how worthwhile they feel. Psychologists use the word self-esteem to describe whether someone likes them self or not. Someone with high self-esteem might think that they are good at things and are worthwhile and they are confident in the things that they do. Someone with low self-esteem might think that they are bad at things and worthless. Different psychologists have different ways of measuring self-esteem, and many people do not agree with what it means. Some people think that self-esteem is linked to depression, eating disorders and bullying. Some people may also injure themselves if they suffer from a low self-esteem.

Self-esteem also considered by the international law on human rights, such as Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Yogyakarta Principles, and they affirm that each person's self-esteem must be protected against any kind of abuse or violence out of social prejudices and discriminations.

World Health Organization also think that to make strong self-esteem is important to prevent the suicide of students as well as prevent bullying by tolerance.

[[Freetown Christiania]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Denmark, Politics of Denmark

Freetown Christiania, commonly just called Christiania, is a Danish special community. The village is partially self-governing with 850 inhabitants, and has an area of 85 acres near the capital of Denmark, Copenhagen. The Freetown has often been in the centre of controversies since its creation in an empty military area in 1971. In the Freetown, cannabis was legal until 2004. Inhabitants of Christiania are called "Christianites". Christiania has become home to several businesses such as carpenters, blacksmiths, a bikeshop, as well as several cafés, restaurants, jazz, blues and night clubs.

[[I'm Not There]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s biographical movies, 2007 drama movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, American independent movies

I'm Not There is a Golden Globe Award-winning and Academy Award-nominated 2007 American biographical drama movie that is inspired by the life of musician Bob Dylan. Dylan is played by seven different actors in the movie: Marcus Carl Franklin, Ben Whishaw, Heath Ledger, Christian Bale, Richard Gere, and Cate Blanchett, who play people like Dylan but with different names.

The movie won and was nominated for several awards, including eight wins in "Best Supporting Actress" categories for Cate Blanchett, and Independent Spirit Award nomination for "Best Film".

[[Lanthanide]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

A lanthanide is one of a group of 15 elements that have atomic numbers 57 to 71. This is also known as the lanthanide series or lanthanoid series. This group starts at lanthanum and it ends at lutetium.   All lanthanoids are f-block elements, meaning that electrons fill the 4f electron shell, except for lutetium which is a d-block lanthanoid. The lanthanoid series (Ln) is named after lanthanum.

Lanthanides are metals that are related to each other in how they behave. Most of them slowly turn into their hydroxides when they are placed into water, like the alkali metals. They usually form a coating of oxide when placed in the air, like most metals. Lanthanides, with Scandium and Yttrium, are called rare earth elements.

All the lanthanoids are silvery white soft metals and tarnish rapidly in air. The hardness increases with increasing atomic number.

Lanthanides are not abundant, and only small amounts are mined. Some have various uses in magnets, superconductors, chemical catalysts, and optical equipment such as lasers.

[[The New Zealand Story]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 video games, Arcade games, Commodore 64 games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo Entertainment System games

The New Zealand Story is a video game released by the Taito Corporation in 1988. This game was released for coin operated machines, home computers and game consoles.

[[Ungdomshuset]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Denmark, Copenhagen, Political movements, 1897 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in Denmark, 2007 disestablishments in Europe, 2000s disestablishments in Denmark

Ungdomshuset (in English: "the Youth House") was the popular name of the building formally named Folkets Hus ("House of the People") on Jagtvej 69 in Nørrebro, Copenhagen. The Ungdomshuset was a meet point for many anarchists, for the music in the underground scene and leftist groups from 1982 until 2007, when after a long conflict between the municipal government of Copenhagen and the people living there, was smashed. Police started to clear the building early on Thursday, 1 March 2007. Demolition began on 5 March 2007 and was completed two days later. Ever since the eviction in March 2007, former users and supporters have held weekly demonstrations for a new Ungdomshuset, the demonstrations starting from nearby square 'Blågårds Plads' every Thursday at 5 p.m. and going to various places in Copenhagen. The starting point has recently been changed to Gammel Torv in response to the demonstraters saying they are getting closer to the politicians concerning a solution for a new Ungdomshus at an old school.In the summer of 2007, an iniative known as G13 wanted to squat an old public waterwork on Grøndalsvænge Allé 13 in northwestern Copenhagen to be used as a new Ungdomshuset, the squat was non-violent, but was met with heavy opposition from the police who arrested 436 people and threw large amounts of tear gas

[[Naib]]

The word naib (نائب) is an Arabic word meaning someone who is second in command.

It may also mean:

[[Bagh, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Bagh is a Union Council of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It has two high schools GHS Bagh and GHS Kehal.

[[Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Local government of Pakistan, Local government in India

A tehsil (also known as a mandal, tahsil, tahasil, taluka, taluk, or taluq) is a unit of government in Pakistan and in the Republic of India - it is similar to a county. It usually consists of a town (possibly more towns) and the villages around the towns. 

In Pakistan, Tehsils are the second administrative division. They are further subdivided into Union Councils. Many Tehsils are grouped together into a district (Zillah). In Sindh the name taluka is generally used instead of tehsil.

In India, some states use taluk or taluka, others use tehsil. The TK often found in Indian addresses stands for Taluk. 

[[Baekdu Mountain]]

CATEGORIES: Biosphere reserves, Volcanoes of Asia, Mountains of China, Geography of Korea

Baekdu Mountain or Changbai Mountain is a volcano on the border between North Korea and China. This mountain is 54.5% in North Korean territory, 45.5% in China. The Korean name is Baekdu-san. It is means White head mountain. The China name is Changbai-shan. It is means Snow piles up on the large mountain. 

Baekdu has large crater lake, It is called Heaven Lake. Koreans call it "Cheon-ji" lake, Chinese called "tiandi" lake. It is 2,744 metres above sea level.  The Beijing Olympic torch was lit on Baekdu/Changbai Mountain. Heaven Lake is the caldera made by a gigantic eruption in 969 AD (± 20 years).

[[Pakistan Standard Time]]

CATEGORIES: Time zones

PKT is the time zone used in Pakistan. It is 5 hours ahead of GMT/UTC.

[[Dhamtour]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Dhamtour or Dhamtor(دھمتوڑ, دھمتوڑ)  is a small rural suburb of Abbottabad Hazara, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. It is about 6 kilometers from Abbottabad city. It is known as the largest village of Abbottabad area. It is also a Union Council in Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The local language is Hindko, which is the main language of Hazara division. The area are has some rich cultural traditions. Dhamtour village is the gate way to many natural beauty places like Murree, Nathia Gali, Dungagali and Harnoi.

[[George Town]]

Georgetown or George Town may refer to:

[[Chechen]]

Chechen might mean:

[[Balochistan]]

Balochistan or Baluchistan (بلوچستان) may refer to:

[[Kate Beckinsale]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Actors from London, English movie actors, English television actors, People from Chiswick

Kathrin Romary Beckinsale (born 26 July 1973) is an English actress. She starred in the movies such as Pearl Harbor (2001), Underworld (2003) and Van Helsing (2004).

[[Printed circuit board]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics, Manufacturing

A printed circuit board (PCB) is a board made for connecting electronic components together.  These are used in almost all computers and electronics today.   

The "card" is made of a material that does not conduct electricity, usually fiberglass. Usually copper is etched (set in thin lines) inside the board between the layers of fiberglass, or on the surface of the board.  This makes the electricity go only where it is wanted.

Electronic components are then attached to this board using a metal to conduct electricity.  The metal etched into the board allows electricity to travel from one component to another in electrical circuits. 

Boards can have many different parts which are connected and work together. The most common circuit boards are made in large numbers for a specific job, for example to run a computer, a  mobile/cell phone or a television. Some circuit boards are made plain so a person can build their own for a new electrical task. Most things that use electricity have at least one circuit board inside of them that makes them run.

Flexible circuit boards are those that are made thin enough and of the right material to flex (bend). Rigid-flex boards are those that combine the features of the rigid boards and flex boards, hard at some points and blendable st some other points.

[[Pantera]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 establishments in the United States, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, American hard rock bands, Arlington, Texas, Groove metal bands, 2003 disestablishments in the United States, Musical groups established in 1981, Musical groups from Texas, Thrash metal bands, 1980s establishments in Texas, 21st-century disestablishments in Texas

Pantera was an American heavy metal band from Arlington, Texas, in the USA. They formed in 1981, but they did not have success until the 1990 release of their fifth studio album Cowboys from Hell. From 1987 to 2003 the band consisted of members Phil Anselmo (vocals), "Dimebag Darrell" Abbott (guitar), Vinnie Paul (drums), Rex Brown (bass). In 2003, the band broke up, and in the following year, Dimebag Darrell was shot and killed by Nathan Gale, during a concert of his new band Damageplan in Columbus, Ohio on 8 December, 2004.

[[Pan's Labyrinth]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 movies, 2000s fantasy movies, Hugo Award winning movies, Movies set in the 1940s, Spanish movies, Mexican movies, American fantasy movies, French movies, Movies directed by Guillermo del Toro, Movies set in Spain

Pan's Labyrinth (El laberinto del fauno, literally The Labyrinth of the Faun) is an Academy Award-winning Spanish language fantasy movie written and directed by Mexican movie-maker Guillermo del Toro.

Pan's Labyrinth takes place in two places, known as a dual setting: in the "real world" the story is set in Spain during 1944, and tells a story of a girl named Ofelia who is given three tasks by a mysterious faun. Meanwhile, her stepfather, the Falangist Captain Vidal, hunts the Spanish Maquis, guerrillas who continued fighting the Franco regime in the region, as her pregnant mother grows ill. The alternate setting is a secret "fantasy world" that Ofelia enters through an overgrown labyrinth garden, where she meets all manner of strange and magical creatures who become central to her story. The movie uses make-up, puppetry, and CGI effects to create its creatures.

The director of this movie, Del Toro said that he thinks the story to be a fable, influenced by fairy tales, and that it focuses on and continues themes related to his earlier movie The Devil's Backbone, a spiritual sequel, though not an actual sequel. The original Spanish title refers to the mythological fauns of Roman mythology, while the English title refers specifically to the faun-like Greek god Pan (intended to help English-speakers differentiate the title from the term fawn). However, Del Toro has stated that the faun in the movie is not Pan.

The movie was first shown at the 2006 Cannes Film Festival. It was released in the United Kingdom on November 24, 2006. In the United States and Canada, the movie was given a limited release on December 29, 2006, with a nationwide release on January 19, 2007.  Pan's Labyrinth has won numerous international awards, including three Academy Awards, the Ariel Award for Best Picture, and the 2007 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, Long Form.

[[List of rivers of Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Iowa

The following is a list of rivers in Iowa, by letter:

[[Transubstantiation]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

Transubstantiation is a teaching, and also a Catholic doctrine, which says that, after a priest consecrates them, the bread and wine at the Mass  become the body and blood of Jesus, whom Christians believe is the son of God. According to the teaching of transubstantiation, although the appearance, smell, and taste of bread and wine remain, the substances of bread and wine have really changed into the body and blood of Jesus. 

Transubstantiation is also taught by some other Christian churches.

[[Children of Bodom]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy metal bands, Finnish musical groups, Espoo, Musical groups established in 1993, 1993 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Finland

Children of Bodom was a Finnish melodic death metal band from Espoo in Finland. Their name comes from the Lake Bodom murders. The band members were: Alexi Laiho (lead guitar and vocals), Daniel Freyberg (rhythm guitar), Janne Wirman (keyboards), Henkka Blacksmith (bass), Jaska Raatikainen (drums).

[[Near-Earth asteroid]]

CATEGORIES: Asteroids

Near-Earth asteroids (NEAs) are asteroids whose orbits are close to Earth's orbit. A few tens of thousands have been found. Sometimes one crashes into earth. We try to find out if any are going to hit Earth using Asteroid impact prediction. Two near-Earth asteroids have been visited by spacecraft: 433 Eros, by NASA's Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous probe and 25143 Itokawa, by the JAXA Hayabusa mission.

[[Abbottabad Central]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District, Abbottabad

Abbottabad Central is a Union Council of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is in Abbottabad city, the capital of the district, it borders the following Union Councils, Malikpura Urban to the north and west, by Salhad to the south and by Dhamtour to the east.

A part of Abbottabad Central comprises the Old Abbottabad Town, which had been originally founded in January 1853 by Major James Abbott and which in turn has two main sections the Civil Lines and the Military Cantonment. This old portion is a historical place of considerable significance to the period of the British Raj. The Old Saddar (Main/Central) Bazaar, St Luke's Church, Abbottabad, the Old Christian Cemetery Abbottabad, the Lady Garden Park, the Abbottabad Club and several other old British Indian Army structures are found here.

[[Subahdar]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan

A Naib Nazim, or deputy Nazim, is an elected government official in Pakistan. The word Naib means assistant or deputy while Nazim is similar to a mayor, so a Naib Nazim is similar in to a deputy mayor.

[[Cherbourg-Octeville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Manche, Former communes in France, Subprefectures in France

Cherbourg-Octeville is a city in France. It is in the region of Normandy, and in the Département of Manche. 43,000 people live inside the city and 117,000 near or in the city.

On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Cherbourg-en-Cotentin.

[[3 Inches of Blood]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian heavy metal bands, Canadian thrash metal bands, Power metal bands, Speed metal bands, People from British Columbia, Musical groups established in 2000, 2000s establishments in Canada, Musical groups disestablished in 2015, 2015 disestablishments in Canada

3 Inches of Blood was a metal band from Vancouver, Canada. They were founded in 2000 and dissolved in 2015. The band's style is a mixture between Power Metal and NWOBHM of the 1970s. 

[[List of rivers of Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Kansas, Kansas-related lists

This is a list of rivers in Kansas:

[[List of rivers of Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Kentucky

This is a list of rivers in Kentucky:

[[List of rivers of Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Rivers of Louisiana

The following is a list of rivers in Louisiana, by letter:

[[List of rivers of Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United States, Geography of Maine

The following is a list of rivers in Maine, by region:

[[Federal Council (Switzerland)]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Switzerland

The Swiss Federal Council (Schweizerischer Bundesrat, Conseil fédéral suisse, Consiglio federale svizzero, Cussegl federal svizzer) is the group of seven people who are the federal government of Switzerland.  As Switzerland does not have one person as "President", the Federal Council is also the head of state.

[[Zurich (disambiguation)]]

Zürich is a city in Switzerland. It may also mean:

[[Bengal]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Bangladesh, Geography of India, Divided regions

Bengal is a divided region in South Asia that is split between two countries - Bangladesh and India. Both parts used to be united, although historically part of British India; today West Bengal is part of India and East Bengal is Bangladesh.

[[Colloquy]]

Colloquy could mean:

[[World Wrestling Entertainment programs]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment television programs, World Wrestling Entertainment pay-per-view events

World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) has a wide range of shows all over the world, including television, movies, online, video on demand and pay-per-views. 

[[Borat]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American comedy movies, British comedy movies, English-language movies, Mockumentaries, Movies based on TV series, Movies set in Asia, Movies set in Atlanta, Georgia, Movies set in Alabama, Movies set in Texas, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in Washington, D.C.

Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan is a 2006 British-American mockumentary (comedy movie) by English comedian Sacha Baron Cohen. The main character, Borat, is a rude, stupid reporter who interviews famous people and ordinary people. The movie was very popular, but also seen as wrong and offensive by some people. This is because it was seen as anti-semitic (against Jews) and racist (against black people). Sacha Baron Cohen says this is wrong and he is Jewish himself.

The movie received negative reactions of Kazakh people and the government, whereas the latter banned actor Sacha Baron Cohen from entering to Kazakhstan for his lifetime.

[[Miley Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: Disney characters, Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in the 2000s

Miley Ray Stewart, or Hannah Montana is a fictional character played by Miley Cyrus on the Disney Channel television show Hannah Montana. She is the main character in the series. Hannah Montana is about Miley Stewart, a teenage school girl who, at night, lives as a pop star, Hannah Montana.

[[Nazareth]]

CATEGORIES: Bible, Ancient Israel and Judah, Nazareth

Nazareth (ˈnæzərəθ) (נָצְרַת he or he;  الناصرة ar or ar) is the capital city of the north district of Israel. Most of the people in this city are Arabs (who are either Muslim or Christian). There are also some Jewish people. The city is very old and is also famous for being the city where it is believed Jesus grew up in the care of Mary and Joseph who was a carpenter.

[[Scanlation]]

CATEGORIES: Manga

Scanlation (sometimes scanslation) is a word for manga comics which have been scanned and translated by fans from the language they were in before (usually Japanese or Korean) to a different language, usually English, French or Spanish.

[[KolibriOS]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

KolibriOS is a free and open source operating system written all in assembly. This makes it very fast and small. KolibriOS can fit on a floppy disk and run on a Pentium (and possibly on late 486) with 8 MB of RAM.

[[Obergösgen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Obergösgen is a municipality in the Gösgen in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Oekingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Oekingen is a municipality in the district Wasseramt in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Oensingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Oensingen is a municipality in the district Gäu in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Olten]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Olten is a city in the district  Olten in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[O. J. Simpson]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from San Francisco, African American actors, African American players of American football, American burglars, American kidnappers, American movie actors, American people convicted of assault, American prisoners, American robbers, American television producers, Buffalo Bills players, People acquitted of murder, San Francisco 49ers players, Sportspeople from San Francisco, 1947 births, Living people, Heisman Trophy winners

Orenthal James "O. J." Simpson (born July 9, 1947), also known by his nickname, The Juice, is a retired American football player. He originally attained stardom as a running back at the collegiate and professional levels, and was the first NFL player to rush for more than 2,000 yards in a season. He later worked as an actor, spokesman, and broadcaster.  O. J. Simpson is famous for being accused of murdering his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend Ronald Goldman in 1994.

[[Woody Guthrie]]

CATEGORIES: Deaths from neurodegenerative disease, American folk musicians, American singer-songwriters, American guitarists, Industrial Workers of the World, Musicians from Oklahoma, 1912 births, 1967 deaths

Woodrow Wilson Guthrie, better known as Woody Guthrie (July 14, 1912 – October 3, 1967), was an American folk musician and songwriter, of the 20th century.

[[Seer Sharqi Bhattian]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Seer Sharqi Bhattian is a Union Council of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is in the southeastern part of the province, bordering the Rawalpindi District of Punjab province.

[[Bagnotar]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Bagnotar is a Union Council of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.  

Bagnator is on Abbottabad-Nathia Gali Road, 16 Kilometres away from Abbottabad city.

[[Clinton, Oneida County, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Clinton is a village in Oneida County, New York, United States. There were 1,952 people living in Clinton as of the 2000 census. It was named after George Clinton, the first governor of New York.

== Important people that lived in Clinton == 

[[List of counties in Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Mississippi counties, Lists of counties of the United States

The following is a list of  82  counties in the U.S. state of Mississippi:

[[Charleston, South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Charleston, South Carolina, Former United States state capitals, County seats in South Carolina

Charleston is a city in Berkeley and Charleston counties in the U.S. state of South Carolina. It is the biggest city and is the county seat of Charleston County. As of 2010, the urban population is about 548,404.

Charleston was the capital of South Carolina until 1786 when Columbia became capital.

[[Hangu]]

Hangu can be any of the following:

[[Karak]]

The term Karak can mean any of the following:

[[Taunton, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Massachusetts, County seats in Massachusetts, 1637 establishments, 1630s establishments in Massachusetts

Taunton is a city in Bristol County, Massachusetts,  United States. It is the  seat of Bristol County and the hub of the Greater Taunton Area. As of the 2000 census, Taunton had 55,976 people living in it.  The United States Census Bureau says that the city has an area of 48.0 square miles.

[[Gerhard Ertl]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, German academics, German Nobel Prize winners, German physicists, People from Stuttgart, Wolf Prize winners

ChemistryProfessor Gerhard Ertl (born 10 October 1936) is a German physicist in the Department of Physical Chemistry of the Fritz Haber Institute of the MPG . He was born on 10 October 1936 in Stuttgart, Germany. Professor Ertl won the Nobel prize for Chemistry in 2007.

Ertl’s research laid the foundation of modern surface chemistry, which has helped explain how fuel cells produce energy without pollution, how catalytic converters clean up car exhausts and even why iron rusts, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said. 

His work has paved the way for development of cleaner energy sources and will guide the development of fuel cells, said Astrid Graslund, secretary of the Nobel Committee for Chemistry. 

The Nobel academy said Ertl provided a detailed description of how chemical reactions take place on surfaces. His findings applied in both academic studies and industrial development, the academy said. “Surface chemistry can even explain the destruction of the ozone layer, as vital steps in the reaction actually take place on the surfaces of small crystals of ice in the stratosphere,” the award citation reads. 

[[Francesco Hayez]]

CATEGORIES: 1791 births, 1882 deaths, Italian painters, People from Venice

Francesco Hayez (February 10, 1791, Venice - December 21, 1882, Milan) was the main artist of Romanticism in mid-19th-century in Milan.

Notable works include:

[[John William Waterhouse]]

CATEGORIES: 1849 births, 1917 deaths, English painters, Artists from London, People from Rome, Royal Academicians

John William Waterhouse (6 April 1849 – 10 February 1917) was an English painter in the Pre-Raphaelite style. He worked after the breakup of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, and so was called "the modern Pre-Raphaelite". He was also influenced by his contemporaries, the Impressionists. His artworks were known for their depictions of women from both ancient Greek mythology and Arthurian legend.

Born in Italy to English parents who were both painters, he later moved to London, where he enrolled in the Royal Academy of Art. He soon began exhibiting at their annual summer exhibitions, focusing on the creation of large canvas works depicting scenes from the daily life and mythology of ancient Greece. Later on in his career he came to embrace the Pre-Raphaelite style of painting despite the fact that it had gone out of fashion in the British art scene several decades before. 

Although not as well known as earlier Pre-Raphaelite artists such as Dante Rossetti, John Millais and William Holman Hunt, Waterhouse's work is currently displayed at several major British art galleries, and the Royal Academy of Art organised a major retrospective of his work in 2009.

[[Toontown]]

CATEGORIES: Disney

Toontown is a common name for a fictional human-like city or town where cartoon characters, known as Toons, live.

[[Semantic Web]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

The Semantic Web is a project of the W3C that uses metadata, to write specific details related to a subject, to let computers better process the information on the internet. This plan, for saving additional semantic details, would make computers able to do more of the work involved in finding, sharing and combining information on the internet.

The Semantic Web is an idea of the inventor of the World Wide Web, Tim Berners Lee. He has wanted to make the web more intuitive about how to meet a user's needs. The semantics of information and services is defined in Web Ontology Language (OWL) and RDF Schemas. These are used to give a formal description of concepts, terms, and relationships within a given area of knowledge.

Tim Berners-Lee's idea was as follows:

[[Langlade County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Langlade County, Wisconsin, 1879 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Wisconsin

Langlade County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.  There were 20,740 people living in Langlade County as of the year 2000.  Its county seat is Antigo.  The U.S. Census Bureau says that the county has an area of 888 square miles.

[[Adams County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Adams County, Wisconsin, 1853 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Wisconsin

Adams County is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. There were 18,643 people living in Adams County as of the year 2000. Its county seat is Friendship. The U.S. Census Bureau says that the county has an area of 689 square miles.

[[Ligaria cuneifolia]]

CATEGORIES: Santalales

Ligaria cuneifolia van Tigh, (syn. Psittacanthus cuneifolius (Ruiz et Pav.) Blume) is a shrubby, glabrous plant. It's fruit a globular berry. It is commonly known as “liga” (Argentina) or “quintral de espino” (Chile).

[[Hypersonic (disambiguation)]]

Hypersonic speeds are speeds that are highly supersonic.

Hypersonic can be any of the following:

[[Hypersonic]]

CATEGORIES: Fluid mechanics

In aerodynamics, hypersonic speeds are speeds that are highly supersonic.  The word hypersonic came from a word used in the 1970s,  Mach 5, or 5 times the speed of sound.  Everything about the plane changes greatly when the airplane that is flying at those speeds reaches supersonic speeds.  

[[Great Langton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in North Yorkshire

Great Langton is a small village in the English county of North Yorkshire. It is 1.2 square miles in area and 116 people live there.

[[Leonid Hurwicz]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2008 deaths, American economists, American Nobel Prize winners, Deaths from renal failure, Holocaust survivors, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Moscow, Polish Jews, Refugees from Nazism, Russian Jews, Scientists from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Soviet Jews

Leonid Hurwicz (August 21, 1917 – June 24, 2008) was an American economist and mathematician. He won the 2007 Nobel Prize in Economics.

Hurwicz invented the economic sciences of incentive compatibility and mechanism design. International economy and trade is studied using the ideas Professor Hurwicz had.

Hurwicz worked as Regents Professor of Economics (head teacher of economics) at the University of Minnesota. Professor Hurwicz believed that game theory is very important. Hurwicz shared the 2007 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences with Eric Maskin and Roger Myerson for their work on ways mechanism design.

[[Virtual private network]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

A virtual private network, or VPN is a set of technologies which are used to link computers to create a private network. Another network is used to carry the data, which is encrypted. The carrier network will see the packets of data which it routes. To the users of the VPN, it will look like the computers were directly connected to each other.

The VPN model can guarantee the following:

In a business context, VPNs are often used to connect different office locations, or to allow people working from outside the company network to access its resources. People can use their computer to connect to their work network and see work websites that cannot be seen on the normal internet.cn

Similarly, the encryption process allows VPNs to offer anonymity by hiding the user and making it very hard for anyone to track them. As a result, VPNs help make one's online activities on the web anonymous and undecipherable.

VPNs are often used to access websites that are blocked in some countries, like China. Many people also use a VPN to protect their internet activity while using public WiFi.

VPNs can also be used to connect corporate offices to the larger branch offices, also known as site-to-site VPN. This is because direct network connections are impractical between offices that are physically distant.

Common VPN protocols include OpenVPN, Cisco AnyConnect, and IPsec.

[[Dial-up]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Telecommunications

Dial-up internet access, usually just called Dial-up, is a slow way of connecting to the Internet by using a telephone line. A modem is connected between a computer and a telephone line and then the modem is instructed to dial the phone number of an Internet service provider (ISP) to connect to the Internet. The ISP must be a dial-up service provider with several dial-up modems waiting to accept dial-up calls. This kind of internet is slower than DSL.   

In most parts of the world, dial-up service was the most common way of connecting to the internet in the late 20th century.  Since the middle of the 2000s it has become uncommon, being largely replaced by DSL and cable modem where those are not too expensive. 

[[IPass]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

iPass Inc is an American multinational company headquartered in Redwood Shores, California. iPass provides Internet access on wireless-enabled devices. iPass was first incorporated in California in July 1996 and later reincorporated in Delaware in June 2000. The company’s stock was added to the NASDAQ on July 24, 2003.

[[Shai Hulud (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American heavy metal bands, American punk bands, progressive metal bands, Metalcore bands, Musical groups from Florida

Shai Hulud is a hardcore punk band with progressive metal influences formed in Pompano Beach, Florida in 1995.

[[Lloyds Bank]]

CATEGORIES: 1765 establishments, Banks of the United Kingdom

Lloyds TSB is one of world's largest banks. It is based on Gresham Street in the city of London and has business all over the world including the US, Europe, Middle East, Asia and Latin America.

In 2009 Lloyds TSB merged with HBOS (Halifax Bank of Scotland) to make Lloyds Banking Group, this now uses three brands on the high street, Lloyds TSB, Halifax and Bank of Scotland.

[[Gresham Street]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in London

Gresham Street, is a street in the City of London, it is named after Thomas Gresham and runs from St. Martin's Le Grand near St Paul's Cathedral in the west, past Guildhall, to Lothbury in the east.

[[Thomas Gresham]]

CATEGORIES: 1510s births, 1579 deaths, People from London

Sir Thomas Gresham (c. 1519 – 21 November 1579) was an English merchant who worked for King Edward VI of England and for Edward's half-sister Queen Elizabeth I of England. He was born in London in an old Norfolk family, he was the son of Sir Richard Gresham and had one brother and two sisters. Gresham's law was named after him in 1858.

[[List of Renaissance artists]]

CATEGORIES: Renaissance, Artists, Lists of people

Renaissance artists started in the late 14th century (~1370) and includes famous painters and sculptors.

Each artist is listed with their dates, place of birth, some places that they worked, their media (the type of artwork that they made), one or two most famous works and some art galleries where their works can be seen.

[[Rose Bowl Game]]

CATEGORIES: College football, Pasadena, California, 1902 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in California, January events

The Rose Bowl Game is an American college football bowl game at the Rose Bowl (stadium) in Pasadena, California.  It is known as the "granddaddy of them all" because it has been played every year since 1916.  It is almost always played on January 1 after Pasadena's Rose Parade.  For many years, the two teams who played were the winner of the Pac-10 (a football conference of colleges on the West Coast) and the winner of the Big 10 (a football conference of collleges in the Midwest).  In 1998, the game became part of the Bowl Championship Series.  USC has won the game 24 times.

[[Fiesta Bowl]]

CATEGORIES: College football, Sports in Phoenix, Arizona, 1971 establishments in the United States

The Fiesta Bowl is an American college football bowl game at the University of Phoenix Stadium near Phoenix, Arizona.  It is the newest of the BCS games, as it was first played in 1971.  It has usually matched a team from the Western Athletic Conference or the Big 12 against a very good team from another conference.

[[Sugar Bowl]]

CATEGORIES: College football

The Sugar Bowl is an American college football bowl game at the Louisiana Superdome.

[[Uffizi]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Florence, Art museums in Italy, Renaissance

The Uffizi Gallery (Italian: Galleria degli Uffizi), is one of the oldest and most famous art museums in the world. It is housed in the Palazzo degli Uffizi which means the "Palace of Offices" in Florence, Italy. 

==The museum and its history== 

In 1560, Cosimo I de' Medici, the Duke of Tuscany, ordered a design of new office buildings for the magistrates of Florence. This is why the building is called the "Uffizi" ("offices"). The designer was Giorgio Vasari and the buildings were continued by Alfonso Parigi and Bernardo Buontalenti and finished in 1581. 

The offices are in two parts which face each other across a courtyard. One end opens onto the town square and the other opens onto the River Arno. Varsari designed a sort of screen, like a backdrop in an Ancient Greek theatre. It has arches through which the view of the river can be seen. 

Duke Cosimo had a plan to arrange that finest works of art in the Medici families' collections on the upper floor. This was not done until the time of Francesco I. He also commissioned Buontalenti to design the most the famous room in the Uffizi, an octagonal room called the Tribune of the Uffizi. This room contained many of the best paintings. Rich people would often send their sons on a Grand Tour of Europe. The Tribune of the Uffizi was one of the important sights on the tour. At first, people could only see the gallery by "request". (They would ask politely and perhaps be shown around.) The last Medici heiress, Anna Maria Lodovica, made an agreement with the city of Florence. In 1765 the Uffizi Gallery was officially opened to the public.  

The collection of artworks is so large that some of the works are in other museums in Florence. Many of the statues are in the Bargello. Today the Uffizi is one of the most popular tourist attractions of Florence. In high season (particularly in July), people sometimes have to wait for five hours.

[[Whitehall]]

CATEGORIES: City of Westminster, Roads in London

Whitehall is a road in Westminster in London, England. It is the main street running north from Parliament Square, towards traditional Charing Cross, now at the southern end of Trafalgar Square and marked by the statue of Charles I, which is often regarded as the heart of London.

The name "Whitehall" is often used for governmental administration and as a geographic name for the district around it.

Whitehall was originally a wide road that ran up to the front of the palace. Trafalgar Square was built at its northern end in the early 19th century. The southernmost part by Parliament Square is named Parliament Street, but there is no longer any obvious difference between the two on the ground. Combined, the streets cover a total distance of about 0.6 mile (1 km).

[[Whitehall (disambiguation)]]

Whitehall is a street in London. It may also refer to:

Whitehall is also the name of several places.

In the United Kingdom:

In Ireland:

In the United States of America:

[[Dawlish Warren]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Devon

Dawlish Warren is a small seaside resort. It is near Dawlish on the south coast of Devon, England. It is at the mouth of the Exe Estuary, and has a beach, a National Nature Reserve spanning 505 acres (2 km²) and a golf course. There is also one of Europe's largest spits in Dawlish Warren measuring over 1.5miles long and 0.5miles wide. There is a fence running down the centre of the spit to prevent people from wandering and falling into any deep parts of the salt marshes that have accumulated on the inside of the spit.

[[Fuchsia]]

CATEGORIES: Myrtales

Fuchsia is a genus of flowering plants. They are often purplish-red, which is where we get the colour  fuchsia. 

Fuchsia belongs to the Onagraceae family of flowering plants. Fuchsia has 110 species. It consists mostly of shrubs or small trees. 

The first, Fuchsia triphylla, was discovered on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola (Haiti and the Dominican Republic) about 1696–1697. The discoverer was the French monk and botanist, Charles Plumier, during his third expedition to the Greater Antilles. He named the new genus after the German botanist Leonhart Fuchs (1501–1566).

[[Joseba Sarrionandia]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Spanish writers

Joseba Sarrionandia Uribelarrea (born April 13th 1958 in Iurreta, Biscay, Basque Country) is a Basque writer. He has written many poetry books, short stories, and novels. In 1985, Sarrionandia escaped from prison after he was put in for being a member of the Basque armed group ETA. Since then, he has lived in secret but he still writes books. He is one of the best-known contemporary Basque writers.

[[James II]]

James II can mean:

[[SpongeBob SquarePants (character)]]

CATEGORIES: Animated characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1999, SpongeBob SquarePants characters

SpongeBob SquarePants is the main character of the Nickelodeon show SpongeBob SquarePants. He is a sea sponge who loves his job as a fry cook at the Krusty Krab. SpongeBob lives in a pineapple with his pet snail Gary.

SpongeBob was first seen on May 1, 1999 in the show's television pilot ("Help Wanted").

Spongebob continues to inspire children of all ages and even adults. To this day, he is seen as a role model for many teenagers age 13-25.

[[Lorenzo Milani]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1967 deaths, Italian Roman Catholics

Fr Lorenzo Milani Comparetti (May 27, 1923 – June 26, 1967) was a priest of the Catholic Church in Italy. He is best known as an educator of poor children, and being for conscientious objection.

[[Ariel Rubinstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Economists, Israeli academics, Israeli Jews, Israeli scientists, Jewish academics, Jewish scientists, People from Jerusalem

Ariel Rubinstein (born April 13, 1951 in Jerusalem) is an Israeli economist. He is a professor of economics at Tel Aviv University and New York University. Rubinstein writes about game theory. He has a well-known John Nash speech which he gives all around the world. He currently lives in Tel-Aviv.

[[Mosaic]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Architecture

Mosaic is the art of decorating a surface with pictures and patterns made of little pieces of stone, glass or tiles of different colours. Mosaics can be used indoors on walls, floors and ceilings. Mosaics are sometimes used outdoors on pavements.

==Making mosaics== 

Mosaics are made by setting coloured pieces into "mortar" (cement) which sets hard and holds the pieces in place. Some mosaics are made of round pebbles, and have only two or three colours. Other mosaics are made of marble. Many mosaics, particularly in Italy, are made of terracotta tiles. (Terracotta is "fired" clay that has been baked in an oven.) Terracotta tiles come in many colours and can be used for colourful pictures as well as patterns. 

Some tiles look as if they are made of pure gold. These tiles are actually made of glass and have a very thin "leaf" of gold stuck to one side. The side with the gold gets put into the mortar. Then the gold can be seen through the glass, but cannot be scratched off.

[[Odilon Redon]]

CATEGORIES: 1840 births, 1916 deaths, French painters, French printmakers, People from Bordeaux

Odilon Redon (April 22, 1840 – July 6, 1916) was a Symbolist painter and printmaker, born in Bordeaux, Aquitaine, France.

Redon started drawing as a young child, and at the age of 10 he was given a drawing prize at school. At age 15, he began official study in drawing but he later on switched to architecture because his father told him to. His failure to pass the entrance exams at Paris’ École des Beaux-Arts ended any plans for a career as an architect, although he would later study there under Jean-Léon Gerôme.

Back home in his home town of Bordeaux, he took up sculpture, and Rodolphe Bresdin instructed him in etching and lithography. However, his artistic career was halted in 1870 when he joined the army to serve in the Franco-Prussian War.

At the end of the war, he moved to Paris, working almost only in charcoal and lithography. It would not be until 1878 that his work gained any recognition with Guardian Spirit of the Waters, and he published his first album of lithographs, called Dans le Rêve, in 1879. Still, Redon remained unknown until the appearance in 1884 of a cult novel by Joris-Karl Huysmans titled, À rebours (Against Nature). The story featured a decadent aristocrat who collected Redon's drawings. 

In the 1890s, he began to use pastel and oils, which featured in most of his works for the rest of his life. In 1899, he exhibited with the Nabis at Durand-Ruel's. In 1903 he was given the Legion of Honor. His popularity increased when a catalogue of etchings and lithographs was published by André Mellerio in 1913 and that same year, he was given the largest single representation at the New York Armory Show. 

In 2005 the Museum of Modern Art launched an exhibition called "Beyond The Visible", a comprehensive overview of Redon's work showcasing more than 100 paintings, drawings, prints and books from The Ian Woodner Family Collection. The exhibition ran from October 30, 2005 to January 23, 2006. 

[[Pinniped]]

CATEGORIES: Pinnipeds

Pinnipeds  are the seals and their relatives, a group of semi-aquatic marine mammals. The Pinnipedia is in the Order Carnivora. 

There are three seal families: Odobenidae (walruses), Otariidae (eared seals, including sea lions and fur seals), and Phocidae (true seals). 

Seals are sleek-bodied and barrel-shaped. Their bodies are well adapted to the aquatic habitat where they spend most of their lives. Pinnipeds have flippers for hands, big bulky bodies, doggish faces, and big eyes. Unlike cetaceans, pinnipeds have their noses on their faces, and each nostril of the nose closes when the pinniped goes underwater. Like cetaceans, pinnipeds have a thick layer of blubber (fat) just under their skin: this blubber keeps them warm in cold waters and keeps them fed during times when food is not easily found. When they cannot find food, they live off the fat in the blubber.

Pinnipeds are carnivorous. This means they eat only meat (such as fish or squid) and not plants. However, almost all pinnipeds can be eaten by polar bears, sharks and killer whales.

Seals are often trained in zoos or aquariums to put on shows. However, in Sweden, it is illegal to train a seal to balance a ball on its nose.

[[Wizards of Waverly Place]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 television series debuts, English-language television programs

Wizards of Waverly Place is a 2007 Disney Channel television series. It is about a family of wizards. The children are Alex Russo, Justin Russo, and Max Russo. They are training as wizards. Only the best wizard in the family gets to keep their powers. Their dad is Jerry Russo. Their mom is Theresa Russo. Alex's best friend is Harper Finkle.

[[Cory in the House]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 television series debuts, Children's television series, Television series by Disney, English-language television programs

Cory in the House is a 2007 Disney Channel television series. The series is a spin off of That's So Raven. It is about a boy named Cory Baxter who lives in the White House, the residence of the President of the United States. Cory lives in the White House because his dad is the chef. Cory's best friends are Newt and Meena. His rival is Jason. He thinks that Sophie, the President's daughter, is a pest.

[[John A. Macdonald]]

CATEGORIES: 1815 births, 1891 deaths, Politicians from Glasgow, Premiers of Ontario, Privy Councillors (Canada), Privy Councillors (UK), Knights Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George, Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, Leaders of the Opposition (Canada), Canadian Queen's Counsel

Sir John Alexander Macdonald, GCB, KCMG, PC, PC (Can), (January 11, 1815 – June 6, 1891) was the first Prime Minister of Canada and was a very important person in Canadian Confederation, which happened on July 1, 1867. Macdonald was in office from 1867 to 1873 and again from 1878 to 1891, making him the second longest-serving Prime Minister of Canada and the only one to win six majority governments.

One of the things Sir John A. Macdonald wanted to do was to build a transcontinental railway that would link Canada from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean. That railway, called the Canadian Pacific Railway, was completed in 1885.

Macdonald did not speak French as well the Prime Ministers that came after him, but he could speak Scottish Gaelic and a bit of Latin.

Macdonald had four siblings. He was the third of five children.

[[Justice League]]

CATEGORIES: Justice League

The Justice League is a fictional DC Comics superhero team. It is sometimes called the Justice League of America (JLA).

The Justice League first appeared in the comic book The Brave and the Bold #28 in 1960. The first members were Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, Flash, Green Lantern, Aquaman, and the Martian Manhunter.

Over time, many other superheroes have been members of the Justice League. Some examples are: Green Arrow, Atom, Hawkman, Black Canary, Captain Marvel, Plastic Man, Elongated Man, Booster Gold and Skeet and The Question. Many other superheroes joined the justice league.

Many different comic book series have featured the Justice League. The current series are Justice League (Volume 4) and Justice League Odessey.

Several television cartoons have also featured the Justice League, such as: Super Friends, Justice League, and Justice League Unlimited.

The Justice League has had many headquarters. These include the Hall of Justice, the Justice League Satellite, and the Justice League Watchtower.

There is a 2017 action-adventure film based on The Justice League with the same name. The movie included Batman, Superman, The Flash, Cyborg, Aquaman and Wonder Woman. Another version of the movie, titled Zack Snyder's Justice League, will be released in 2021.

[[Even Stevens]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 television series debuts, Television series by Disney, English-language television programs

Even Stevens is a Disney Channel television series about an American family. It is mostly about the fights between a girl named Ren and her brother, Louis. Ren likes doing everything right. Louis likes having fun, even if it means breaking rules and getting in trouble.

[[Trojan asteroid]]

CATEGORIES: Trojan asteroids

Trojan objects orbit 60° ahead (L4) or behind (L5) a more massive object. Both are in orbit around an even more massive central object. The best known example are the asteroids that orbit ahead or behind Jupiter around the Sun. Trojan objects do not orbit exactly at one of either Lagrange points, but do remain close to it, appearing to slowly orbit it.

The largest group of asteroids known to move around the Sun are those with the planet Jupiter. There are two groups of Jovian Trojans, one group on each side of Jupiter.

[[Christopher Lloyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Actors from Stamford, Connecticut, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Emmy Award winning actors

Christopher Allen Lloyd (born October 22, 1938) is an American actor. He has appeared in various theatre productions, films, stage, television and video game work since 1961 and is most famous for the movies Back to the Future and The Addams Family, the television programs Taxi and Cyberchase, and Piranha 3D.

[[The Buzz on Maggie]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 television series debuts, 2010 television series endings, Animated television series, Television series by Disney, English-language television programs

The Buzz on Maggie is a American animated television series produced by Walt Disney Television Animation and Bardel Entertainment. It is about a fly named Maggie. The show takes place in a world of talking insects. The show had two different stories in each episode. The show was cancelled after only one season of twenty-one episodes. The series premiered airs at 9:30 a.m. ET/PT time on June 18, 2005 on Disney Channel in the United States and on Teletoon in Canada.

[[Green Arrow]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics superheroes

Green Arrow is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Green Arrow was created by Mort Weisinger and George Papp and first appeared in More Fun Comics #73 in 1941. His secret identity is Oliver Jonas Queen and his friends call him Ollie. He is a billionaire and once was a mayor of the fictional city Star City.

Green Arrow is a superhero, but lacks any superpowers. He is similar in appearance and abilities to Robin Hood. Green Arrow is an archer who uses his expert skill in archery to fight crime. He wanted to help citizens when he fell off his boat and got stranded on an island. He also is a highly trained martial artist. Green Arrow is blond, dresses all in green, and as a goatee beard.

Green Arrow uses many trick arrows to fight crime plus supervillains. For example, trick arrows include: glue arrows, net arrows, explosive arrows, grappling hook arrows, and boxing-glove arrows.

Since 1970 Green Arrow has usually been written as being explicitly left-wing politically and fighting for social justice.

Green Arrow has been a member of the Justice League and the Outsiders.

Green Arrow was not initially a well-known character outside of comic book fandom: he had appeared in a single episode of the animated series Super Friends in 1973. In the 2000s, the character appeared in a number of DC television properties, including the animated series Justice League Unlimited, Young Justice, The Batman and Batman: The Brave and the Bold, and several DC Universe Animated Original Movies. In live action, he appeared in the series Smallville, played by actor Justin Hartley, and became a core cast member. In 2012, the live action series Arrow debuted on The CW, in which the title character was portrayed by Stephen Amell, and launching several spin-off series, becoming the starting point for a shared television franchise called the Arrowverse.

[[Aquaman]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics superheroes, DC Comics adapted into movies, Fictional characters introduced in 1941, Justice League

Aquaman is a fictional comic book superhero published by DC Comics. Aquaman was created by Paul Norris and Mort Weisinger and first appeared in More Fun Comics #72 in November, 1941.

During the Silver Age of Comic Books, Aquaman was a founding member of the Justice League of America.

Aquaman's biography and origin has been reinvented several times since 1941. Aquaman has several superhuman powers. He can breathe underwater and swim at very high speeds. Aquaman has super strength and is very hard to injure. Aquaman's most famous ability is to communicate and command marine animals.

Aquaman has appeared in several cartoon series, such as the Super Friends, and also in the live-action TV series Smallville, with Superman. Jason Momoa played Aquaman in the 2016 movie Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, the 2017 movie Justice League, the 2018 movie Aquaman and the 2021 movie Zack Snyder's Justice League.

[[Green Lantern]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics superheroes, DC Comics adapted into movies

Green Lantern is the name of several fictional superheroes that appear in comic books published by DC Comics. The first was Alan Scott and was created by writer Bill Finger and artist Martin Nodell in All-American Comics #16 in July 1940.

The most famous is Hal Jordan and was created by John Broome and Gil Kane in Showcase #22 in October 1959.

Each Green Lantern wears a power ring that allows the Green Lantern to control the physical world by strength of will.

Alan Scott was the Golden Age Green Lantern and his ring was powered by magic.

All of the Green Lanterns since then have worn rings that were not magic, but advanced technology. The Guardians of the Universe created the power rings and granted them to worthy candidates throughout the galaxy. These individuals make up the Green Lantern Corps, an intergalactic police force.

His archenemy is Sinestro.

[[August Kopff]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1960 deaths, German astronomers

August Kopff (February 5 1882–April 25 1960) was a German astronomer who found many comets and asteroids.

He found some comets, such as the periodic comet 22P/Kopff and the non-periodic C/1906 E1.

He found many asteroids, such as the notable Trojan asteroids 617 Patroclus and 624 Hektor.

A crater on the Moon is named after him: see Kopff (crater).

[[Great Yarmouth]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Norfolk, Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom

Great Yarmouth, often known to locals as Yarmouth, is an English coastal town in Norfolk. It is at the mouth of the River Yare.

[[S/2004 S 3]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons

S/2004 S 3 is the designation of an object seen orbiting Saturn just beyond the farther part of the F ring on 21 June, 2004. It was first seen by Carl Murray of the Cassini Imaging Science Team in pictures taken by the Cassini-Huygens probe on June 21, 2004, and announced on September 9, 2004.

Even though later astronomers tried to find it again, it has not been reliably seen since. Notably, an imaging sequence covering an entire orbital period at 4 km resolution taken on 15 November, 2004 failed to find the object. This suggests that it was a clump of material that had disappeared by that time.

Another object, S/2004 S 4, was seen nearby 5 hours later, but this time just inside the F Ring. Because of the different location of the second object, it was given a fresh designation, although their interpretation as a single object on a F-ring crossing orbit is also possible. Such an object might also be orbiting at a bit different inclination to the F ring, thereby not actually passing through the ring material even though it was being seen both radially inward and outward of it.

If a solid object after all, S/2004 S 3 would be 3−5 km in diameter based on brightness, and might be a shepherd satellite for the farther edge of Saturn's F ring.

[[S/2004 S 4]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons

S/2004 S 4 is the designation of an object that astronomers do not know for sure if it exists seen orbiting Saturn within the closer part of the F ring on 21 June, 2004. It was seen while J. N. Spitale was trying to confirm the orbit of another object, S/2004 S 3 that was seen 5 hours earlier just on the farther edge of the F ring. The announcement was made on September 9, 2004.

Even though astronomers tried to find it again, it has not been reliably seen since. Notably, an imaging sequence covering an entire orbital period at 4 km resolution taken on 15 November, 2004 failed to find the object. This suggests that it was a clump of material that had disappeared by that time.

An interpretation where S3 and S4 are or were a single object on a F-ring crossing orbit is also possible. Such an object might also be orbiting at a bit different inclination to the F ring, thereby not actually passing through the ring material even though it was being seen both radially inward and outward of it.

If a solid object after all, S/2004 S 4 would be 3−5 km in diameter based on brightness.

[[S/2004 S 6]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons

S/2004 S 6 is the designation of a dusty object seen orbiting Saturn very close to the F ring. It is not clear whether it is only a clump of dust, or if there is a solid small moon at its core.

It was first seen by scientists in pictures taken by the Cassini-Huygens probe on October 28, 2004, and announced on 8 November that year. It appears to be the best tracked object in this area with at least five possible sightings in the period till late 2005. In comparison, two objects in the F ring's area (S/2004 S 3 and S/2004 S 4) that were first seen months earlier have not been found again with any confidence. Nevertheless, it continues to be unclear whether there is a solid core to S/2004 S 6 or whether it is just a dust clump that will disappear in years or months. Notably, an imaging sequence covering an entire orbital period at 4 km resolution taken on 15 November, 2004 (soon after S/2004 S 6's discovery) failed to find the object, while it has been seen again later. The lighting conditions in S/2004 S 6's part of the orbit were different during these two sightings, however, with the discovery being made when the area was strongly backlit by the sun. A suggested resolution of the absence in November is that S/2004 S 6's visibility is primarily due to a diffuse cloud of fine dust that is much brighter in forward scattered light (the conditions of the discovery image), and that the solid core (if any) is small.

S/2004 S 6 has been seen both inside and outside the main F ring, and its orbit must cross the ring. Careful calculations show that the object periodically plows through the ring material, coming within 1.5 km of the densest core e.g. on 9 April, 2005. It has been suggested that a spiral structure in the thinnest material around the F ring may have been a result of this.

The dusty halo seen in pictures is big, being around 2000 km in lengthwise extent. The solid object, if any, would be no bigger than 3−5 km in diameter based on brightness.

[[Joel Hastings Metcalf]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1925 deaths, American astronomers, Scientists from Massachusetts, Scientists from Vermont

Joel Hastings Metcalf (January 4, 1866–February 23, 1925) was an American astronomer.

Metcalf graduated from Harvard Divinity School in 1892. He served as a Unitarian minister in Burlington, Vermont and then later in Taunton, Massachusetts, Winchester, Massachusetts and Portland, Maine.

He found or co-found many comets, such as 23P/Brorsen-Metcalf and 97P/Metcalf-Brewington; he also found many asteroids.

[[Gräfendorf]]

Gräfendorf is a municipality in the district of Main-Spessart in Bavaria in Germany, near Würzburg, Aschaffenburg and Frankfurt. As of 2006, 1,411 people live in Gräfendorf.

[[Imaginary number]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory

One way of thinking about imaginary numbers is to say that they are to negative numbers what negative numbers are to positive numbers. If we say "go east by -1 mile", it is the same as if we had said "go west by 1 mile". If we say "go east by i miles", it means the same thing as if we had said "go north by 1 mile". Similarly, if we say "go east by -i mile", it means the same as if we had said "go south by 1 mile".

Adding is easy too. If we say "go east by 1 + i miles" it means the same as if we had said "go east by one mile and north by one mile".

Multiplying two imaginary numbers is a lot like multiplying a positive number with a negative number. If we say "go east by 2 × -3 miles", it means "rotate all of the way around (so that you are now facing west) and go 2×3 = 6 miles". Imaginary numbers work the same, except that you can rotate part way. If we say go "east by 2×3i miles", it means the same as if we had said "rotate until you are facing north, and then go 2×3 = 6 miles"

Subtractions such as 5 - 9 used to be impossible until negative numbers were invented, just as taking the square root of a negative number used to be impossible until imaginary numbers were invented. The square root of 9 is 3, but the square root of −9 is not −3. This is because −3 x −3 = +9, not −9. For a long time, it seemed as though there was no answer to the square root of −9.

This is why mathematicians invented the imaginary number, i, and said that it is the main square root of −1. The square root of −1 is not a real number, so this definition creates a new type of number, just like fractions create numbers like 2/3 that are not counting numbers like 4 or 10, and negative numbers create numbers that are less than 0. Sometimes, mathematicians seem rather comfortable using a number that is so unusual, but the name imaginary should not fool you because i is as valid a number as 3 or 145,379.

Many branches of science and engineering have found uses for this number. For example. electrical engineers need i to understand how an electric circuit will work when they are designing it (electrical engineers use j instead of i to avoid confusion with the symbol for the current). As another example. certain branches of physics such as quantum physics and high energy physics use i as often as they use any other regular number. Many of the equations in the world simply cannot be solved without i.

Imaginary numbers can be mixed with numbers we are more familiar with. For example, a real number such as 2 can be added to an imaginary number such as 3i to create 2+3i. These kinds of mixed numbers are known as complex numbers.

[[Eric Maskin]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American economists, American Nobel Prize winners, Harvard University alumni, Harvard University faculty, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from New York City

Eric Stark Maskin (born December 12, 1950) is an American economist. In 2007, he won the Nobel Prize in Economics with Leonid Hurwicz and Roger Myerson. He is the Albert O. Hirschman Professor of Social Science at the Institute for Advanced Study, and a visiting Professor at Princeton University.

[[Roger Myerson]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American economists, American Nobel Prize winners, American political scientists, Harvard University alumni, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Boston, Massachusetts

EconomicsRoger Bruce Myerson (born 29 March 1951) is an American economist and co-winner, with Leonid Hurwicz and Eric Maskin, of the 2007 Nobel Prize in Economics "for having laid the foundations of mechanism design theory." He has made contributions as an economist, as an applied mathematician, and as a political scientist.

[[Mario Capecchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American academics, American geneticists, American Nobel Prize winners, Harvard University alumni, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Verona, Wolf Prize winners, Italian Nobel Prize winners

Mario Renato Capecchi (born 6 October 1937) is an Italian-born American molecular geneticist. He won the 2007 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Martin Evans and Oliver Smithies. 

Capecchi is  Distinguished Professor of Human Genetics and Biology at the University of Utah School of Medicine, which he joined in 1973.

[[Wizard]]

CATEGORIES: Magic (paranormal)

A wizard, magician, sorceror or sorceress is a fictional or mythical person who uses magic. This ability to use magic may be due to innate ability, training, or both. Wizards are often depicted as having a special connection to supernatural beings, such as gods or fairies, or as such supernatural beings themselves.

Merlin from the Arthurian legends is one of the most well-known wizard characters.

Wizards have been portrayed as both evil and good. Dumbledore (from the Harry Potter series) and Gandalf (from Tolkien's Middle Earth) are fictional examples of "good" wizards. Voldemort and Saruman are corresponding examples of "evil" wizards.

Wizards are often depicted as old men with long, flowing beards, and wearing a large-brimmed hat, a thick cloak and holding a staff. This may be due to descriptions of Odin the Wanderer, a god from Norse mythology who often disguised himself thus, in order to pass through the lands of men unnoticed.

Wizards, when they are named thus, are almost always portrayed as male, but some fictional or mythical female characters seem to play the same role, sometimes as a foil character to a male wizard or other character. Notable examples include Morgan le Fay from Arthurian legends, and Circe from Greek mythology.

Nowadays, the term "wizard" is also used for someone whose accomplishments are due to unusual skill or creativity. Thomas Edison, the noted American inventor, was nicknamed "the Wizard of Menlo Park."

[[Kaunas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lithuania

Kaunas, also known by several other names, is the second biggest city in Lithuania and used to be a temporary capital. Kaunas is found at the point where the two biggest Lithuanian rivers, the Nemunas and the Neris, meet. It is also near the Kaunas Lagoon, the largest body of water in Lithuania.

[[Warp drive]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek

Warp drive (also called warp technology) is hypothetical technology created in science fiction. It is a way of moving objects faster than the speed of light. There are many examples of how this idea is used. A well-known one is found in the Star Trek universe, where faster-than-light travel is needed to tell the story.

Current technology does not allow anything or anyone to go at, or faster than, the speed of light. Unless the current theories are proven wrong, this will always be true. However, warp technology as a fictional idea has been an interesting way of shaping the story line to let spaceships move at speeds greater than 186,000 miles per second (speed of light through a vacuum - the known limit of speed in the universe).

Warp technology, as the name implies, 'warps space' in effect bringing a destination closer by bending space rather than the traditional 'thruster' means of propelling a spacecraft at high speeds.

Warp technology allows ships to move at warp speed. In the Star Trek universe, for example, the measurement of the speed that the spaceship is moving is called the warp factor. However, thrusters and impulse power propel spaceships at sub-light speed. Warp factor 1 is equal to the speed of light. The speed ranges up to warp factor 9.99. In some circumstances Star Trek spaceships can go faster than warp 10, although rare.

Most of that is pure science fiction, and no solid evidence has been produced of a true "warp drive" on a large scale.

In the field of Quantum Mechanics physicists have produced tiny wormholes, but they don't warp space time in the same way the "warp drive" concept does, rather they connect two separate points of spacetime through quantum entanglement.

Also, there seems to be a lack of clarity as to what a warp drive is because some argue with a warp drive we would travel at incredible speeds, however if the concept is to warp gravity and "fold" it in on itself then it's not speed that's traveled but rather distance that was removed.

[[Christian Heinrich Friedrich Peters]]

CATEGORIES: American astronomers, German astronomers, 1813 births, 1890 deaths

Christian Heinrich Friedrich Peters (September 19, 1813–July 18, 1890) was a German-American astronomer, and one of the first to find asteroids. 

He was born in Schleswig-Holstein, then part of Denmark but later part of Germany, and later studied under Carl Friedrich Gauss. He spoke many languages and spent time in Italy and Ottoman Turkey before going to the United States in 1854.

Working at Hamilton College in Clinton, New York (near Utica), he was a good finder of asteroids, finding 48 of them, beginning with 72 Feronia in 1861 and ending with 287 Nephthys in 1889.

He was involved in litigation in 1889 with his old assistant Charles A. Borst, and the "Great Star-Catalog Case" Peters v. Borst went before the Supreme Court of New York. The judge sided with Peters, but many astronomers and newspapers sided with Borst. Peters died not long after the trial end. After his death, the judgement was ultimately reversed on appeal and a new trial was ordered, but it never took place.

Besides asteroids, he co-found the Periodic comet 80P/Peters-Hartley, and also found different nebulae and galaxies.

[[Soest, Germany]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Rhine-Westphalia, Soest Rural District

Soest (pronounced zo:st) is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is the capital of the Soest district.

[[History of Europe]]

CATEGORIES: History of Europe

The history of Europe means all the time since the beginning of written records in the European continent up to the present day. It is traditionally divided into ancient (before the fall of the Western Roman Empire) medieval, and modern (after the fall of Constantinople).

Europe's antiquity dates from the Minoan civilization, the Myceneans and later on Homer's Iliad in Ancient Greece of around 700 BC. The Roman Republic was established in 509 BC, which was usurped by Octavian's new Roman Empire at its first century BC peak. The Christian religion was adopted in the fourth century, and in the sixth was organized, within the Empire, by Emperor Justinian I (527–565) with five most important cities: Rome, Constantinople, Antioch, Jerusalem and Alexandria. The fall of the Western Roman Empire was followed by a decline of Western Europe. The Byzantine Empire survived in the East. A new schism within the church's authority in 1054 was added to the earlier division that had persisted since 451. It was followed by Crusades from west to rescue the Holy Land from Muslim invasion. Feudal society began to break down, as the Black Death spread.

The Fall of Constantinople in 1453 showed the military weakness of the Christians in Eastern Europe. It is often used as a starting point for modern history. Western Christians completed the Reconquista and discovered a New World in 1492. Europe awoke from the medieval period through rediscovery of classical learning, much of which had been kept alive in the Muslim world while the Western church had rejected much of it as paganry. The Renaissance was followed by the Protestant Reformation, as priest Martin Luther attacked Papal authority. The Thirty Years War, the Treaty of Westphalia and the Glorious Revolution prepared for expansion and enlightenment.

The Industrial Revolution, beginning in Great Britain, allowed masses of people, not just the rich, to escape for the first time from lives of being always poor and barely able to afford either food or shelter. The early British Empire split as its colonies in America revolted to establish their own representative government. Political change in continental Europe was spurred by the French Revolution, as people cried out for liberté, egalité, fraternité (liberty, equality, brotherhood). The French leader, Napoleon Bonaparte, conquered and reformed the social structure of the continent through war up to 1815, when he met his final defeat at the Battle of Waterloo and was sent away into exile. As more and more small property holders were granted the vote, especially in France and the UK, socialist and trade union activity developed and revolution gripped Europe in 1848. The last vestiges of serfdom were abolished in Austria-Hungary in 1848. Russian serfdom was abolished in 1861. The Balkan nations began to regain their independence from the Ottoman Empire. After the Franco-Prussian War, Italy and Germany were formed, each from groups of smaller countries which spoke the same languages, in 1870 and 1871.

Conflict intensified across the globe, in a chase for empires, where powerful countries turned less powerful ones into colonies, until the outbreak, in 1914, of the biggest war that had ever been fought up to that point in time. It was called the Great War but now most often called World War I or the First World War. In the desperation of war, the Russian Revolution promised the people "peace, bread and land" and led to the end of the Russian Empire and its replacement by the formation of the Soviet Union. The defeat of Germany came at the price of economic destruction, which was formally written into the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 where it was stated that the First World War had been entirely the fault of Germany and its allies and demanded that they pay back the entire amount the war had cost.

The Great Depression began in 1929, brought about in part by the economic problems caused by the attempt to force Germany to pay for the war and in part by trade restrictions. Millions of people around the world lost their jobs. Governments changed in many countries, some by elections and some by revolutions. The governments soon fell into two main groups, those who believed in freedom and human rights and those who followed fascism. These two deeply different views led to a Second World War, which most people who write history feel began in Europe when Germany invaded Poland in 1939, but soon spread to most of the countries in the world. It took in wars which were already happening in other places, most notably the war between Japan and China. After this war Communism spread to Central and Eastern Europe, including the relatively new Eastern European countries of Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, and in Asia North Vietnam and North Korea, and, slightly later, to Cuba in the Carribean Sea very near to North America.

The conflict between the advocates of a capitalist economy and democratic political system and a communistic economy and political system led to the Cold War, a forty-year argument between the United States and the Soviet Union, two of the countries which had worked together to win the Second World War and the two which had come out of it with the most powerful military forces.  They led respectively a Western Bloc and an Eastern Bloc, dividing Europe.  Each side wanted to promote their type of government.  People across the world feared a nuclear war because of the tension, and Europe, divided by the Iron Curtain, was assumed to be a probable battleground.

Communism became less attractive when it became clear that it could promote economic growth less effectively than the capitalistic Western states and that it was not suited for a reform that allowed freedom of speech for everyone.  Therefore, the Soviet Union forced Hungary to give up its reform in 1956, it favoured the building of the Berlin Wall in 1961 and it stopped reform in Czechoslovakia in 1968.  When in 1988/89 the Soviet leader Gorbachev made clear that he would not force the countries of the East block to stick to Communism the Berlin Wall was torn down in 1989 and the Soviet Union collapsed (1991). Then the United States was the only superpower left.

Europe signed a new treaty of union, which included 27 European countries in 2007.

[[World Games]]

CATEGORIES: World Games

World Games are international competition in several sports since first edition in 1981.

[[Peace of Westphalia]]

CATEGORIES: 1648, Diplomacy, Treaties, Eighty Years' War, Thirty Years' War, 1640s in Europe, Holy Roman Empire, Münster, Osnabrück, Protestant Reformation, May events, October events

The Peace of Westphalia refers to the pair of peace treaties, the Treaty of Osnabrück and the Treaty of Münster, signed on May 15 and October 24 of 1648, which ended both the Thirty Years' War and the Eighty Years' War. The treaties involved the Holy Roman Emperor, Ferdinand III Habsburg, the other German princes, Spain, France, Sweden and representatives of the Dutch Republic. The Treaty of the Pyrenees, signed in 1659, ending the war between France and Spain, is also often considered part of the overall accord.

[[Flanimals]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 books, Children's books

Flanimals is a children's and adults' book written by comedian Ricky Gervais. The book was illustrated by Rob Steen. It has 35 different characters described as species of animal which form an imaginary world.

[[Trolleybus]]

CATEGORIES: Trolleybus, Buses

[[Van Hool]]

CATEGORIES: Transport companies of Europe, Bus transport, Companies of Belgium, Antwerp (province)

Van Hool is a Belgian company, which builds buses. It was founded in 1947 by Bernard Van Hool.

The headquarters are in Koningshooikt (Antwerp).

They have got 15 different buses for the city. 9 of them have got a normal engine, 4 have got an engine that works with gas, and 2 buses have got an electric engine, they are called Trolleybus.

List of all types of Low-Floor-Bus (Citybus):

Also they have got 13 different kinds of coachbuses.

List of all types of coachbuses:

[[Battle of Antietam]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1862 in the United States, Maryland Campaign, 19th century in Maryland, September 1862 events

The Battle of Antietam was an important battle in the American Civil War.It is also called the Battle of Sharpsburg by South historians. The battle was fought on September 17, 1862, near Sharpsburg, Maryland. It was also considered the bloodiest battle in the Civil war. It was the first major battle in the Civil War that took place in the border states. Both sides hoped a big victory for their side would make a short war. 

About 22,720 soldiers were killed, wounded or were missing at Antietam. There has never been another single-day battle in the history of the United States with so many American casualties. However, there have been other battles that lasted for more than one day where more Americans fell. For example, the later Battle of Gettysburg lasted three days and had an estimated 51,000 American casualties.

[[Haripur]]

Haripur can be any of the following:

[[Spirited Away]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 movies, Japanese movies, Anime, Studio Ghibli, Movies directed by Hayao Miyazaki, Movies that won the Best Animated Feature Academy Award

Spirited Away is a 2001 anime movie directed by Hayao Miyazaki. It was first released in Japan. The movie was a success, and went on to win an Academy Award for animation.

Based on 153 reviews at Rotten Tomatoes, it is the second-best animated movie, having a 97% rating on the site.  The movie occupies the rank of #60 on the IMDb Top 250 Movies list as of December 2008.  The Anime Critic gave it a 4 and 1/2 out of five stars.

[[Rachel Weisz]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from London, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Jewish British actors, Jewish models, Models from London

Rachel Hannah Weisz (born 7 March 1970) is an Academy Award-winning English actress; she is also a fashion model. She became famous after her roles in the Hollywood movies The Mummy and The Mummy Returns, and has since continued appearing in major movie roles.

She is of Jewish descent.

[[Old French]]

CATEGORIES: French language

Old French was the Romance dialect continuum spoken in the northern half of modern France and parts of modern Belgium and Switzerland from around 1000 to 1300. It was then known as the langue d'oïl. This was different from the langue d'oc (Occitan language, also then called Provençal), whose territory bordered that of Old French to the south.

The Old Frankish language added many words to Old French after the conquest by the tribe of the Franks, of the portions of Roman Gaul that are now France and Belgium, during the Migration Period.

[[Deborah Sampson]]

CATEGORIES: 1760 births, 1827 deaths, American revolutionaries, People from Massachusetts

Deborah Sampson was a woman who dressed as a man, so that she could join the American soldiers in the Revolutionary War. The Revolutionary War was a war between Great Britain and the thirteen original colonies. Deborah Sampson came from a poor family. She worked as an indentured servant from the age of eight to the age of eighteen. She worked for no pay for a family, but that family let her study with and spend time with their sons.

Sampson wanted to serve in the war against the British, but the American Army would only take men. She dressed as a man, and she got into the Continental Army. She went by the name of Robert Shurtleff. 

She later got married. She worked as a teacher. She also spoke in public about her experiences in the war.

During her time in war she went to extremes to keep her identity a secret. She once got slashed in the head by an enemy, yet bandaged it up herself. She also got shot in the leg twice. But, in order to not let people find out who she was, she pulled the bullets out of her own leg. In war, she collapsed from fever. She went to the hospital because of it and this is where her peers and boss found out about her being a woman.

Even if she lied to get into the army, her bravery was recognized and she was honored by her General and Congress as well.

[[Groundskeeper Willie]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1991

Groundskeeper Willie is a fictional character in the long-running cartoon show The Simpsons.

[[Dialectic]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

In philosophy, dialectic is an argument or debate between different people. In Medieval Europe, dialectics (or logic) was one of the three beginning liberal arts all together known as the trivium; the other members were rhetorics and grammar.

The goal of the dialectical process (dialectic or dialectics) is to try to resolve the disagreement through rational talk, and the search for the truth in the matter.

Dialectics has three main ideas:

[[Hans Luther]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1962 deaths, Bankers, Chancellors of the Weimar Republic, Ambassadors of Germany, German lawyers, German mayors (Weimar Republic), Government ministers of the Weimar Republic, Politicians from Berlin, Presidents of the Weimar Republic

Hans Luther (10 March 1879 – 11 May 1962) was a German politician. He was a Chancellor of Germany.

Luther was born in Berlin and started in politics by becoming a town councillor in Magdeburg. From 1918 to 1922 he was mayor of Essen.

In 1922 he became government minister of food and agriculture, and in 1925 Minister of Finance.

From January 1925 to May 1926 he was Chancellor. During a brief period he was also acting President.

Luther ran the Reichsbank from 1930 to 1933 and later became ambassador to the United States from 1933 to 1937.

[[Crossover (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry

A crossover is a term in music. It is when a piece of music appears on music charts for different types of music. For example, a song might be on music charts for both pop music and country music.

[[Crossover]]

CATEGORIES: Land vehicles, Automobile body styles

A crossover (CUV) is a marketing term for a vehicle that is built on a car platform. The term was first used in 1996 by Toyota for its new RAV4. CUVs mix some of the features of SUVs and station wagons or hatchbacks. They frequently use unibody construction typical of many cars. A crossover usually uses a light-duty all-wheel drive. Unlike SUVs (which are usually four-wheel drive), crossovers are generally capable of only light off-road use. Examples of crossovers include Ford Explorer and Hyundai Santa Fe. Crossovers have begun to replace minivans (a market that has been dwindling in the U.S. since 2005), as well as compact and mid-sized SUVs.

[[Council of Trent]]

CATEGORIES: Councils, Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, 16th century in Italy, 1545 establishments, 1563 disestablishments, 1540s establishments in Europe, Disestablishments in Italy, Counter-Reformation

Council of Trent was the 19th Ecumenical council of the Roman Catholic Church. Important members of the Catholic Church met in Trento three times between 13 December 1545 and 4 December 1563, in reaction to the  Protestant Reformation. 

It reinforced Catholic doctrine regarding salvation, the sacraments, and the Biblical canon, answering all Protestant disputes.

The council often could not meet when they wanted to, and sometimes could not meet at all, because of resistance from the popes and revolt against the emperor.Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor wanted the council to meet, and Pope Paul III summoned the council in 1537, but the plans fell through. In 1538, ideas for a council again failed. The pope asked for the council to meet in 1542, but it did not actually meet until 1545. The council was not active between 1547 and 1551. It again met from 1551 to 1552, when it was suspended due to a revolt against the emperor. Pope Paul IV (1555-59) strongly disliked Protestant ideas and the council could not start again until his succesor took office. The council met for the last time from 1562-63.

The Council of Trent was part of the Counter-Reformation. It would be over 300 years until the next Ecumenical Council.

Pope Paul III saw that the Protestant Reformation was getting bigger. Before, a small number of priests were part of the reformation, but soon many princes, particularly in Germany, supported its ideas. Therefore, Pope Paul III desired a council. But the council could not meet until 1545 and met right before Martin Luther's death. The council was moved to Bologna in March 1547 with the excuse of avoiding a plague; without any plans to meet again, 17 September 1549. 

The council was reopened at Trento, 1 May 1551, by Pope Julius III (1550–55); broken up 1552, recalled by Pope Pius IV (1559–65) for the last time, 18 January  1562, when it continued until 4 December 1563.

[[Du gamla, du fria]]

CATEGORIES: National anthems, Swedish music

"Du gamla, du fria" (pron. ˈɡâmːla dʉː ˈfrîːa "doo GAHM-lah doo FREE-ah"; en. 'Thou ancient, thou free'), originally titled "Sång till Norden" ('Song to the North'), is the Swedish title and incipit of a 19th-century patriotic song which serves as the de facto national anthem of Sweden – it is therefore unofficial. The lyrics (words) were written by Swedish jurist and antiquarian Richard Dybeck in 1844, and its melody is based on a traditional folk tune which was later rearranged by Swedish composer and librarian Edvin Kallstenius nearly a century later.

Unlike Norway's national anthem, "Ja, vi elsker dette landet", the Swedish anthem has not been made official yet—the Swedish constitution has yet to mention a national anthem.

[[Gospel of Matthew]]

CATEGORIES: Gospels, New Testament books

The Gospel of Matthew is a book of the Bible. (Its full name is the Gospel According to Matthew, but it is often called the Gospel of Matthew or just Matthew).  It is one of the four gospels of the New Testament that tell the story of Jesus' life and teachings. 

It is not thought to have been written by the apostle Matthew, who was one of Jesus' twelve apostles (see below). The Gospel of Matthew is called one of the synoptic gospels because it has some of the same stories and language as the Gospels of Mark and Luke.

Matthew wrote the gospel mainly for the Jewish people, to show them that Jesus is really the Messiah. Like the Gospels of Mark and Luke, Matthew tells many stories about Jesus' life. Matthew's gospel also talks about Jewish scripture. 

[[Gospel of Mark]]

CATEGORIES: Gospels, New Testament books

The Gospel of Mark is a book of the Bible. It is the second book of the New Testament and comes after the Gospel of Matthew even though it may have been written before it. The writer is believed to have been John Mark, a friend of Simon Peter, who was one of the Twelve apostles of Jesus. 

The four gospels tell the story of the life of Jesus. The word "gospel" means "good news". The Gospel of Mark moves quickly, and the story shows how much Jesus worked during his short 3-year ministry. Mark's gospel tells many things about Jesus which are also found in the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke.  Matthew, Mark and Luke are called "Synoptic gospels" for this reason. 

Most scholars date Mark AD 65-75. It is thought to be the first of the gospels to be written.  Mark's gospel may have been written with Gentiles in mind.  It gives the meaning of some of Jesus' words in Greek that would have been known to Jews but not to other people.  Mark's leaves out many details in the other gospels, such as the stories about the birth of Jesus.  He includes many stories of Jesus doing miracles, more than any other Bible writer.

In telling about the arrest of Jesus to be crucified, the book mentions a young man who was almost caught by the guards, but who slipped out of his robe and got away.  Some think this young man was Mark himself, since there is no other reason to include such a small detail.  If it was Mark, means that Mark was a follower of Jesus who probably saw him crucified and come back to life after three days. 

The last chapter of Mark has some verses after verse 8 that may not have been part of the original gospel, as they are missing is some early hand written copies of the book.  However, they give further information about what Jesus said after his resurrection. These sayings  are similar to what the other gospels record.    

[[Gospel of Luke]]

CATEGORIES: Gospels, New Testament books

The Gospel of Luke is a book of the Bible. Like the other gospels, the Gospel of Luke tells the stories of the life and teachings of Jesus. It is the third and longest book of the New Testament and comes after the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Mark. The gospel is believed to be written by Luke, who was a friend of the Apostle Paul. 

Luke was a doctor. He wrote his gospel for a man he calls 'most excellent Theophilus' (1:3). Luke wrote another book which is fifth in the New Testament, the Acts of the Apostles which tells what Jesus' disciples did after his rise back to Heaven.

Unlike the gospel writers Matthew, Mark and John, Luke was probably not Jewish but was Greek. He wrote the gospel mainly for non-Jewish people, (who were called Gentile by the Jews). Luke wrote to prove that Jesus is the Son of God. Luke's gospel contains many similar stories of Jesus. He tells more about the Virgin birth of Jesus than the other gospel writers.

[[Gospel of John]]

CATEGORIES: Gospels, New Testament books

The Gospel of John is a book of the Bible. It is one of the four "gospels" at the beginning of the New Testament. The four gospels tell the life of Jesus. The Gospel of John is the fourth book of the New Testament, after the gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke.

In the gospel, it is says that the book was written by "the disciple whom Jesus loved".  It is believed that John the Apostle, the son of Zebedee, wrote the gospel. He was probably the youngest of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus. John lived a long life and was imprisoned on the Island of Patmos in his old age. He also wrote the last book of the New Testament, called the "Book of Revelation". 

The Gospel of John tells many of the stories of Jesus' life that are in the other three gospels, but also contains a lot of different information. The Gospel begins by calling Jesus "the Word" (the Communication of God). It says "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God and the Word was God." In John's Gospel, the writer shows that Jesus was part of God, who came to live among humanity so that they could "hear His voice" and have the power to become true "children of God". 

According to the gospel, the accounts are written so that the reader "may believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in His name". (TNIV; John 20:31)

The book follows a pattern.  There are seven "signs" leading up to the raising from the dead of Lazarus (this anticipates the resurrection of Jesus), and seven "I am" sayings and discussions, leading up to Thomas saying that the risen Jesus is "my Lord and my God" 

There is some disagreement over whether the John who wrote the letters of John, the John who wrote the Gospel of John, and the John who wrote the Book of Revelation are the same person.

[[Sofia Rotaru]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Ukrainian singers, Ukrainian actors, Soviet actors, Soviet singers

Sofia Mihailovna Evdokimenko-Rotaru (born in Marshintsy, Novoselitskiy Rayon, Chernivtsi Oblast, Ukraine on August 7, 1947), simply known as Sofia Rotaru, is a popular Russian, Ukrainian, Moldavian and formerly Soviet singer, actress and producer.

Rotaru now lives in Ukraine. She has made many albums over the years; some of the more famous ones are Ballade About Violins, Lavender (Lavanda), and I Still Love You.

[[Epistle to the Romans]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

The Epistle to the Romans or Letter to the Romans, is one of the letters written by the Apostle Paul to churches in different cities. Here, the letter is addressed to the early church in Rome, Italy.

Paul wrote the letter to the Romans to explain a very important point in Christianity. He proves, by quoting the Old Testament, that all humankind is guilty of sin before God.  People whom God calls righteous can only do so by trusting in God's ways, and not by their own effort. Only by believing in Jesus, who is the Christ and who died for humanity for their sins, can people be saved.  

Once this belief is had, the believer receives the Holy Spirit, who helps the believer live a new life.  Paul asks the Romans to observe Christian ethics and submit themselves to authorities.

The letter remains very influential in explaining to non-Christians and new Christians what their Christian belief is all about.

[[Moe Szyslak]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1989

Moe Szyslak is a fictional character on the long running TV show The Simpsons. His voice is performed by Hank Azaria. He is the bartender of Moe's Tavern. He speaks with a rough voice.

[[First Epistle to the Corinthians]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

The First Epistle to the Corinthians, or the First Letter to the Corinthians, is a long letter written by the Apostle Paul to the church in Corinth.

Paul wrote to the Corinthian church for a number of reasons.  He realizes the church at Corinth is divided and explains that although himself and a few disciples had helped start the church, the church was really headed by Christ Jesus Himself.  "I planted the seed, Apollos watered it, but God has been making it grow." (TNIV) 

Paul scolds the church members there for sexual immorality and asks for these immoral people to be thrown out of the church.  

He gives instructions for marriage, against worshipping worthless idols (idolatry), for spiritual gifts like prophecy. Paul praises the superior way of love and urges the church to be united.  

At the end, Paul states that the resurrection of Christ is true.  He supports it with testimonies from "more than five hundred of the brothers and sisters" and it is this very truth which makes certain the believers will have eternal life.

Finally Paul tells of his plans to visit the Corinthians, and that Timothy, his co-worker, is coming to their church very soon.

[[Epistle to the Hebrews]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

The Epistle to the Hebrews or Letter to the Hebrews is one of the letters of the New Testament. Although it is believed by many to be written by the Apostle Paul, many others think it might have been written by one group of early Christians to a general group of Jews (also called Hebrews), or to a church with Jewish members.

The letter explains that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is the perfect sacrifice for human sinners. He is superior to angels and is our High priest in the order of Melchizedek. Jesus is the Messiah whose coming gives us the superior New Covenant, as compared to the Old Covenant of Abraham and

Moses. The writers state that if the Old Covenant was faultless, God would not have sent his Son to start a new one.

By stating that people are called righteous through their faith and belief in God's ways, the writers urge the readers to receive God's grace by accepting Jesus Christ.

[[Alan Kuo]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, C-pop singers, Living people, Singers, Songwriters, Taiwanese actors, Taiwanese singers

Alan Kuo (柯有綸) is a Taiwanese rock singer and actor.

[[C-rock]]

CATEGORIES: C-rock

C-rock is short for Chinese rock music. C-rock (中国摇滚 zhōng guó yáo gǔn or 中国摇滚音乐 zhōng guó yáo gǔn yīn yuè; literally "Chinese shaking and rolling music") can be performed in any dialect of Chinese language. Some people consider C-rock a subgenre of C-pop.

[[Cleo Lemon]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, African American players of American football, American football quarterbacks, Baltimore Ravens players, Sportspeople from Mississippi

Cleotha Lemon, Jr. (born August 16, 1979 in Greenwood, Mississippi) is an American football quarterback. He currently plays for the Jacksonville Jaguars of the National Football League (NFL). He started playing in the NFL for the Baltimore Ravens in 2002. Lemon played for the San Diego Chargers from 2003 to 2005. He then played for the Miami Dolphins until the 2007 season. He played college football at Arkansas State.

[[Reformed churches]]

CATEGORIES: Calvinism

The Reformed churches are a group of Christian Protestant denominations that are historically related by a doctrine that is identical or similar to Calvinism. It developed in the Swiss Reformation led by Huldrych Zwingli and John Calvin, but soon afterwards appeared in nations throughout Western Europe. Each nation in which the Reformed movement was originally established had its own church government. Several of these local churches have expanded to worldwide denominations and most have experienced schisms into multiple denominations. 

[[Augsburg Confession]]

CATEGORIES: 1530, Augsburg, Protestantism in Germany, History of Germany, Lutheranism, Protestant theology, Christian creeds, 16th century works

The Augsburg Confession, also known as the "Augustana" from its Latin name, Confessio Augustana, is the most important confession of faith of the Lutheran Church. The Augsburg Confession is normative to all Lutheran Churches everywhere and in all times. It is also one of the most important documents of the Lutheran Reformation. The Augsburg Confession was presented by a number of German rulers and free-cities at the Diet of Augsburg on June 25, 1530.

[[Brainin]]

Brainin (Брайнин, also Brainen, Brajnin, Braynen, Breinin) is Russian-Jewish surname. It may refer to:

Other spellings:

[[Norbert Brainin]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2005 deaths, Austrian Jews, British violinists, Jewish British musicians, Musicians from Vienna, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Refugees from Nazism

Norbert Brainin (March 12, 1923 in Vienna – April 10 2005 in London) was the first violinist of the Amadeus Quartet, one of the world's most famous string quartets.

Because of Brainin's Jewish origin, he was driven out of Vienna after Hitler's Anschluss of 1938, as were the violinist Siegmund Nissel and violist Peter Schidlof. Brainin and Schidlof met in a British internment camp.  Like many Jewish refugees who came to the UK for safety, they became "aliens" and were kept in confinement.

Brainin was made free after a few months, but Schidlof stayed in the camp, where he met Nissel. Finally Schidlof and Nissel were freed, and the three of them were able to study with violin teacher Max Rostal, who taught them free of charge. It was through Rostal that they met cellist Martin Lovett, and in 1947 they formed the Brainin Quartet, which was renamed the Amadeus Quartet in 1948.

The Amadeus was one of the best-known quartets of the 20th Century, and its members were given many honours, including: 

The quartet stopped playing together in 1987 after Schidlof died, because the others thought that no other violist would fit in to the group so well.  Norbert Brainin continued to perform as a soloist, often performing with pianist Günter Ludwig.

His instruments included the "Rode" Guarnerius del Gesu of 1734, the "Chaconne" Stradivarius of 1725 and the "Gibson" Stradivarius of 1713.

[[Amadeus Quartet]]

CATEGORIES: String quartets

The Amadeus Quartet was a world famous string quartet founded in 1947. First violin - Norbert Brainin, second violin - Siegmund Nissel, viola - Peter Schidlof, cello - Martin Lovett.

Violinists Norbert Brainin, Siegmund Nissel and  Peter Schidlof were forced to leave Vienna for London because of their Jewish origin after Hitler's Anschluss of 1938. When World War II broke out they were sent to internment camps because they were "enemy aliens" (foreigners from a country that Britain was fighting against).  The three violinists met up in camp and spent a lot of time playing music together.  Soon they were set free because they were "distinguished artists" (actually they were unknown at the time). They studied with violin teacher Max Rostal, who taught them free of charge. Another student of Rostal was Suzanne Rozsa, who was married to the cellist Martin Lovett.  Peter Schidlof changed to playing the viola, and they played string quartets together.  In 1947 they formed the Brainin Quartet.  Nissel then thought of the name "Amadeus Quartet".  He thought it sounded better than calling the group by the name of the first violinist.  The quartet was renamed the Amadeus Quartet in 1948 (Amadeus was one of Mozart's names).

The group gave its first performance as the Amadeus Quartet in the Wigmore Hall, London on Jan. 10, 1948. They were soon performing in concerts, festivals and masterclasses all over the world.  The quartet made about 200 recordings, among them the complete quartets of Ludwig van Beethoven, Johannes Brahms, and W. A. Mozart. They also performed works by such 20th-century composers as Béla Bartók and Benjamin Britten (who wrote his third quartet especially for them).

The Amadeus was one of the most celebrated quartets of the 20th century.

They had always agreed that if one of them became ill or died, the quartet would not play with any other person.  The quartet stopped playing in 1987 after the death of the violist Peter Schidlof.

Norbert Brainin died in 2005 and Siegmund Nissel in 2008.

[[Valeri Brainin]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, German poets, Jewish German musicians, Jewish German writers, Jewish musicians, Musicologists, Russian Jews, Russian musicians, Russian poets, Soviet Jews

Valeri Brainin (born 27 January 1948) is a Russian/German musicologist, music manager, composer, and poet. Born in Nizhny Tagil, Russia, in the family of Austrian poet and translator, political émigré Boris Brainin (Sepp Österreicher), who belonged to the well-known Viennese Brainin family. He lives at the moment both in Hanover, Germany, and in Moscow. Brainin is of Jewish descent.

[[Partisan Review]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines

Partisan Review was an American political and literary quarterly published from 1934 to 2003, though it suspended publication between October 1936 and December 1937.  It was founded by William Phillips and Philip Rahv.  It grew out of the John Reed Club as an alternative to New Masses, the publication of the American Communist Party, but became anti-Communist after Stalin.  Many of its early authors were the children of Jewish immigrants from Europe. The journal reached its peak influence from the late 1930s to the early 1960s, but then gradually lost its relevance to modern American culture.  Phillips died in September 2002 at age 94.  The journal continued under his wife Edith Kurzweil until April 2003.

In 1949, Partisan Review awarded George Orwell £357 for the year's most significant contribution to literature, Nineteen Eighty-Four.

Classic stories and articles first published in Partisan Review:

[[List of Russian language poets]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of writers, Russian poets, Russia-related lists, Russian language

Poets who wrote much of their poetry in the Russian language.

[[Blue-eyed soul]]

CATEGORIES: Soul music, R&B music

Blue Eyed Soul is a term used to describe Soul and R&B music sung by white people. The term was first used in the 1960s about white artists performing music which was similar to the music being performed by Motown artists. It is sometimes called white soul.

[[Recherswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Recherswil is a municipality in the district Wasseramt, in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Boston, Lincolnshire]]

CATEGORIES: Boston, Lincolnshire

Boston is a town and small port in Lincolnshire, on the east coast of England.

[[Stade]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lower Saxony

Stade is a city in Lower Saxony, Germany. It is the seat of the district which is named the same as the city . The city was founded in 994 when it was called "Stethu". A city on the banks of the Lower Elbe it became an important market town, and a port. It was given a town charter in 1209. From 1645 to 1712, the Stade was controlled by Sweden, who made it an important military town. On May 26, 1659, the "Great Fire" destroyed more than half the city.

[[Stade (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Lower Saxony

Stade is a district (Landkreis) in Lower Saxony, Germany. The district's seat is Stade. 

[[Hasselt, Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Netherlands, Settlements in Overijssel, Former municipalities of Overijssel

Hasselt is a town about 7 km north of Zwolle, in the Dutch province of Overijssel. Since 2001, it became a part of the new municipality of Zwartewaterland.

[[Chain letter]]

CATEGORIES: E-mail, Postal service

A chain letter is a message that tries to cause the person who gets it to make copies of the letter and then pass them on to as many people as possible. A chain letter can be a type of meme. Common ways used in chain letters include stories that make the recipient feel sorry for the person, get-rich-quick pyramid schemes, and the use of superstition to threaten the recipient with bad luck, physical violence or death if he or she "breaks the chain" and does not follow the instructions given in the letter.

[[Stanisław Ulam]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1984 deaths, American mathematicians, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Polish Jews

Stanisław Marcin Ulam (April 13, 1909 – May 13, 1984) was a Polish mathematician who took part in the Manhattan Project and proposed the design used for most thermonuclear weapons.  

He also proposed using nuclear explosions to propel rockets, and he developed several mathematical tools in number theory, set theory, ergodic theory and algebraic topology. Above all, he is known by being a coauthor (with Nicholas Metropolis) of the Monte Carlo algorithm.

Ulam was of Jewish descent.

[[Reichsuniversität Straßburg]]

CATEGORIES: Nazism, Strasbourg, Colleges and universities in France, 1941 establishments in Europe, 1944 disestablishments, 1940s establishments in France, 20th century disestablishments in France, 1940s disestablishments in Europe

The Reichsuniversität Straßburg was founded 1941 by the National Socialists in Alsace. The purpose was to create a university continuousness to Universität Straßburg that existed till the 1. World War. Also, it was important for the German invaders to propagate the „pure German knowledge“ of National Socialistic character in occupied France. The Reichsuniversität was dissolved in 1944.

[[Somatosensory system]]

CATEGORIES: Sensory system

The somatosensory system is a sensory system that detects experiences labelled as touch or pressure, temperature (warm or cold), pain (including itch and tickle) and those that belong to proprioception. These are the sensations of muscle movement and joint position including posture, movement, visceral (internal) senses and facial expression. Visceral senses have to do with sensory information from within the body, such as stomach aches.

Touch may be considered one of five human senses; however, when a person touches something or somebody this gives rise to various feelings: the perception of pressure (shape, softness, texture, vibration, etc.), relative temperature and sometimes pain. Thus the term "touch" is actually the combined term for several senses. In medicine, the colloquial term "touch" is usually replaced with somatic senses, to better reflect the variety of mechanisms involved.

[[Schandmaul]]

CATEGORIES: German rock bands, Folk metal bands

[[Flash (tattoo)]]

CATEGORIES: Body art

A flash (also known as a tattoo flash) is a design or picture that is used in order to create a tattoo. They often come in sets like a poster (called flash sheets), and can be seen in most tattoo shops.

Tattoo flashes are often drawn for general use, rather than being a custom made piece like some personal tattoos. However, some flashes have space for personalisation, for example space for the person to include a name in their tattoo.

Tattoo flashes come in a variety of different designs, and are divided into categories such as celtic, heart, arm band tattoos e.t.c. A person wanting a tattoo made from a flash chooses which design they like best. Then the tattooist uses a stencil to draw the basic design onto the skin of the person being tattooed, and afterwards starts to make the tattoo.

[[Itch]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms

Itch (Latin: pruritus) is an unpleasant sensation that leads to the desire or reflex to scratch. Itch has many similarities to pain and both are unpleasant sensory experiences but their behavioral response patterns are different. Pain creates a reflex withdrawal while itch leads to a scratch reflex. Nerve fibers for itch and pain both are in the skin, but information for them is sent centrally in two distinct systems that both use the same nerve bundle. 

Historically, the sensations of itch and pain have not been considered to be independent of each other until recently where it was found that itch has several features in common with pain but has important differences. 

[[Tony Hibbert]]

CATEGORIES: English footballers, Sportspeople from Liverpool, 1981 births, Living people, Premier League players

Tony Hibbert (born 20 February 1981 in Liverpool) is an English footballer. He plays for Everton F.C. in the FA Premier League.

He is a defender who plays on the right side. He is well known at Everton for his tackling but his passing and crossing has let him down on more than one occasion.  He made his debut for Everton against West Ham United F.C.. In this game he won a penalty for Everton.  Hibbert has been at Everton for all of his career.

[[Leighton Baines]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Merseyside, Premier League players

Leighton Baines (born 11 December 1984) is a retired English footballer. He was known for his time at Everton and the England national football team.

Baines started his career with Wigan Athletic. He was a defender who plays on the left side. He wears the number 3 on his Everton shirt. He has played for England at under-21 and senior levels. He has scored only one goal while playing for England. He scored four times while at Wigan. 

[[Joseph Yobo]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Nigerian footballers

Joseph Yobo (born 6 September 1980) is a Nigerian football player who plays for Everton in the Premier League.

He is a defender who normally plays in the centre, but can play on the right of defence or in midfield.

He signed from French side Olympique Marseille in 2001 and has become a favourite at Everton ever since.

He is the Everton vice-captain and first captained Everton against Larissas in a 3-1 victory in the UEFA Cup, replacing the injured Phil Neville.

Yobo is also captain of the national Nigerian side.

When he first joined Everton he wore the number 20 on his shirt, but this changed to 4 when Alan Stubbs left for Sunderland

[[Joleon Lescott]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Black British sportspeople, English footballers, Manchester City F.C. players, Sportspeople from Birmingham, Premier League players

Joleon Patrick Lescott (born 16 August 1982) is an English footballer who plays for Manchester City and the England national football team. He is a defender who can play on the left or in the centre.

Lescott was born in Birmingham. At 17 he began playing for the Wolverhampton Wanderers.  In 2006 he was named in the Championship team of the season.  He also got the Wolves' Player of the Year award.

Lescott was sold to Everton at the start of the 2006–07 season. On 8 May 2008, Lescott was voted Everton's Player of the Year and Players Player of the Year.

Following the end of the 2008–09 season, Manchester City tried to sign Lescott.  Everton said no. On 11 August 2009, Lescott asked to move to Manchester City.  Again Everton said no.  The manager said Lescott had a "bad attitude" and did not have him play.  Then on 25 August 2009 he was traded to Manchester City.  Fans in Everton are now angry at Lescott for leaving.  They boo when he takes the field.

On 13 May 2012 Lescott helped Man City win their first premiership title in 44 years.

[[Mikel Arteta]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, People from San Sebastian

Mikel Arteta (born 26 March 1982) is a Spanish professional football manager and former player. He is currently the manager of Premier League club Arsenal.

He first signed for Everton on loan from Spanish side Real Sociedad in 2005, but after many good performances manager David Moyes made this move permanent.

Despite being rated one of the best midfielders in English football, Arteta has never played for Spain.

On 12 March 2020, it was announced that Arteta had tested positive for COVID-19 amid its pandemic in the UK.

[[John Winter]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2007 deaths, Businesspeople from Florida, American meteorologists, Scientists from Florida, People from Tampa, Florida

John Winter (September 8, 1967 - April 5, 2007) was a weather man for NBC's channel WFLA-TV in Tampa, Florida.

Winter was born and grew up in Seminole, Florida. He was a graduate of Seminole High School. Winter was a Bachelor of Arts graduate in weather at the University of Kansas. He started his job as a television weather man at KGBT-TV in Harlingen, Texas. Winter worked there for two years before he moved near Tampa in 1994. It was in Tampa that he started working for WFLA-TV.  He was most often the morning meteorologist for WFLA-TV but he sometimes would make the evening reports. Winter held the "Seal of Approval" from the American Meteorological Society.

As well as being a weather man, Winter also owned the company "Big U Media" with a friend who also worked at WFLA-TV. Big U Media was an advertising company. He was also a member of a local charitable organization and Mardi Gras krewe, The Rough Riders. They helped underprivileged and sick children by giving teddy bears at homeless shelters and in hospitals.

Winter loved animals. Each hour, during his morning weather reports, he would show an animal up for adoption. He did this for the local animal shelters. The adoption rate was very good.

[[Saskia van Uylenburgh]]

CATEGORIES: 1612 births, 1642 deaths, Dutch models

Saskia van Uylenburgh (August 2, 1612 - June 14, 1642) was the wife of the Dutch painter Rembrandt van Rijn and the model for some of the great artist's paintings and drawings.

[[Ecliptic]]

CATEGORIES: Celestial mechanics

The ecliptic is the apparent path that the Sun traces out in the sky during the year.

The Sun appears to move against the background of stars because the Earth orbits the Sun.

The ecliptic plane should be distinguished from the invariable plane. That is the average plane of the orbits of the planets. The present ecliptic plane is inclined to the invariable ecliptic plane by about 1.5°.

The name ecliptic is derived from being the place where eclipses occur.

[[Janggu]]

CATEGORIES: Drums, Korean music

The janggu (jahng goo) is a traditional Korean drum.  It has the shape of an hourglass. The drum has two ends. The person playing the drum can either hang it on their neck or put it on the floor. It is played with two sticks.

[[Kkwaenggwari]]

CATEGORIES: Percussion instruments, Korean music

The Kkwaenggwari (kwang gah ree) is a small gong used in Korean folk music.

[[Singapore Changi Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Singapore, Airports in Asia, Buildings and structures in Singapore, Changi, 1981 establishments in Asia, 1980s establishments in Singapore

Singapore Changi Airport SIN, or simply Changi Airport, is a commercial airport serving Singapore, and is one of the largest transportation hubs in Asia. It is located in Changi, at the eastern part of the island of Singapore, on a 13 site.

The airport is operated by the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS), and is the home base of Singapore Airlines, Singapore Airlines Cargo, Jetstar Asia Airways and Scoot.

Singapore Changi Airport has been rated the best airport in the world by Skytrax for 8 years in a row. The airport has also been rated as being one of the world's cleanest airports and highly rated international transit airports.

[[Middle class]]

CATEGORIES: Economics, Social groups

The Middle class describes people who are not aristocrats nor working class or underclass. Depending on class model used, the middle class may make up anywhere from 45% to 49% of households in the United States. There is a lower middle class and an upper middle class. In Marxism, middle class is the class below the ruling class.

[[No Mercy (2007)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in American television, 2007 in professional wrestling, Sports in Chicago, Illinois, WWE No Mercy, 2007 in Illinois

No Mercy 2007 was a professional wrestling event available on pay-per-view made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was the ninth yearly No Mercy event and took place on October 7, 2007 at the Allstate Arena in Rosemont, Illinois.

For the first time, there were three new WWE Championship reigns in one night, as Randy Orton was awarded the vacant title (previously held by John Cena) to start the event, only to lose it to Triple H less than a half-hour later, but in turn regain it at the end of the night in a Last Man Standing match.

The other championship matches on the undercard were Batista versus The Great Khali in a Punjabi Prison match for the World Heavyweight Championship, Candice Michelle versus Beth Phoenix for the WWE Women's Championship, and CM Punk versus Big Daddy V for the ECW Championship.

[[Reverse osmosis]]

CATEGORIES: Water

Reverse osmosis is a way of purifying water with the use of a filter (a membrane).  The particles in the water are left on the other side of the sheet, while the water travels through it. The main use is for purifying salt water, but it can also be used to purify other substances.

[[Transport Layer Security]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography, Internet standards, Internet protocols, Communication

Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol and its predecessor, Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), are cryptographic protocols that provide security and data integrity for communications over TCP/IP networks such as the Internet. Several versions of the protocols are common in applications such as web browsing, electronic mail, Internet faxing, instant messaging and voice-over-IP (VoIP).

[[Democratic-Republican Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States, 1792 establishments in the United States, 1820s disestablishments in North America, 19th-century disestablishments in the United States

The Democratic-Republican Party was founded by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison in 1792. It became the most popular political party until the 1820s, when it split into competing factions, one of which became the modern-day Democratic Party. Its members spoke of the party as the Republicans, Jeffersonians, Democrats, or combinations of these (Jeffersonian republicans, etc.).

Jefferson and Madison created the party in order to oppose the economic and foreign policies of the Federalists, a party created a year or so earlier by Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton. Foreign policy issues were central; the party opposed the Jay Treaty of 1794 with Britain (then at war with France) and supported good relations with France before 1801. The party was against many of Hamilton's proposals concerning the Constitution.

Note that this party is different from the modern-day Republican Party.

[[Strict construction]]

CATEGORIES: Law

Strict construction means a restriction of judicial interpretation. In the United States the phrase is also commonly used more loosely as a term for conservativism among the judiciary.

[[Race Horses (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2010s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, British pop music groups, Musical groups disestablished in 2012, Musical groups established in 2005, Welsh musical groups, 2000s establishments in Wales

Race Horses are an indie/pop band from Aberystwyth, Wales. They started in 2005 as Radio Luxembourg. Its members were Meilyr Jones, Dylan Hughes, Gwion Llewelyn and Alun Gaffey. They split in 2012.

[[Radio Luxembourg]]

Radio Luxembourg may mean:

[[Assisi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Italy, World Heritage Sites in Italy, Settlements in Umbria

Assisi is a town and a comune in Italy, in the region of Umbria. Assisi on the western side of the mountain called Mount Subasio. It is an important place because of its art, its architecture and its history. It is especially important to the Catholic religion. It was the birthplace of Saint Francis of Assisi, who was a Catholic saint. Saint Francis is most famous because he founded the Franciscan religious order in the year 1208. Saint Clare, a follower of Saint Francis, was also born in Assisi. She founded an order of religious women called the Poor Clares.

After Saint Francis and Saint Clare died, churches were built in their honor. The Church of Saint Francis, called the Basilica of Saint Francis of Assisi, is famous as his burial place. It is also famous for the fresco paintings on the walls and ceilings. Many visitors go to Assisi on pilgrimage. Many people also go there to see the town's art. Assisi was made into a UNESCO World Heritage Site in the year 2000. 

[[Federalist Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States, 1792 establishments in the United States, 1816 disestablishments, 1810s disestablishments in the United States

The Federalist Party (or Federal Party) was an American political party from 1792 to 1816. The Federalists controlled the federal government until 1801. Alexander Hamilton formed the party during George Washington's first term.  Hamilton  built a network of supporters for his financial policies.  Many supporters came from cities. These supporters grew into the Federalist Party, which wanted a fiscally sound and strong nationalistic government.

With the start of the new government under the Constitution, President George Washington appointed his former chief of staff, Alexander Hamilton, to the office of Secretary of the Treasury. Hamilton wanted a strong national government with financial credibility. 

By 1790, Hamilton started building a nationwide coalition. He and his network of treasury agents tried to link together friends of the government, especially merchants and bankers, in the new nation's dozen major cities. His attempts to manage politics in the national capital to get his plans through Congress, then, "brought strong responses across the country. In the process, what began as a capital faction soon assumed status as a national faction and then, finally, as the new Federalist party." 

The party opposed the War of 1812 and dwindled away after the war in 1816. 

Hamilton and others published a number of newspaper articles from about 1790, which are known as Federalist Papers today.

[[Special Forces Command]]

CATEGORIES: Military, Turkey

The Maroon Berets are a highly trained elite special operations armed force unit that was created by officers from the Turkish Army. They are also called "Bordo Bereliler". Their priority is to eliminate terrorists, attackers and foreign military threats on the Turkish Republic and provide homeland security. Other missions include behind enemy lines operations, high risk reconnaissance missions and front line engagement and termination missions.

There are three categories of education and training that a MB will undergo. These are Domestic, International and Specialty

Within these three categories, there are 47 different subjects. Domestic training takes 72 weeks of basic training; International training takes 10 to 52 weeks of specialized training in different countries. It takes 3.5 – 5 years to become a MB commando.

The Maroon Berets (MB) came into the public spotlight when they captured the PKK terrorist organization leader Abdullah Öcalan in Kenya. The identities of MB personal is classified. Unlike other special operations teams, MB Officers are battle hardened and are constantly operating and are active in the war on the PKK in the south eastern Iraqi border region of Turkey and even cross border action into Northern Iraq.

[[Coalition]]

CATEGORIES: Diplomacy

A coalition is an alliance, where the members work together. 

[[International relations]]

CATEGORIES: International relations

International relations is a branch of political science. Predominant study topics are politics, economics and law on a global level. It represents the study of foreign affairs and global issues among states within the international system, including the roles of states, international organizations (IGOs), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and multinational corporations (MNCs).  

[[Political science]]

CATEGORIES: Social sciences

Political science is a branch of social science that is concerned with theory, description, analysis and prediction of political behavior, political systems and politics.

Political scientists study the allocation and transfer of power in decision-making, the roles and systems of governance including governments and international organizations, political behavior and public policies. They measure the success of governance and specific policies by examining many factors, including stability, justice, material wealth, and peace. 

[[Thnks fr th Mmrs]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs, Fall Out Boy songs

Thnks fr th Mmrs is a 2007 song by Fall Out Boy. It is the second single from Infinity on High, the band's fourth album. It was released on March 27, 2007 in the United States. The title is short for "Thanks for the Memories". It has been certified Gold by RIAA. It was used by Network Ten in Australia to promote the 2007 AFL Finals Series.

[[That's What You Get]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Paramore songs, Pop rock songs

"That's What You Get" is a 2008 song by Paramore. It is off the album RIOT!. Its music video was released on March 24, 2008.

It is the music video about which Hayley Williams said "You will really get to see who they are. We had a load of family and friends surround us for the video and it just felt so natural".

Also, in the video, the band plays in a room, as well as Williams outside singing to an audience and using body language.

[[Dimensionless quantity]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In dimensional analysis, a dimensionless quantity (or more precisely, a quantity with the dimensions of 1) is a quantity without any physical units and thus a pure number. Such a number is typically defined as a product or ratio of quantities which do have units, in such a way that all the units cancel out.

[[Dancing with the Stars]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 television series debuts, 2000s television series, 2010s television series, Dancing with the Stars, ABC network shows

Dancing with the Stars is an American television series where professional dancers are partnered with celebrities. The couples compete against each other in a dance competition and one couple is eliminated in each episode. The show began in 2004 and is shown on the ABC television network. The show has different series which use various different names in over 40 countries. It was originally based on the British series Strictly Come Dancing.

A video game has been made based on the show.

[[Tartu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Estonia, Hanseatic League

Tartu is the second biggest city in Estonia. The University of Tartu, the oldest and most famous in Estonia is found there. Around 102,000 people were living in Tartu as of 2008.

[[Infinity on High]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Fall Out Boy albums, Island Records albums, Pop punk albums, Rock albums

Infinity on High is the third album by American rock band Fall Out Boy, released in February 2007 by Island. It sold very well in the US and worldwide. Four singles have been released from it. They are "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race", "Thnks fr th Mmrs", ""The Take Over, the Breaks Over"" and "I'm Like a Lawyer with the Way I'm Always Trying to Get You Off (Me & You)".

[[Yellow Submarine]]

CATEGORIES: The Beatles, Animated movies, English-language movies, Movies with underwater settings, 1968 comedy movies

Yellow Submarine is a 1968 animated cartoon movie, based on the music of The Beatles, and was inspired by their song of the same name. It is also the title of two soundtrack albums, featuring the music used in the movie.

[[Discrete cosine transform]]

CATEGORIES: Technology

A discrete cosine transform is a math process that can be used to make things like MP3s, and JPEGs smaller. It does this by breaking the sound or picture into different frequencies.

One way to calculate a discrete cosine transform is to use the Fourier transformation.

"Discrete" means that it works on discrete-time signals (sampled data).

[[Donald Tusk]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Presidents of the European Council, People from Gdańsk, Prime Ministers of Poland

Donald Franciszek  Tusk (ˈdɔnalt franˈtɕiʃɛk ˈtusk, born 22 April 1957) was the President of the European Council. Before that he was the Prime Minister of Poland from 2007 to 2014. He was the leader of the biggest Polish political party, Platforma Obywatelska (Civic Platform). In August 2014, Tusk was elected to become the next President of the European Council.

In March 2017, Tusk was reelected as President of the European Council.

[[French polish]]

CATEGORIES: Woodworking

French polishing is a way of giving a high standard of finish to wood.

The careful and skilled multiple-layering of shellac polish on properly prepared wood when completed results in a lusterous, perfectly flat shine of an exceedingly high standard.  Indeed when applied correctly a French polished application can rarely be matched for sheer quality of finish.

Normally practiced by highly skilled craftsmen and women one might normally fine excellent examples of this superb finish in some of our stately homes although plenty of other examples exist. The advent of lacquered wood finishes has tended to make French polishing less needed in today's world.

[[Representative]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Representative may refer to:

[[Irregular bone]]

CATEGORIES: Bones

The irregular bones are bones that from their peculiar form, cannot be grouped as long bone, short bone, flat bone or sesamoid bone. 

Irregular bones serve some special purpose in the body: 

(1) protection of nervous tissue (such as the vertebrae protect the spinal cord), 

(2) affording multiple anchor points for skeletal muscle attachment (as with the sacrum), and maintaining pharynx and trachea support, and tongue attachment (such as the hyoid bone).

The irregular bones are: the vertebræ, sacrum, coccyx, temporal, sphenoid, ethmoid, zygomatic, maxilla, mandible, palatine, inferior nasal concha, and hyoid.

[[Representation (politics)]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

In politics, representation describes how political power is given from a large group for a certain time period in the hands of a comparatively small group of its members. Representation usually refers to representative democracies, where elected officials (called representatives) nominally speak for their electors in the legislature.  Generally, only citizens have representation in the government in the form of voting rights. The term representation can be used in a number of different ways. Representation can be understood in terms of how legislators represent their constituents.

[[Lag]]

CATEGORIES: Video games

Lag is a word that means to fail in keeping pace or to fall behind. This term is used a lot by people who are talking about video games that have a delay between when a player presses a button on a controller and something happening in the game. This happens more often during online gaming when the access point a player is using is far away or when other players are using slower connections, such as dial-up. The slowing down of a website when more people get onto that website can also be called lag.

[[Allotment]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Politics

Allotment, also known as sortition, is a method of selection by some form of lottery. It is used to have an equal chance to be selected for those that are involved. For instance it is done by drawing coloured pebbles from a bag. In the democracy of Athens in Ancient Greece sortition was the main method for appointing officials. People thought it this method was one of the principal characteristics of democracy. 

Aristotle saw equality and democracy in a close context:

[[Round Table]]

CATEGORIES: Arthurian legend

The Round Table was a table used by King Arthur and his knights, in the legends about him. The Round Table was in Camelot, the castle where King Arthur and his knights lived. In the legends, they met at the table to talk about the safety of  Camelot and the kingdom, and about what adventures and quests they could go on. This got them the name 'The Knights of the Round Table'.

[[This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs, Fall Out Boy songs

This Ain't A Scene, It's an Arms Race is a 2007 single by Fall Out Boy, from the album Infinity on High. The song has reached number 1 in New Zealand, United States of America and Croatia.

[[The Carpal Tunnel of Love]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs, Fall Out Boy songs

"The Carpal Tunnel of Love" is a 2007 single by Fall Out Boy. It was released in the United States on February 5, 2007, on the iTunes Store, and was not put out on a CD. The music video contains people from the television program Happy Tree Friends.

[[The Take Over, the Breaks Over]]

CATEGORIES: Fall Out Boy songs, 2007 songs

"The Take Over, The Breaks Over" (the quotes are a part of the name) is a 2007 song by the band Fall Out Boy. It was released in 2007 on their album Infinity on High.

[[Doge]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of state, Government occupations

Doge (plural dogi or doges) is a word of an Italian dialect that comes from the Latin dux (as does the English duke and the standard Italian duce), that means "leader", especially in a military context.

The title of doge was used for the elected head of state in a number of Italian "crowned republics".  The two best known such republics were Venice and Genoa, which had maritime, commercial, and territorial mini-empires. Sometimes the Doge ruled for life; sometimes for a fixed number of years.

[[Doge (disambiguation)]]

Doge may refer to:

[[Valverde Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Dominican Republic, 1959 establishments in North America, 1950s establishments in the Dominican Republic

Valverde is a province of the Dominican Republic. It is in the northwestern part of the country. Its capital city is Mao.

It was created on 1959. It was a municipality of the Santiago province before being elevated to the category of province.

[[Serket]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Serket was an ancient Egyptian goddess. She was shown as a scorpion. She would sting "bad" people, but she could also cure scorpion stings and other poisons, such as snake bites. Because Serket could cure snake bites, she was sometimes known as the protector from Apep, the evil snake-god.

She was shown in art as a scorpion or as a woman with a scorpion on her head. Serket did not have any temples, but she had many priests.

Many people in ancient Egypt who were bitten by poisonous animals died from the poison. Because of this, Serket was also known as a protector of the dead. She was associated with fluids that cause stiffening during embalming. This caused her to become known as a protector of embalmers' tents and of the canopic jar for the intestine (Qebehsenuf). The intestine's canopic jar was the one associated with poisons. 

Because she was a protector of canopic jars, Serket was associated with Aset (Isis), and Nebet Het (Nephthys) and Neith. Later, Serket began to be known as Isis. Serket came to be known as a part of Isis, instead of a separate goddess.

[[Tempera]]

CATEGORIES: Painting, Paints

Tempera (sometimes known as egg tempera) is a type of artist's paint. It was the main medium used for panel painting and illuminated manuscripts in the Byzantine world and the Middle Ages in Europe, until it was replaced by oil painting as the most popular medium for large paintings. It is still used for Orthodox icons. Some modern painters use tempera. 

In modern times, some manufacturers call ordinary poster paint by the name of "tempera". Poster paint is not really tempera. It is a different type of paint called gouache. 

== Painting with tempera == 

Egg yolk (the yellow part of the egg) dries and sticks very firmly. It is used to mix and set the paints in a tempera painting. The colours are ground up into dry powders that must be mixed by the artist. In earlier times, some of the paints were very poisonous and the artist had to be careful not to breathe in the powdered paint. The paints are generally mixed with equal parts of egg yolk and water. If there is too much egg, the paint is gooey. If there is too much water, it is runny. Neither of these things are good. Some artists like to mix some of the egg white as well, for a different effect. Sometimes some oil is added. In ancient times other things were added which might include honey, milk and plant gums.

The painting must be done over a "ground" that has already been prepared. The "ground" is smooth flat paint on a strong board that does not bend. The paint must be put on in thin layers with tiny brush strokes that dry very quickly. Because the paint is transparent the artists use a special technique. They often paint the shadows on the figure before they paint the skin colour and colour of the clothing over the top. 

When the painting is finished, it is not very brightly coloured, until it has been varnished. This makes the colours bright and shiny. The good thing about tempera painting is that the colours do not change over the years, whereas oil paintings change, get darker and go more yellow. Tempera paintings can last well for at least two thousand years. Because tempera paintings take a long time to do, many of them are small. Sometimes artists painted large altarpieces in tempera. One of the biggest tempera paintings is Duccio's picture of the Madonna and Child in the Uffizi Gallery. It is about 15 feet high. Another very famous large tempera painting is Botticelli's Birth of Venus which is also in the Uffizi. (see picture above)

[[Decision-making]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Decision making is the mental process that leads to the selection of an action among several alternatives. Every decision making process produces a final choice. The output can be an action or an opinion.

There is a growing awareness that people often make good decisions rapidly without knowing how they do it. This runs against the older rational decision-making ideas.

[[Trichotillomania]]

CATEGORIES: Impulse control disorders

Trichotillomania (TTM) (often called "trich") is an impulse control disorder. It causes a person to habitually pull out their hair. People with trichotillomania may pull hair from anywhere on the body. Sometimes people with trich end up having large areas on the body without hair. 

Trichotillomania is listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). The DSM is written by the American Psychiatric Association. It lists every condition which is officially called a mental illness. The DSM puts trich in the "impulse control disorder" category. However, there are questions about what category trich should be in. At different times, it may seem to be a habit, an addiction, a tic disorder, or an obsessive-compulsive disorder.

[[Terror]]

Terror is a state of fear, an overwhelming sense of imminent danger.

Terror could also mean:

[[Reign of Terror]]

CATEGORIES: French Revolution, Terrorism, 1793, 1794 in France

The Reign of Terror or simply The Terror was a period of about 11 months during the French Revolution, led by Maximilien de Robespierre. During this time, French people who did not support the revolution were executed at the guillotine.

The Reign of Terror was announced on 5 September, 1793. A Revolutionary Tribunal decided who would be killed. This happened more and more often in June and July of 1794, a period called la Grande Terreur (The Great Terror). On 17 July 1794, sixteen nuns attracted much attention by singing a religious song as they were being executed for treason. The Terror ended ten days later, when several important leaders of the Reign of Terror were executed, including Saint-Just and Robespierre. The Terror took the lives of between 18,500 to 40,000 people.

Robespierre died due to the Thermidorian Reaction against the Jacobins, by being executed with the guillotine. This was a revolt against the revolution otherwise called a counter-revolution.  Robespierre was one of the last to be guillotined, after the 21 followers.

[[Faction]]

Faction or factionalism can refer to:

[[Political faction]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A political faction is a grouping of individuals, especially within a political organization, such as a political party, a trade union, or other group with a political purpose.  

It may also be called a power bloc, or a voting bloc.  

The individuals within a faction are united in a common goal for the organization they are a part of. They stick together to achieve this goal and improve their position within the organization.

A political faction could be described as a “party within a party”. But political factions are not limited to political parties; they can form within any group that has some sort of political aim or purpose.

[[French Constitution of 1791]]

CATEGORIES: 1791, 1790s in France, Constitutions

The French Constitution of 1791 was the second written Constitution of France. The new French Government started using it after the French Revolution. It had the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen for its introduction.

This Constitution said that France was going to have a constitutional monarchy. The biggest disagreement was over how much power the King of France should have in such a system. After very long negotiations, the first Constitution was brought in September of 1791. 

It created a constitutional monarchy. But the king ran away anyways, because he was scared of the Jacobins, who didn't like kings.

The idea of Separation of powers was the basis for the Constitution: The National Convention was the legislative body, the King and the Ministers made up the executive branch, and the judicial branch was independent from the other two. However, the French Revolution still continued after this document was signed. 

The constitution tried to create a liberal bourgeois constitutional monarchy, but this did not work out. On 10 August 1792 the monarchy of France ended. 

[[Executive]]

Executive may mean:

[[Knights of the Round Table]]

CATEGORIES: Arthurian legend, Fictional knights

The Knights of the Round Table were characters in the legends about King Arthur. They were the best knights in King Arthur's kingdom, and lived in King Arthur's castle, Camelot. They were called the Knights of the Round Table because of a special table that was in Camelot, that was round instead of rectangular. This meant that everyone who sat around it was seen as trustworthy and equal.

[[Executive (government)]]

CATEGORIES: Government

The executive is the branch of government that is responsible for the day-to-day management of the state. (Executive is short for executive branch or executive power.)

Under the doctrine of the separation of powers, the executive is not supposed to make laws (role of the legislature), nor to interpret them (role of the judiciary). The executive is supposed to put the laws into action.

The executive is led by the head of Government. The Head of Government is assisted by a number of ministers, who usually have responsibilities for particular areas (e.g. health, education, foreign affairs), and by many government employees or civil servants.

In a presidential system, this person (the President) may also be the head of State, but in a parliamentary system, he or she is usually the leader of the largest party in the legislature and is most commonly termed the Prime Minister (Taoiseach in the Republic of Ireland, (Federal) Chancellor in Germany and Austria). In France, executive power is shared between the President and the Prime Minister and this system has been reproduced in a number of former French colonies. Switzerland and Bosnia and Herzegovina have similar systems.

[[Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 establishments, International environmental organizations, United Nations specialized agencies, Climate change

PeaceThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is a group of scientists chosen by governments and other large groups from around the world who study the way that humans are making the Earth heat up unnaturally. The group was established in 1988 by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), two organizations of the United Nations.

The IPCC shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with former Vice President of the United States Al Gore who won for working on the same problems.

A lot of IPCC work is publishing reports about the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC),  an international agreement that human inventions and chemistry may make the Earth too hot to live on. The UNFCCC was the beginning of the Kyoto Protocol. Members of the IPCC read, write, and calculate as much as they can. Only member states of the WMO and UNEP may be members of IPCC.

A lot of professors trust the IPCC work.

[[Zimmermann Telegram]]

CATEGORIES: World War I

The Zimmermann Telegram (also called the Zimmermann Note) was a telegram sent to Mexico from Germany on January 16, 1917.  It was what made America enter World War I.  It is named for the German man who sent it, Arthur Zimmermann.  Zimmermann was the German Foreign Secretary (took care of things with other countries).  Zimmermann sent it to the German ambassador in the United States, Johann von Bernstorff. Bernstorff then sent it to the German ambassador in Mexico, Heinrich von Eckardt.

The telegram's message was:

The telegram told the ambassador to ask the Mexicans to join the war on the German side by attacking America. Germany promised to help Mexico take back land the United States had taken from Mexico in the Mexican–American War. These places were Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona. Germany wanted Mexico to enter the war so America would be too busy to help the enemies of Germany.  Mexico was already busy with the Mexican Revolution and did not like the idea. 

The British secretly got the telegram. They were able to decode the telegram. They held on to the telegram until February 24, 1917. They gave it to President Woodrow Wilson of the United States of America.  President Wilson published the telegram so the people would know about it.  The telegram made the American people angry.  Wilson asked  the United States Congress for a Declaration of war against Germany.  Congress accepted the request on April 2, 1917. The United States of America announced war on Germany on April 6, 1917. Americans were already angry over German submarines sinking ships, but this telegram is what made America come into the war.

[[Battle of Stalingrad]]

CATEGORIES: 1942, 1943 in Europe, 1940s in the Soviet Union, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving the Soviet Union, European battles of World War II, Volgograd

Soviet Union Don Front

At the time of the Soviet counter-offensive:

At the time of the Soviet counteroffensive:

See casualties section.

See casualties section.

The Battle of Stalingrad was fought during the Second World War between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union.  They were fighting for control of the city of Stalingrad. The battle was fought between 23 August 1942 and 2 February 1943. It was one of the most important battles of the war because it marked the end of Germany's advances.  Hitler even blamed his defeat partly on Stalingrad. The Battle of Stalingrad has often been recorded as an example of how brutal a war can be.   It is reported that, due to limited supplies, soldiers and civilians had to resort to eating rats, mice, and even cannibalism.

Stalingrad, now Volgograd, was a city on the Volga River.  It was an important industrial city, and the Volga was an important transport route.  Hitler also wanted to capture Stalingrad because it was named after Joseph Stalin, the leader of the Soviet Union, thus it would embarrass him.

In June 1942, Adolf Hitler launched an attack in southern Russia.  By the end of July the German army had reached Stalingrad.  With bombs and fire the German Luftwaffe turned the city into ruins.  However, the rubble made hiding places from which Russian snipers could attack the Germans.  Hitler and Stalin sent in large numbers of soldiers. They both ordered that anyone who retreated would be shot on the spot for treason.

On 19 November 1942, the Red Army launched an attack which surrounded the Stalingrad area.  Hitler ordered the army to stay there.  The German air force tried to supply them by air.  By February 1943, the German forces in Stalingrad had no ammunition and food.  Rather than freeze, they surrendered, knowing the Soviets were usually cruel to their prisoners.

The battle lasted five months, one week, and three days. 1.6 million people dead or wounded in battle were reported.  There were more Russian deaths than German, but it was a victory for the Russians.  They had killed so many Germans that Hitler's overall plan to conquer the Soviet Union, started with Operation Barbarossa, was seriously weakened.  Also, the Germans failed to get control of Russian oil fields.

About one quarter of the German Sixth Army's soldiers were Russian volunteers called HIWIs.  The Battle of Stalingrad was the largest and deadliest battle in the history of warfare.

[[World War I reparations]]

CATEGORIES: World War I

World War I reparations means the payments and transfers of property and equipment that Germany was forced to make after its defeat during World War I.

Article 231 of the Treaty of Versailles (the 'war guilt' clause) declared Germany and its allies responsible for all 'loss and damage' of the Allies during the war and set up the basis for reparations.

In January 1921, the total sum due was decided by an Inter-Allied Reparations Commission and was set at 132 billion gold marks, about £6.6 billion or $33 billion (roughly $393.6 billion US dollars as of 2005). This was a sum that many economists believed to be too much. Later that year, the amount was reduced to 132 billion marks, which still seemed too much for most German observers, both because of the amount itself as well as the terms.

Germany stopped paying the reparations after Hitler's Nazi Party took power in 1933, with about one-eighth of the reparations having been paid by then. The final payments were made on the day exactly 20 years after German reunification.

[[Richard III (play)]]

CATEGORIES: Plays by William Shakespeare, Plays based on British history

Richard III is a history play written by William Shakespeare. It is one of Shakespeare's most famous and popular plays. Shakespeare probably wrote Richard III around the year 1593. The play was first printed in a book in 1597.

Like other history plays written by Shakespeare, Richard III is about people and events from earlier in English history. The real Richard III was king of England from 1483 to 1485. Shakespeare used the history books of his own time to create his play, though many modern experts do not think those early histories, or Shakespeare's play, are accurate and free of bias.

Richard III is different from many plays, because its leading character is a villain, not a hero. In his play, Shakespeare shows the king as a cruel tyrant who does many evil acts, before he is defeated in battle and killed by Henry Tudor. Tudor then becomes Henry VII of England, the next English king and the first of the Tudor dynasty. The play contains black comedy, especially because Richard III keeps telling people he is a good man despite behaving like a villain.

Shakespeare lived and wrote before modern ideas of freedom of speech and freedom of the press had become accepted. The English government of Shakespeare's day practiced censorship of books and plays. Elizabeth I of England, who was queen from 1558 to 1603, was the granddaughter of Henry VII and the last Tudor ruler. Her government saw Richard III as a villain and the man who replaced him, Henry VII, as a hero, and censored any other point of view. If Shakespeare had wanted to write a play with Richard III as a hero, he would not have been allowed to do so.

A famous movie version of Richard III was made in 1955. Laurence Olivier directed the movie and played the leading role. Other movie and television versions, and many modern stage productions, have also been done.

[[Lojban]]

CATEGORIES: Constructed languages

Lojban is a constructed language that some people speak. It is an unusual language because it is based on predicate logic, and because it is made to have no syntactic ambiguity. These qualities make many people call Lojban a "logical language."

People from all countries can learn and speak Lojban. A person who speaks Lojban is sometimes called a lojbanist.

Lojban was made between 1987 and 1997 by an organization called the "Logical Language Group". The rules (grammar) of Lojban are written in a book called The Complete Lojban Language. This book was published in 1997, and written by John Woldemar Cowen. Lojban grammar terms are ordered in a structure:

Lojban is based on an earlier language called Loglan. Loglan was the first "logical language". It was created by a man named James Cooke Brown, who wanted to test a hypothesis called the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis. The Sapir-Whorf hypothesis says that languages affect and limit how their speakers think.

[[Annulment]]

CATEGORIES: Family, Relationships, Roman Catholicism

Annulment is a method in the Roman Catholic Church of undoing a marriage, similar to divorce. However, the difference is that an annulment says that the marriage never really happened.

Reasons include:

[[Osroene]]

CATEGORIES: Former countries in Asia

Osroene (also spelled Osrohene, Osrhoene, from the Greek Όσροηνῆ; ܡܠܟܘܬܐ ܕܒܝܬ ܥܣܪܐ ܥܝܢܐ Malkuṯā d-Bēt ʿŌsrā ʿĪnē), also known by the name of its capital city, Edessa (modern Şanlıurfa, Turkey), was a historic kingdom located on the present-day border of Syria and Turkey. The kingdom was Assyrian and enjoyed semi-autonomy to complete independence from the years of 132 BCE to 244 AD.

It was a Syriac speaking kingdom, and according to an ancient legend King Abgar V of Edessa was converted to Christianity by Thaddeus of Edessa, or Saint Addai, one of the Seventy-two Disciples.  By 201 AD or earlier, under King Abgar the Great, Osroene became the first Christian state.

[[BRIT Awards]]

CATEGORIES: Music awards

The BRIT Awards (often called just the Brits), are awards given yearly by the British Phonographic Industry (an association of British people who are professionally involved in the recorded music industry) for outstanding work in music.

[[Sound of the Underground]]

CATEGORIES: Girls Aloud albums, Debut albums, 2003 albums, Dance pop albums

Sound of the Underground was a 2003 album by Girls Aloud. It was their first album. It was released in May 2003.

[[What Will the Neighbours Say?]]

CATEGORIES: Girls Aloud albums, 2004 albums

What Will The Neighbours Say? was a 2004 album by Girls Aloud. It was their second album. Five singles were released from it. After the album was released Girls Aloud did their first tour, What Will the Neighbours Say? Live.

[[Chemistry (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Girls Aloud albums, 2005 albums

Chemistry was a 2005 album by Girls Aloud. It was their third album.

[[The Sound of Girls Aloud]]

CATEGORIES: Girls Aloud albums, 2006 albums

The Sound of Girls Aloud was a 2006 album by Girls Aloud that featured all of their most popular songs so far. It was their fourth album.

[[Tangled Up]]

CATEGORIES: Girls Aloud albums, 2007 albums, Pop albums

Tangled Up was a 2007 album by Girls Aloud. It was their fifth album.

[[Oil paint]]

CATEGORIES: Painting, Paints

Oil paint is a traditional method used for artists' painting. In oil paint, pigments (colours) are held together by the medium of oil. The most usual type of oil that is used in paint is linseed oil.

A picture that is painted using oil paint is called an "oil painting". Oil paint takes a long time to dry. Artists find this useful because they can keep working on the painting for a long time. People say that Leonardo da Vinci worked on his painting of the Mona Lisa for four years, even though it is not a very large picture. Oils paints, and oil paintings are often just called "oils" for short. If someone talks about "painting in oils" they mean that the painting is done in oil paints.

[[John Law]]

CATEGORIES: People from Edinburgh, Economists, 1671 births, 1729 deaths

John Law (baptized 21 April 1671 - 21 March 1729) was a Scottish economist who believed that money was only a means of exchange that did not have wealth in itself, and that national wealth depended on trade. He is said to be the father of finance, responsible for the adoption or use of paper money or bills in the world today.

[[List of The Simpsons characters]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons characters, Lists of television characters

[[Edicts of Ashoka]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist texts, Religion in India

The Edicts of Ashoka are a collection of 33 inscriptions on the Pillars of Ashoka, as well as on large stones and cave walls, made by the Emperor Ashoka of the Mauryan dynasty during his reign from 272 to 231 BCE. The edicts describe in detail the first wide expansion of Buddhism. According to the edicts, the extent of Buddhist proselytism during this period reached as far as the Mediterranean, and many Buddhist monuments were created.

Ashoka did not completely forbid the killing of animals; he wanted to control the number of 

animals that had to be killed for human consumption or sacrificing, protected some of them, and in general criticized violent acts against animals, such as castration.

He wrote these edicts on rock and pillar.

Edicts are royal orders or proclamations.These edicts were set up in different part of Ashoka's empire and spread the message of Ashoka's Dhamma.There are about 14 rock edicts and 7 pillar edicts currently found.

Edicts were written in local language. Most of the Ashoka's edicts are written in Brahmi Script and were discovered by James Prinsep, a British official in 1837. After this major breakthrough, historians and scholars were able to obtain information about Ashoka and his reign.

[[Proselytism]]

CATEGORIES: Religious terminology, Religious conversion

Proselytism is the practice of attempting to convert people to another opinion and, particularly, another religion.  

The word proselytism comes from the Greek language prefix 'pros' (towards) and the verb 'erchomai' (I come). Historically in the New Testament, the word proselyte meant a person who had converted to the Jewish religion.  Though the word proselytism was originally used in Christianity, it is also used to refer to other religions' attempts to convert people to their beliefs or even any attempt to convert people to another point of view, religious or not.  Today, the connotations of the word proselytism are often negative.

[[Ken Hitchcock]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Jack Adams Award winners, Living people, Sportspeople from Edmonton

Ken Hitchcock (born December 17, 1951 in Edmonton, Alberta) is a Canadian NHL ice hockey coach. He coaches the Columbus Blue Jackets. He has also coached the Dallas Stars and the Philadelphia Flyers in the past. Ken has won one Stanley Cup with the Dallas Stars in the 1998-99 NHL season.

[[Armistice]]

CATEGORIES: War

An armistice is the effective end of a war, when the parties agree to stop fighting. The word comes from the Latin arma, meaning weapons and statium, meaning a stopping. 

A truce or ceasefire usually refers to a temporary stop of hostilities for an agreed limited time or within a limited area. A truce may be needed in order to negotiate an armistice. 

An armistice is not the same as a peace treaty, which may take months or even years to agree on. The 1953 Korean War armistice   is a major example of an armistice which has not yet been followed by a peace treaty. 

The United Nations Security Council often demands cease-fire of parties in modern conflicts. Armistices are always negotiated between the parties themselves and are thus generally seen as more binding than UN cease-fire resolutions in modern international law. 

The most famous armistice is the Armistice with Germany at the end of World War I, on 11 November, 1918, signed near Compiègne, France, and effective at the "eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month."  

[[Armistice with Germany (Compiègne)]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 in Europe, 1910s in France, World War I, 1910s in Germany, November events

The armistice treaty between the Allies, who fought Germany during World War I, and Germany was signed in a railway carriage in Compiègne Forest on 11 November 1918, and marked the end of the First World War on the Western Front. Marshal Ferdinand Foch, the Allied Commander-in-chief, and Matthias Erzberger, Germany's representative were the most important persons who signed it.

The Armistice was agreed at 5 AM on 11 November, to come into effect at 11 AM Paris time. 

Acting German commander Paul von Hindenburg had requested arrangements for a meeting from Ferdinand Foch via telegram on 7 November. He was under pressure of imminent revolution in Berlin, Munich and elsewhere across Germany. 

This stopped the fighting, but it took much longer to get a complete settlement. The actual terms, largely written by Foch, included:

Although the armistice ended the fighting on the Western Front, it had to be prolonged three times until the Treaty of Versailles. This took effect on 10 January 1920.

These terms were severe. The later abdication of the Kaiser, and the economic troubles of Germany in the 1920s, led towards the later rise of Adolf Hitler.  

[[WWE SmackDown]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 American television series debuts, American television series, WWE SmackDown!, UPN network shows, English-language television programs

WWE SmackDown is a professional wrestling television program for WWE. Currently it is the only television broadcast for the SmackDown! brand. From its launch in 1999, SmackDown! was shown on Thursday nights, but as of September 9 2005, the show moved to Friday nights. To reflect this change, the show is now known to as Friday Night SmackDown!. The SmackDown! brand is currently one of WWE's two brands, the other being Raw.

Its currently shown in the United States on MyNetworkTV, in Canada on The Score Network and on E! Montreal, in Turkey on Fox TV, in Bangladesh, India and Pakistan on Ten Sports, in Germany on DSF, in the UK and Republic of Ireland on Sky Sports 3, Italy on Sky Italia, in Finland on Urheilukanava, in Portugal on TVI, in the Dominican Republic on Antena Latina Channel 7, in Puerto Rico on WAPA and on The CW, in Ecuador on Teleamazonas, in Chile on Chilevisión, in Malaysia on TV3, in Mexico on 52MX, in Australia on FOX8, in New Zealand on The BOX,in Bulgaria on GTV, in the Philippines on Jack TV and ABC, in Peru on ATV, in Spain on Cuatro, in Romania on TV Sport, in Serbia on FOX Televizija, in Saudi Arabia and Middle East on Showtime Arabia and ShowSports 4, in France on RTL9, in Japan on J Sports, on e.tv in South Africa, on AFN Xtra, on the Super Channel (Channel 10) in Fiji Islands, on VTV in El Salvador, on Canal 9 in Argentina, on Canal 4 RP in Panama and on SBT in Brazil.

[[Nationwide Arena]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in the United States, Columbus, Ohio, Buildings and structures in Ohio, Arena Football League, 2000 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Ohio

Nationwide Arena is a sports arena in Columbus, Ohio. The arena opened in 2000, and right now the Columbus Blue Jackets of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the Columbus Destroyers of the Arena Football League (AFL) play there. The arena was built at the location of the old Ohio Penitentiary, a prison that was destroyed in 1998.

[[The Beatles (album)]]

CATEGORIES: The Beatles albums, 1968 albums, Rock albums

The Beatles is a 1968 album by the band of the same name, The Beatles. Its cover included no photographs, but was a simple white jacket, with the band's name die-stamped onto the paper. Early copies also included a serial number. The plain white cover led fans and listeners to call the record the "White Album". In time, even the band and their company, Apple Corps, began to use this name.

The Beatles was the band's twelfth album of new recordings, and was released in November 1968. While most albums of the time included ten to fourteen songs, The Beatles included thirty-four songs, and was sold as a two-disc set.

[[Albert Fert]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, French academics, French Nobel Prize winners, French physicists, People from Occitanie, Wolf Prize winners

Albert Fert (born 7 March 1938) is a French physicist. He discovered giant magnetoresistance which was used to make gigabyte hard disks much easier to build. He is a professor at Université Paris-Sud in Orsay and scientific director of a laboratory called Unité mixte de recherche. The laboratory is part of the Centre national de la recherche scientifique (National Scientific Research Centre) and Thales Group. He was awarded the 2007 Nobel Prize in Physics together with the German physicist Peter Grünberg.

[[Peter Grünberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2018 deaths, German academics, German Nobel Prize winners, German physicists, Wolf Prize winners

Peter Andreas Grünberg (18 May 1939 – 7 April 2018) was a German physicist.

He won the 2007 Nobel Prize in Physics for his discovery of giant magnetoresistance which made gigabyte hard disk drives easier to produce. Half the prize was given to Albert Fert who discovered giant magnetoresistance at the same time but Fert and Grünberg did not work together.

[[Easter eggplant]]

CATEGORIES: Nightshades, Vegetables, Fruits, Solanum

Easter eggplant is a plant of the nightshade family, related to aubergine (=S.melongena). The stem and leafstalks are green, or very faintly tinged with purple, and bear a few white spines. Leaves are wavy at the edges. Flowers are lilac, it is recognized by its oblong fruit, also grown as an ornamental plant, for covering walls or trellises.

== Other websites == 

[[Sienna Guillory]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, English models, English movie actors, English television actors

Sienna Tiggy Guillory (said like "Gil-ir-ee" (IPA: ˈɡɪlɜːɪ)) (born 16 March 1975) is an English actress and she used to be a model. She is famous for acting as Jill Valentine in Resident Evil: Apocalypse and as Elf Arya Drottningu in Eragon.

She is daughter of Isaac Guillory, an Anglo-Cuban folk guitarist, and his first wife, Tina. Guillory has acted in many British movies, and later in American movies. Not long ago, she acted in a number of science-fiction and fantasy movies written for teenagers.

While working on the 1996 movie The Future Lasts A Long Time, Guillory met English actor Nick Moran, and she was married to Moran from July 1997 until 2000. Later, she married Enzo Cilenti, in 2002, and Guillory wore her grandmother's wedding gown. In 2007, they moved to Los Angeles, California, USA.

[[Super Mario Bros. 2]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 video games, Game Boy Advance games, Mario platform games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Nintendo Research & Development 2 games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games, Video game remakes, Virtual Console games

Super Mario Bros. 2 is the second game of the Mario series.  It is the name of two different games. In Japan, the game was created by Nintendo.

[[Sierra Mist]]

CATEGORIES: Soft drinks

Sierra Mist is a lemon lime soft drink similar to 7 Up and Sprite.  It is made by the Pepsi Company.  It was released in 2000. Their rival soft drink is Sprite which is made by the Coca-Cola company.

Sierra Mist comes in many flavors such as:

[[Khan]]

Khan should not be confused with Kahn, which is a German surname.

Khan may mean:

In fiction:

In music:

Khan may also be:

[[Khan (title)]]

CATEGORIES: Feudalism, Heads of state

In Turkic and Mongolic Languages, Khan means "ruler" or "commander". 

It may be from an Altaic language, probably a Mongolic language like Ruanruan.

Presently, khans exist mostly in South Asia, Central Asia and Iran. 

A female khan is called a Khatun or Khanum.

Khagan means 'Khan of Khans' but is often (incorrectly) 'shortened' to Khan. This is similar to how the Persian Shahanshah, 'King of Kings', is usually simply called the Shah. Genghis was also called the 'Great Khan' like how Ottoman Padishah was called the 'Great Sultan'.

Khans rule over Khanates. Khagans rule over Khaganates.

[[Crime in Russia]]

CATEGORIES: Crime by country, Russia

Crime in Russia has many different types. Organized crimes include drug trafficking, money laundering, human trafficking, extortion, murder for hire,  and fraud. Many criminal operations take part in corruption, black marketeering, terrorism and abduction. Other forms of crime done by criminal groups are arms trafficking, export of contraband oil and metals, and smuggling of radioactive materials. Crime rate in Russia sharply increased since the late 1980s. The fall of communism in Eastern Europe had tremendous influence on the political economy of organized crime. Approximately 8,000 criminal groups are in the country. Almost 50% of the nation's economy is connected to organized crime.

[[Crime in India]]

CATEGORIES: Crime in India

Crime in India is very common and happens in many different ways.  Along with violent crimes (like homicide, robbery, and assault), and property crimes (like burglary, theft, motor vehicle theft, and arson), there are major problems with organized crime, the illegal drug trade, arms trafficking, corruption, and many other forms of crime.  The most common types of crimes in India are listed below.

[[Birthmark]]

CATEGORIES: Skin

A birthmark is a mark on skin that some people are born with. Names given to types of birthmarks are: stork bites, Mongolian blue spots, strawberry marks, café au lait spots, nevus|congenital melanocytic nevi, and port-wine stains.

A birthmark was once thought of as the mark of the devil, and today it is often considered a birth defect. In some cases this mark is considered to be the mark of God applied to his chosen few.

[[Pskov]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Russia

Pskov (Псков, ancient Russian spelling Пльсковъ (Pleskov)) is an old city in the northwest of Russia. It is about 20 east of the Estonian border, on the Velikaya River.

[[Perth, Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Scotland, Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Port cities and towns of Scotland

Perth (Peairt) is a city and the main part of the Perth and Kinross council area in Scotland, with around 43,450 people living there. The town was a large burgh before 1975.

Perth is named by some people as The Fair City, though the city status in the United Kingdom said that Perth was no longer a city, until 2012 when, along with Chelmsford (in Essex, England) and St. Asaph (in north Wales), it was given city status to mark Queen Elizabeth II's 60 years on the throne.

Scotland's other six cities are Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen, Dundee, Stirling and Inverness.

Perth also has its own football team, St. Johnstone F.C., which plays in the Scottish Premiership, as the Scottish Premier League had its name changed in 2013.

[[Nevermore]]

CATEGORIES: Thrash metal bands, Death metal bands, Musical groups from Seattle, Washington, Musical groups established in 1991, 1991 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Washington (state)

Nevermore is an American metal band from Seattle, Washington. Their style of metal is a mixture of many different types like Thrash metal, Groove Metal and Death Metal. They formed in 1991. The members right now are: Warrel Dane (vocals), Jeff Loomis (guitar), Jim Sheppard (bass), Van Williams (drums).

[[Machine Head]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Thrash metal bands, Nu metal bands, American heavy metal bands, Musical groups from Oakland, California, Roadrunner Records

Machine Head is a metal band from Oakland in California. They play a mixture between Thrash metal and Groove metal. The band members right now are: Robb Flynn (guitars, vocals), Jared MacEachern (bass), Wacław Kiełtyka (lead guitar) and Matt Alston (drums).

[[Fritz Haber Institute of the MPG]]

CATEGORIES: Research organizations in Europe, Berlin, 1911 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in Germany

The Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society is a science research group in Dahlem, Berlin, Germany. 

The original was called Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physical Chemistry and Electrochemistry, and it was founded in 1911.  That became part of the Max Planck Society and took the name of the first director, Fritz Haber, in 1953.

The Institute has researched many kinds of physics including chemical kinetics and reaction dynamics, colloid chemistry, atomic physics, spectroscopy, surface chemistry and surface physics, chemical physics and molecular physics, theoretical chemistry, and materials science.

During World War I and World War II, the Institute did much war work for Germany's military.

Some of the most important members in the Institutes past are: Herbert Freundlich, Paul Friedlander, Rudolf Ladenburg, Michael Polanyi, Ladislaus Farkas, Hartmut Kallmann, Robert Havemann, Karl Friedrich Bonhoeffer, Rudolf Brill, Kurt Moliere, Jochen Block,  Heinz Gerischer, Rolf Hosemann, Kurt Überreiter, and Alex Bradshaw.

Nobel Prize winners involved with the Institute include Max von Laue (1914),  Fritz Haber (1918), James Franck (1925), Otto Hahn (1944), Eugene Wigner (1963), Ernst Ruska (1986), Gerhard Ertl (2007).

[[Microformat]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

A Microformat is an attempt to re-use existing content in HTML and XML documents. Such content may be information on how to contact someone, or it may be geographical coordinates, for example. This information can then be processed by software more easily.

Technically, this kind of information is already there. A microformat aims at making this information accessible more easily. That way, tags might be added to flag the information. 

[[VCard]]

CATEGORIES: E-mail

vCard is a standard document format for electronic business cards. Very often, vCards are attached to E-Mail messages, but they can also be exchanged in other ways. There are also extensions to it, known as vCalendar or iCalendar. hCard is a broader format to do the same thing.

[[British War Medal]]

CATEGORIES: Military of the United Kingdom, Orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom

The British War Medal was a medal given to people who had fought in the First World War. The medal was originally meant to be for people who had fought in the war between 5th August 1914 and 11th November 1918, but this was later changed to the years between 1914 and 1920. This was because a lot of people still lost their lives in the armed forces even after the war had ended, because they were clearing landmines or mines at sea.

The British War Medal (often shortened to BWM) was awarded to both officers and men of the Royal Marines, Royal Navy, the Army and also the Dominion and Colonial Forces. The Dominion and Colonial Forces were the armed forces for the rest of the British Empire. To qualify for (be allowed to have) the medal, a member of the fighting forces had to have left his native country in any part of the British Empire whilst on military duty.

There were over six and a half million British War Medals given out. Most of them are made of silver, but some rarer ones are made of bronze instead. They are all circular, and have different designs on each side. Each side of a medal is called a face. The face that usually has a picture of the side view of a person's head on it is called the obverse, and the other side of the medal is called the reverse. The picture of the person's head is more commonly known as a bust, which is a type of statue that only shows the head, neck and tops of the shoulders of the person it is meant to be.

The obverse side of the medal shows a bust of King George V (V is a Roman numeral. Here it means 'the fifth'). The picture shows him facing left. There is also lettering around the picture of the King, which reads 'GEORGIVS V BRITT : OMN : REX ET IND : IMP :'. The 'V' in 'GEORGIVS' is actually read as a 'U'. The whole message is abbreviated, or shortened, and is supposed to read 'Georgius V Britanniarum Omnium; Rex Et Indiae; Imperator'. The message is written in Latin, but in English it says 'George 5th of all the Britons (British people); King of India; Emperor'.

The reverse side of the medal shows a man riding on a rearing horse. The man shown is Saint George, the patron saint of England. He is shown naked, and is holding a short sword. This was supposed to symbolise the mental and physical strength that was needed to win the First World War. The horse is trampling a shield that showns the emblem of Prussia and the Central Powers, which were the enemies the British and other Allies were fighting during World War One (the First World War). The horse is also trampling on a skull and cross-bones, and the rising sun, known as the Victory Sun can be seen by St. George's head. The dates '1914' and '1918' are on the left and right sides of his head.

The name of the soldier whose medal it was had his name, regiment and armed forces identification number put around the rim (edge) of the medal. The medal also came with a ribbon made of silk. It had a thick line of golden-yellow down the middle of it, with stripes on either side of it that were white, then black, then Royal blue on the outside edges of the ribbon.

[[Michel Fourniret]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Child sexual abusers, French criminals, French prisoners, Kidnappers, People from Grand Est, Rapists, Serial killers

Michel Fourniret (4 April 1942 in Sedan – 10 May 2021 in Paris) was a French criminal. He was convicted of voyeurism and other crimes in 1986. 

[[Amber-coloured salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Hynobius

The amber-coloured salamander (Hynobius stejnegeri) is a kind of salamander in the Hynobiidae family of animals.  It can only be found in Japan.  It likes to live in forests in rivers that are warm.  Because of habitat loss, it is losing its place to live.

[[Clouded Salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Hynobius

The Clouded Salamander (Hynobius nebulosus) is a type of salamander in the Hynobiidae family of animals.  It can only be found in Japan.  The places they like to live are warm forests, rivers, swamps, freshwater springs, and land that is being watered.

[[Pontius Pilate]]

CATEGORIES: 1st century BC births, 1st century BC deaths, Roman people, New Testament people

Pontius Pilate (ˌ or ˌ; Latin: Pontius Pīlātus, Πόντιος Πιλάτος, Pontios Pīlātos) was the governor of the Roman province of Judaea from AD 26 until 36. 

He was the sixth Procurator of Judaea. In modern times he is best known as the man who presided over the Trial of Jesus and ordered his crucifixion.

Pilate appears in all four canonical Christian Gospels. Mark, showing Jesus to be innocent of plotting against Rome, portrays Pilate as extremely reluctant to execute Jesus. The Jewish hierarchy was responsible for his death. In Matthew, Pilate washes his hands of Jesus and reluctantly sends him to his death. In Luke, Pilate not only agrees that Jesus did not conspire against Rome but King Herod also finds nothing treasonous in Jesus' actions. In John, Jesus states: 'my kingdom is not of this world' when held by Pilate. (John 18:36)

Tacitus mentions in his Annales (15,44): "Christus, from whom the name had its origin, suffered the extreme penalty during the reign of Tiberius at the hands of one of our procurators, Pontius Pilatus".

Philo of Alexandria (Leg. ad Caj. 38) and Flavius Josephus (Antiq. 18:3, 4 and Bell. II:9, 2-4) also mention him.

Pilate's biographical details before and after his appointment to Judaea are unknown, but have been supplied by tradition, which include the detail that his wife's name was Procula (she is canonized as a saint in the Greek Orthodox Church).

Pilate's term serves as a reliable historical benchmark for Jesus' death.March 2008

[[Ezo salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Hynobius

The Ezo salamander or Hokkaido salamander (Hynobius retardatus) is a kind of salamander in the Hynobiidae family of animals.  It can only be found in Japan.  The places where it likes to live are forests, shrubland, marshes, and swamps.

[[Asiatic salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

The Asiatic salamanders (family Hynobiidae) are a primitive kind of salamander which can be found throughout Asia. Unlike other salamanders, Hynobiid salamanders do external fertilization, or "spawning". The females lay egg-sacs, and the males pour sperm onto the sacs.

They and the giant salamanders (family Cryptobranchidae), make up the suborder Cryptobranchoidea. About half of hynobiids are unique to Japan.

[[Stockbroker]]

CATEGORIES: Financial occupations, Stock market

A stockbroker is someone who buys and sells stock on the stock exchange. They buy and sell stock, as a normal person cannot walk into the stock exchange for example, and ask to buy stock. They can also advise people the best way to manage their stock.

[[Kori salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

The Kori salamander (Hynobius yangi) is a kind of salamander found in southeastern South Korea.  It has only been found around the rural areas of South Korea.

[[Hynobius amjiensis]]

CATEGORIES: Hynobius

Hynobius amjiensis is a kind of salamander in the Hynobiidae family of animals.  It can only be found in China.  It lives in swamps and freshwater marshes.  It is very endangered and it could become extinct because of habitat loss. 

[[Zutphen]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Netherlands, Settlements in Gelderland, Municipalities of Gelderland

 Zutphen is a small city in the province of Gelderland in the Netherlands.  It is about 30 kilometers north-east of Arnhem. It is on the IJssel river, and its history goes back over 1700 years. There are a lot of buildings in the town that show its long and rich history as a trading town as part of the Hanseatic League.

As of 1 January 2010, it had 46,877 inhabitants. It is linked to Deventer and Arnhem by rail.

[[Satu Mare]]

CATEGORIES: County capitals of Romania, Municipalities of Romania

Satu Mare (pronunciation in Romanian: /'sa.tu 'ma.re/; is a city with a population of 160,421 people and is the capital of Satu Mare County, Romania.

[[Schwaz]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Tyrol (state)

Schwaz is a city in Tyrol, Austria.  Schwaz can be found in the lower Inn valley, and it has a population of about 13,000 people.

[[Philadelphia Phillies]]

CATEGORIES: Philadelphia Phillies, 1884 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Philadelphia Phillies are a Major League Baseball team. They play in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania at Citizens Bank Park in the National League East. The Phillies were founded in 1883. Their manager is Ryne Sanberg, and their general manager is Ruben Amaro, Jr. The Phillies were named for the city Philadelphia, which is often called "Philly", and have kept their name and city for over 125 years.

The Phillies' history has included several spans during which they played very poorly. Several years ago they became the first team to have lost 10,000 games overall. 

In 1980, the Phillies won their first World Series. In 1993, they made it once more to the Series, but they lost to the Toronto Blue Jays. They did not make the playoffs again until 2007 when they won the National League East division championship. However, they were swept by the Colorado Rockies in the National League Division Series. In 2008, the Phillies won their second World Series.

The Phillies' home uniforms are white with red pinstripes and a red hat with a white cursive "P". The hat is the same for them on the road, but they wear gray pants with one red stripe and a gray shirt. They also have an alternate uniform that has a blue hat with a red "P" and cream-colored jerseys.

[[Marc Dutroux]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, People from Brussels-Capital Region, Child sexual abusers, Drug dealers, People with antisocial personality disorder, Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment, Rapists, Robbers, Serial killers, Thieves

Marc Dutroux (born 6 November 1956 in Ixelles / Elsene) is a Belgian criminal. He has been convicted because he kidnapped and tortured six girls, between eight and 19 years old. He murdered four of them, two eight year old girls starved and died while he was in prison. He was arrested in 1989 for abducting and raping five young girls. For this he was imprisoned; he was released in 1992. He was imprisoned again, from December 1995 until March 1996. He was arrested one more time in August 1996 and has remained imprisoned since then. The court convicted him in June 2004 and sentenced him to serve life in prison for the three murders (girls of 17 and 18 years old, and of his accomplice who was a 43 years old man). His wife was convicted and sentenced to serve 30 years, for starving the 8 year olds.

Dutroux has committed many crimes, including theft, robbery and drug dealing. The media showed him mostly as a pedophile. The final report compiled by four doctors said he was not a pedophile, rather he was a psychopath, who had lost feelings when he was confronted with violence.

[[Trento]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, Regional capitals in Italy

Trento, also anglicized as Trent; (Ladin: Trent; German: Trient, Bavarian: Treant, Cimbrian: Tria, Mócheno: Trea't)  is an Italian city in the Adige River valley in Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol.

[[Znojmo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Czech Republic

Znojmo (ˈznojmo; Znaim) is a town in the South Moravian Region of the Czech Republic, near the border with Lower Austria.

[[Candelaria Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Campeche, 1998 establishments in North America, 1990s establishments in Mexico

Candelaria is one of the 11 municipalities that make up the Mexican state of Campeche

[[Šilalė]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lithuania

Šilalė (Silale.ogg) is a city in Tauragė County, Lithuania. It is found 30 km north of Tauragė.

[[Rosignano Solvay]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tuscany

Rosignano Solvay (shortly just Rosignano) is a small town in the Italian comune of Rosignano Marittimo in the province of Tuscany, Livorno. Rosignano is 22 km from Livorno. About 20,000 people live there. The town is famous for the "white beaches" (formed by the Solvay a big industry of chemistry), the beaches are a "mix" of 90% limestone and 10% calcium chloride. Rosignano has a port for 750 boats.

[[Rolando Filidei]]

CATEGORIES: Italian sculptors, 1914 births, 1980 deaths

Rolando Filidei (Navacchio, 1914 – Rosignano Solvay, 1980) was an Italian artist. Filidei went to the school of art to Florence, until 1937 when he finished school. After school he became a soldier. After serving as a soldier he returned in Rosignano where he worked with wood, stone and bronze. Filiedei showed his art in more than 50 festivals and meeting about art in Italy and in many cities in the word. He worked too as a teacher from 1947 until 1977 in the school of "Ernesto Solvay of Rosignano".

[[Diplom]]

CATEGORIES: Education in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Greece

Diplom (from Greek Δίπλωμα diploma) is a high level degree awarded for learning. It is awarded in European countries such as Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Estonia, Croatia, Serbia, Ukraine, Belarus and Greece. It is a similar award to the Bachelor's and Master's degrees in other countries. 

The Diplom was first awarded when the Technische Hochschulen became a university. 

The diplom is slowly being replaced by a system that awards Bachelor's and Master's degrees. Bachelor's degrees, sometimes called Bakkalaureus in Germany, are thought of as a "small Diplom".

[[Traralgon, Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Victoria

Traralgon is a regional city in the Latrobe Valley of the Gippsland area of Victoria, Australia.

[[Yerzin, Salih Yusupovich]]

CATEGORIES: Tatars, Business people, 1830 births, 1911 deaths

Yerzin, Salih Yusupovich (circa 1830 - 1911) - prominent Tatar businessman and patron of the arts who financed the construction of the largest mosque in Moscow (built in 1904).

[[Tatars]]

CATEGORIES: Tatars

Tatars refer to a number of Turkic-speaking peoples, which include (but are not limited to) the Volga Tatars, Lipka Tatars, Siberian Tatars. But do not include the Crimean Tatars. Most Tatars live in Russia (forming the majority in Tatarstan), as well as in countries as Ukraine, Poland, Lithuania, Belarus, Bulgaria, China, Kazakhstan, Romania, Turkey, and Uzbekistan.

Smaller minorities of Tatars live in Israel, France, Canada, Australia, the United States, Finland, and Japan.

The Tatars mostly practice Sunni Islam.

Their closest relatives are the Bashkirs, and they are also related to the Azerbaijanis, Kazakhs, Chuvash people, and the Turkish people.

[[Gupta Empire]]

CATEGORIES: History of India, History of Bangladesh, Royal dynasties, 4th-century establishments, 6th-century disestablishments, Establishments in Asia, Disestablishments in Asia

The Gupta Empire was ruled by members of the Gupta dynasty from around 320 to 550 AD and covered most of North-central India. The time of the Gupta Empire is referred to as Golden Age of India in science, mathematics, astronomy, religion and philosophy. Historians place the Gupta dynasty alongside with the Han Dynasty, Tang Dynasty and Roman Empire as a model of a classical civilization.November 2016

The Guptas most probably came from Bengal. 

At the beginning of the 4th century the Guptas ruled a few small Hindu kingdoms in Magadha and around modern-day Uttar Pradesh.

We get plenty of information about this dynasty through coins, inscriptions, monuments and Sanskrit writings. 

The Gupta rulers were great conquerors and good administrators. This brought on a series of invasions which weakened the empire, but many of their cultural and intellectual achievements were saved and transmitted to other cultures and live on today. Fa Hien visited India during the reign of Chandragupta II and stayed in this country for several years. 

People led a simple life. Commodities were affordable and all round prosperity ensured that their requirements were met easily. They preferred vegetarianism and shunned alcoholic beverages. Gold and silver coins were issued in great numbers which is a general indicative of the health of the economy. Trade and commerce flourished both within the country and outside. Silk, cotton, spices, medicine, priceless gemstones, pearl, precious metal and steel were exported by sea.

[[North Melbourne Football Club]]

CATEGORIES: Australian Football League

The North Melbourne Football Club is a Australian football club. It is nicknamed "The Kangaroos".

[[England national football team]]

CATEGORIES: National football teams, Football in England, The Football Association, UEFA, English football clubs

The England football team are a team who play football for England. They play their matches in England at Wembley Stadium. 

They played their first game in 1872 against Scotland.

They won the FIFA World Cup in 1966 when they beat West Germany by 4 goals to 2 at the old Wembley Stadium.

[[Portman Road]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England, Ipswich, 1884 establishments in England

Portman Road is an association football stadium in Ipswich, Suffolk, England. It has been the home field of Ipswich Town F.C. since 1884.  The stadium has also hosted one senior England friendly international match. It has staged several other sports events including athletics meetings and international hockey matches. The stadium has also held several music concerts, including performances from R.E.M. and Elton John. 

The stadium was changed a lot in the early 2000s.  This increased the number of people it could hold from 22,600 to 30,311.  It is the largest capacity football stadium in East Anglia.  The record number of people in the ground of 38,010 was set in an FA Cup match against Leeds United in 1975.  The stadium also has conference and food facilities, the "Sir Bobby Robson Suite", "Legends Bar" and a club store selling Ipswich Town souvenirs.

[[Norwich City F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Premier League clubs, Norwich

Norwich City F.C. is an English football club based in Norwich, Norfolk.  The club was started in 1902 and as of the 2018-19 season play in the Sky Bet Championship.

[[Queens Park Rangers F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Premier League clubs, 1882 establishments in England

Queens Park Rangers Football Club is an English football club from London. Their players wear a blue and white hooped shirts for home games which they play at a ground called Loftus Road.  The club are also known as QPR.

[[List of Bangkok universities]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of universities, Colleges and universities in Thailand, Bangkok

This is a list of colleges and universities in Bangkok, Thailand.

[[List of palaces in Bangkok]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of buildings, Palaces, Buildings and structures in Bangkok, Thai culture, Asia-related lists

Bangkok, the capital city of Thailand, has many palaces:

[[List of sport venues in Bangkok]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings, Sports lists, Sport in Thailand, Buildings and structures in Bangkok

Bangkok, Thailand, is home to a number of stadiums and sport clubs:

[[Watford F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Watford, 1881 establishments in England

Watford F.C. are an English football club who play in Watford, near London.  

They wear yellow and black shirts and black shorts when they play at their home ground, Vicarage Road. For away games they wear green shirts and shorts. The club was founded in 1881.  Hayden Mullins is the current manager.

[[Sheffield United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Sheffield, 1889 establishments in England

Sheffield United F.C. is an English football club who play in Sheffield, Yorkshire, England.  They play their home games at a stadium called Bramall Lane and have the nickname "Blades". Their nickname comes from Sheffield's reputation for producing steel.

[[Barnsley F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1887 establishments in Europe, 1880s establishments in England

Barnsley F.C. is an English football club who play in Barnsley, Yorkshire. The club was founded in 1887 and play its home games at a stadium called Oakwell.

[[Burnley F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Premier League clubs, 1882 establishments in England, Sport in Lancashire

Burnley F.C. are an English football club who play in Burnley, Lancashire.  They were created in 1882 and play their home games at the Turf Moor stadium.

Burnley have been Football League Champions twice, in the 1920–21 season and 1959–60 season.

[[Azua Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Dominican Republic

Azua is a Dominican province; it is in the southern part of the country, along the Caribbean coast. Its capital is Azua de Compostela.

After the Dominican independence from Haiti, Azua was one of the five original provinces of the country; all the southwestern part of the country was part of this province, including some regions that now are part of Haiti.

[[Cardiff City F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Welsh football clubs, Cardiff, 1899 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1890s establishments in Wales

Cardiff City F.C. is a Welsh football club who play in Cardiff.  They play at the Cardiff City Stadium, (formerly at Ninian Park) and have the nickname "The Bluebirds".

They are the only non-English side to win the FA Cup, in 1926-27.  They were also runners up in 1924-25 and 2007-08.

[[Colchester United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1937 establishments in England

Colchester United F.C. are an English football team who play in Colchester, Essex.  They were started in 1937 and play games at their stadium which is called Colchester Community Stadium.  They currently play in the Football League One.

Their only major honour was in 1998 when they won the F.A. trophy

[[Coventry City F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Coventry, English football clubs, 1883 establishments in the United Kingdom

Coventry City F.C. is an English football club.  They play in Coventry in the West Midlands.  They first played football in 1883 and have the nickname "Sky Blues" named after the colour of the shirts they wear.  They play their home matches at the Ricoh Arena stadium.

Coventry City won the FA Cup in 1987 against a team from London, Tottenham Hotspur F.C..

[[Crewe Alexandra F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1877 establishments in England, Crewe, English football clubs

Crewe Alexandra F.C. is an English football club from Crewe, Cheshire. The club's chairman is Charles Grant.  

[[Crystal Palace F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Premier League clubs, Football clubs in London, 1905 establishments in England

Crystal Palace Football Club (Crystal Palace) is an English football club. It is based in South Norwood in the London Borough of Croydon. The club was founded in 1905. The home stadium of the club is Selhurst Park.

Crystal Palace has played in the Premier League since 2013. They were runners-up in the FA Cup in 1990 and 2016.

[[Hull City A.F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 establishments in England, English football clubs, Kingston upon Hull

Hull City A.F.C. are an English football club who are based in Kingston upon Hull.  They started in 1904 and currently play in the Football League Championship. Their stadium is called the KC Stadium.

On 24 May 2008 Hull City achieved promotion to the Premier League by beating Bristol City 1-0 in the Football League Championship play-off final at Wembley stadium. Dean Windass scored the winning goal in the 38th minute.

Hull made a remarkable start to their first ever season in the Premier League and reached as high as 2nd in the table in October 2008. They recorded impressive wins away from home against established Premier League teams- Newcastle, Arsenal and Tottenham.

[[Golden Age of India]]

CATEGORIES: History of India

Many periods have been called golden periods in the History of India, because there were different important achievements at different times.

[[Enoch Powell]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1998 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British academics, British Army people, British military personnel of World War II, Converts to Christianity, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, English Anglicans, English poets, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Former members of the British House of Commons for Northern Irish constituencies, Politicians from Birmingham, Privy Councillors (UK), UK MPs 1950–1951, UK MPs 1951–1955, UK MPs 1955–1959, UK MPs 1959–1964, UK MPs 1964–1966, UK MPs 1966–1970, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, University of Sydney faculty, Writers from Birmingham

John Enoch Powell, MBE (16 June 1912 – 8 February 1998) was a British politician in the Conservative Party.

[[Monetarism]]

CATEGORIES: Macroeconomics

Monetarism is the belief that the right way for a government to manage a country's economy is to control how much money it prints.  The most famous monetarist economist was Milton Friedman.

[[Super Mario All-Stars]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 video games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games, Compilation video games

Super Mario All-Stars is a video game made by Nintendo for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System game console.  It was released in 1993. It is a remake of four old games into one package. The four games are Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 2, Super Mario Bros. 3, and Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels.  The Lost Levels was originally called Super Mario Bros. 2 in Japan and was the original sequel to Super Mario Bros.. The old games feature new graphics and improved sound. It was later re-released in 1994 with Super Mario World as Super Mario All-Stars + Super Mario World.

[[Super Mario Sunshine]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 video games, Mario platform games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games, Nintendo GameCube-only games

Super Mario Sunshine is a 2002 video game made by Nintendo for the Nintendo GameCube. It was the first platform game starring Mario that was not a launch title – it was not released when the Nintendo console debuted. Instead, it was released about nine months after the GameCube had come out. The other release of the other three consoles (NES, SNES, and Nintendo 64) had been accompanied by a Mario game.

[[African elephant]]

CATEGORIES: Elephants

The African elephant are the two species of elephant in the genus Loxodonta. This is one of the two living genera in Elephantidae.

Female elephants travel in herds and male elephants travel alone and sometimes in bachelor groups.

Fossil Loxodonta have only been found in Africa, where they developed in the middle Pliocene.

Males of the African bush elephant can grow to 3.64 meters (12 feet) tall at the shoulder and weigh 5455 kg (12,000 lbs). It is the largest living elephant. Females may reach 3 meters (10 feet) and weigh 3636 kg to 4545 kg (8,000 to 10,000 lbs).

[[History of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United Kingdom

The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is a sovereign state. England, Scotland, Wales (together: Great Britain) and Northern Ireland are parts of this state.

The Acts of Union in 1707 united the crowns and Parliaments of England and Scotland to create (the United Kingdom of) Great Britain. At this time, Wales was legally part of the Kingdom of England, with representation (since 1536) in the English Parliament, so it was included in the union of England and Scotland. Ireland was a separate kingdom with its own parliament until further Acts of Union in 1800 joined Great Britain and Ireland to create the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.

In 1922, the territory of what is now the Republic of Ireland gained independence, and only Northern Ireland continued to be part of the United Kingdom. As a result, in 1927 Britain changed its formal title to "The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland", usually shortened to "the United Kingdom", "The UK", "Great Britain" or just "Britain".

[[Leeds United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1919 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1910s establishments in England

Leeds United Football Club is an English Association football club in Leeds, West Yorkshire.  They play their home matches at Elland Road. The club has spent much of its time since it was founded in the highest division of English football.

[[Acts of Union 1707]]

CATEGORIES: 1707, 18th century in the Kingdom of Great Britain, Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, 1700s in Europe

The Acts of Union were a pair of Parliamentary Acts passed in 1706 and 1707 by, respectively, the Parliament of England and the Parliament of Scotland, to make effective the Treaty of Union which had been negotiated between the two countries. The Acts joined the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland which had been separate states before, with separate legislatures but with the same monarch into a single United Kingdom of Great Britain. At that time the Union Flag became the national flag.

For over a hundred years since the Union of the Crowns in 1603, when James VI of Scotland inherited the English throne from his cousin, Queen Elizabeth I, the two had been in personal union  The Acts of Union took effect on 1 May 1707. 

[[G-Man]]

G-Man can be any of the following:

[[El Paso, Guyana]]

CATEGORIES: Villages, Settlements in South America, Guyana

El Paso is a village in the Potaro-Siparuni region of Guyana.  It can be found to the west of Tumatumari Landing.

[[Provinces of Iran]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Iran

Iran is divided into 31 provinces (Persian: استان ostān, plural استان‌ها ostānhā).  Each is ruled from a local center.  These local centers can usually be found in the biggest local city, called the capital (Persian: مرکز markaz) of that province.

[[Counties of Iran]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran, Lists of counties, Iran-related lists

The provinces of Iran are divided more into counties called shahrestan (Persian: شهرستان shahrestān).  This is an area inside an ostan.  They usually contain a city center, a few bakhsh (Persian: بخش bakhsh), and a bunch of villages around them.  They are also usually some cities in each county.  As of the year 2005, Iran had 324 counties.

[[Tehran Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Iran

Tehran Province (Persian: استان تهران;) is one of the 30 provinces of Iran.  It has an area of 18,909 square kilometers. It can be found to the north of the center plateau in Iran.  As of June 2005, this province contains 13 townships, 43 municipalities, and 1,358 villages.

[[Leicester City F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Leicester, 1884 establishments in England

Leicester City F.C. are an English football club.  They are based in Leicester in the county of Leicestershire. Leicester won the 2015–16 Premier League, their first Premier League title.

Their most famous players were and are Gary Lineker, Peter Shilton and Jamie Vardy. They have won three Football League Cups, and they hold the record for appearing in the most FA Cup finals without ever winning one. Their present manager is Brendan Rodgers.

They won the Premier League title in the 2015/16 season.

[[Damavand County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Damavand County (دماوند) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Damavand.

[[Eslamshahr County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Eslamshahr County (Persian: اسلام‌شهر) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Eslamshahr.

[[Firouzkouh County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Firouzkouh County (Persian: فیروزکوه) is a county in the east of the Tehran Province in Iran. In English it can also be spelt as Firuzkuh. The capital of the county is Firouzkouh. About 39,284 people live in the county. It is a mountain area with many lakes and rivers. It is famous for its mineral water.

[[Karaj County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Karaj County (کرج) is a county of the Alborz Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Karaj.

[[Luton Town F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 establishments in England, English football clubs, Luton

Luton Town Football Club are an English football club that are based in Luton in the county of Bedfordshire.  They started in 1885 and play their home games at a stadium called Kenilworth Road.

[[Millwall F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1885 establishments in England

Millwall F.C. are a English Association football club in London. They play their home games at a stadium called The New Den which is in London.  The club started in 1885 and their nickname is "The Lions".

[[Nazarabad County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Nazarabad County (Persian: نظرآباد) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Nazarabad.

[[Pakdasht County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Pakdasht County (پاکدشت) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Pakdasht.

[[Preston North End F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 establishments in the United Kingdom, City of Preston, Lancashire, English football clubs, Sport in Lancashire

Preston North End F.C. are an English football club. They are based in Preston, Lancashire. They play in the Football League Championship at their stadium which is called Deepdale. The club began in 1880. It has the nicknames "The Lilywhites", "PNE" and "The North End".

[[Rey County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Rey County (Persian: ری) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Rey.

[[Robat-Karim County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Robat-Karim County (Persian: رباط‌کریم) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Robat-Karim.

[[Savojbolagh County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Savojbolagh County (Persian: ساوجبلاغ) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Hashtgerd.

[[Shahriar County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Shahriar County (Persian: شهریار) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Shahriar.  The county has a population of 400,000 people.

[[Shemiranat County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Shemiranat County (شمیرانات) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Shemiranat.

[[Tehran County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Tehran County (Persian: شهرستان تهران) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Tehran.

[[Varamin County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Varamin County (Persian: ورامین) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Varamin.

[[The New Den]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in London

The New Den is a stadium in London, England. It is the stadium where Millwall F.C. are based.

[[Les Cayes]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Haiti, 1726 establishments, 18th-century establishments in Haiti, 1720s establishments in North America

Les Cayes (Kréyòl: Okay; The Cays) is a town in southwest Haiti near the river Ravine du Sud, on the Caribbean coast. It is the capital of the Sud Département.

Les Cayes is at about 196 km southwest of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. It is also the chief town of an arrondissement (a part of a department) with the same name. The arrondissement has six communes (a commune is like a municipality): Les Cayes, Camp-Perrin, Chantal, Île à Vache, Maniche and Torbeck.

[[Spitz (dog)]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

Spitz-type breeds of dog have a long thick coat of fur that is often white, and pointed ears and noses. Many times, the tail is over the dog's back.

[[Spitz]]

Spitz can mean:

[[Southampton F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Premier League clubs, Southampton, 1885 establishments in England

Southampton F.C. is an English football club. They were founded in 1885 and play their home games at St Mary's Stadium.

[[Southend United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1906 establishments in England

Southend United F.C. are an English football club. They are based in Southend-on-Sea in the county of Essex. They started in 1906 and play their home games at a stadium called Roots Hall.

[[Stoke City F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1863 establishments in England, Premier League clubs, Stoke-on-Trent

Stoke City F.C. is an English football club based in Stoke-on-Trent. They started in 1863 as "Stoke Ramblers" which makes them the second oldest Football League club in the world. Stoke City play their home games at a stadium called the bet365 Stadium.

One of Stoke City's most famous players was Stanley Matthews.

[[Stanley Matthews]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2000 deaths, 1950 FIFA World Cup players, 1954 FIFA World Cup players, British military personnel of World War II, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, Disease-related deaths in England, English autobiographers, English footballers, English football managers, Knights Bachelor, People from Stoke-on-Trent, Sportspeople from Staffordshire

Sir Stanley Matthews CBE (born 1 February 1915 – 23 February 2000) was an English footballer. He was born in Stoke-on-Trent. Matthews played football for Stoke City and Blackpool. He was knighted in 1965 and died in 2000.

[[Blackpool F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 establishments in Europe, 1880s establishments in England, Blackpool, English football clubs

Blackpool F.C. is an English football club. They currently play in League One. The club is based in Blackpool in the county of Lancashire.  They started in 1887 and play their home games at a stadium called Bloomfield Road.  The club won the FA Cup in 1953.

[[Asylum]]

Asylum may refer:

In music:

In entertainment:

In fiction:

In non-fiction:

In gaming

In radio

[[Articles of Confederation]]

CATEGORIES: 1781 in North America, Official documents of the United States, 1780s in the United States

The Articles of Confederation, formally named the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union, was an agreement among all thirteen original states in the United States of America that served as its first constitution. All thirteen states ratified the Articles in early 1781.

In 1789, the Founding Fathers replaced the Articles with the United States Constitution and a federal form of government.

[[History of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United States

The history of the United States is what happened in the past in the United States, a country in North America.

Native Americans lived in the Americas for thousands of years. English people in 1607 went to the place now called Jamestown, Virginia. Other European settlers went to the colonies, mostly from England and later Great Britain. France, Spain, and the Netherlands also colonized North America. In 1775, a war between the thirteen colonies and Britain began when the colonists were upset over paying taxation to their government in the UK, but were not being given any chance to vote in the UK/British elections, to contribute to how that money was spent.

Just after dawn on April 19, 1775, the British attempted to disarm the Massachusetts militia at Concord, Massachusettslack of evidence, this beginning the war with the "Shot Heard Round the World." On July 4, 1776, Founding Fathers wrote the United States Declaration of Independence. They won the Revolutionary War and started a new country. They signed the constitution in 1787 and the Bill of Rights in 1791. General George Washington, who had led the war, became its first president. During the 19th century, the United States gained much more land in the West and began to become industrialized. In 1861, several states in the South attempted to leave the United States to start a new country called the Confederate States of America. This caused the American Civil War. After the war, Immigration resumed. Some Americans became very rich in this Gilded Age, and the country developed one of the largest economies in the world.

In the early 20th century, the United States became a world power, fighting in World War I and World War II. Between the wars, there was an economic boom called the Roaring Twenties, when many people became richer, and a bust, called the Great Depression, when most were poorer. The Great Depression ended with World War II.

The United States and the Soviet Union entered the Cold War. This included wars in Korea and Vietnam. During this time, African-Americans, Chicanos, and women sought more rights. In the 1970s and 1980s, the United States started to make fewer things in factories. The country then went through the worst recession it had since the Great Depression. In the late 1980s, the Cold War ended, helping the United States out of recession. The Middle East became more important in American foreign policy, especially after the September 11 attacks in 2001. In the 2010s, Barack Obama's presidency helped many domestic problems in the country such as the auto business and healthcare coverage. After Obama, the country saw a rise in populist politics with the presidency of Donald Trump. In 2020, the country oversaw the COVID-19 pandemic, social unrest over racial justice and disputes over the 2020 election results which led to violent reactions.

[[Exponential function]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

[[Computer file]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

A computer file is a means to store information that belongs together. Computer files can be opened (read and written) by computer programs. Usually they are stored on some kind of file system.

There are different kinds of computer files that hold different kinds of data (information):

The way the information is organized in a file is called the file format.

[[Data format]]

Data format in information technology can mean:

[[File (tool)]]

CATEGORIES: Cutting tools

A file is a tool used to shape materials, by wearing away some of it. Today, files are usually made of a steel bar that has a rough surface. By rubbing the surface against a material, some of the material is scraped away.  There are also nail files used to shape a person's fingernails. Files can also make a surface smooth so that there are no gaps, which is useful when two surfaces need to be attached to each other. A file is "blunt" if it is the same size on both ends, and "tapered" if one end is smaller than the other.

[[Sheffield Wednesday F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Sheffield, 1867 establishments in England

Sheffield Wednesday F.C. is an English football club. They are based in Sheffield, South Yorkshire. They play their home matches at a stadium called Hillsborough Stadium. They originally played at a stadium called Olive Grove Stadium and were called The Wednesday.

The club plays in the English Football League Championship.

Fans of Sheffield Wednesday are referred to as Owls. The team's symbol is an owl.

[[De Wallen]]

CATEGORIES: Amsterdam, Red light districts

De Wallen ("thin walls") are the biggest and most famous red-light district in Amsterdam. It is in the very old (14th century) part of the city around the Oude Kerk and Oudezijds Achterburgwal/Vorburgwal.

In December 2007, the mayor of Amsterdam and his government decided to buy many of brothelhouses within De Wallen. By doing this, the area used for prostitution and coffee shops gets smaller and smaller.

[[Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1877 establishments in England

Wolverhampton Wanderers are an English association football club.  They are based in Wolverhampton, West Midlands.  The club started in 1877 and play their home games at a stadium called Molineux Stadium.  They have never won the FA Cup.

In 2009 they won the Football League Championship.  This meant they were promoted into the Premier League for the following season.  Also promoted were runners-up Birmingham City F.C., and Burnley F.C. from the play-offs.

[[A.F.C. Bournemouth]]

CATEGORIES: Premier League clubs, Bournemouth, 1899 establishments in England

A.F.C. Bournemouth are an English football club.  They are based in Bournemouth and play their home games at a stadium called the Vitality Stadium.  They started in 1899 and have had Harry Redknapp as a manager and his son Jamie Redknapp as a player. In the 2020–2021 season, Bournemouth are playing in The English Football League Championship.

[[Jamie Redknapp]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Hampshire, Louise Redknapp, Premier League players

Jamie Redknapp (born 25 June 1973) is an English footballer. He was born in Barton on Sea, Hampshire. He played for Liverpool F.C., Tottenham Hotspur F.C., A.F.C. Bournemouth and Southampton F.C..  His father, Harry Redknapp, is the manager of Portsmouth F.C.

Redknapp married R&B singer Louise Nurding in 1998.

[[Bradford City A.F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Bradford, English football clubs, 1903 establishments in the United Kingdom

Bradford City A.F.C. is an English football club.  They are based in Bradford, West Yorkshire.  They began in 1903 and play their home games in a stadium called Valley Parade. 

[[Arenal Volcano National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Costa Rica, Alajuela Province

Arenal Volcano National Park is a national park in the northwest region of Costa Rica. It is between the mountain pass of the Tilarán Mountain Range and the Plains of San Carlos. A part of the park belongs to San Ramón.

[[Faded (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs

"Faded" is a 2006 song by Kate DeAraugo, the winner of Australian Idol in 2005.

[[Emergency (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 songs, Paramore songs

Emergency is a 2005 song by Paramore. It came off the album All We Know Is Falling.

The song is about Hayley Williams' parents, and she could remember standing between them yelling at them to shut up. October 2008

[[Roger D. Kornberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American chemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Harvard University alumni, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from St. Louis, Missouri, Stanford University faculty

Roger David Kornberg (born 1947) is an American biochemist and Nobel prize winner. Kornberg got the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2006 for studying eukaryote transcription (the copying of information from DNA to RNA). 

Kornberg is a professor of Structural Biology at Stanford University School of Medicine. His father, Arthur Kornberg, was also a professor at Stanford University, and got the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1959.

[[All We Know Is Falling]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums, Paramore albums, Debut albums, Pop punk albums, Rock albums

All We Know Is Falling is the first album of the band Paramore. It was recorded in just three weeks. In April 2006, the CD was released in the UK. In 2005, a Japanese version was released, with the bonus track "O, Star".

[[Businessperson]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations, Business people

A businessperson (also businessman or businesswoman) is someone who works at a job that focuses on making money. Very broadly it can mean anyone who works in industry or commerce. More narrowly, it is someone who works in the management (at high level, when the term is used even more narrowly) of a company. Sometimes the word means an entrepreneur or a merchant.

Many businessmen wear standard business clothes: a suit with collar, shirt, and necktie. However, this depends on the company, the local culture, and the country. In more informal places, neckties need not be worn.

Businesswomen clothes have gone through many changes. Dresses and suits are common today.

[[Werl]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Rhine-Westphalia, Soest Rural District

Werl is a town found in the district of Soest in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.

[[Tangent (geometry)]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry

In geometry, a tangent is a straight line that touches a curve at one point. At the place where they touch, the line and the curve both have the same slope (they are both "going in the same direction"). For this reason, a tangent line is a good approximation of the curve near that point. The curve and the tangent line are almost exactly the same near the intersection point. 

A straight line which touches a circle at a single point is perpendicular to the circle's radius and is considered tangent to the circle.

[[History of North America]]

CATEGORIES: History of North America

The History of North America deals with an area where humans came to live relatively recently, compared to Africa, Europe, and Asia.

Scientists have different theories as to the origins of the early human population of the continent.  The indigenous peoples of North America themselves have many creation stories, that tell that native Americans have been present on the land since its creation.

[[Brentford F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1889 establishments in England

Brentford F.C. is an English football club.  They are based in Brentford in London and they play their home games at a stadium called Griffin Park. Brentford were formed in 1889 and have the nickname "The Bees".

[[Harry Redknapp]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, English football managers, English footballers, Sportspeople from London

Harry Redknapp (born 2 March 1947) is an English association football manager. He was born in Poplar, London. He is currently in charge of English club Queens Park Rangers football club. Before he became a manager he used to play football, mainly for West Ham.

He managed A.F.C. Bournemouth, West Ham, Portsmouth, Southampton and Portsmouth again before he got an offer to manage Tottenham Hotspur.

Redknapp is related to two Premier League stars. He is the father of Jamie Redknapp who played under him at Bournemouth and Southampton. He is also the uncle by marriage of Frank Lampard who played under him at West Ham United.

[[PDF (disambiguation)]]

PDF commonly refers to the Portable Document Format in computing.

Other uses could also mean:

[[Cough]]

CATEGORIES: Reflexes, Symptoms

A cough, also known as tussis, is an action the body takes to get rid of anything that irritates the lungs or throat. To do this, muscles in the thoracic cavity contract to make air leave the lungs with a lot of force. Coughs often happen quickly and more than once, and are usually accompanied by a unique sound, also called a cough.

Coughs are more likely to happen when a person is sick, because infections often irritate breathing passages. Another cause of coughs is a person breathing air that is not clean, like air with dust or smoke.

[[Creation]]

Creation may refer to:

In religion and philosophy:

In science:

In the arts:

In media:

[[Creation myth]]

CATEGORIES: Creation myths

A creation myth or creation story explains how the universe started, how the earth came to be, and why there are humans. Creation myths are usually part of religions and mythologies. Very often, creation myths say that humans were made by a god, spirit or other supreme being. 

[[Tarantula]]

CATEGORIES: Spiders, Venomous animals

Tarantula is the common name for a group of "hairy" and often very large spiders belonging to the family Theraphosidae, of which approximately 900 species have been found.  Some tarantulas hunt prey in trees and some hunt on the ground. All tarantulas can make silk. They use silk to make shelters like tube tents in trees, to line burrows if they live on the ground, and they all use silk to wrap up prey before they eat it. It is easy to see a tarantula turning around and around in one spot with the prey in its mouth, but it is hard to see the silk coming out because it is small in diameter (thickness) and transparent. These spiders are found in warmer regions around the world. 

Tarantulas' predators are normally big snakes or creatures such as the Tarantula Eating Wasp. Defenses are camouflage and fangs.

[[Hunter-gatherer]]

CATEGORIES: Anthropology, Everyday life, Hunting

A hunter-gatherer society is one who lives from edible plants and animals from the wild, by foraging and hunting. 

The line between hunter-gatherers and other people is often not clear-cut. Nomadic people often practice a mix of hunting, gathering and herding, and others spend some of their time in farming.

[[File format]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats

File formats are also known as file types. A computer stores data in a computer file in the shape of a file format. For example: images are stored in a different shape than music files. 

Also, most types of data (for example text, image or sound) have many varieties of file formats, all with their own special strengths and weaknesses.

There are, for example, more than five ways to store text as a file. Two of the most known ways are: the plain .txt format and the simplest of the HTML formats. The difference is that a .txt file can only store a sequence of characters but an HTML file can also store links to other files and the formatting of the text, for example whether the text is bold, underlined or italic (but usually HTML should say whether the text is very important, a link, or not very important; whether important text should be bold, italic or red is then specified using a file in a special format called CSS).

There is often a choice between saving a file in a simpler versus a more complex file format. The simpler format will make a smaller file, but store less information. The more complex file format will usually be a larger file and more difficult to use, but can store more information; sometimes a faster computer might be needed in order to use a more complex file format.

File formats made for commercial proprietary software are sometimes a secret, so that people who do not work in the company which made the proprietary software cannot use their own and others' files in the format without buying their software. That action is called vendor lock-in, and can be used to make a monopoly. Because of that, it is sometimes a crime.

[[Lascaux]]

CATEGORIES: Caves, Geography of France, World Heritage Sites in France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Archaeological sites in France

Lascaux is the name given to a cave in the Vézère Valley of southwestern France. The Lascaux cave is famous for its cave paintings. 

There are a number of caves near the village of Montignac, in the Dordogne département. One of these caves contains some of the best-known Upper Paleolithic art. Most of the paintings are realistic images of large animals. Many of these animals are known from fossil evidence to have lived in the area at the time. The site of Lascaux was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Sites list in 1979, under the name of the Vézère Valley.

Montignac is about 40 from Périgueux, and about 25 from Sarlat-la-Canéda

[[Bobby Charlton]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, Manchester United F.C. players, Sportspeople from Northumberland

Sir Robert Charlton, CBE (born 11 October 1937) is a retired English footballer who played for the England national team. He played over 600 times for Manchester United. He also played for England over 100 times and scored more goals than any other player. He played for England when they beat Germany in the World Cup final in 1966. He is regarded as one of the greatest footballers of all time.

His elder brother is Jack Charlton.

He is the last survivor of the Munich air disaster, where his life was saved by fellow teammate Harry Gregg.

[[Gary Lineker]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, 1986 FIFA World Cup players, 1990 FIFA World Cup players, English footballers, English sports commentators, Sportspeople from Leicester, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players

Gary Lineker (born 30 November 1960) is an English retired footballer. He has played for the English national team. He scored 48 goals for the English national team. He is now on television on the BBC on Match of the Day.

[[Geoff Hurst]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 1966 FIFA World Cup players, 1970 FIFA World Cup players, English autobiographers, English cricketers, English football managers, English footballers, Knights Bachelor, Living people, Members of the Order of the British Empire, Sportspeople from Essex, Sportspeople from Lancashire, West Ham United F.C. players

Geoff Hurst (born 8 December 1941) is an English retired professional footballer. He was born in Ashton-under-Lyne, Lancashire and moved to Chelmsford, Essex when he was eight. He played football for West Ham United F.C. over 400 times. He also played for the England national football team and scored a hat trick (three goals) in the 1966 World Cup final which England won 4–2.

[[Parliament of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: History of Scotland, Politics of Scotland, 1707 disestablishments, Parliaments, 1700s disestablishments in Europe

The Parliament of Scotland, officially the Estates of Parliament, was the legislature of the independent Kingdom of Scotland.

The parliament of Scotland had only one house (cf. House of Commons, House of Lords) and was mentioned for the first time during the early thirteenth century, and the first meeting one knows of was in 1235, during the reign of Alexander II of Scotland.

The parliament, which is also referred to as the Estates of Scotland, the Three Estates  the Scots Parliament or the auld Scots Parliament (old), met until the Acts of Union in 1707.

[[Coco Islands]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Costa Rica, Islands of Central America, World Heritage Sites in North America

Coco Island is a tropical island. The island covers 24. It has two bays in the north. It is 500 southwest of Costa Rica. It was declared a World Heritage Site in 1997 for its animals and its beauty.April 2009 

Today, the only people who live there are four national park guards who patrol the park. Ships leave from Puntarenas, a port in the Pacific Ocean. The island is one of the world's best diving spots. It is famous for its massive schools of different fish, hammerhead sharks, manta rays, and whale sharks. The island is also famous because of the legend about pirates.  It is said that this island was chosen by them to hide their treasures. Many people have gone there to look for this hidden treasures but they didn’t find any.

The island has waterfalls, some of them 200 high. There are also a few animals which were brought from other places because there are no native mammals.  Also some birds were brought. The island has just one kind of butterfly and two lizard species. The highest point, called Mount Iglesias, is 575 high.

[[Decoritidae]]

CATEGORIES: Goniatitina

Decoritidae is one of five families of the Gastriocerataceae superfamily. They are an extinct group of ammonoid, which are similar to squids and cuttlefish.

[[Gastrioceratoidea]]

CATEGORIES: Goniatitina

Gastrioceratoidea is one of 17 superfamilies of the Goniatitina suborder.  They are an extinct group of ammonoid, which are similar to squids and cuttlefish.

[[Goniatitina]]

CATEGORIES: Goniatitina, Cephalopods

Goniatitina is one of 2 suborders of the Goniatitida order. They are an extinct group of ammonoid, which are similar to squids and cuttlefish.

[[Alf Ramsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 1999 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English football managers, English footballers, England national football team managers, Sportspeople from Essex

(Sir) Alf Ramsey (22 January 1920 - 28 April 1999) was an English footballer and football manager.  He was born in 1920 and played for Southampton F.C. and Tottenham Hotspur F.C.  He also played for the England national football team 32 times and scored three goals.  Alf Ramsey was in charge of Ipswich Town F.C. for nearly ten years, Ipswich are the only team to win the First Division title in their first season in the top flight the season after winning the second division. Ramsey then became manager of the England team.  He was manager when England beat Germany 4–2 in the World Cup final at Wembley Stadium. He is the only England manager to win a World Cup.

In recognition of his achievement in leading England to victory in the World Cup Alf Ramsey was knighted in 1967.

He died of a heart attack.

In tribute to Ramsey, Ipswich Town F.C. commissioned a life-size statue of him which is positioned directly in front of Portman Road (home ground of Ipswich Town F.C.).

[[Qom Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Iran

Qom is one of the 30 provinces of Iran with an area 11,237 km².  About 2 million people live in the Qom Province.  The capital of the province is Qom.

[[Qom County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran

Qom County (Persian: قم) is a county of the Qom Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Qom.

[[Markazi Province]]

CATEGORIES: Markazi Province

Markazi (Persian: استان مرکزی) is one of the 30 provinces of Iran. The word markazi means central in Persian.  There are about 1,350,000 people living in the Markazi Province currently.

Some of the biggest cities of the province are: Saveh, Arak, Mahallat, Khomein, Delijan, Tafresh, Ashtian, and Shazand.

[[Ashtian County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran, Markazi Province

Ashtian County (آشتیان) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Ashtian.

[[Arak County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran, Markazi Province

Arak County (شهرستان اراک) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Arak.

[[Delijan County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran, Markazi Province

Delijan County (شهرستان دلیجان) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Delijan.

[[Khomein County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran, Markazi Province

Khomein County (شهرستان خمین) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Khomein.

[[Komeijan County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran, Markazi Province

Komeijan County (شهرستان کمیجان) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Komeijan.

[[Mahallat County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran, Markazi Province

Mahallat County (Persian: شهرستان محلات) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Mahallat.

[[Saveh County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran, Markazi Province

Saveh County (Persian: شهرستان ساوه) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Saveh.

[[Shazand County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran, Markazi Province

Shazand (Persian: شهرستان شازند) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Shazand.

[[Tafresh County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran, Markazi Province

Tafresh County (Persian: شهرستان تفرش) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Tafresh.

[[Zarandieh County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Iran, Markazi Province

Zarandieh County (شهرستان زرندیه) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Zarandieh.

[[E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 drama movies, 1982 science fiction movies, Academy Award winning movies, American drama movies, American family movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies composed by John Williams, Movies directed by Steven Spielberg, Saturn Award winning movies, United States National Film Registry movies, Universal Pictures movies, Movies set in California

E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial is a 1982 American science fiction movie produced and directed by Steven Spielberg, and written by Melissa Mathison. It follows the eponymous alien, who is stranded on Earth. A boy and his family keep it hidden from the group of government agents, while bringing it home.

Filming took place from September to December 1981 on a budget of $10.5 million (equivalent to $25 million in 2019 dollars).

Released on June 11, 1982, by Universal Pictures, E.T. was an immediate blockbuster, surpassing Star Wars to become the highest-grossing movie of all time—a record it held for 11 years until Jurassic Park, another Spielberg movie, surpassed it. E.T. was widely acclaimed by critics and is considered to be one of the greatest movies of all time. It was re-released in 1985, and again in 2002, to celebrate its 20th anniversary, with altered shots and additional scenes.

[[Alex Ferguson]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Scottish footballers, Association football forwards, Scottish football managers, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, Knights Bachelor

Sir Alexander Chapman Ferguson GBR (born 31 December 1941) is a retired Scottish footballer and retired manager.  He has managed St. Mirren, Aberdeen, and Manchester United. He is considered one of the greatest football manager of all time, and has won more trophies than anyone else in the history of English football.

As a player, he played as a forward. He play for multiple Scottish teams, including Dunfermline Athletic and Rangers. After retiring from playing, he started managing at East Stirlingshire. He would be hired by St Mirren, Aberdeen, and the Scotland national team, due to the death of Jock Stein. He was the manager of Scotland at the 1986 FIFA World Cup.

In November 1986, he was appointed the manager of Manchester United. He won 38 trophies with Manchester United, including 13 Premier Leagues, 5 FA Cups, 4 Football League Cups, 10 FA Community Shields, 2 UEFA Champions Leagues. He would manage the team until his retirement in 2013.

[[Tocharians]]

CATEGORIES: Asian people

The Tocharians were an ancient people who lived in the Tarim Basin. They spoke an Indo-European language. The region they live in was closer to the Far East than that of any other Indo-European-speaking regions.

[[Information technology]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

Information technology (or IT) is a term that encompasses all forms of technology used to create, store, exchange, and use information in its various forms (business data, voice conversations, still images, motion pictures, photos, multimedia presentations, and other forms, including those not yet conceived).

Now, people have been using it to refer to other aspects of technology.  It now covers many more fields of study than it has covered in the past.

[[History of Asia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Asia

The history of Asia can be seen as the history of several distinct regions, East Asia, South Asia, and the Middle East that have more or less context depending of the situation in the central Eurasian steppe.

The coastal periphery was the home to some of the world's earliest known civilizations, with each of the three regions developing early civilizations around fertile river valleys. The civilizations in Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley, and China had much in common. Therefore it is likely that they exchanged technologies and ideas such as mathematics and the wheel. Other aspects such as that of writing developed individually in each area. Cities, states and then empires developed in these lowlands.

The steppe region had long been inhabited by nomads, and from the central steppes they could reach all areas of the Asian continent. The earliest known expansion out of the steppe is that of the Indo-Europeans which spread their languages into the Middle East, India, and in the Tocharians to the borders of China. The northern part of the continent was not accessible to the steppe nomads due to the dense forests and the tundra. These areas had very few people.

The centre and periphery were kept separate by mountains and deserts. The Caucasus, Himalaya, Karakum Desert, and Gobi Desert formed barriers that the steppe horsemen could only cross with difficulty. The city dwellers were more advanced in civilisation but they could do little militarily to defend against the mounted hordes of the steppe. Because the lowlands did not have enough open grasslands to support a large horsebound force the nomads who conquered states in China, India, and the Middle East were soon forced to adapt to the local societies.

[[Periphery]]

Generally, a periphery is a boundary or outer part of any space or body. It is derived from the Greek word περιφέρεια, meaning a circumference or outer surface.

[[International Mathematical Olympiad]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Competitions

The International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO) is a six-question two-day math competition for students that have not yet gone to college and are under 20 years old. Any country may take part in it by sending a team of six students to compete.

The IMO has been held every year since 1959. It takes place in a different country (which is called the "host country") from year to year. However, it is often seen that this competition is dominated by the US and China. Several universities, specifically MIT, consider its affiliation during college admissions. 

[[Edmund Phelps]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, American academics, American economists, American Nobel Prize winners, People from Illinois, Yale University alumni, Columbia University faculty

Edmund Strother "Ned" Phelps, Jr. is an American economist. He was born on July 26, 1933 in Evanston, Illinois.  He was given the 2006 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. He is best known for his work on economic growth at Yale University's Cowles Foundation in the 1960s. This includes the idea of the Golden Rule savings rate, which is about how much money should be spent and how much should be saved for the future. Some of his best work is on microeconomics of full employment and how prices affect wages. Part of this work is about the natural rate of unemployment.

Phelps has been the McVickar Professor of Political Economy at Columbia University since 1982.  He is also the director of Columbia's Center on Capitalism and Society.

His Nobel Prize award was announced on October 9, 2006. He received the award on his own, breaking the recent pattern of awarding the prize to two or more winners at the same time.

[[Nanotechnology]]

CATEGORIES: Nanotechnology

Nanotechnology is a part of science and technology about the control of matter on the atomic and molecular scale - this means things that are about 100 nanometres across

Nanotechnology includes making products that use parts this small, such as electronic devices, catalysts, sensors, etc. To give you an idea of how small that is, there are more nanometres in an inch than there are inches in 400 miles.

To give an international idea of how small that is, there are as many nanometres in a centimetre, as there are centimetres in 100 kilometres.

Nanotechnology brings together scientists and engineers from many different subjects, such as applied physics, materials science, interface and colloid science, device physics, chemistry, supramolecular chemistry (which refers to the area of chemistry that focuses on the non-covalent bonding interactions of molecules), self-replicating machines and robotics, chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, biology, biological engineering, and electrical engineering.

Generally, when people talk about nanotechnology, they mean structures of the size 100 nanometers or smaller. There are one million nanometers in a millimeter. Nanotechnology tries to make materials or machines of that size.

People are doing many different types of work in the field of nanotechnology. Most current work looks at making nanoparticles (particles with nanometer size) that have special properties, such as the way they scatter light, absorb X-rays, transport electrical currents or heat, etc. At the more "science fiction" end of the field are attempts to make small copies of bigger machines or really new ideas for structures that make themselves. New materials are possible with nano size structures. It is even possible to work with single atoms.

There has been a lot of discussion about the future of nanotechnology and its dangers. Nanotechnology may be able to invent new materials and instruments which would be very useful, such as in medicine, computers, and making clean electricity (nanoelectromechanical systems) is helping design the next generation of solar panels, and efficient low-energy lighting). On the other hand, nanotechnology is new and there could be unknown problems. For example, if the materials are bad for people's health or for nature. They may have a bad effect on the economy or even big natural systems like the Earth itself. Some groups argue that there should be rules about the use of nanotechnology.

[[Hattem]]

CATEGORIES: Hanseatic League, Cities in the Netherlands, Municipalities of Gelderland, Settlements in Gelderland

Hattem is a municipality and a city in the eastern Netherlands.

Hattem became a city in 1299. That is one year before Amsterdam.

[[Alex McLeish]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers

Alex McLeish is a Scottish association football manager. He was born in 1959 and is currently manager of Aston Villa F.C. after his reign in Birmingham City F.C.. He also managed Rangers F.C. and the Scotland national football team.

[[Óscar Arias]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Presidents of Costa Rica

PeaceOscar Arias was born on 13 September 1940 in the city of Heredia. He is a former President of Costa Rica. He was president two times. First in 1986 to 1990, later in 2006 to 2010. He received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1987 for his efforts to end civil wars in Central America. He is also a winner of the Albert Schweitzer Prize for Humanitarianism and a trustee of Economists for Peace and Security.

In 2003, he was elected to the Board of Directors of the International Criminal Court's TrustFund for Victims. He is also a member of the Club de Madrid. It is a nonprofit organization. It is made up of 81 former leaders of democratic nations. They work to strengthen democracy.

Arias started his political career in the 1970s.

In January of 2005 Arias was selected as the candidate for the National Liberation party. He was reelected as president of Costa Rica. There was a lot of criticism for his support towards the Free Trade Agreement process in Costa Rica. Because of his political background and determination, many Costa Ricans still trust and respect Arias.

[[Universal history]]

CATEGORIES: History

Universal history, world history or global history examines history from a global perspective.

It looks for common patterns that one can find across all cultures. Universal historians use a thematic approach. That means they look at history from two viewpoints: On the one hand they look at processes of world history that have drawn people of the world together, on the other hand they want to find out how patterns of world history reveal the diversity of the human experience.

The study of universal or global history is in some ways a product of the current period of accelerated globalization. This period has two tendencies: it integrates various cultures and it shows their differences when people of different cultures and civilizations have to live with each other.

To discuss "the history of the world" in a unified framework is not that new. For example, it was a genre popular in the 19th century, and with Christian historians going back to at least the 4th century.

[[Brewery]]

CATEGORIES: Beer

A brewery is a building, where beer is made or a business (brewing company) whose trade is the production and sale of beer.

Breweries can take up several city blocks, or be a collection of equipment in a homebrewer's kitchen. The diversity of size in breweries is matched by the diversity of processes, degrees of automation, and kinds of beer produced in breweries. Typically a brewery is divided into distinct sections, with each section reserved for one part of the brewing process.

The oldest brewery in the world still in operation is believed to be the Bavarian State-owned brewery Weihenstephan, found in the German city of Freising, which can trace its history back to 1040.  Although the Zatec brewery in the Czech Republic claims it can prove paying beer tax in 1004.

[[Butane]]

CATEGORIES: Alkanes, Fuel

Butane is an organic compound with the chemical formula C. It is an alkane with four carbon atoms. It is used as a fuel (sometimes with propane) and in aerosol cans.

[[Liquefied petroleum gas]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Liquefied petroleum gas (also known as LPG, LP Gas or autogas) is a mixture of hydrocarbon gases. It is commonly used in the household, for example for cooking, or as fuel for heating. LPG is replacing Chlorofluorocarbons more and more, also because it is less harmful to the ozone layer.

Very often, mixes of propane and butane are sold.

[[Aerosol spray]]

CATEGORIES: Tools, Air pollution, Art materials, Environmental issues

Aerosol spray is a system used in certain containers, like spray cans. The contents of the can, like color or deodorant are pressurized. The can has a valve. When this valve is opened, the liquid is forced out. It will emerge as an aerosol or mist. Apart from the liquid, there is another substance in the container, usually called propellant. When the valve is opened, some propellant will be forced inside the container. That way the pressure in the container is kept constant.

[[Max Born]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1970 deaths, British mathematicians, British Nobel Prize winners, British physicists, German mathematicians, German physicists, Jewish British academics, Jewish British scientists, Jewish German academics, Jewish German scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Nuclear physicists, People from former German territories, People from Wrocław, Refugees from Nazism, Theoretical physicists, German Nobel Prize winners

Max Born (11 December 1882 – 5 January 1970) was a German-British physicist and mathematician who was important in the development of quantum mechanics. He also made contributions to solid-state physics and optics and supervised the work of a number of important physicists in the 1920s and 30s. Born became a British subject in 1939. He won the 1954 Nobel Prize in Physics.

He was of Jewish descent.

Born's descendants include his grandaughter Olivia Newton-John and his great-granddaughter Chloe Rose Lattanzi.

[[United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations, Spaceflight

The United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA) is a branch of the United Nations General Assembly. UNOOSA creates, maintains and carries out the General Assembly's rules about space.

The building for UNOOSA is located in the United Nations Office in Vienna in Austria.

UNOOSA operates the Programme on Space Applications and maintains a list of objects sent into space - the Register of Objects Launched into Outer Space. UNOOSA also helps developing nations develop space technology to help their economies.

[[Craig Mello]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American academics, American biologists, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from New Haven, Connecticut, Yale University alumni

Craig Cameron Mello (born October 18, 1960) is an American biologist and Professor of Molecular Medicine at the University of Massachusetts Medical School.

He was awarded the 2006 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Andrew Fire for the discovery of RNA interference. Mello has been a Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator since 2000.

[[Vicar of Bray]]

CATEGORIES: Songs, History of England, Berkshire

"The Vicar of Bray" is a satirical song about the career of the Vicar of Bray and how he changes his principles so that he can keep his job in a changing world. Changes are taking place in the state religion through the course of several English monarchs.

[[Maharishi Mahesh Yogi]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2008 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, New religious movements, Spiritual teachers

Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (12 January 1918  5 February 2008) was an Indian guru (a teacher of spirituality). He was most famous for his development of Transcendental Meditation. He also was well known for his association with the rock bands, The Beatles and The Beach Boys.

[[Bristol City F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1894 establishments in the United Kingdom

Bristol City F.C. are an English football club. They are based in the city of Bristol. They play at Ashton Gate Stadium. They were formed in 1894.

[[Chesterfield F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1867 establishments in England

Chesterfield F.C. are an English football club. They started in 1867 and are based in Chesterfield in the county of Derbyshire. They play at a stadium called the Recreation Ground.

[[Doncaster Rovers F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1879 establishments in England

Doncaster Rovers F.C. are an English football club.  They started in 1879 and play their home games at a stadium called Keepmoat Stadium.

[[Huddersfield Town F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Huddersfield, 1908 establishments in England

Huddersfield Town F.C. are an English football club.  They started in 1908 and are based in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire.  The club plays their home games at a stadium called the Kirklees Stadium.

[[Sanskara]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism, Buddhist terminology

In Hinduism and Buddhism, Sanskaras are the faint memories left on your mind by experiences you had in your present life or in past lives. Sanskaras change how you look at things in the future and how you act.

[[Supernanny]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 British television series debuts, 2005 American television series debuts, 2011 American television series endings, 2012 British television series endings, 2000s American television series, 2000s British television series, 2010s American television series, 2010s British television series, American reality television series, Channel 4 reality television programmes, English-language television programs

Supernanny is a British and American television program about a nanny, or babysitter, named Jo Frost who helps parents in taking care of their often disruptive or ill-behaved children. The UK version ran from 2004 to 2012. The US version ran from 2005 to 2011. 

Jo no longer does Supernanny as she has moved on to similar shows helping families.

[[Keyboard (computer)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Writing tools, Data input

A computer keyboard is an input device that allows a person to enter letters, numbers, and other symbols (together, these are called characters) into a computer. It is one of the most used input devices for computers. Using a keyboard is often called typing.

A keyboard contains many mechanical switches or push-buttons called "keys". When one of these are pushed, an electrical circuit is closed, and the keyboard sends a signal to the computer that tells it what letter, number or symbol it would like to be shown on the screen. The computer then shows the character on the screen, usually at the place where the flashing text cursor is. 

Besides entering characters, computer keyboards also have special keys that change the symbol (such as shift or caps lock) or give the computer special commands (such as the arrow keys, CTRL and ALT). Different computer operating systems use different special keys, or use them differently. Special commands can also be glizzie! activated through combinations of keys, called keyboard shortcuts. Some of the most common shortcuts on Windows programs are: Ctrl + C, to copy some text or a picture; Ctrl + V, to paste what was copied; and Ctrl + F, to find a certain word on a document or web page.

A keyboard can be joined to a computer using a wire, but can also be wireless (like those that use Bluetooth). Most wired 21st century keyboards connect to a USB socket on the computer, but older ones use a round, purple DIN connector. 

[[Rhythm guitar]]

CATEGORIES: Music

The term rhythm guitar refers to the style of playing guitar chords, and sometimes playing repeated riffs instead of using the guitar to play melody lines or solos (this kind of playing is called lead guitar). Rhythm guitarists add to the sound of a band, whether they play rock and roll, or other kinds of music.

John Lennon of The Beatles usually played rhythm guitar for the band, with George Harrison playing lead guitar. However, Lennon sometimes played keyboards, and once in a while took the lead guitar role, as he did in the songs "You Can't Do That" and "Get Back".

Sheet music for rhythm guitar is usually written above the classical notes. It is written in Guitar chord format.

[[Book of Revelation]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament books, Christian eschatology

The Book of Revelation, which is sometimes called Revelation to John, Apocalypse of John, or Revelation of Jesus Christ is the last book of the New Testament in the Bible.

[[Keyboard]]

Keyboard may mean:

[[Theodor Fontane]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1898 deaths, German poets, Writers from Brandenburg, Pharmacists

Theodor Fontane (ˈtʰeodoɐ̯ fɔnˈtaːnə; 30 December 1819 – 20 September 1898) was a German novelist and poet, regarded by many to be the most important 19th-century German-language realist writer.

[[Pachelbel's Canon]]

CATEGORIES: Chamber music compositions

Pachelbel's Canon (also known as Canon in D major or just Canon in D) is the most famous piece of music by Johann Pachelbel. It was written in or around the time period of  1680, as a piece of chamber music for three violins and basso continuo, but it has been arranged for many other instruments since then.   It is well known for its chord progression.

Pachelbel's Canon is often played at weddings.

[[Damme]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Damme is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders, six kilometres northeast of Brugge (Bruges). It is made up of the city of Damme proper and the towns of Hoeke, Lapscheure, Moerkerke, Oostkerke, Sijsele, Vivenkapelle, and Sint-Rita.

In 2007, 10853 people lived there.

It is at 51° 15 North, 03° 17 East.

[[Hit record]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry

A hit record is a recording (either a single or an album) that becomes very popular, through large sales of copies, repeated airplay on the radio. or presence in the media. One aspect usually promotes one or more of the others.

The Beatles, Elvis Presley, The Eagles and Michael Jackson all had many hit records. They are among the biggest-selling musical acts of all time. Not every recording artist has a hit record. Many artists and groups lose their recording contracts, if their records do not become hits.

Not all hit records feature music. Some spoken word records also become hits, including comedy recordings. Bill Cosby, George Carlin, and Cheech & Chong are comedians who have all had hit records. A recording of speeches by the late American President John F. Kennedy became one of the biggest-selling albums of the 1960s.

[[Pauline epistles]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles

The Pauline epistles are the fourteen New Testament books which most Christians think were written by the Apostle Paul. Some of them are the earliest Christian documents. They show many of the beliefs and controversies of Christianity. Many Christians think these letters are very important for theology and ethics.

The First Timothy, Second Timothy, and Titus are sometimes known as the pastoral epistles.

In the order they appear in the New Testament, the Pauline epistles are:

[[Viljandi]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Estonia

Viljandi (Fellin, Felin) is a town and municipality in southern Estonia. As of 2012, 19,150 people lived there. It is the capital of Viljandi County. The town was first mentioned in 1283, after being given its town charter by Villekinus de Endorpe.

[[Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God]]

CATEGORIES: Speeches, Puritanism, 1741

Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God is famous sermon that was preached by Jonathan Edwards in 1741. He was an important Calvinist minister. The sermon is often used in American high schools and college English classes as an example of the Puritan writings.

Edwards taught the sermon many times. The first time was in Northampton, Massachusetts, but it did not get much attention. But on the second time in Enfield, Connecticut, it made many people weep, swoon, cry out, and have convulsions.

Deuteronomy 32:35 says, "Their foot shall slide in due time." That verse was the main focus of the beginning of the sermon. As was normal in 18th century New England, the sermon was printed and many copies were made. It has proven to be the main reason of his theology and preaching that was taught by many people in the first Great Awakening.

[[Physical constant]]

CATEGORIES: Physical quantity

In science, a physical constant is a number (physical quantity) that does not change. This is different from a mathematical constant, which is not based on a real measurement.

There are many physical constants in science. Some famous ones are the speed of light, Planck's constant, the gravitational constant, and Avogadro's number.

Some scientists think that physical constants may decrease as the universe gets older. There has been no evidence to support this yet.

Constants that do not have units (like length or speed) are called fundamental physical constants.

Some believe that if the physical constants were different, there would be no life in the universe. They say that the universe seems to be fine-tuned for intelligent life.

[[Cookstown]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Northern Ireland

Cookstown is a small town in Northern Ireland which is in the United Kingdom. 10646 people live in the town. The main street in Cookstown is the longest and widest in Ireland.

[[Dungannon]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Northern Ireland

Dungannon is a town in County Tyrone, Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.

[[Coagh]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Northern Ireland

Coagh is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.

[[Stewartstown]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Northern Ireland

Stewartstown is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. It is 5 miles from Cookstown and 7 miles from Dungannon.

[[Ballymena]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Northern Ireland, Settlements in County Antrim

Ballymena is a town in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. The actor Liam Neeson and the politician and church minister Ian Paisley used to live in the town.

[[Society of St. John the Evangelist]]

CATEGORIES: Anglicanism, Christian religious orders

The Society of St. John the Evangelist is an Anglican order. The monks make a vow: They say they want to live in poverty and that they will not marry anyone. The order was founded by Father Richard Meux Benson, an Anglican priest in 1866. Because they were founded in Cowley, near Oxford in England they are also known as the Cowley fathers. 

It has two branches, the original one in England, and one in the United States. The house in the United States was founded around the year 1874. The American branch of the society has 2 houses for their monks. Today, there are monasteries in Scotland, India, South Africa, Japan, and Canada. 

The monks live under The Rule of the Society of Saint John the Evangelist. The monks spend a lot of time in prayer and they also go on missions. They are one of the first monasteries founded after the Protestant Reformation.

[[Magherafelt]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Northern Ireland

Magherafelt is a small town in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.

[[Constituent country]]

CATEGORIES: Countries

A constituent country is a country which makes up a part of a larger country, or federation.

[[Leyton Orient F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1881 establishments in England

Leyton Orient F.C. are an English football club.  They started in 1881 and are based in Leyton, London.  Their nickname is "The O's" and they play their home games at a stadium called Brisbane Road.

[[Northampton Town F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Northampton, 1897 establishments in the United Kingdom

Northampton Town F.C. is an English football club.  They started in 1897 and are based in Northampton in the county of Northamptonshire.  They play their home games at a stadium called Sixfields Stadium and are nicknamed "The Cobblers".

[[Counties of Northern Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Northern Ireland

There are six counties which make up Northern Ireland. They are County Antrim, County Armagh, County Down, County Fermanagh, County Londonderry and County Tyrone. The six counties in Northern Ireland and the 26 counties in the Republic of Ireland make up the 32 counties of the island of Ireland.

[[Nottingham Forest F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Nottingham, 1865 establishments in the United Kingdom

Nottingham Forest F.C. is an English football club.  They are based in Nottingham in the county of Nottinghamshire and started in 1865.  They play their home matches at a stadium called 'City Ground'.  Brian Clough was one of their managers and when he was in charge, Nottingham Forest won two European Cups and four League Cups. Since then they have dropped down to the 3rd division and back up to the second, they have had managers like Gary Megson, Joe Kinnear, David Platt and Frank Clark. They have no manager now. Their last one was Colin Calderwood.

[[Brian Clough]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2004 deaths, British autobiographers, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from stomach cancer, English footballers, English football managers, Organ transplant recipients, People from North Yorkshire, Sportspeople from Yorkshire

Brian Clough was an English footballer turned manager. During his career he was in charge of Nottingham Forest F.C. and Derby County F.C.  He won a lot of trophies, including the European Cup in 1979 and 1980.

Clough was an alcoholic. He had a liver transplant in 2003. He died of stomach cancer.

[[Irish national grid reference system]]

CATEGORIES: Political geography, Ireland

The Irish national grid reference system is the system of grid references used in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. It overlaps the British national grid reference system. In the grid references, Ireland is divided into 20 squares, of 100 kilometres length and 100 kilometres width. Each grid square is given a letter as its name.

[[Districts of Northern Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Ireland

Since 1 October 1973, Northern Ireland is made of 26 districts. Each district has a council which looks after local services. The 26 districts are made of 582 wards. Each ward elects 1 councillor. There 582 councillors in Northern Ireland and there is an election every 4 years. The voting system used to elect each councillor is Single Transferable Vote. Some of the councils are known as "Borough" or "City" councils. Every year, each council elects a chairman. In "Borough" and "City" councils, the chairman is called the Mayor. In Belfast City Council, the chairman is called the Lord Mayor. In "Borough" and "City" councils, up to 25% of councillors are given the title Alderman.

[[Post town]]

CATEGORIES: Postal services in the United Kingdom

In the United Kingdom, a post town is the town that you must write on a letter if you want it to go to that area. There are around 1500 post towns in the United Kingdom.

[[Hudson Motor Car Company]]

CATEGORIES: American automobile companies, 1909 establishments in the United States

The Hudson Motor Car Company was an American automobile manufacturer, founded in Detroit, Michigan in 1909. They were well known for producing low-priced cars of good quality. They also pioneered safety features in their cars, like dashboard warning lights for oil pressure and generator power. Hudson's production peak was in 1929, with 300,000 cars built in their factories in America, Belgium and England.

In 1954, Hudson merged with the Nash-Kelvinator Company, to form American Motors Corporation. American Motors (also known as AMC) became famous for their line of Jeep vehicles (a civilian version of military Jeeps), and later Ramblers, Gremlins, and Pacer cars. AMC was finally bought out by the Chrysler Corporation, which still makes Jeep brand vehicles.

[[BT postcode area]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Ireland

The BT postcode area (also called the Belfast postcode area) is how each area in Northern Ireland has postcodes. Northern Ireland was the last part of the United Kingdom to get post codes. The BT postcode area was made between 1970 and 1974. 

[[Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Ireland

The Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service (NIFRS) is the fire service for Northern Ireland, United Kingdom. 2000 people work for the NIFRS. There are 67 fire stations in Northern Ireland. Sometimes bad people throw stones at the firemen. Some firemen were killed in the Troubles.

[[BT]]

BT is an abbreviation and can stand for:

[[Northern Ireland Ambulance Service]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Northern Ireland, Emergency services, 1995 establishments in the United Kingdom, 20th century establishments in Northern Ireland

The Northern Ireland Ambulance Service (NIAS) is the ambulance service for Northern Ireland, United Kingdom. It was created on 1 April 1995. Around 1000 people work for the NIAS.

[[Września]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Poland

Września is a small town in Wielkopolska province in Poland.  30,000 people live in Września and the mayor is Tomasz Kałużny.

[[Police Service of Northern Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Ireland, Law enforcement in the United Kingdom

The Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) (Seirbhís Póilíneachta Thuaisceart Éireann) is the police service that covers Northern Ireland. It was started on 4 November 2001. The old police service for Northern Ireland was the Royal Ulster Constabulary. The service is based in Cherryvalley, east Belfast. The current Chief Constable is Sir Hugh Orde OBE. The old Chief Constables were Sir Ronnie Flanagan OBE and Colin Cramphorn.

[[Grameen Bank]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 establishments in Asia, Economy of Bangladesh, Banks, Autobiographers, Buildings and structures in Bangladesh, Dhaka, 20th century establishments in Bangladesh

PeaceThe Grameen Bank is a community development bank started in Bangladesh. They give small loans (known as microcredit or "grameencredit" http://www.grameen-info.org/bank/WhatisMicrocredit.htm https://web.archive.org/web/20080408093948/http://www.grameen-info.org/bank/WhatisMicrocredit.htm) to poor people without asking for money before the loan is given. The word "Grameen", is made of the word "gram" or "village", and means "of the village". The system of this bank is based on the idea that the poor have skills but have no chance to use their skills without some money. The bank also controls some businesses, such as fabric, telephone and energy companies. Most of the banks loans go to women.

The Grameen Bank was started 1976 when Professor Muhammad Yunus, a Fulbright scholar and Professor at University of Chittagong, researched how to provide banking for the rural poor. In October 1983, the Grameen Bank Project was made into an independent bank by the government. The group and its first member, Muhammad Yunus, were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006.

Some people have said the banks prices are too expensive and put people in a debt-trap. Some have also said that the bank would not work if people did not give donations. At the same time, it is often seen as a success story in microfinance and as the guide for other groups around the world.

[[United Kingdom Census 2001]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 in the United Kingdom, Ethnic groups in the United Kingdom

On Sunday 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom Government held a census. This was the 19th UK Census. United Kingdom Census 2001 was started by the Office for National Statistics in England and Wales, the General Register Office for Scotland and the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency. It was the first census to ask people in England, Scotland and Wales about their religion.

[[Hug]]

CATEGORIES: Relationships, Emotions, Non-verbal communication

A hug is an embrace between two or more people. It is usually a sign of affection or love.

In several cases observed by psychologists around the globe, hugs are often used to solidify relationships in both sexual and platonic cases and often lead to further physical encounters.

[[WWE Intercontinental Championship]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment championships, 1979 establishments

WWE Intercontinental Championship is a professional wrestling championship in WWE (World Wrestling Entertainment). It is the first secondary title of WWE. It has been the exclusive secondary championship of WWE's weekly TV show Raw since April 2017 when the champion at the time Dean Ambrose was moved to the show from SmackDown in the 2017 Superstar Shake-Up.

[[List of members of the European Parliament for the United Kingdom, 2004–09]]

CATEGORIES: MEPs for the United Kingdom, British politicians, Lists of politicians, United Kingdom-related lists

This is a list of Members of the European Parliament for the United Kingdom who were voted to serve from 2004 to 2009.

[[Polygamy]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage, Mating systems

Polygamy is a word that comes from late Greek. It can be translated as many marriages. It refers to any form of marriage where a person has more than one spouse. There is also a concept called group marriage. In group marriage, all the (adult) members of the group are responsible for all the children.

A man being married to more than one woman at the same time is called polygyny. A woman being married to more than one man at the same time is called polyandry. 

Both forms have occurred in humans. Polygyny is much more common, and is practised by millions of people, mostly in Muslim and African countries. According to Muslim 

Sharia law, a man can have up to four wives at the same time. In many African Pagan religions, polygamy is a common custom, and there is often no limit to the number of women a man can marry. In most non-Muslim and non-African countries, polygamy is illegal, and a person who has more than one spouse can be prosecuted for bigamy. Some countries, including India, only permit Muslims to be polygamous.

[[Rickenbach, Solothurn]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Rickenbach is a municipality in the district Olten in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Rickenbach]]

Rickenbach can be the name of any of the following places:

In Germany:

In Switzerland:

[[Neal Cassady]]

CATEGORIES: American LGBT people, Bisexual people, Beat Generation, LGBT writers, Writers from Salt Lake City, Utah, Writers from Colorado, 1926 births, 1968 deaths

Neal Cassady (February 8, 1926 - February 4, 1968) was an American writer. He was a member of the Beat Generation circle of writers and poets, of the 1950s and 1960s. He was a close friend of Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac, and was the main inspiration behind Kerouac's breakthrough novel On the Road. Later he was the bus driver of Ken Kesey's "Merry Pranksters", during the hippie era.

[[Riedholz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Riedholz is a municipality in the district Lebern in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland. In 2011 Niederwil merged into Riedholz.

[[Northern Ireland (European Parliament constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: MEPs for the United Kingdom, Politics of Northern Ireland

Northern Ireland is a constituency of the European Parliament. The Northern Ireland Members of the European Parliament are chosen using Single Transferable Vote. The constituency is all of Northern Ireland.

[[Feldbrunnen-St. Niklaus]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Feldbrunnen-St.Niklaus is a municipality in the district Lebern in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Rodersdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Rodersdorf is a municipality in the district Dorneck in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland, on the border of Alsace, France.

[[Beat Generation]]

CATEGORIES: Beat Generation

The Beat Generation was a movement of writers, poets, and artists during the 1950s and 1960s, who liked the beat of jazz and bebop music, which became a kind of soundtrack to much of their lives and work. People associated with the movement were called "Beats", or sometimes "Beatniks", a reference to Communism. (A few Beats supported Communism, but most did not.) The term came from novelist Jack Kerouac, who was sometimes called "The King of the Beats". Other Beat writers were William S. Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg.

[[Brill Building]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks

The Brill Building in New York City was a headquarters for many songwriters in the 1950s and 1960s. The building had offices for the writers, and also a small recording studio to make demo recordings. Don Kirshner hired the writers who worked there, and helped promote their works.

The Brill Building writers included many pop stars and future pop stars, including Jeff Barry, Neil Diamond, Carole King, Carole Bayer Sager, and Neil Sedaka. The Monkees recorded a large number of Brill Building songs, but they also wrote songs of their own.

[[Chris Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: British autobiographers, English drummers, Genesis (band), English writers, 1950 births, Living people

Christopher "Chris" Stewart (born 1950), is an English musician and writer. He was the first drummer for rock band Genesis. He is now a writer and a farmer.

Stewart went to school with Tony Banks, Peter Gabriel, Mike Rutherford and Anthony Phillips. The five of them formed a band called Anon. This band eventually became Genesis in January 1967. Stewart appears on the band's first two singles, "The Silent Sun"/"That's Me" and "A Winter's Tale"/"One-Eyed Hound".

Stewart was asked to leave the band in the summer of 1968, because he was not skilled enough. He was replaced by John Silver. After travelling and working throughout Europe, Stewart settled and bought a farm named "El Valero" in Andalusia, Spain.

He is now better known for his autobiograpical books: Driving Over Lemons: An Optimist in Andalucia (1999, 0-9535227-0-9) and the sequels, A Parrot In The Pepper Tree (0-9535227-5-X) and The Almond Blossom Appreciation Society (2006, 0-9548995-0-4). They are all about his work farming in Spain.

[[John Silver]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, English drummers, Genesis (band)

Jonathan "John" Silver (born 1950) was the second drummer for the English rock band Genesis. He replaced Chris Stewart in the summer of 1968. Silver left the band in August 1969. He was replaced by John Mayhew. Silver appears on the band's first full length album, From Genesis to Revelation and on the Genesis Archive 1967-75 box set. 

Silver lives in London with his wife, Lucy, and children, Leo, Max, and Libby.

[[John Mayhew]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2009 deaths, Australian drummers, Australian rock musicians, Carpenters, English drummers, English rock musicians, Genesis (band), People from Ipswich

John Mayhew (27 March 1947 - 26 March 2009) was an English - Australian musician. He was the third drummer for the progressive rock band Genesis. Mayhew was a part of the band from September 1969 until July 1970.  He replaced John Silver as the drummer for the band in August 1969 .  Mayhew appears on the album Trespass and the Genesis Archive 1967-75 box set.  He was replaced in 1970 by Phil Collins.

For many years Mayhew's life after playing for Genesis was a mystery to most fans.  It was said that his Trespass royaltycheque had gone unclaimed. There were rumors that he was dead or missing.  In 1979, he moved to Australia. He eventually found work as a carpenter. He is now an Australian citizen. In 2006, Mayhew attended the Genesis Convention in London along with Anthony Phillips and Steve Hackett. He even played drums for a tribute band's performance of "The Knife" (from Trespass). He died a day before his birthday from a heart attack.

[[Larch]]

CATEGORIES: Conifers

Larches are conifers in the genus Larix. They grow on the northern hemisphere. Unlike other conifers, larches lose their leaves during autumn and winter.

[[Louise Goodman]]

CATEGORIES: English television presenters, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people

Louise Goodman is one of two pitlane reporters for ITV's Formula One coverage. Before this she worked in marketing for the Jordan team. She started television broadcast in 1997.

She is said to be the first woman of Formula One live coverage. Louise Goodman has been ITV's roving pitlane reporter since ITV took the broadcast in 1997. She usually does driver interviews, while Ted Kravitz brings news from the teams about technical or tactical matters. She is taller than many F1 drivers, and is known for wearing much jewellery on her arm.

Goodman became the first female to be part of a pit stop when she removed the left rear tire in a Midland pit stop for Tiago Monteiro in 2006 British Grand Prix.

During Q3 in Hungaroring 2006 she interviewed David Coulthard. Coulthard had been knocked out in Q2. She asked him how the cold weather was affecting him. He answered," Ummm...well, it’s a lot nicer to look at you in your tight t-shirts first out." Goodman sounded startled when she replied, " Thank you so much DC. I'll have a word with you later."April 2009 They then went back to the main commentary team who also sounded rather flustered.

In 2007, she became the presenter of ITV's coverage of the British Touring Car Championship. Her co-presenter was Ted Kravitz.

[[Second Epistle to the Corinthians]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

The Second Epistle to the Corinthians is one of the books in the New Testament.  It is an epistle (letter) written to the Church at Corinth by the Apostle Paul.

[[Visby]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Sweden, Settlements in Gotland County

Visby is the only city on the Swedish island of Gotland. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In 2005, its population is 22,236.

[[Kollam]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Cities in Kerala

Kollam (Malayalam:കൊല്ലം) (known to the Portuguese as Quilon, pronounced koy-lon) is a city and a municipal corporation in Kollam district in the Indian state of Kerala. It is 71 north of the state capital Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum). It is also the headquarters of the Kollam District, one among the 14 districts in Kerala. To the south is Thiruvananthapuram district, to the north is Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha, to the east is Tamil Nadu and to the west by the Arabian Sea.

[[Aiglun, Alpes-Maritimes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-Maritimes

Aiglun is a town and commune of the Alpes-Maritimes département, in southeastern France.

[[Alpes-Maritimes]]

CATEGORIES: Alpes-Maritimes

Alpes-Maritimes (Aups Maritims; Alpi Marittime) is a department of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the extreme southeast corner of France.

The name Alpes-Maritime comes from Alpes Maritimae,  a Roman military district created in the region by Augustus in 14 BC.

[[Communes of France]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in France

[[Cantons of France]]

CATEGORIES: Cantons of France

The cantons of France are area divisions of the French Republic's 341 arrondissements and 100 departments. 

[[Arrondissements of France]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The 100 French departments are divided into 342 arrondissements.  This means districts in English.  Most departments in France only have 3 or 4 arrondissements, but some may have more or less than this.

[[List of arrondissements of France]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of arrondissements of France

The following is the current list of arrondissements of France with their INSEE codes, the chief town (or capital), the 2013 population, the area, the population density and the number of communes. The chief town of an arrondissement is the seat of a prefecture or subprefecture.

[[List of cantons of France]]

CATEGORIES: France-related lists, Cantons of France

The following is a list of cantons of France, within each department:

Overseas departments of France

[[Cantons of the Ain department]]

CATEGORIES: France-related lists, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Cantons of France

This is a list of the 43 cantons of the Ain department, in France, by arrondissement:

[[Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2021 deaths, British Anglicans, British Army officers, British military personnel of World War II, British royalty, Danish royalty, Greek people, House of Windsor, Kings and Queens consort of the United Kingdom, Knights and Dames Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire, Knights of the Garter, Knights of the Thistle, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Order of Australia, Order of Merit, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Privy Councillors (UK), Recipients of the Decoration for Services to the Republic of Austria, Royal Navy officers, United Kingdom Dukes, Elizabeth II

Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh (born Prince Philip of Greece and Denmark; 10 June 1921 – 9 April 2021), was a member of the British royal family as the husband of Queen Elizabeth II. Philip was born in Corfu. He was originally a Prince of Greece and Denmark.

[[George IV]]

CATEGORIES: 1762 births, 1830 deaths, Kings and Queens of the United Kingdom, People Buried in St. George's Chapel at Windsor Castle

George IV (born as George Augustus Frederick on 12 August 1762, died on 26 June 1830) was king of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and Hanover from 29 January 1820 until his death. The Regency, George's nine-year time as "Prince Regent", which started in 1811 and ended with George III's death in 1820, included winning the Napoleonic Wars in Europe. George IV's only daughter died before he did, so his younger brother became King William IV of the United Kingdom.

[[William IV of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: 1765 births, 1837 deaths, Kings and Queens of the United Kingdom, People Buried in St. George's Chapel at Windsor Castle, Kings and Queens of Hanover

William IV (William Henry; 21 August 1765 – 20 June 1837) was King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of Hanover from 26 June 1830 until his death. William, the third son of George III of the United Kingdom and younger brother and successor to George IV was the last person to rule both the United Kingdom and Hanover. His niece, Victoria, ruled only the United Kingdom, not Hanover.

He lived for 20 years with Sophia Jordan. They had ten children.

[[Cantons of the Aisne department]]

CATEGORIES: France-related lists, Hauts-de-France, Cantons of France

This is a list of the 42 cantons of the Aisne department, in France, by arrondissement:

[[Communes of the Alpes-Maritimes department]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of communes of France, Communes in Alpes-Maritimes

This is a list of the 163 communes of the Alpes-Maritimes ''département'' in France:

[[Nice (disambiguation)]]

Nice can be any of the following:

[[Energy (society)]]

CATEGORIES: Energy

The use of energy is important to human society for handling problems in the environment. Developed societies use energy resources for agriculture, transportation, garbage collection, information technology and human communication. The use of energy has increased since the Industrial Revolution. This has brought a number of serious problems such as global warming.

Production and use of energy resources is important to the economy of the world. Making sure energy is used well is needed for any society.

energy is needed for the smooth running of activities in our society which makes it wanted in a high alarming rate and is extremely expensive

[[Transformer]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Electronics, Transformers (electrical)

A transformer is a device that transfers electrical energy from one electrical circuit to another through mutual (electromagnetic induction) and without change in frequency. Transformers are an important part of electrical systems.  

Transformers are made in many different sizes, from a very small coupling transformer inside a stage microphone to big units that carry hundreds of MVA used in power grids.

The main reason to use a transformer is to make power of one voltage level into power of another voltage level. High voltage is easier to send a long distance, but less voltage is easier and safer to use in the office or home.

Transformers are used to increase or decrease alternating current (AC) voltage in circuits. The transformer is usually built with two coils around the same core. The primary coil or input coil is connected to supply side while secondary coil supplies power to load. The second one is called the output coil. Energy is transferred from the primary to the secondary by electromagnetism. In power grids many transformers are used. These are networks for delivering electricity from the generator and to the user. 

The transformers in your neighborhood, on electricity poles, or the ones connected to underground wires, usually transform high voltage of 7,200 volts to 220-240 volts of electricity to power lights and appliances such as refrigerators in homes and businesses. Some countries, such as America use different voltages in homes, such as 120 volts.  Transformers cannot increase power, so if the voltage is raised, the current is proportionally lowered. If the voltage is lowered, the current is proportionally increased.

Transformers inside electronics equipment provide the kinds of electricity the various parts need. 

There are several basic types of transformers:

[[Ballycastle, County Antrim]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Northern Ireland, Settlements in County Antrim

Ballycastle is a small town in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.

[[Bangor, County Down]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in County Down

Bangor is a town in County Down, Northern Ireland.

[[Munich (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Munich (German: Landkreis München, Bavarian: Landkroas Minga) is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany. However the district does not include the city of Munich, which is an urban district itself.

[[Act of Union 1800]]

CATEGORIES: History of Ireland, 19th century in the United Kingdom, Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, 1800

With Act of Union 1800 (or sometimes Act of Union 1801) (Irish: Acht an Aontais 1800) is used to describe two Acts are meant. Their official titles are the Union with Ireland Act 1800 (1800 c.67 39 and 40 Geo 3), an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain, and the Act of Union (Ireland) 1800 (1800 c.38 40 Geo 3), an Act of the Parliament of Ireland.

These two Acts merged the Kingdom of Ireland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain, (being itself a merger of the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland under the Acts of Union 1707), to create the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.

[[Ebersberg (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Rural Districts in Upper Bavaria

Ebersberg (German: Landkreis Ebersberg, Bavarian: Landkroas Ebersbeag)  is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

[[Freising (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Rural Districts in Upper Bavaria

Freising is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

[[Starnberg (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Starnberg (district)

Starnberg is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

[[Traunstein (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Rural Districts in Upper Bavaria

Traunstein (German: Landkreis Traunstein, Bavarian: Landkroas Traunstoa) is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

[[Berchtesgadener Land]]

CATEGORIES: Berchtesgadener Land

Berchtesgadener Land (West Central Bavarian: Berchtsgoana Land) is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

[[Rosenheim (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Rosenheim (district)

Rosenheim (German: Landkreis Rosenheim, Central Bavarian: Landkroas Rousnam) is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

[[Banne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Banne is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in southern France.

[[Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Ardèche

Ardèche (Ardecha) is a département in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region of south-central France. It is named after the Ardèche river.

[[Cantons of the Ardèche department]]

CATEGORIES: Ardèche, France-related lists, Cantons of France

This is a list of the 17 cantons of the Ardèche department, in France.

After the reorganisation of the cantons in France, cantons are not subdivisions of the arrondissements so they could have communes that belong to different arrondissements.

The following table shows the 17 cantons of the department and the distribution of the communes by arrondissement:

[[Arrondissements of the Ardèche department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of Ardèche, Lists of arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Ardèche department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Ardèche are:

[[Communes of the Ardèche department]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of communes of France, Communes in Ardèche

This is a list of the 339 communes in the Ardèche department in France.

[[Accons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Accons is a town and commune in the Ardèche department in Southern France.

[[Ailhon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Ailhon is a town and commune of the Ardèche  department in Southern France.

[[Aizac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Aizac is a town and commune of the Ardèche department in Southern France.

[[Muhammad Yunus]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Bangladeshi people, Economy of Bangladesh, Bangladeshi Muslims

PeaceMuhammad Yunus is a Bangladeshi banker and economist who was born on 28 June 1940. He was a professor of economics and is famous for his work in microcredit. Microcredit is a name for giving small loans. These loans are given to people with very little money. Most banks do not give microcredit. Yunus started the Grameen Bank. In 2006, Yunus and the bank together, were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, "for their efforts to create economic and social development from below." Yunus himself has received several other national and international awards. He published a book called Banker to the Poor and helped start the Grameen Foundation. In 2007 Yunus planned to start a political group called Nagorik Shakti ("Citizen Power") in Bangladesh, but he has chosen not to start this group. He is one of the founding members of Global Elders.

Yunus was one of 20 Nobel Laureates such as Peter Agre, Nadine Gordimer, Yuan T. Lee, Elinor Ostrom, Werner Arber, David Gross, James Mirrlees, Carlo Rubbia, Paul J. Crutzen, Mario J. Molina, Amartya Sen, Peter Doherty (scientist), Walter Kohn, Douglass North, John Sulston, Murray Gell-Mann, Harold Kroto, Douglas Osheroff who signed the "Stockholm memorandum" at the 3rd Nobel Laureate Symposium on Global Sustainability in Stockholm, Sweden on 18 May 2011.

[[John Keats]]

CATEGORIES: 1795 births, 1821 deaths, Deaths from tuberculosis, English poets, Literature since 1500, Writers from London

John Keats (31 October 1795 – 23 February 1821) was an English poet. He is often ranked as one of the five most important poets of the Romantic movement in English literature; the other four are William Wordsworth, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Lord Byron, and Percy Bysshe Shelley. Though Keats was the youngest of these poets, he also died before the others: he suffered from tuberculosis and died in Rome at the age of 25.

Keats was the son of an inn-keeper Thomas Keats, who died when Keats was nine years old and Frances Keats; and his mother died of tuberculosis in 1810. The young Keats began studying to be a surgeon, though his interest in literature grew stronger than his interest in medicine. He became a friend and follower of the poet and editor James Henry Leigh Hunt, and made his first attempts to write his own poetry. Keats's active writing life lasted only about six years, from the spring of 1814 through 1819. 

His short life meant that he wrote less than many other poets. His longest poems, Endymion and Hyperion, tell stories from ancient Greek mythology. Many of his shorter poems are among the best known in English literature, including the ballad "La Belle Dame sans Merci" and his sonnets and odes.

Keats was an active letter-writer throughout his life, like many people of his time. Hundreds of his letters to friends and relatives have survived, and Keats is often called one of the great letter writers in the English language.

[[Endymion (poem)]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century British poems

Endymion is one of the major poems of the English Romantic poet John Keats. It is his longest poem. Keats wrote the poem in 1817, and it was printed in a book in 1818. The poem's opening line is one of the most famous lines of poetry in English literature:

Keats called the poem "A Poetical Romance." He wrote in four sections or "Books," and each section is about a thousand lines long. The poem is written in a form called rhymed couplets, which means that every two lines rhyme together. The story is based on the tale of Endymion from Greek mythology.

Endymion was criticized harshly when it was first published. Some of Keats's friends and admirers, like the poet Shelley, believed that the stress of this hostile reaction had a bad effect on Keats's mind, and partly caused his early death from tuberculosis at the age of 25. But most modern critics and scholars of English literature do not think this is true.

[[Hyperion (poem)]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century British poems

Hyperion is one of the major poems of the English Romantic poet John Keats. The poem is based on the tale from Greek mythology that tells how the Titan Hyperion, the first Greek sun god, was replaced by Apollo.

Keats worked on the poem mainly in August and September 1818. He finished the first two sections or "Books," each between 350 and 400 lines long, and he also wrote 135 lines of Book III. But he was not satisfied with what he had written; he re-wrote it bit by bit until April 1819, when he gave up for a while. Some critics and scholars think that Keats set out to write the kind of long poem he had already done in his Endymion in 1817 – but his outlook on poetry had changed, to a point where he was no longer happy writing the kind of mythological epic that many other poets of his time tried to write.

Keats tried to re-do the poem in a new form that he called The Fall of Hyperion. He worked on this second version during the last six months of 1819, and though he wrote more than 500 lines, he gave up this second attempt too. He was never able to complete either version of the poem in a way that satisfied him.

Keats wrote the poem in blank verse, without rhyme. Though neither version was ever finished, some critics think that they contain some of Keats's best verse, as in the gloomy and powerful opening lines of the first Hyperion:

[[Arlo Guthrie]]

CATEGORIES: American guitarists, Singer-songwriters from New York, Musicians from New York City, Singers from New York City, American folk musicians, 1947 births, Living people, Warner Bros. Records artists

Arlo Guthrie (born 1947) is an American musician and songwriter, and is the son of folk music legend Woody Guthrie. His most famous song is Alice's Restaurant, which was also the title of his first album.

[[Sonnet]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry forms

A Sonnet (sonetto in Italian) is a type of poem. It is 14 lines long and is written in rhyme. 

The sonnet first appeared in Italy during the Middle Ages and was widely used during the Renaissance. The first poet known for his sonnets is Giacomo da Lentini who lived in the 13th century. After him many poets started writing sonnets. Two notable ones are Dante Alighieri and Guido Cavalcanti. The Italian poet Petrarch was famous for his sonnets. He was very popular and many poets imitated his poems. Francisco de Sá de Miranda introduced the form into Portuguese literature.  So did Thomas Wyatt and Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey in England. Even in distant Poland sonnets were written by Jan Kochanowski, Mikołaj Sęp Szarzyński and Sebastian Grabowiecki. It became common for poets to write sonnets in connected series, called "sonnet sequences," to tell a story, often one about a love affair. Michelangelo, a famous sculptor and painter wrote sonnets, too. He exchanged them with Vittoria Colonna. Poets in other countries quickly adopted the sonnet and sonnet sequence. William Shakespeare wrote the most famous sonnets in English literature, though other poets of his time, such as Ben Jonson, Edmund Spenser, Michael Drayton, and Samuel Daniel, wrote sonnet sequences also.

Later English poets like John Donne, John Milton, William Wordsworth, Percy Bysshe Shelley, and John Keats wrote sonnets that are still admired and studied today. In United States Henry Wadsworth Longfellow and Emma Lazarus wrote sonnets. 

The rigid rhyme scheme of the sonnet went out of fashion during the twentieth century, but a few modern poets still write them sometimes. Edna St. Vincent Millay was one modern poet writing in English who often worked in the sonnet form. Modern poets have often changed the traditional rhythms and rhyme patterns of the sonnet, sometimes radically.

In a traditional "English" or "Shakespearean" sonnet, the first twelve lines are divided into three groups ("stanzas") of four lines each, called "quatrains". The last two lines usually rhyme, and make up a "rhymed couplet" that concludes the poem by summing up the story told in the previous quatrains. In the traditional "Italian" or "Petrarchan" sonnet, the poem divides into a group of eight lines ("octave") followed by a group of six lines ("sestet").

The letters of the alphabet are used to show the pattern of rhyme, or "rhyme scheme," in the 14 lines in a sonnet. The rhyme scheme 

is the typical pattern of an "English" sonnet. The rhyme scheme

is typical of an "Italian" sonnet. However, the rhymes of the sestet in an Italian sonnet can vary widely: cdcdcd, cddcdd, etc. The scheme abba abba cde edc is very rarely, but its ending sequence cde edc was probably the source for Robert Browning's stanza abccba. It was used in the poem Meeting at night. Another pattern is Spenserian sonnet, invented by Edmund Spenser. It runs a-b-a-b, b-c-b-c, c-d-c-d, e-e.

Sonnets can be linked together into a crown of sonnets. In such a sequence, the last line of the first sonnet repeats as the first line of the second one, and sometimes these lines make up another sonnet. Slovenian poet France Prešeren is best remembered for his Wreath of Sonnets, an example of a crown of sonnets.

[[Golden ratio]]

CATEGORIES: Irrational numbers

One way to write this number is

The golden ratio is an irrational number. That means that if a person tries to write it, it will never stop and never make a pattern, but it will start like this: 1.6180339887... An important thing about this number is that if you subtract 1 from it or divide 1 by it, you'll get the same number.

[[Relational database]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A relational database is a way of storing information (data). The database matches data by using identical information that is found within the data set. The resulting groups of data are organized and are much easier for many people to understand.

For example, a database has all information about real-estate sales in a town. This information can be grouped by year, or by sale price, or by buyer's last name and so on. Such a grouping uses the relational model (a technical term for this is schema). Hence, such a database is called a "relational database."

The software used to do this grouping is called a relational database management system (RDBMS). The term "relational database" often refers to this type of software.

Relational databases are currently the main way in which companies store information like financial records, medical records, personal information and manufacturing and logistical data.

The term relational database was originally defined by and is attributed to Edgar Codd at IBM Almaden Research Center in 1970.

[[Kingdom of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Former countries in Europe, History of Scotland

The Kingdom of Scotland was a historic country and state. It started in the Early Middle Ages and was in existence until the Early Modern Period.

After 1603, it had the same monarch as the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Ireland. In 1653, during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms, the government of Oliver Cromwell made Scotland into part of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland: a republic. However, at The Restoration, Scotland started again to be a kingdom. It combined with the Kingdom of England to become the United Kingdom of Great Britain in 1707 because of the Acts of Union 1707.

[[Ajoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Ajoux is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Alba-la-Romaine]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Alba-la-Romaine is a commune of the French département Ardèche.

[[Albon-d'Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Albon-d'Ardèche is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Alboussière]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Alboussière is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France. It can be found about 20 km from Valence-sur-Rhône. About 760 people live there.

[[Alissas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Alissas is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Arrondissement of Largentière]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of Ardèche

The arrondissement of Largentière is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Ardèche département. Its capital is the city of Largentière, a subprefecture of the department.

[[Arrondissement of Privas]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of Ardèche

The arrondissement of Privas is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Ardèche department. Its capital, and Prefecture of the department, is the city of Privas.

[[Jackson, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan, County seats in Michigan, 1820s establishments in Michigan Territory

Jackson is a city in lower mid-Michigan. It was started in 1829. It is named after Democratic President Andrew Jackson. Jackson is the home town of several well-known people. One of whom is the first African-American Super Bowl winning coach, Tony Dungy.

Several of the major employers in the city are CMS Energy, which gives natural gas and electrical services to much of Michigan and has its international headquarters in the city, as well as Foote Hospital. Jackson is 18 from the Michigan International Speedway.

[[Utrecht]]

Utrecht can be any of the following areas or cities:

It can also be any of these:

[[Protostome]]

CATEGORIES: Invertebrates, Groups of phyla

Protostomes are a nephrozoan taxon of animals above the level of phylum. It is not part of the normal system of classification. 

They are a subtaxon of the Bilateria, and are contrasted with the deuterostomes. Protosomes are distingued by their embryo: in deuterostomes, the first opening (the blastopore) becomes the anus, while in protostomes it becomes the mouth.

DNA sequence analysis suggests that protostome animals can be divided into three major groups:

as well as a number of minor taxa, like the Chaetognatha.

[[Earth, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Earth is a city in Lamb County, Texas, United States. There were 1,109 people living in Earth as of the year 2000.

[[Amazing Grace (2006 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 drama movies, 2000s biographical movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, British biographical movies, British drama movies, Movies directed by Michael Apted

Amazing Grace is a 2006 movie about the fight to end the slave trade in 18th century Britain. Led by famous abolitionist, William Wilberforce. He created anti-slave trade laws in the British Parliament.

The movie is directed by Michael Apted, written by Steven Knight, and stars Ioan Gruffudd. The first release date for this movie was September 16, 2006 in Canada. It was released in the United States on February 23, 2007. Several other areas had other dates.

On the opening weekend, this movie made around four million dollars. It went on to make an all-time worldwide total of over 32 million dollars.

Amazing Grace was named "Best Spiritual Film of 2008" in the third annual "Beliefnet Film Awards".

[[Relation (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Computer science

[[María Isabel Carvajal]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1949 deaths, Teachers, Costa Rican people, Writers, People from San José, Costa Rica

Maria Isabel Carvajal  (January 1887 - May 13, 1949) was a Costa Rican writer and teacher. She was born in San Jose, Costa Rica. Carvajal wrote using the name Carmen Lyra.

[[How Pop Can You Get?]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 albums, Pop albums

How Pop Can You Get? was the first and only album by American band The Bats. 

[[San Pedro de Macorís Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Dominican Republic, 1885 establishments, 1880s establishments in the Dominican Republic

San Pedro de Macorís is a province of the Dominican Republic. It is in the southeastern part of the country. Its capital city is San Pedro de Macorís.

[[Kurt Warner]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, American Christians, American football quarterbacks, Arena Football League, Arizona Cardinals players, Green Bay Packers players, Living people, New York Giants players, Sportspeople from Iowa, St. Louis Rams players

Kurtis Eugene "Kurt" Warner (born June 22, 1971, in Burlington, Iowa) is a retired American football player. He was the quarterback for the Arizona Cardinals. After playing in college at Northern Iowa, he was signed by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted free agent. He was not able to play there, so he went to the Arena Football League, and then later the NFL Europa.

In 1998, Warner was signed by the St. Louis Rams. After the Rams’ main quarterback Trent Green went out with an injury, Warner became the main quarterback. He later went on to win NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001, as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in 2000.

In 1990, Kurt graduated from Regis High School in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. While there, he played quarterback of the school's Class 3A football team. He announced his retirement from football on January 29, 2010.

[[Skokie, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, 1888 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois

Skokie, Illinois is a village in the American state of Illinois. It was once known as Niles Center.  It is located on the northwest side of Chicago in Cook County.  Skokie has an area of 10.1 square miles (2.62 square kilometers).  According the 2000 census, its population was 63,348.  The mayor of Skokie, as of September 2014, was George Van Dusen.

[[WAV]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats for audio

WAV (or WAVE), short for Waveform Audio File Format, is a Microsoft and IBM audio file format standard for storing an audio bitstream on PCs.  It resembles the RIFF bitstream format in the sense that it stores data in “chunks”. It is also close to the IFF and the AIFF format used on Amiga and Macintosh computers, respectively. It is the main format used on Windows systems for raw and typically uncompressed audio. The default bitstream encoding is the Microsoft Pulse Code Modulation (LPCM) format, although other codecs, such as MP3, are allowed as well.

[[L. Frank Baum]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from New York, Literature since 1500, 1856 births, 1919 deaths

Lyman Frank Baum (May 15, 1856 –  May 6, 1919) was an American writer of children's books during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. He is best known for his most famous and popular book, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900), and other Oz books that followed it.

[[Book of Jonah]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books

The Old Testament book of Jonah, contains four chapters, and forty-eight verses. The book tells the story of the Prophet Jonah, who was called by God to go to the heathen city of Nineveh, which God would soon destroy if they did not repent. Nineveh was the main city of the Assyrians who were the enemies of Jonah's country of Israel. So instead, Jonah ran away from God and went in a ship towards the west. God sent a great storm and the ship was about to sink.  God showed the sailors that Jonah was to blame, and although they didn't want to, they threw him out of the ship and the storm stopped.  Jonah was swallowed by a great fish (probably a whale). He repented of his sin of running away from God. Then he prayed for three days and nights. God made the great fish spit Jonah onto the dry land. Then he obeyed God and went to tell the people of their sins to God.

Jonah then went all through the city telling everyone that God was going to punish them. Their hearts were changed and they saw their evildoing. They prayed for God to deliver them from the upcoming destruction to their city. God saw their change and had mercy on them, but Jonah still did not believe it. He went to wait upon a high up rock and see God's anger against the city. God was not pleased with that so he first made a plant grow, and then sent a small worm to bite down the small gourd plant, which was Jonah's only shade from the heat of the sun. Jonah was very angry and said it was better for him to die than live. God, in turn, said that Jonah cared more about the little plant than all the people of Nineveh! 

[[Book of Malachi]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books

The Book of Malachi, is the last of the books of the Old Testament. The book is made up of four chapters and a total of fifty-five verses. The word Malachi means my messenger. It is unknown if this is a name or if it describes the work of the writer. There are very few historical details in the Book of Malachi. The best clue as to its dating may be the Persian term for governor (pehâ) is used in Chapter 1 verse 8. This could mean that it was written after the time when the Jews were in Persia.   in the same verse, the temple has been rebuilt, the book must also be later than 515 BC. The author of Ecclesiasticus early in the 2nd century BC used some of the themes in the book of Malachi, so most scholars assign it to a position after Haggai and Zechariah, close to the time of Ezra and when Nehemiah came to Jerusalem in 445 BC. Since the book talks about things that are common in religion, it could have been given at most any time. This leaves some doubt about the date.

The Book Of Malachi uses a method of "question and answer".  God says something and the people ask how that can be true. Then God gives the reason for what He has said.  Then the next statement, question and answer follow.  The questions include:

"Does God love us"? and "Why is God angry with us"? God gives a list of wrong things they have done.  They have made offerings of second rate things in the temple. Priests have not done their work properly. Men have married women who were not followers of God.  They have not been faithful to the wives they have married. They have questioned God's justice and they have not given the tithe to the temple.

The book ends by telling everyone to obey the laws given by Moses and by saying that Elijah will return before the end of time.

Quotes from the Book of Malachi:

Chapter 3, verses 1-3 form part of the text of Handel's Messiah, a famous musical work.

Chapter 3, verse 1 is quoted by Jesus in the Gospel of Matthew Chapter 11, verse 10, and said to be about John the Baptist.

Chapter 4, verse 6 is included in a promise given to the father of John the Baptist in the Gospel of Luke Chapter 1 verse 17

Chapter 3, verse 8 has been quoted by many famous preachers to tell people that they should have given money to God and to help other people.

[[Trey Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: American football defensive tackles, Sportspeople from Kansas, 1985 births, Living people, People from Topeka, Kansas

Trey Lewis (born May 23, 1985 in Topeka, Kansas) is an NFL football player. He plays defensive tackle for the Atlanta Falcons. Lewis began playing for the Falcons in 2007.

[[Polotsk]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Belarus

Polotsk (Polatsk, По́лацк, Полоцк, Połock) is a historical city in Belarus. It is located on the Dvina river. It is the center of Polotsk district in Vitsebsk Voblast.  About 79,000 people live there.  It is served by Polotsk Airport and during the Cold War was home to Borovitsy air base.

[[Andance]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Andance is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Annonay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Annonay is a town and commune in the north part of the

Ardèche department of France. This commune has the most people living in it of the Ardèche département, although it is not the préfecture, which is the smaller town of Privas.

[[Antraigues-sur-Volane]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Ardèche

Antraigues-sur-Volane is a town and a former commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Vallées-d'Antraigues-Asperjoc.

[[Arcens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Arcens is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Ardoix]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Ardoix is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Arlebosc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Arlebosc is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Arras-sur-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Arras-sur-Rhône is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Asperjoc]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Ardèche

Asperjoc is a town and a former commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Vallées-d'Antraigues-Asperjoc.

[[Les Assions]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Les Assions is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Astet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Astet is a commune in the Ardèche department in southern France.

The source of the Ardèche River can be found near Astet.

[[Aubenas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche, Cities in France

Aubenas is a city and commune in the southern part of the Ardèche département.  The Ardèche River flows through the commune.

[[Aubignas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Aubignas is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Baix]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Baix is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Balazuc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Balazuc is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Barnas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Barnas is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Beggars Banquet]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 albums, The Rolling Stones, Rock albums, R&B albums

Beggars Banquet is a 1968 album by British band The Rolling Stones.

[[Hyles-Anderson College]]

CATEGORIES: Christian colleges and universities in the United States, Colleges and universities in Indiana, 1972 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Indiana

Hyles-Anderson College is in Crown Point, Indiana. The unaccredited, fundamental, Christian college was founded in 1972 by Dr. Jack Hyles with much financial help from Russell Anderson.

The college is a ministry of the First Baptist Church of Hammond. The president of the college is Dr. Ray Young, and their chancellor is Dr. Jack Schaap, (pastor of the church). In 2008 they will be starting a program called the Jericho Plan https://web.archive.org/web/20080613034100/http://www.hylesanderson.com/pages/jericho_project.

[[Simon Fraser University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Canada, Surrey, Vancouver

Simon Fraser University (SFU) is a Canadian university.  It has campuses in Burnaby Mountain in Burnaby, Vancouver and Surrey, all in British Columbia. SFU is rated as one of Canada’s top universities. It was started in 1965. SFU currently has 24,000 students. The university is named after Simon Fraser. He was an explorer of the Vancouver area.

[[Albi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in France, Communes in Tarn, Departmental capitals in France, World Heritage Sites in France

Albi (Albi) is a commune in southern France. It is the prefecture of the Tarn department, in the Occitanie region. It is on the side of the Tarn river, about 85 to the northeast of Toulouse.

It is the seat of the Archbishop of Albi. The cathedral and the part of the city around it (the Episcopal City) was made a World Heritage Sites in 2010.

[[Bambi II]]

CATEGORIES: Bambi, 2006 movies, 2006 animated movies, Disney animated movies, Disney direct-to-video movies, American family movies, American musical movies, Sequel movies

Bambi II, originally called Bambi and the Great Prince and then Bambi and the Great Prince of the Forest, is a 2006 American animated drama movie and the midquel to the 1942 movie Bambi. Although it was eventually released in theatres in 25 countries, in the United States and some other countries it was a direct-to-video release (released on February 7, 2006). Taking place in the middle of Bambi during the title character’s adolescence, it shows the Great Prince of the Forest struggling to raise the motherless Bambi, and Bambi's doubts about his father's love.

[[Deportivo Saprissa]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs, Sport in Costa Rica, 1935 establishments in North America, 20th-century establishments in Costa Rica

The Deportivo Saprissa is a football team of Costa Rica. The team was founded on July 16, 1935. It became a part of the top league, Primera División de Costa Rica on August 21, 1949.

Saprissa was founded because of a group of players and leaders. Ricardo Saprissa Aymá was a part of this group.  In 1952, the team won its first national championship.

Saprissa https://web.archive.org/web/20041031040233/http://www.saprissa.co.cr/

[[Chirripó National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Costa Rica

Chirripó National Park is a national park in Costa Rica. It is located in Talamanca Mountain, 20 northeast of San Isidro de El General. This park forms part of La Amistad International Park between Costa Rica and Panama. Chirripó National Park was created on August 19, 1975. It has an area of 50150. The park includes the highest mountain in Costa Rica, Cerro Chirripó. The mountain has an altitude of 3920. 

In the indigenous language, "Chirripó" means Land of Eternal Waters. The park protects many rivers such as Rio Chirripó Atlántico, Rio Telire, Rio Chirripó Pacífico and the Rio Ceibo. 

The weather changes often and depends of the altitude. The lowest temperature recorded in Costa Rica was -9 in the Mount Chirripó. The warm season goes from December to May. It is recommended to visit the park in those months. 

There are many habitats in the Chirripó National Park. This is because of the differences of altitude and climate. There are large trees like oak and sweet cedar. There are also many different types of orchids. The most common animals in this region are coyotes, jaguars, squirrels, frogs, rabbits, and quetzals.

The first person known to climbed Mount Chirripó was the priest Agustin Blessing in 1904. Other expeditions before the park was created were in 1905, 1913, 1915, 1920, 1932 and 1942. The park now has trails leading to the top of the mountain. It also has a ranger station.

[[National Parks of Costa Rica]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Costa Rica, Lists of national parks

There are 26 National parks in Costa Rica. These parks are managed by SINAC (Sistema Nacional de Areas de Conservacion). SINAC is part of Costa Rica's Ministry of Environment and Energy (MINAE).

[[Blue Flag beach]]

CATEGORIES: Water pollution, Conservation, Beaches

The Blue Flag is a certification given to beaches by the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). A beach that has been awarded the blue flag means that it meets the organisation's standards of environmental management. These standards are for water quality, safety, and public environmental education. Local governments try to get the Blue Flag for their beaches and marinas, to show people that they have high environmental and quality standards.

The Blue Flag is a trademark owned by FEE which is a non-profit, non-governmental organisation. It is made up of 65 organisations in 60 member countries in Europe, Africa, Oceania, Asia and the Americas.

FEE refers to the Blue Flag certificates as awards. They are issued for one year to beaches and marinas of FEE member countries. The awards are announced every year on 5 June for Europe, Canada, Morocco, Tunisia and other countries in a similar geographic location, and on 1 November for the Caribbean, New Zealand, South Africa and other countries in the Southern Hemisphere.

41 countries are currently part of the Blue Flag Programme: Aruba, Bahamas, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Montenegro, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Russia, Romania, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom and United Arab Emirates

[[Sarchí, Costa Rica]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Costa Rica

Sarchi is a city in Costa Rica. It is famous for its art and hand-crafted furniture. Sarchi is also known for its colorful hand carts that the people there have been making for centuries. 

Sarchi has several small communities.  One of the most famous is "Los Bajos del Toro". It is 20 northeast from the center of Sarchi. Although the road is very old, travelers  will be able to see one of the best views in Costa Rica. "Los Bajos" has a climate that is very humid and rainy.  

Sarchi is a community made up of artists and craftsmen. It is well known for its ox carts.  Most of the ox carts in Costa Rica are created in Sarchi and are sold throughout the country and to tourists.  They are usually painted in very bright colors and patterns. In the past, these ox carts were used to carry coffee to the markets.

There are many shops in the town that sell hand-made wooden furniture and souvenirs. Some of the many items that are sold are: tables, rocking chairs, beds, jewelry, sculptures, and paintings.

[[José Figueres Ferrer]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1990 deaths, Presidents of Costa Rica

José María Hipólito Figueres Ferrer (September 25, 1906 - June 8, 1990) was president of Costa Rica three times. He was also the rebel leader during the Costa Rican civil war.

[[Jaw]]

CATEGORIES: Head (body part)

The jaw is the part of an animal's body that it uses to grab and chew food.  In humans, the jaws are two bones in the mouth, the mandible (lower jaw) and maxilla (upper jaw), that let the teeth move up and down in order to chew. The mandible is joined to the skull.

However, in insects, the jaws may open left and right instead, and they are usually outside the mouth instead of inside it. Sea urchins have five jaws with one tooth each. Some animals, even some vertebrates, do not have jaws.

A body part is called a jaw based on what it does, not what it is made of or how it grows.  In different animals, it can be made of different kinds of cells and tissue.  In the embryos of different animals, it may come from different original places.  Even within arthropods, the group that contains insects and lobsters and trilobites and spiders, the jaws of different animals may grow from different original tissues, even though they end up looking similar in adult animals.  A pair of appendages that become jaws in one species may become antennae in a different species or legs in another. Moray eels and some other fish have two sets of jaws. The outer jaws in their faces grow from the same tissues as the jaws of other fish, and the inner jaws, called pharyngeal jaws, can come from the same tissue that becomes gills or muscles in other fish.

Marsupials and monotremes are born before their jaws have grown enough for them to drink their mothers' milk the way other baby mammals do.  Scientists from Kings' College London found that opossums and other marsupials use tissue from their inner ear to make a temporary jaw so they can feed and grow.  They found that baby echidnas also form a temporary jaw using the bones of their inner ear so they can feed and grow.

[[Battle of Santa Rosa]]

CATEGORIES: Battles, History of Costa Rica, History of Nicaragua, 1856, 19th century in North America, March events

The Battle of Santa Rosa was a battle between the forces of Costa Rica and those of Nicaragua. It was one of the most important battles in the history of Costa Rica. The battle took place on March 20, 1856 at Santa Rosa, Costa Rica.

[[Editus]]

CATEGORIES: Costa Rica, Jazz bands

Editus is a Costa Rican  music group. The group included Ricardo Ramírez, Edín Solís and Carlos “Tapado” Vargas. Their music styles were a combination of modern, jazz, new age, classical music, and the unique sound of Latin America. 

Editus went to over 30 countries in North America, Europe and Latin America to give shows. They performed in places like The New York’s Carnegie Hall, The Kennedy Center Washington D.C., The Olimpia in Paris, the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland, Monterrey Jazz Festival, Auditorio Nacional and Plaza del Sócalo in Mexico City.

They have worked with famous artists like León Gieco, Danilo Pérez, Aterciopelados, Tania Libertad, Armando Manzanero, Pedro Aznar, and Rubén Blades. They won the Grammy Award in 2000 with Blades for “Best Latin Pop Presentation” for the song called “Tiempos.” They have also won awards in the categories “Best World Music Album” and “Best Tropical Contemporary Album” for their album Mundo.

They have received national awards like “Ancora” given by “La Nación” newspaper; the National Association of Authors and Musical Composers (ACAM) named them “The group with Best International Projection,” TELETICA named Editus as the “Artist of the Year 2000” and the newspaper “La República” awarded this group “Personality of the Year.”

[[San José, Costa Rica]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in North America, San José, Costa Rica, 1738 establishments, Establishments in Costa Rica, 1730s establishments in North America

San José is the capital of Costa Rica, head of San José Province, and the nation's largest city. It is named in honor of Saint Joseph. It is in the center of the Gran Area Metropolitana (metropolitan area) of the Central Valley. San José is the center of political and economic activity and the main transportation center of Costa Rica.

The population of the city is 288,054, but the metropolitan area of San José has a third of Costa Rica's population.

Few people live in the city center but it is still the most important working area of the entire country. More than a million people come to work in San José daily from the surrounding areas. Despite its problems, according to studies in Latin America, San José is still one of the safest and least violent cities in the region. In 2006 the city was appointed Ibero-American Capital of Culture. San José is also the sixth most important destination in Latin America, according to The MasterCard Global Destinations Cities Index 2012. In the global ranking, San Jose obtained the 15th position among the world’s top 20 fastest growing destination cities by visitor cross-border spending.

[[CowParade]]

CATEGORIES: Sculpture, Festivals

CowParade is one of the largest public art events of the world. First it began in Chicago and New York. This was in 1999 and 2000. The Cow Parade runs many cities of the United States up to the year 2001. In 2002 it moved to Europe, in London. This Parade has covered a lot of countries through all the five continents. In 2008 they moved to the fourth Latin-American country, Costa Rica. The Cow Parade has been in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, also.

This public art event is about painting cows with some cultural messages. It doesn’t need to be a professional sculpture. You can find urban and crazy sculptures too. This exhibition is taking place on the principal parks and boulevards of San José, Costa Rica.

The principal purpose of this event is to auction each cow and then the proceeds go to charity.

In San José there are a total of one hundred twenty cows, each one with their topic. There is an amazing level of creativity from the national sculptors who painted and sculpted the cows. They are a lot of beautiful cows made of several material including the rice and beans of the traditional breakfast. Some of the cows have the message of doesn’t forget the traditional customs. Also, some cows have a message to make a country with more love, generosity and with more solidarity.

Some cows also encourage people to take care of Costa Rican nature and all the biodiversity that this small country has. The principal message is just to create a better planet for the future.

[[Poás Volcano]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of North America, Alajuela Province

The Poás Volcano is an active volcano near the town of Poás, Alajuela, Costa Rica. Poas Volcano has two craters. The larger crater is one of the biggest crater in the world. It is 1.6 in diameter and 290 deep. The biggest known eruption was in 1910.

The area around the volcano is a national park. It is a place where many tourists from Costa Rica and other countries visit. At the bottom of the main crater is a lagoon. The lagoon is an acidic lake with boiling sulfuric gases. The temperature of the lake varies between 20 and 50. Because of changes in the chemistry of the lake and its temperature, the color of the lake also changes. The second crater has a cold water lake in it. This lake is connected to the nearby river, Rio Angel.  

[[Gandhi (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Rock bands, San José, Costa Rica, Musical groups established in 1993, 1993 establishments in North America, 20th-century establishments in Costa Rica

[[Clodomiro Picado]]

CATEGORIES: Costa Rican people, Biologists, 1887 births, 1944 deaths

Clodomiro Picado Twight (April 17, 1887 - May 16, 1944) was a Nicaraguan born Costa Rican biologist. Picado may have been the first to have learned about penicillin. 

[[From Me to You]]

CATEGORIES: The Beatles songs, 1963 songs

"From Me to You" is a song by The Beatles, written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney. Released in 1963 as a single, it was their first big hit, staying on top of the chart for seven straight weeks. "From Me to You" comprises five verses and two bridges. It lasts less than two minutes.

[[Epistle to the Ephesians]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

Ephesians, is the forty-ninth book in the Christian Bible, and the tenth in the New Testament. This book is thought to have been written by the Apostle Paul to the people of Ephesus while he was imprisoned in Rome, around 62 A.D.  However, the words "in Ephesus" do not appear in the best and earliest hand copies of the letter, leading most textual critics, like Bart Ehrman, to regard the words "in Ephesus" as a later addition. Copies of the letter may have been sent to other churches also, since it contains no personal references to people at Ephesus.

[[Endymion]]

CATEGORIES: People in Greek mythology

Endymion is a human character in Greek mythology.

His story is told by various ancient authors. In most versions he is a shepherd, and a young man of unusual handsomeness – so much so that the Moon goddess Selene falls in love with him. She uses her divine power to keep him asleep forever, preserving his youth and beauty.

The Endymion story has been re-told by poets and playwrights. The English playwright John Lyly wrote one version; and the poet John Keats used the story as the basis for his long poem Endymion.

The name also inspired Prince Endymion, the name of Momaru Chiba's (Darien in the English version) past life character and the lover of the reincarnated Princess Serenity, Usagi (Serena) Tsukino from the popular anime and manga Sailor Moon. In the future he becomes King Darien (キング・エンディミオン King Endymion), ruler of Crystal Tokyo, husband of Neo Queen Serenity and father of Rini.

[[Samuel Taylor Coleridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1772 births, 1834 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, English Anglicans, English poets, Royal Society of Literature, Writers from Devon

Samuel Taylor Coleridge (21 October 1772 – 25 July 1834) was an English poet. Together with his friend William Wordsworth, Coleridge is often said to have started the Romantic movement in English literature. He was also a literary critic, philosopher and theologian. 

Coleridge was born in Ottery St Mary, Devon. He was the son of a minister, and the youngest of ten children. He attended the University of Cambridge, Jesus College, though he never earned his degree. He met Wordsworth, another young poet, in 1795. They became close friends, and in 1798 they published their poems in a book called Lyrical Ballads, which many critics consider a key event in English Romanticism. Most of the poems in the book were written by Wordsworth, though it also contained Coleridge's The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, which many people call his masterpiece and one of the great poems in English. (In it, Coleridge used old-fashioned spellings, like "rime" for "rhyme," to give the poem an antique feeling.)

In 1796, Coleridge wrote his poem Kubla Khan — along with the Ancient Mariner, it is his best-known work. At about the same time, in the later 1790s, Coleridge became addicted to opium. At that time the drug was legal, and was widely used as a painkiller. Coleridge's addiction to opium marked the rest of his life. His health suffered, and he had trouble supporting his wife and children. He also had a hard time finishing the writing projects he started.

Coleridge had a reputation as a great talker, and people often invited him to their dinner parties to hear him speak. He was a successful lecturer at times in his later life. He gained a reputation as a thinker and philosopher as well as a poet. He died in Highgate, Middlesex.

Scholars and critics of English literature have regarded Coleridge as a major figure. In his 1927 book The Road to Xanadu, John Livingston Lowes used Coleridge's poetry, especially Kubla Khan, to study the working of the human imagination. Critics have argued about the role that opium addiction played in the poet's life and work. In his 1971 book Coleridge, the Damaged Archangel, Norman Furman showed that Coleridge was guilty of plagiarism in many of his later works. His opium addiction may have left Coleridge unable to tell when he was repeating the work of other writers that he had read.

[[With the Beatles]]

CATEGORIES: The Beatles albums, 1963 albums, Rock and roll albums, Pop albums

With the Beatles is The Beatles' second UK album. It was recorded four months after the band's first album, Please Please Me and was released on 22 November, 1963. The album sold so well in England, it qualified to enter the hit singles charts.

Most of the songs were used again in the first American Beatles album issued by Capitol Records, Meet The Beatles! Other songs appeared on The Beatles' Second Album. In 2003, the album was ranked number 420 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.

[[Beatles for Sale]]

CATEGORIES: The Beatles albums, 1964 albums, Rock and roll albums, Folk albums

Beatles for Sale is The Beatles' fourth album.  It was released in late 1964. Many of its songs went into an American release, Beatles '65, from Capitol Records, while the rest went into Beatles VI, a compilation album.

John Lennon and Paul McCartney, who wrote most of the band's songs, had filled their earlier album, A Hard Day's Night, with original songs. The band began recording their next album only a week after finishing A Hard Day's Night, and they had little time to compose new music. The band filled the album with cover versions, of songs they had performed live in Hamburg, Germany and the Cavern in Liverpool, their hometown, before the Beatles were famous. Press agent Derek Taylor explained in the album's liner notes that all the recordings on Beatles for Sale were how the band played the music onstage.

The original songs on the album were praised, for showing Lennon and McCartney had grown and improved as writers. "I'm A Loser" was compared to Bob Dylan's work. "I'll Follow The Sun" was an early song, that was given a rewrite. "What You're Doing" imitated the musical style of The Byrds, who were just becoming popular.

Several live versions of the album's songs have since appeared, that the Beatles played in Germany, and for BBC Radio.

[[Rubber Soul]]

CATEGORIES: The Beatles albums, 1965 albums, Folk albums, Pop rock albums

Rubber Soul is the sixth studio album by the English rock band the Beatles. It was released on 3 December 1965 in the United Kingdom, on EMI's Parlophone label. The double A-side single "Day Tripper" / "We Can Work It Out" was released at the same time. The first North American version of the album from Capitol Records had ten of the fourteen songs from the British Parlophone version. Rubber Soul was very popular with critics. It was at the top of sales charts in Britain and the United States for many weeks.

The album was recorded in London over four weeks in October–November 1965. Most call it a folk rock album, especially in its Capitol (North American) version. Rubber Soul has a mix of pop, soul and folk musical styles.

The songs show the Beatles' improving as songwriters. They also used brighter guitar tones and new instrumentation such as sitar, harmonium and fuzz bass.

[[Abbey Road]]

CATEGORIES: The Beatles albums, 1969 albums, Rock albums

Abbey Road is the twelfth official album recorded by The Beatles.  It was released in September 1969.

[[Magical Mystery Tour]]

CATEGORIES: The Beatles albums, 1967 albums, Rock albums

Magical Mystery Tour is a 1967 television movie made by The Beatles. It is also the movie's title song, and the name of its soundtrack recording.

[[Hyperinflation]]

CATEGORIES: Inflation

In economics, hyperinflation is inflation that is "out of control," when prices increase very fast as money loses its value. 

One example of hyperinflation is in Germany in the 1920s. In 1922, the largest bank note was 50,000 Reichsmark, In 1923 the largest bank note was 100,000,000,000,000 Mark. In December of 1923 the exchange rate was 4,200,000,000,000 Marks to 1 US dollar. These bank notes were so worthless that people would burn them in fires to keep them warm. The notes would burn longer than the amount of wood you could buy with them. Sometimes the rate of inflation was so high that prices doubled every two days. The Rentenmark was introduced to stop this problem. The exchange rate was set at 4.2 Rentenmarks to 1 US Dollar.

In Zimbabwe, the inflation rate was 231,150,888.87% in July 2008.

[[Brian May]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Astrophysicists, English rock guitarists, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, English scientists, Musicians from Middlesex

Brian Harold May, GBR (born 19 July 1947) is an English musician, songwriter and astrophysicist, best known as the lead guitarist of the rock band Queen. He uses a guitar he built himself with the help of his father. The guitar they built is called the "Red Special". 

Apart from music, May earned his PhD in astrophysics in 2007 and is currently the Chancellor of Liverpool John Moores University. Together with Patrick Moore and Chris Lintott, he wrote a book called Bang! The Complete History of the Universe.

May was ranked 39th in Rolling Stone Magazine's list of the "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time."

Biography

[[John Deacon]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Bass guitarists, Musicians from Leicestershire

John Richard Deacon (born 19 August 1951) is a retired English musician, best known as the bass guitarist of the rock band Queen 

He lives in Putney in Southwest London with his wife Veronica Tetzlaff. They were married on 18 January 1975. He is the father of six children.

[[Roger Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, English rock drummers, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, Entertainers from Cornwall, People from Norfolk

Roger Meddows Taylor GBR (born 26 July 1949) is an English musician, singer and songwriter, best known as the drummer of the rock band Queen.

[[Le Béage]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Le Béage is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Beauchastel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Beauchastel is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Beaulieu, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Beaulieu is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Paul Rodgers]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, English singers, English songwriters

Paul Rodgers (born 17 December 1949) is an English rock singer and songwriter.  He is best known for being a member of Free and Bad Company. He has recently toured and recorded with Brian May and Roger Taylor of Queen in a group called Queen + Paul Rodgers.

[[Beaumont, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Beaumont is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Beauvène]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Beauvène is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Rouffiac-des-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Rouffiac-des-Corbières is a village in France. It is just below the castle of Peyrepertuse. In 2004, 97 people lived there. 

[[Berrias-et-Casteljau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Berrias-et-Casteljau is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Berzème]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Berzème is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France. In 2015, it had a population of 180 people.

[[Bessas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Bessas is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Bidon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Bidon is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Boffres]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Boffres is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Bogy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Bogy is a commune of the Ardèche département in the southern part of France. Bogy can be found about 10 km from Annonay, and 50 km from Valence.

[[Borée]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Borée is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France. In 2008, the town had a population of about 167.

[[Borne, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Borne is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Boucieu-le-Roi]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Boucieu-le-Roi is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Boulieu-lès-Annonay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Boulieu-lès-Annonay is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Bourg-Saint-Andéol]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Bourg-Saint-Andéol is a small commune of the Ardèche département in the Rhône Valley in the southern part of France.  It is the capital of a canton in the arrondissement of Privas, with a population of about 8,000 as of the year 1999.

[[Bozas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Bozas is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Brossainc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Brossainc is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Burzet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Burzet is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Cellier-du-Luc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Cellier-du-Luc is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Chalencon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Chalencon is a town and commune of the Ardèche département in the southern part of France.

[[Le Chambon, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Le Chambon is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Chambonas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Chambonas is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Kohistan District]]

Kohistan District can be any of the following:

[[Peyrepertuse Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in France, Occitanie

Peyrepertuse castle is one of the Cathar castles. It was built before the 11th century. It is Aude, in Occitanie. It is built in a strategic position, on a cliff, about 30-40m high. The castle is first mentioned in the year 806, but the site seems to have been occupied since Roman times. At that time, it belonged to a Catalan count. It later changed hands, first to the Count of Barcelona, then to that of Narbonne.

When the Treaty of Corbeil is signed in 1258, the border between France and Spain is right to the south of the castle. In the year 1240, after the Albigensian Crusade against the Cathars, the castle becomes French. It is extended, and there is a garrison placed there; it protects against invasions until the 16th century when Roussillon becomes a French territory.

Today, the ruins of the castle attract about 100.000 visitors a year. There is a vineyard nearby.

[[Remlingen, Lower Saxony]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities in Lower Saxony

Remlingen is a former municipality of the district Wolfenbüttel. Since 1 November 2016, it is part of the municipality Remlingen-Semmenstedt. Remlingen is close to Wittmar what is an old village from miners in the Asse. The inhabitants' of Remlingen

are 1953 in three villages. The mayor is named Klaus-Günter Warnecke.

[[Bryan Ruiz Gonzalez]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Costa Rican footballers, People from San José, Costa Rica

Primary sources

Bryan Ruiz Gonzalez (b. 18 August 1985) is a Costa Rican soccer (European football) player. He was born in San José.

[[Jacó, Costa Rica]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Costa Rica

Jaco Beach Costa Rica is on the west central coast of Costa Rica's Puntarenas province, on the Pacific Ocean side of the country.  What started as a small surfing village popular with Costa Ricans from all over the Pacific coast, has developed into the most popular and visited tourism destination in the whole country. As the closest and most developed beach town from Costa Rica's Juan Santa Maria International Airport in San Jose, Jaco is only a 1 hour and 10 minute ride from the airport.

Jaco is home to the largest selection of hotels, vacation rental condos and private vacation rental homes than any other beach town in Costa Rica, as well as 3 casinos, over 75 restaurants, 3 major grocery stores, surf shops, pharmacies, souvenir and artesan shops, bakeries, dentists, emergency care, and an 18-hole championship golf course. The region is also home to Costa Rica's  best zip line canopy tours, ATV tours, white water rafting, surfing and the fishing capital of Costa Rica at the Los Suenos Resort & Marina, in Herradura Beach directly next to Jaco Beach.

To the immediate south of Jaco is the surf town of Playa Hermosa (Hermosa Beach). 1 hour and 15 minutes to the south of Jaco Beach is the Manuel Antonio National Park and Wildlife preserve offering visitors a first hand glimpse of Costa Rica's famed wildlife species such as white face monkeys, howler monkeys, sloths, pizotes, iguanas, butterflies, frogs, insects, and exotic jungle plants native to Costa Rica.

[[Irazu Volcano]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Costa Rica

Irazu Volcano National Park has one of the most active volcanos of Costa Rica. It is in the central mountain range at 31 km to northwest of the city of Cartago, 3,435 meters above sea level. It last erupted in 1963 and 1965. 

Irazu Volcano National Park offers many types of craters, some having small lakes. The park also includes 2,309 hectares of rain forest. From the highest point in the park, on a clear day, you can see both, the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea at the same time.

The Crater Principal lake has an unusual greenish yellow coloring caused by rainfall dissolving the minerals along the craters walls. It has also been known to change colour to rust-red depending on the minerals present. The inactive, dry Diego de la Haya crater sits just up to the right of the Crater Principal and is filled with volcanic ash.

The park is the site of a reforestation project to restore the area which was destroyed by the eruptions. The forest is made up of conifers and other exotic and native species. There is a native forest consisting mainly of oaks and alder, protecting the watershed of the Reventado River.

The vegetation of the park has been changed by the constant eruptions, but it is very beautiful and diverse.  

[[Puerto Viejo de Talamanca]]

CATEGORIES: Limón Province, Cities in Costa Rica

Puerto Viejo de Talamanca is a coastal town in Talamanca in Limón Province. It is in southeastern Costa Rica and is known simply as Puerto Viejo to the people who live there. Puerto Viejo de Talamanca is a tourist destination. The beaches Playa Chiquita, Playa Negra, and Punta Uva are close to Puerto Viejo.

Many tourists stop in Puerto Viejo when going to Panama at Sixaola. This border crossing is popular with people going to and from Bocas del Toro.

[[List of Cantons of Switzerland by area]]

CATEGORIES: Switzerland-related lists, Cantons of Switzerland

The following is a list of Cantons of Switzerland, by area:

[[Cathar castles]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in France

Cathar castles (Châteaux cathares in French) is a term used by the French tourist industry. It is used for castles in the Languedoc-Roussillon, usually built by the enemies of the Cathars during the Albigensian Crusade. 

[[Château d'Usson]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in France, Occitanie

The Château d'Usson is one of the Cathar castles in southwestern France.  It is in the commune of Rouze, in the Ariège département.

[[Sertab Erener]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Eurovision Song Contest winners, Musicians from Istanbul, Pop singers, Turkish singers

Sertab Erener (born December 4, 1964 is a Turkish pop music singer. She is one of the most successful female Turkish pop singers in Turkey. Erener is said to be one of the divas of Turkish pop music. 

She released her first album which produced by Sezen Aksu, Sakin Ol (Calm Down) in August 1992. Her debut song "Sakin Ol" became greatly popular. Next album Lal (Ruby) released in October 1994. Lal was important for her career, because songs in the album such as "Rüya" (Dream), "Sevdam Ağlıyor" (My Love is Crying), "Mecbursun" (You Have to), "Gel Barışalım Artık" (Let's Make Peace) and "Lal" became hit quickly. 

In May 1997, Sertab released her third album, Sertab Gibi (Like Sertab). She stopped working with Sezen Aksu and she worked with Demir Demirkan in this album. Although album's sales were very low, album is the favorite album of fans. "Aşkolan Aşktır" (Love Matters), "Seyrüsefer" (Navigation) and "İncelikler Yüzünden" (Because of the Niceties) were the important songs from the album. Sertab Erener released self-titled fourth album in March 1999. Albums hit were "Yanarım" (I Burn), "Zor Kadın" (Hard Woman) and Vur Yüreğim (Hit, My Heart). Vur Yüreğim's video clip was including real scenes from shocking and afflictive events such as martyr funerals, atomic bomb and natural disasters.

In Europe, she is best known for winning the Eurovision Song Contest 2003 with her hit song Every Way That I Can.

[[Scouting]]

CATEGORIES: Youth organizations, Scouting

Scouting (sometimes called the Scout Movement) is a youth movement. It was started in 1907 by Robert Baden-Powell as a movement for boys. 

Baden-Powell took many ideas from the experiences he made with the Mafeking Cadet Corps. This corps was a paramilitary group made of boys. It was formed during a siege in the Second Boer War. The boys mainly carried messages. This was so the soldiers could focus on defending the city.

Originally, the Scout movement was for boys only. A similar movement for girls, called "Girl Guides" was started in 1910. In most countries there are associations for Scouts and for Girl Guides. Today the Scouts often accept girls, too.

In the Scout movement, people learn to work together to achieve a goal. They also train their character to become better adults.

Usually Scouts give a promise to live by certain rules, and to help others when they can.

Scouts spend their time outdoors, whenever possible.

[[History of Indonesia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Asia, History of Indonesia

The History of Indonesia or more precisely of the Indonesian archipelago in South East Asia with 17,508 islands goes back to Homo erectus (popularly known as the "Java Man"). There have been found fossilised remains of about one million years ago.

Austronesian people, who form the majority of the modern population, came to South East Asia from Taiwan. They arrived in Indonesia around 2000 BC. The native Melanesian peoples went to the far eastern regions. The agricultural conditions were very good. When wet-field rice cultivation was developed as early as the eighth century BC,

villages and towns developed, and small kingdoms began to flourish by the first century CE. Indonesia's sea-lane position helped with management of international trade, where trade with both Indian kingdoms and China already occured for several centuries BCE. Therefore, trade has since fundamentally shaped Indonesian history.

From the seventh century CE, the powerful Srivijaya naval kingdom flourished as a result of trade. Hinduism and Buddhism were imported with it. In the late 13th century, the Hindu Majapahit kingdom was founded in eastern Java  and under Gajah Mada, its influence stretched over much of Indonesia; this period is often referred to as a "Golden Age" in Indonesian history.

During the 13th century Islam spread to the  in northern Sumatra. More and more Indonesian areas gradually adopted Islam. By the end of the 16th century it was the dominant religion in Java and Sumatra. But it mixed with existing cultural and religious influences. 

The first Europeans arrived in Indonesia in 1512, when Portuguese traders, led by Francisco Serrão, sought to monopolise the sources of nutmeg, cloves, and cubeb pepper in Maluku. Dutch and British traders followed. In 1602 the Dutch established the Dutch East India Company (VOC) and became the dominant European power. But Dutch control stretched not very far. Only in the early 20th century it extended to borders of today.

During the Second World War the Dutch lost control and in August 1945, Sukarno, an influential nationalist leader, declared independence and was appointed president. After some fights the Netherlands  formally recognised Indonesian independence in December 1949 (with the exception of The Dutch territory of West New Guinea).

Sukarno moved from democracy towards dictatorship. But Sukarno lost power to the head of the military, General Suharto who was formally appointed president in March 1968. He was supported by the US government, and encouraged foreign direct investment in Indonesia, which helped economic growth during the following thirty years. But his rule went along with corruption and suppression of political opposition.

In 1997 and 1998, Indonesia was the country hardest hit by the Asian Financial Crisis. This increased popular discontent with the New Order and led to popular protests. Suharto resigned on 21 May 1998. In 1999, East Timor voted to leave the state of Indonesia, after a twenty-five-year military occupation. After Suharto's resignation democracy improved. A regional autonomy program was introduced, and the first direct presidential election took place in 2004. But some political and economic instability has remained. A political settlement to an armed separatist conflict in Aceh was achieved in 2005.

[[Book of Leviticus]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books

Leviticus (lih-vih-tih-kus) is the third book of both the Bible, and the Torah. In Hebrew it is known as Wayiqra' (וַיִּקְרָא), meaning 'And He will declare.' It was written by the Old Testament Patriarch Moses. Leviticus was written to the Hebrew people of Israel. The book has several main topics, some of which are the Jewish laws of sacrificing to God, and the work of the priests. These priests are sometimes known as Levites (what this book is named after).

[[John C. Mather]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American astronomers, American physicists, Astrophysicists, Scientists from Virginia, People from Roanoke, Virginia, American Nobel Prize winners

Physics

Professor John Cromwell Mather (born 7 August 1946 in Roanoke, Virginia) is an American astrophysicist and cosmologist. He was given the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2006 for his work on COBE satellite with George Smoot.  The COBE satellite measures black holes and cosmic radiation. 

This work supported the big-bang theory of the universe beginning. It made cosmology much more accurate. The Nobel Prize committee said: "the COBE-project can also be regarded as the starting point for cosmology as a precision science."

Mather is a Senior Astrophysicist at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland. He is a professor of physics at the University of Maryland, College Park. In 2007, Mather was listed in Time magazine's 100 Most Influential People in The World.

[[Book of Joshua]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books

The Book of Joshua is the sixth book of the Christian Bible, and also the sixth book of the Hebrew Tanakh. It is not clear who wrote the book, although most of the Jewish tradition believe it was Joshua, son of Nun. It is the first of the books of the Tanakh (Old Testament) covering the history of Israel from the arrival in the Promised Land to the Babylonian captivity.

It is not known when the Book was written, but it cannot have been written before roughly 1200 BC, as the events described in the book occur then. Some scholars believe it was written much later, perhaps in 550 BC, at the time of the Babylonian exile, when there was a desire to remember and retell their own history.

[[Home education]]

CATEGORIES: Education

Home education or homeschooling is a form of education where the parent or guardian is the instructor. The reason for this form of education is usually the guardian is not happy with the nearby schools, or sometimes for religious or moral purposes. Many people also want to protect children from bullying and violence. In recent years, it became popular in many countries.

Before starting homeschooling, it can be a good idea to deschool first. In some countries, such as the United Kingdom, any homeschool arrangement must by law satisfy inspectors that the children's education is sound. This is because, under the Education Act of 1944, parents or guardians are legally obliged to send children to school. The possibility of other methods has been added as a possibility, subject to certain checks.

A common situation is for several families to come together to provide the skills needed. This serves two purposes. First, the range of knowledge and skills is wider, and the schooling has a more social angle, which itself is good for the development of children.

In most countries, homeschooling is a legal alternative to going to a school.

Unschooling is a very free type of homeschooling.

[[Shinjuku Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Shinjuku Station is a railway station in Shinjuku and Shibuya wards in Tokyo, Japan. According to the Guinness Book of Records, it is the busiest train station in the world.

[[San Pedro de Macorís]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dominican Republic, 1856 establishments, 19th-century establishments in the Spanish West Indies, 1850s establishments in North America

The Dominican city of San Pedro de Macorís is the head municipality of the San Pedro de Macorís province, on the southeast of the country.

It has the nickname of Macorís del mar ("Macorís by the sea") to differentiate it from San Francisco de Macorís, in the Duarte Province.

[[Epistle to the Galatians]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

The Epistle to the Galatians (or Galatians) is the forty-eighth book in the Bible (and ninth in the New Testament), written by the Apostle Paul. The book was written to the people of Galatia, a part of modern day Turkey, with whom Paul had earlier preached and founded the congregation in their area.

It is not known for sure, but most believe that the book was written around 57 A.D. One of the curious verses in the letter is where Paul says "See with what large letters I am writing this in my own hand". (Chapter 6, verse 11).  This is understood to mean that normally Paul used a secretary to write down as he spoke his letters.  However he wanted the Galatians to be sure it was he himself that was the author of the letter they would receive so he wrote a few lines himself. Some believe he had poor eyesight and so had to write with "large letters".

[[Label]]

A label can have several meanings:

[[Neanderthal]]

CATEGORIES: Hominins

The Neanderthal, a species of the genus Homo, was a near relative of our own species. Its scientific name is Homo neanderthalensis or Homo sapiens neanderthalensis.

Neanderthal fossils were only found in Europe, Asia Minor and up to central Asia. The first fossil was found in a limestone quarry near Düsseldorf: One of the workers found part of a skeleton, in a valley called Neanderthal. Experts Johann Carl Fuhlrott and Hermann Schaaffhausen said the bones belonged to an older form of modern humans. These bones are known as Neanderthal 1 today.

Recent research suggests Neanderthals became extinct about 40,000 years ago. Earlier research had suggested a later date; the problem is the dating of the archaeological sites where their remains have been found.

Neanderthals perhaps evolved from Homo heidelbergensis and split off (last common ancestor) from modern humans between 700,000 and 300,000 years ago.

Neanderthals used to be classified as a subspecies of modern humans (Homo sapiens neanderthalensis). Now, they are usually classified as a separate human species (Homo neanderthalensis).

Neanderthal remains have been found in most of Europe south of land covered by ice including the south coast of Great Britain. Finds have also been made outside of Europe in the Zagros Mountains and in the Levant.

[[Oldenzaal]]

CATEGORIES: Hanseatic League, Cities in the Netherlands, Settlements in Overijssel, Municipalities of Overijssel

Oldenzaal is a municipality and a city in the eastern Netherlands, near the border with Germany. As of 2021, about 32,000 people are living there.

It got city rights in 1249.

[[Homo erectus]]

CATEGORIES: Hominins, Prehistoric Africa

Homo erectus (Latin: "upright man") is an extinct species of the genus Homo. Fossil remains were found in Java (1890s) and in China (1921). Nearly all of them were lost during World War II, but there are casts that are considered to be reliable evidence.

Early in the 20th century it was believed that the first modern humans lived in Asia. But during the 1950s and 1970s, many fossil finds from East Africa (Kenya) showed that the oldest hominins came from there.

[[Paramilitary]]

CATEGORIES: Military

Paramilitary (quasi-military in some cases) is a way to describe forces that are organised like military forces, but not part of the Armed Forces. Examples for such forces would be police forces guarding the borders of a country. There are paramilitary groups that are run by a country, and others that are not.

The name comes from Greek para (which means beside) and Latin miles (which means soldier).

[[Champagne, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Champagne is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Champis, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Champis is a commune in the Ardèche département in southeast France.

[[Chandolas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Chandolas is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Chanéac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Chanéac is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Charmes-sur-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Charmes-sur-Rhône is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Charnas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Charnas is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France. About 715 or 722 people lived there in 2008.

[[Palaeolithic]]

CATEGORIES: Stone Age, Anthropology

The Palaeolithic, (or Paleolithic), refers to the prehistoric period when stone tools were made by humans. They are found in the Great Rift Valley of Africa from about 3.3 million years ago. They were probably made by Australopithecines. They are found in Europe somewhat later, from about 1 mya (0.7mya for Britain). The Palaeolithic is by far the longest period of humanity's time, about 99% of human history. The geological period which corresponds to the Palaeolithic is the Pleistocene.

Stone tools were not only made by our own species, Homo sapiens. They were made by all previous members of the genus, starting with relatively crude tools made by Homo habilis and Homo erectus. In Europe, the large-brained Neanderthal Man (Homo neanderthalensis) made tools of high quality, and was in turn outshone by the many tools made by our own species. These tools are the first cultural products which have survived.

The Palaeolithic dates from about 2.6  million years ago  and ended around 15,000BC with the Mesolithic in Western Europe, and with the Epipaleolithic in warmer climates such as Africa. The Palaeolithic age began when hominids (early humans) started to use stones as tools for bashing, cutting and scraping. The age ended when humans began to make small, fine tools (Mesolithic) and finally when humans  began to plant crops and have other types of agriculture (Neolithic). In some areas, such as Western Europe, the way that people lived was affected by the Ice age. The move towards agriculture started in the Middle East.

During the Palaeolithic Age humans grouped together in small bands. They lived by gathering plants and hunting wild animals. As well as using stone tools, they used tools of wood and bone. They probably also used leather and vegetable fibers but these have not lasted from that time.

[[Bolas]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons

Bolas (from Spanish bola, "ball", also known as boleadoras) are a throwing weapon made of weights on the ends of interconnected cords, designed to capture animals by entangling their legs. They are used by the gauchos in South America today, but have been found in excavations of pre-Hispanic settlements, especially in Patagonia, where indigenous peoples used them to catch guanaco and ñandu.

[[Cord]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Cord may refer to:

[[Howard Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: American aviators, Businesspeople from Texas, Movie directors from Texas, Movie producers from Texas, 1905 births, 1976 deaths

Howard Robard Hughes, Jr. (December 24, 1905 – April 5, 1976), was an American businessman and movie producer.  During his life, he was one of the richest people in the world. He was born in Humble, Texas to a rich family. He went to Hollywood and became a movie producer and aviator. Hughes broke several world records for flying aeroplanes. He created his own air company, which was later bought by TWA.

[[Tarzan]]

CATEGORIES: Tarzan, Fictional characters, Books with jungle settings, Fictional characters with immortality

Tarzan is a main fictional character. He appeared in many books by Edgar Rice Burroughs. Burroughs first wrote about Tarzan in 1914. The book was called Tarzan of the Apes. Tarzan's father was an English lord who died in the African jungle. The baby Tarzan was left alone in the jungle. Giant apes found the baby Tarzan and took care of him. Tarzan has also appeared in other media including movies, movie serials, comic books, and television programs.

[[Surfer Rosa]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 albums

Surfer Rosa is the first music album by the Pixies.  It was released by a record label called 4AD in March 1988.

[[OK Go]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Indie rock bands, Musical groups from Chicago, Musical groups established in 1998, 1998 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Illinois, American Internet celebrities

OK Go is a rock band from Chicago. The band members are Damian Kulash (lead vocals and guitar), Tim Nordwind (bass guitar and backing vocals), Dan Konopka (drums and percussion) and Andy Ross (keyboards, guitar and backing vocals). Their best known song is "Here It Goes Again".

[[Death zone]]

CATEGORIES: Atmosphere

The death zone is the name used by mountain climbers for high altitude where there is not enough available oxygen for humans to breathe.  This is usually above 8,000 metres (26,247 feet). Most of the 200+ climbers who have died on Mount Everest  have died in the death zone.  Due to the inverse relationship of atmospheric pressure to altitude, at the top of Mount Everest the average person takes in about 30% of the oxygen in the air that they would take in at sea level; a normal human person used to breathing air at sea level could only be there for a few minutes before they became unconscious.  Most climbers have to carry oxygen bottles to be able to reach the top.  Visitors become weak and have inability to think clearly and make decisions, especially under stress.  Since helicopters also perform poorly in thin air, many bodies of dead visitors are left on the mountain.   

Climber Lincoln Hall, who was left for dead on Everest on May 25, 2006, managed to survive.  Lack of oxygen in his blood made it easier for him to get frostbite.  He also had headaches, nausea, vomiting and hallucinations.  He said later this was caused by cerebral edema – or swelling of the brain.  This is caused at high altitude when blood leaks into the brain itself and that can kill a person if the brain becomes too compressed.  Hall was left for dead when his breathing and heartbeat stopped.  He was found the next morning by a team of four led by U.S. climber Daniel Mazur. Hall was sitting cross-legged near a ten-thousand foot cliff's edge, without his gloves, hat, or oxygen, with his climbing suit unzipped. Mazur later reported that Hall seemed lucid, and his first words were, "I imagine you're surprised to see me here." A massive rescue operation was assembled, and Hall was rescued. He survived for an additional seven years, speaking and writing books about his experiences on Everest, before his death in 2012 from mesothelioma.

[[George F. Smoot]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American astronomers, American physicists, Astrophysicists, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Florida

George Fitzgerald Smoot III (born February 20, 1945) is an American professor of astrophysics and cosmology. In 2006 he won a Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on COBE with John C. Mather. That work made it possible to measure black holes and cosmic radiation much more exactly than was possible before.

This work gave new evidence for the big-bang idea that the universe was once a big explosion. This work was completed using the Cosmic Background Explorer Satellite (COBE). The Nobel Prize committee said: "the COBE-project can also be regarded as the starting point for cosmology as a precision science."

Professor Smoot works for the University of California, Berkeley Department of Physics. In 2003 he was awarded the Einstein Medal.

[[Soundgarden]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden, Musical groups from Seattle, Washington, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, Grunge bands, Musical groups established in 1984, 1984 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Washington (state), Musical groups disestablished in 1997, 1990s disestablishments in Washington (state), Musical groups established in 2010, 2010 establishments in the United States, 21st-century establishments in Washington (state), 2017 disestablishments in the United States, Musical groups disestablished in the 2010s, 21st-century disestablishments in Washington (state)

Soundgarden was an American rock band. They began in Seattle, Washington, in 1984.

Soundgarden helped create the sound of  grunge music. This is a genre of alternative rock that first became popular in Seattle. They were first signed to a local record label Sub Pop. Later, they were the first grunge band to sign to a major label, A&M Records, in 1988.

Soundgarden became well-known with the 1994 album Superunknown. It debuted at number one on the Billboard charts. Two singles won Grammy Awards; "Black Hole Sun" and "Spoonman".  VH1 has ranked Soundgarden at number 14 in their special 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock.

In 1997, the band broke up because they could no longer agree on the sound of their musical future. The members worked on other projects for more than ten years. Soundgarden got back together in 2010. Two years later, they released their sixth studio album, King Animal.

On May 17, 2017, frontman Chris Cornell was found dead in his Detroit hotel room, the night after a concert at the city's Fox Theatre. Police are treating it as suspected suicide. Soundgarden will almost certainly not continue.

[[Book of Judges]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books

The Book of Judges is the seventh book in both the Christian Bible (Old Testament), and the Hebrew Tanakh. It was originally written in Hebrew, to the people in Israel. The Hebrew word for the book is Shaptiym, which means, 'people of judgment.'

[[Black people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups, Race

Black people is a term that is used for a racial group of people with a dark skin color. The meaning of the word is mainly used for people of Sub-Saharan African descent, but also includes certain groups in Oceania and Southeast Asia.

[[Book of Ruth]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books

The Book of ''Ruth (meaning pity or compassion'') is the eighth book of the Old Testament (Christian), and the Tanakh (Jewish).  It is one of the shortest books in both the Jewish and Christian holy books, consisting of only four chapters. It is unknown who wrote the book. Some think that it was written by Samuel, but there is no evidence for that. 

According to many scholars, this book was originally part of the Book of Judges, and was later taken from that book and made independent. It was probably written around 900 BC.

[[Mesolithic]]

CATEGORIES: Stone Age

The Mesolithic  was a period in the development of human technology between the Paleolithic and Neolithic periods of the Stone Age.

In the Palaeolithic, people were pure hunter-gatherers. In the Neolithic they were farmers in settlements with domesticated animals and wheat, with over 100 kinds of tools and with pottery. The Mesolithic was a transitional period between the two. It happened at different times in different places. Mesolithic tools are small tools produced by chipping, and are hunter-gatherer tools, often arrowheads and points. Neolithic tools are often polished and far more varied. They are tools of more settled societies with some agriculture.

The term 'Mesolithic' was introduced by Hodder Westrop in 1877, though the idea had been used earlier. It was not much used until V. Gordon Childe popularized it in his book The dawn of Europe (1947). There is another term, 'Epipalaeolithic', which is sometimes used instead.

[[Epipalaeolithic]]

CATEGORIES: Stone Age

The Epipaleolithic or "peripheral old stone age" is a term used for the hunter-gatherer cultures that existed after the end of the last ice age, before the Neolithic. 

The term is sometimes confused with Mesolithic, and the two are sometimes used as synonyms. Yet, when a distinction is made, Epipaleolithic is used for those cultures that were not much affected by the ending of the Ice Age and the term Mesolithic is reserved for Western Europe where the extinction of the Megafauna had a great influence on the paleolithic populations at the end of the Ice Age.

[[Thinker]]

Thinker could mean:

[[Agricultural revolution]]

Agricultural revolution could mean:

There are also several more local events related to agriculture and called revolutions:

[[Neolithic revolution]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture, Neolithic, Revolutions

The Neolithic revolution was the first agricultural revolution. It was a gradual change from nomadic hunting and gathering communities to agriculture and settlement. It changed the way of life of the communities which made the change. It occurred in different prehistoric human societies at different times. Many societies changed 9–7 thousand years ago

The term refers to the general time period over which these developments took place. It also applies to the changes which took place: the adoption of early agriculture techniques, crop cultivation, and the domestication of animals.

The Neolithic revolution is important for developments in social organization and technology.

The Neolithic revolution led to people living in permanent or semi-permanent settlements. Because of this fewer people led a nomadic lifestyle. To be able to know who the crops grown belonged to, the concept of land ownership was developed. The natural environment was changed, population sizes grew, and people ate more vegetable and cereal foods in their diet. Hierarchies developed in society. Grain was stored, and could be traded. Surplus production from good crop yields helped societies survive bad years.

[[British Army]]

CATEGORIES: British Army

The British Army is the army of the British Armed Forces, the military of the United Kingdom. The British Army came into being with unification of the kingdoms of England and Scotland into the United Kingdom of Great Britain in 1707. The new British Army included Regiments that had already existed in England and Scotland.  It was administered by the War Office from London. Since 1963 it has been managed by the Ministry of Defence.

Under Oliver Cromwell, the English Army was active in the conquest and settlement of Ireland since the 1650s. The Cromwellian campaign was characterised by its uncompromising treatment of Irish towns that had supported the Royalists during the English Civil War. 

From roughly 1763 and the Seven Years' War the United Kingdom has been one of the leading military and economic powers of the world. The British Empire expanded in this time to include colonies, protectorates, and Dominions throughout the Americas, Africa, Asia and Australasia. Although the Royal Navy is widely regarded as having been vital for the rise of Empire, and British dominance of the world, the British Army played important roles in colonisation. 

The British army was heavily involved in the Napoleonic Wars in which the army served in Spain, across Europe, and in North Africa. The war between the British and French Empires stretched around the world. The British Army finally came to defeat Napoleon at one of Britain's greatest military victories at the battle of Waterloo.

[[Mario Kart]]

CATEGORIES: Mario Kart games

Mario Kart (stylized as MARIOKART) is a series of racing video games and media franchise, made by Nintendo. It began with Super Mario Kart for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1992. To date, there are four Mario Kart games on home consoles, three portable games, and three Namco co-developed arcade games, making a total of twelve. The latest game for the series is.

[[City Loop, Melbourne]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Melbourne

The Melbourne City Loop is where Melbourne, Victoria's railway lines meet. Most of the stations are under the ground. The stations in the loop are Flinders Street Station, Southern Cross Station, Parliament, Melbourne Central and Flagstaff.

[[Percy Bysshe Shelley]]

CATEGORIES: 1792 births, 1822 deaths, Accidental deaths by drowning, British atheists, English poets, Nonviolence advocates, Writers from Sussex

Percy Bysshe Shelley (4 August 1792 – 8 July 1822) was an English poet  of the early nineteenth century. He is widely thought of as one of most important poets of the Romantic movement in English literature. Some of his poems, like Ozymandias and Ode to the West Wind, are among the most famous in English.

Shelley was born in Horsham, Sussex. He was the son of a member of Parliament. He attended the University of Oxford, for only one year; he was expelled for being an atheist. In his own time Shelley was very unpopular for his political and religious views and for his personal conduct. He married young, but left his wife to run away with Mary Godwin. After Shelley's first wife committed suicide, Shelley married Mary Godwin; she later became famous as Mary Shelley, the author of the novel Frankenstein. 

Shelley left England and spent much of his life travelling in Europe, especially in Italy. He became a close friend of poet Lord Byron, who also left England and travelled in Europe because of sexual controversy at home. Shelley continued to write poetry throughout this time; he wrote several major works, like the verse drama The Cenci and long poems like Alastor and Adonais, as well as many shorter poems.

About a month before his 30th birthday, Shelley drowned in a boating accident off the coast of Italy. He was one of three important English Romantic poets of the same generation who died young; the other two were Lord Byron and John Keats.

[[Romani language]]

CATEGORIES: Indo-Aryan languages, Roma

Romani or Romany (native name: romani ćhib) is the language of the Roma. The Indo-Aryan Romani language should not be confused with either Romanian (spoken by Romanians), or Romansh (spoken in parts of southeastern Switzerland), both of which are Romance languages.

The language developed outside from India, in Roman province Egypt, by Indian traders from different areas of India, who settled at the red sea coast in Egypt. It is based by Sanskrit and Prakrit, but strongly influenced by Ancient Greek, and Persian language, Old Church Slavonic, some words from the Coptic language, like rōmi man.Loanwords from other languages in Romani make it possible to trace the pattern of their migration westwards.

[[Fudge]]

CATEGORIES: Candy

Fudge is a kind of candy which is made by mixing sugar, butter, and milk. It is heated up to 240 degrees Fahrenheit (116 degrees Celsius) and beaten until it becomes smooth.

Many things can be added to fudge, like fruits, nuts, chocolate, and caramel.

It can be bought in many gift shops in places where there are a lot of tourists.

[[Sinti]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups, Roma

Sinti or Sinta (Singular masc.=Sinto; sing. fem.=Sintisa) is the name of some communities of the nomadic people usually called "Gypsies" in English.  This includes communities known in German and Dutch as Zigeuner and in Italian as Zingari.  They are related to the Roma people.

While the Sinti were, until quite recently, chiefly nomadic, today only a small percentage of the group remains unsettled.  In earlier times, they frequently lived on the outskirts of communities.

Sinti's believe there Ancestors left Sindh arround 711–714 AD, about the Umayyad muslim Conquest of Sindh, by Muhammad bin Qasim al-Thaqafi. Sinti's languages is called Sintitikes.

The Sinti arrived in Germany and Austria in the Middle Ages, eventually splitting into two groups: Eftavagarja ("the Seven Caravans") and Estraxarja ("from Austria"). These two groups then expanded, the Eftavagarja into France, where they assimilated into the local Romani groups (Manouches), and the Estraxarja into Italy and Eastern Europe, mainly what are now Croatia, Hungary, Transylvania, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, eventually taking various regional names.

[[Strapping Young Lad]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, Canadian heavy metal bands, Canadian thrash metal bands, progressive metal bands, Musical groups established in 1994, 1994 establishments in Canada, Musical groups disestablished in 2007, 2000s disestablishments in Canada, 2007 disestablishments

Strapping Young Lad was a metal band from Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. They played extreme metal. These people played in the band: Devin Townsend (guitar, vocals), Jed Simon (guitar, vocals), Byron Stoud (bass, vocals), Gene Hoglan (drums). The band went on an extended hiatus and would eventually disband in 2007.

[[Rock climbing]]

CATEGORIES: Rock climbing

Rock climbing is a sport where someone uses their hands and feet to climb up a rock or an artificial climbing wall. Rock climbing is a very difficult sport because you need to have a lot of strength. Rock climbers must know how to use ropes, carabiners and harnesses for their own safety.

[[Doug Henning]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2000 deaths, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from liver cancer, Entertainers from Winnipeg, Magicians

Douglas James Henning (May 3, 1947 – February 7, 2000) was a Canadian magician, illusionist and escape artist. He was born in Winnipeg. He helped to re-{popularize magic shows, during his heyday (most popular and successful period) in the 1970s.

Henning's approach to magic and performing was different from earlier magicians. While magicians usually performed in black formal wear, Henning wore colorful clothes. He also studied psychology in college, to know how the human mind works.

Henning is credited by many for the resurgence of the public's interest in magic, thanks to his breakthroug Broadway show, The Magic Show, which opened in 1974 and ran for almost five years.  This was followed by eight television specials on NBC (the first of which remains the most watched magic television special in history, with over fifty million viewers).  In 1982, he appeared in another Broadway show, Merlin, which ran for seven months.  Though the magic in Merlin was met with accolades, critics trounced the show's book and music.

Henning was a spokesperson for Polaroid, TWA, Minolta and Chrysler.

He was a student of the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, and used transcendental meditation to help him focus and to relax. He tried to help the Maharishi open a theme park, called Vedaland. Henning also ran for public office in Canada, but lost the election. 

Henning died in 2000 of liver cancer in Los Angeles. Instead of normal medical treatments, he tried to cure himself through natural remedies and diet, but this did not work. After his death, Henning's widow kept the Vedaland campaign going.

The first and only written biography of Doug Henning, Spellbound: The Wonder-filled Life of Doug Henning was published in 2009 (John Harrison, BoxOffice Books, New York.)

[[Rancid (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 establishments in California, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American punk bands, Musical groups from California, Musical groups established in 1991

Rancid are an influential ska-punk band formed in 1991 in Albany, California by Tim Armstrong and Matt Freeman.

[[Glen Canyon Dam]]

CATEGORIES: Dams in the United States, Buildings and structures in Arizona, 1963 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Arizona

Glen Canyon Dam is a large dam on the Colorado River. It is in Page, Arizona. The dam is 583 feet high and it is 1,560 feet wide. It creates Lake Powell which is 186 miles long. The purpose of the dam is to create electricity and to prevent floods. The reservoir can store 27 million acre-feet of water (which is the amount of water that can cover one acre to 1 foot deep). Construction of the dam began in 1956. It was able to begin storing the flow of the river in 1963.

[[Superunknown]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 albums, Soundgarden albums

Superunknown is the fourth studio album by the American rock band Soundgarden. The album was released in 1994. The album is well known thanks to singles like "Black Hole Sun", "Spoonman" and "Fell on Black Days".

[[Badmotorfinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 albums, Soundgarden albums

Badmotorfinger is the third studio album by the American rock band Soundgarden. It is one of Soundgarden's best-selling albums. The album was released October 8, 1991.

[[Bernoulli's principle]]

CATEGORIES: Fluid mechanics

Bernoulli's principle is an idea of fluid dynamics. It says that as speed of the fluid increases, pressure decreases. The photo on the right shows this happening. The air in the wide part of the tube has a higher static pressure than the thin part. For a steady flow, the amount of fluid entering the pipe must equal the amount leaving the pipe, so the fluid speed in the thin part must increase.  

When a force acts over an area, it is called "pressure". A higher pressure pushes (accelerates) fluid toward lower pressure.  So any change in a fluid's speed must be matched by a change in pressure (force).  Bernoulli saw that while the fluid moved more quickly in the smaller part of the tube, the pressure became less.  Please note that this refers to changes in speed and pressure along a single path of flow and does not apply to two different flows at different speeds.

The full version of Bernoulli's principle includes both the work by the pressure and by the changes in potential energy from changes in height. In this form, the principle says the total of the pressure, kinetic energy, and potential energy is a constant. (Bernoulli does not consider viscosity or compressibility.)

[[Book of Proverbs]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books

The Book of Proverbs is a book in both the Tanakh (Judaism), and the Old Testament (Christianity). The book contains some important teaching and instructions in each of these respective Religions.  While some verses teach duty to God, many can be seen as good advice.  Even nonreligious persons may find this advice to be useful. 

[[Welwitschia]]

CATEGORIES: Gymnosperms

Welwitschia or Welwitschia mirabilis is known as one of the oldest living plants. It can be called a "living fossil". The plant is mainly found in the deserts of Namibia. Some of these plants may be more than 5000 years old. This would make them the oldest living things on Earth.

It is named after the discoverer, Dr. Friedrich Welwitsch. The plant is locally called "long haired thing". Its structure consists of a short, woody, top-shaped stem, and never more than two leaves, which are enormously long, (two or three metres) and break up at the ends.

[[Petasites]]

CATEGORIES: Petasites, Asteraceae, Flowers

Petasites is a genus of herbs with leaves in the shape of a heart in the family Asteraceae. The common English name of petasites is Butterbur. Plants of this genus grow near rivers and other water places in Europe, Asia and North America.

In general, the leaves are very big. His root is very long and grows very quick. Flowers are white, yellow, white-yellow or white-red, they are small and in a great number.

Butterbur is used in medical purposes, but there is a poison in all parts of the plant.

Some species of Butterbur are cultivated as a garden plant.

[[Death Angel]]

CATEGORIES: People from Concord, California, Musical groups established in 1982, 1982 establishments in California, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, Musical groups disestablished in 1991, 1991 disestablishments in the United States, 1990s disestablishments in California, 2000s American music groups, Musical groups established in 2001, 2001 establishments in California, 2010s American music groups, Thrash metal bands, American heavy metal bands, Musical groups from California, Enigma Records artists

Death Angel is  a thrash metal band from Concord, California. They played from 1982 to 1991. In 2001 they started to play again. All of their members are from the Philippines. The members are: Mark Osegueda (vocals) Rob Cavestany (guitar, vocals), Ted Aguilar (guitar), Andy Galeon (drums), Dennis Pepa (bass, vocals)

[[Arch Enemy]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish heavy metal bands, Death metal bands, Thrash metal bands, Musical groups established in 1996

Arch Enemy is a death metal band from Sweden. They started in 1996. The members are: Alissa White-Gluz (vocals), Michael Amott (guitar, vocals), Jeff Loomis (guitar), Sharlee D'Angelo, (bass) Daniel Erlandsson (drums).

[[Trivium]]

Trivium may mean:

[[Living fossil]]

CATEGORIES: Living fossils, Evolutionary biology, Metaphors referring to nature

Living fossil refers to life forms which have survived with little change for a long time, and which are still around today. 

Living fossils are not identical to their ancestors, of course. But they lived in the same or similar environments, and their adaptations suggest that their life-style was the same, or very similar.

[[Caliban (band)]]

CATEGORIES: German heavy metal bands, Metalcore bands, Roadrunner Records, 1997 establishments in Germany

Caliban is a metal band from Hattingen, Germany. They started in 1997. They play metalcore which is mixture of Hardcore and Heavy metal. The members are: Andreas Dörner (vocals),   Denis Schmidt (guitar, vocals), Marc Görtz (guitar), Marco Schaller (bass, vocals) and Patrick Grün (drums).

[[NetBSD]]

CATEGORIES: Free software, Operating systems, BSD

NetBSD is an open source version of the Unix-derivative BSD computer operating system.

NetBSD is known for being very portable (able to work with a many kinds of computers), such as a small ARM or big amd64 Opteron computers. It is also seen as being fast (does things quickly), secure (hard for people to do bad things to) and stable (does not break often).

When people use NetBSD, like most software, they must agree to a license.  The BSD license, which NetBSD uses, allows everyone to use, change, give away or sell NetBSD, as long as they do not take away the copyright notice and license text. This means people can make new things from NetBSD without having to give people the source code (information for the computer to make the program run).

[[Soilwork]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish heavy metal bands, Death metal bands, Alternative metal bands, Helsingborg, Musical groups established in 1995

Soilwork is a melodic death metal band from Helsingborg, Sweden. They started in 1996. They have made 7 albums until now. The members are: Bjørn „Speed“ Strid (vocals), Daniel Antonsson (guitar), Ola Flink, (bass), Dirk Verbeuren (drums) and Sven Karlsson (Keyboard).

[[Lamb of God]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Thrash metal bands, American heavy metal bands, Metalcore bands, Musical groups from Virginia, People from Richmond, Virginia

Lamb of God is an American metal band from Richmond, Virginia. They started in 1990. They play a style called Groove metal with Death metal influences. This style is similar to Thrash metal but has more rhythm. Their music is very similar to Pantera's music. The members are Randy Blythe (vocals), Mark Morton (guitar), Willie Adler (guitar), John Campbell (bass) and Chris Adler (drums).

[[Carabiner]]

CATEGORIES: Sports equipment, Rock climbing, Mountain climbing

A carabiner is a metal loop, which can be opened on one side. This side is called a gate. The other side is called spine. Carabiners are often used for rock climbing, sailing and canoeing. They also are used for construction of high buildings or window cleaning.  The word comes from the German word "Karabinerhaken", which means "hook for a carbine". 

Climbing carabiners are very strong. Many can hold loads greater than 20 kN. When belaying a climber, using a belay device (such as a Grigri or an ATC), a carabiner with a locking feature must be used to prevent the carabiner from opening accidentally.

[[Cyclamen]]

CATEGORIES: Flowers, Primulaceae

Cyclamen is a genus of 20 species of flowering plants. It is in the Myrsinaceae family. The genus is most widely known by its scientific name Cyclamen. It may also be called Persian violet (it is not related to the violets), or primrose (neither is it a primrose). This is because Cyclamen has been part of the Primulaceae families. 

Cyclamen come from the Mediterranean, from Spain to Iran. They are also found from northeast Africa to Somalia. They are perennial herbaceous aestivating plants, with a surface or underground tuber (derived from the hypocotyl) 4-12 cm diameter, which produces leaves in late winter, and flowers in the autumn; the leaves die down during the hottest part of the Mediterranean summer drought to save water. Each leaf or flower grows on its own stem, which shoots up from the hypocotyl. The variegation is thought by some botanists to be a form of natural disruptive camouflage to reduce grazing damage by animals. 

The hypocotyl grows leaves and flowers on stems, either one flower or one leaf per stem. The stem for leaves and flowers appears identical except in height. The leaves grow on stems of around 6 cm height.

[[Bambi (character)]]

CATEGORIES: Bambi characters, Kingdom Hearts characters

Bambi is the main character in Felix Salten's book Bambi, A Life in the Woods. He is a European Roe Deer. Bambi is also the main character in the Disney movies based on the book: Bambi and Bambi II. In the movies, Bambi was an American white-tailed deer.

[[Grigri]]

CATEGORIES: Rock climbing

A Grigri is a securing device for rock climbing. Unlike many other securing devices, a Grigri is half-automatic. It works like a seat belt in a car. The rope can be slowly pulled through, but if there is lot of weight on the rope the Grigri locks the rope. "Grigri" is a trademark of the company Petzl, but because it was the first half-automatic securing device, many people call devices of other companies also Grigri.

[[Thumper (Bambi)]]

CATEGORIES: Bambi characters, Disney characters, Fictional hares and rabbits

Thumper is a fictional rabbit in the Disney movies Bambi and Bambi II. He is Bambi's sidekick. Thumper has a total of 4 sisters and a girlfriend called blossom or miss bunny in some countries. Thumper and bambi are also both friends with Flower the skunk 

[[Jacmel]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Haiti, 1698 establishments, 1690s establishments in North America, Establishments in the French colonial empire

Jacmel (Kréyòl: Jakmèl) is a city in southeast Haiti, on the Caribbean coast, at the mouth of the river Grande Rivière de Jacmel. It is the capital city of the Sud-Est Département.

The city is in the Baie de Jacmel ("Jacmel Bay") about 86 km south of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. It is also the chief town of an arrondissement (a part of a department) with the same name. The arrondissement has four communes (a commune is like a municipality): Jacmel, Cayes-Jacmel, La Vallée and Marigot.

[[Honda S2000]]

CATEGORIES: Honda automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Honda S2000 was a roadster created by the car company Honda. It was first on sale in April 1999. It is the successor (new model) of the S800. Production of the S2000 ended in 2009.

[[Caliban]]

Caliban can mean:

[[Narre Warren railway station, Melbourne]]

CATEGORIES: Premium Melbourne railway stations

Narre Warren Railway Station is a railway station in Metcard Zone 2, located in Narre Warren, Victoria.

[[Premium station]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport in Melbourne

A Premium station is a term used in the Melbourne train system for a station where there are better things than the other stations. There are currently 72 stations like this. All 5 City Loop stations are Premium stations, as well as the following stations -

[[Gary the Snail]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1999

Gary the Snail is SpongeBob's pet snail who lives with him in their pineapple house. He meow and acts like a cat. He cannot talk but SpongeBob can understand him. Gary is usually shown to be very smart.

[[Walker Percy]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1990 deaths, writers from Alabama

Walker Percy (May 28, 1916–May 10, 1990) was an American author.   He wrote a novel called The Moviegoer. 

[[Talcott Parsons]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1979 deaths, American sociologists, Scientists from Colorado

Talcott Parsons (December 13, 1902 - May 8, 1979) was an American sociologist who created an idea called structural functionalism. This is a type of sociology. Parsons worked at Harvard University from 1927 to 1973. 

[[Edward Hopper]]

CATEGORIES: American artists, People from New York, 1882 births, 1967 deaths

Edward Hopper (July 22, 1882 – May 15, 1967) was an American painter.  He created paintings called The Nighthawks or ''Chop Suey'.

[[Elias Canetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1994 deaths, Austrian writers

Elias Canetti (born July 25, 1905 – died August 14, 1994) was an Bulgarian-Swiss Jewish author who wrote Crowds and Power. A mountain in Antarctica is named for him.

[[Gao Xingjian]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Chinese Nobel Prize winners, Chinese novelists, Chinese painters, French critics, French Nobel Prize winners, French novelists, French painters, French playwrights, French screenwriters, Chinese translators, People who lost Chinese citizenship

Gao Xingjian (born January 4, 1940), is a Chinese-French  writer. He was awarded the 2000 Nobel Prize in Literature.

He is also a stage director and a painter.

[[English Renaissance drama]]

CATEGORIES: Plays, English literature, Literature since 1500

English Renaissance drama is sometimes called Elizabethan drama, since its most important developments started when Elizabeth I was Queen of England from 1558 to 1603. But this name is not very accurate; the drama continued after Elizabeth's death, into the reigns of King James I (1603–1625) and his son King Charles I (1625–1649). Shakespeare, for example, started writing plays in the later years of Elizabeth's reign, but continued into the reign of James. When writing about plays from James's reign, scholars and critics sometimes use the term Jacobean drama; plays from Charles I's reign are called Caroline drama. (These names come from the Latin forms of the two kings' names, "Jacobus" for James and "Carolus" for Charles.) But for the subject as a whole, terms like English Renaissance drama or theatre are more accurate.

The year 1576 was a key date in this subject, since that is when the first permanent theatre building was built in London. It was called simply The Theatre, because it was the only place of its kind in England at the time. Before 1576, plays were acted in public halls and large houses, and in inns and public squares and courtyards and other open spaces, by troops of actors that mostly travelled around the countryside between cities and towns. Once the actors had a permanent place to act plays, they could develop their art without the constant need to travel. The Theatre was followed by other theatres in the London area; there were the Curtain, The Rose, the Swan, the Globe, and others too. More plays were written by more playwrights to fill these theatres.

Playwrights worked in both the classic types of drama, tragedy and comedy. They also began their own type of history play, mainly about earlier English kings and the events of their reigns. Shakespeare's Richard III and Marlowe's Edward II are two examples of this type of English history play. Plays were often written in poetry; early plays were mainly in rhymed verse, though as time passed playwrights came to prefer unrhymed blank verse. Prose was also used in some plays, mostly for comedy.

English Renaissance drama grew and developed until 1642, when it suddenly stopped. In the early years of the English Civil War, the Puritans who were fighting King Charles gained control of London and the region around it. The Puritans were against play-acting; they thought it was sinful and immoral. On September 2, 1642, the Puritans forced the London theatres to close, and to stay closed for most of the time until 1660. Then the English Restoration brought a new king, Charles II, who let the theatres re-open. In the 18-year gap between 1642 and 1660, English society had changed a good deal, and a new style of drama rose up in the Restoration era; it is usually called Restoration drama or Restoration theatre.

[[Blank verse]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry forms

The term Blank verse means poetry that does not use rhyme.

Blank verse relies on the meter of the lines in the poem to give structure, and to create the feeling of poetry as compared to prose. An example from William Wordsworth's poem Michael shows  the lack of rhyme and the strict meter in blank verse – each line sticks fairly closely to the pattern of iambic pentameter:

Many critics judge blank verse to be better than rhyme for serious subjects, and many poets have used blank verse for their most important works. Shakespeare used rhyme in his early plays, but in his more mature works like Hamlet he preferred blank verse. John Milton wrote Paradise Lost in blank verse, including a note at the beginning of the poem saying that rhyming poetry was used to disguise badly written poems, Lord Tennyson used it for Idylles of the King, and Wordsworth used it for The Prelude and The Excursion. John Keats used rhyme in his Endymion, his first try at a major poem; for his second attempt, Hyperion, he switched to blank verse. The longest poems in English literature are written in blank verse, for example The Fall of Nineveh by Edwin Atherstone or King Alfred by John Fitchett. This last is about 130 000 lines long.

Many 20th century poets gave up both rhyme and the strict meter of blank verse to write free verse.

[[Cave of Altamira]]

CATEGORIES: Caves, Stone Age, World Heritage Sites in Spain, Cantabria, 12 Treasures of Spain

Altamira (Spanish for 'high view') is a cave in Spain famous for its Upper Paleolithic cave paintings featuring drawings and coloured paintings of wild mammals and human hands. It is located near the town of Santillana del Mar in Cantabria, Spain, 30 km west of the city of Santander. The cave with its paintings has been declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.

The cave is approximately 300 meters long

[[Altamira]]

Altamira could mean any of the following:

[[F.C. Kuban Krasnodar]]

CATEGORIES: Russian football clubs, 1928 establishments, 1920s establishments in the Soviet Union

FC Kuban (Футбольный клуб "Кубань" Краснодар) is a Russian football club based in Krasnodar. In 2006 they won promotion to the Russian Premier League. Kuban have previously spent two seasons in Russian Premier League and three seasons in Soviet Top League.

[[Liiga]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues, Sport in Finland, 1975 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Finland, 2013 disestablishments in Europe

Liiga also known as SM-liiga from 1975 to 2013, is the top professional ice hockey league in Finland. It is generally thought of as one of the top leagues in Europe. It started in 1975. SM is a common abbreviation for Suomen mestaruus, "Finnish championship".

[[Aurochs]]

CATEGORIES: Bovines

The aurochs, or urus, (Bos primigenius) was a large species of cattle. The aurochs used to be common in Europe. It is extinct now. It was a wild animal, not a domesticated animal. The extinct aurochs/urus is a not the same species as the wisent (the European bison).

According to the Paleontologisk Museum, University of Oslo, aurochs developed in India some two million years ago, came into the Middle East and farther into Asia, and reached Europe about 250,000 years ago. People once thought that they were a different species from modern European cattle (Bos taurus). Today, people think that aurochs and modern cattle are the same species. 

Modern cattle have become much smaller than their wild ancestors: the height of a large domesticated cow is about 1.5 meters (5 feet, 15 hands), while aurochs were about 1.75 meters (5.75 feet, 17 hands).

Aurochs also had several features not often seen in modern cattle, such as lyre-shaped horns set at a forward angle, a pale stripe down the spine, and different color according to the gender. Males were black with a pale stripe down the spine, while females and calves were reddish (these colours are still found in a few domesticated cattle breeds, such as Jersey cattle). Aurochs were also known to have very aggressive behaviour, and killing one was seen as an act of courage in ancient cultures.

[[Privas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche, Departmental capitals in France

Privas is a commune of France, capital (Prefecture) of the Ardèche department of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in southeastern France. It is the smallest administrative centre of any department in France.

Today Privas is known for several confectionery made with chestnuts produced in the region, as the marron glacé.

[[Guilherand-Granges]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Guilherand-Granges is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Tournon-sur-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche, Subprefectures in France

Tournon-sur-Rhône is a commune in the Ardèche department of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in southeastern France. It is a subprefecture of the department. The city is at about 20 to the north of Valence, the capital of the Drôme department.

[[Battle of Marion]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, December events, 1864 in Virginia

The Battle of Marion (December 17–December 18, 1864) was a military engagement in the American Civil War that occurred when Major General George Stoneman, commander of the Union Army in Kentucky and Tennessee, raided Southwestern Virginia. General Stoneman's plan was to destroy anything that might benefit the Southern war effort and was approved by his commanding officers on December 6, 1864.

The Confederates managed to hold the key positions on the battlefield against numerous Union charges. Eventually, the Confederates ran short of ammunition and were forced to withdraw. The total casualties for this battle were 274, relatively low for a battle during the Civil War.

After the battle, the Union expedition set out to destroy the salt mines, lead works, and anything else in the area that could be of benefit to the Confederates.

[[F.C. Angusht Nazran]]

CATEGORIES: Russian football clubs, 1993 establishments, 1990s establishments in Russia

FC Angusht Nazran are a Russian football club from Nazran. In 2006 the club played in the Russian First Division, the second level of Russian professional football.

The club was founded in 1993 as Ingushetia Nazran and entered the Russian Third League in 1994. In 1995 the club was renamed Angusht and finished second in their zone, securing promotion to the Second League. Angusht finished second in 1998 and third in 2000, and in 1995 they managed to win their Second Division zone to get another promotion. The club spent the 2006 season in the First Division, finishing last between 22 teams. After the season Angusht went bankrupt, were renamed FC Nazran and joined the Amateur Football League.

[[Union Army]]

CATEGORIES: Military of the United States, Union Army, 1860s in the United States

The Union Army was the name of the army that fought for the Union during the American Civil War. It was also known as the Federal Army, the U.S. Army, the Northern Army, or the National Army. 

[[Confederate States Army]]

CATEGORIES: Confederate States of America

The Confederate States Army (CSA) was organized in February 1861 to fight for the Confederate States of America during the American Civil War. Somewhere between 750,000 and 1.2 million soldiers served the Confederacy in one form or another. The exact numbers are not known because of incomplete and destroyed records. Although it won many battles the Confederate Army lost the war. It could not overcome the Union army's larger numbers and better resources. On April 9, 1865, General Robert E. Lee surrendered what was left of the Army of Northern Virginia to General Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Court House, Virginia. While his army was only a part of the total Confederate army, his surrender marked the end of the Confederacy. On June 23, 1865, Georgia's Stand Watie became the last Confederate general to surrender.

[[Stand Watie]]

CATEGORIES: 1806 births, 1871 deaths, Native American people, People from Oklahoma, Cherokee Nation

Stand Watie (December 12, 1806 – September 9, 1871) was a leader of the Cherokee Nation and a brigadier general of the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War. He commanded the Native American cavalry made up mostly of Cherokee, Creek and Seminole people. He was also known as Degataga, meaning to "stand firm" and Isaac S. Watie.

Stand Watie was born in Georgia. He helped his brother run a newspaper. Watie helped lead the Cherokees from Georgia to Oklahoma in 1835.

When the American Civil War started in 1861, Watie started a cavalry regiment. He lead the regiment in several battles with the Union Army. In 1862, he was elected as a chief of the Cherokees. Watie surrendered to the Union army in 1865.

Watie died in 1871.

[[George Stoneman]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of California, American Civil War generals, 1822 births, 1894 deaths

George Stoneman, Jr. (August 22, 1822 – September 5, 1894) was a career U.S. Army officer, a Union cavalry general in the American Civil War, and the Governor of California between 1883 and 1887.

[[Cornas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Cornas is a French commune that can be found in the département of Ardèche in the region of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. The name is Celtic for "burnt land."  It has a population of 2,082 people.

[[Coux]]

Coux can be any of the following communes of France:

[[Military history]]

CATEGORIES: War

Military history is the history of what happened in the history of humanity that are considered to be conflicts. This could mean anything as small as a fight between two tribes or a conflict as large as a world war. Military historians record military history.

[[Coux, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Coux is a commune of the Ardèche département in the south-east of France.  The commune has a population of 1,466 people as of the year 1999.

[[Cruas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Cruas is a village and commune that can be found by the Rhône River in the Ardèche département of France.  The commune has a population of 2,405 people as of the year 1999.

[[Davézieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Davézieux is a village and commune in the Ardèche département in the center of southern France.  The commune has a population of 2,629 people as of the year 1999.

[[Désaignes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Désaignes   is a village and commune in the Ardèche département in the southern part of France.  The commune has a population of 1,105 people as of the year 1999.

[[Félines]]

Félines can be the names of any of the following communes of France:

[[Félines, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Félines is a commune of the Ardèche département in the south-east of France.  The commune has a population of 1,106 people as of the year 1999.

[[Jaujac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Jaujac is a town and commune in the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.  The commune had a population of 1,048 people as of the year 1999.

[[Joyeuse (disambiguation)]]

Joyeuse is the name of Charlemagne's sword.

Joyeuse can also be any of the following:

[[Joyeuse, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Joyeuse (Juèsa)is a commune in the French department of Ardèche in the region of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. It is the seat of the canton of Joyeuse.  Joyeuse has a population of 1,487 people as of the year 1999.

[[Labégude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Labégude is a town and commune in the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France. The commune had a population of 1,337 people as of the year 1999.

[[Lachapelle-sous-Aubenas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Lachapelle-sous-Aubenas   is a village and commune in the Ardèche département of the center of southern France.  The commune has a population of 1,264 people as of the year 1999.

[[Chauvet Cave]]

CATEGORIES: Ardèche, Archaeological sites in France

The Chauvet Cave  or Chauvet-Pont-d'Arc Cave is near Vallon-Pont-d'Arc, in the Ardèche département, in southern France. It became famous in 1994 when Paleolithic artwork was found on the walls. There were remains of many animals, some which are now extinct. Also some footprints of animals and humans were found. The cave is one of the most significant prehistoric art sites, like Lascaux, Altamira, and Cosquer.

[[Druid]]

CATEGORIES: Religion, Celtic peoples

A Druid was a member of the priestly and learned class in the pre-Christian, ancient Celtic societies. These societies existed through much of Western Europe, until the Roman government took over and, later, Christianity arrived. Druids were part of the cultures of the tribal peoples who were called "Keltoi" (Κέλτοι) or "Keltai" (Κέλται) and "Galatai" (Γαλάται) by the Greeks and "Celtae" and "Galli" by the Romans. In the communities they served, druids combined the duties of priest, arbitrator, healer, scholar, and magistrate. Both men and women served as druids, although there is no early proof for female druids, or druidesses.

[[Lalevade-d'Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Lalevade-d'Ardèche   is a village and commune in the Ardèche département in the center of southern France. The commune has a population of about 1,000 people as of the year 1999.

[[Lamastre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Lamastre   is a village and commune in the Ardèche département in the center of southern France. The commune has a population of about 2,400 people as of the year 1999.

[[Lavilledieu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Lavilledieu is a commune in the Ardèche département in the southern part of France.  The commune has a population of about 1,400 people as of the year 1999.

[[Druid (disambiguation)]]

Druid could mean:

[[Saint-Péray]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Saint-Péray is a town and commune in the Ardèche département, in the southern part France. The commune has a population of about 6,500 people as of the year 1999.

[[La Voulte-sur-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 La Voulte-sur-Rhône  is a village and commune in the Ardèche département in the center of southern France. The commune has a population of about 5,100 people as of the year 1999.

[[Viviers]]

Viviers can be any one of the following communes in France:

[[Viviers, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Viviers is a commune in the French département of Ardèche.  The commune has a population of about 3,400 people as of the year 1999.

[[Druidism]]

CATEGORIES: New religious movements

Druidism or Druidry (referred to as Neodruidry or Neodruidism by some followers) is a Celtic form of modern spirituality that generally promotes harmony with nature, often through the form of nature worship. It is considered to be a Neopagan faith.

Originally inspired by 17th, 18th and 19th century romantic movements, early neo-druidism was based upon largely historically incorrect depictions of the Iron Age Celtic druids, and has no direct relation to the ancient Celts or their culture.

[[Shutter (2008 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 horror movies, 2000s mystery movies, 2000s horror thriller movies, American mystery movies, American horror thriller movies, English-language movies, Ghost movies

Shutter is a 2008 American mystery horror thriller movie released on March 21, 2008. It is about a newly married couple finding disturbing, ghostly images in photographs they develop after a tragic accident. Fearing the manifestations may be connected, they investigate and learn that some mysteries are better left unsolved.

[[Tit]]

Tits may mean:

[[Rajput]]

CATEGORIES: History of India, Rajputs

Rajputs constitute one of the major Hindu Kshatriya groups from India. They claim descent from ancient royal warrior dynasties of Kshatriyas. They are identified with the word "Rajanya" found in ancient Indian literature and trace their roots to Rajputana or Rajputstan (India). In ancient times the son of a king was referred as to Rajput- Raja-putra. (Lit - king's son - Prince)

The Rajputs consist of 36 different clans. These are divided into three different lines of descent (called vanshas). They are:

Asopa informs us this observation after understanding meaning of word Rajputra or Rajput from many ancient texts:

[[Metcard]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport in Melbourne

A Metcard is a type of ticket used to use public transport in Melbourne, Australia. It allows the holder to use Trains, Trams and Buses, in two zones (Zone 1 and Zone 2). Zone 1 covers areas close to the CBD, and Zone 2 covers the rest of the city. There used to be a  Zone 3 , but that has been merged with Zone 2. The ticket is about the size of a credit card, and contains a magnitic strip that tells a computer what type of ticket it is.

[[Piety]]

CATEGORIES: Religious ethics

Piety (from the Latin word pietas, meaning "devout" or "good") is generally used to refer either to Religious devotion or to spirituality. A common element in most ideas of piety is humility, or a lack of pride. It can also refer to a way to win the favor or forgiveness of God in Christianity.

[[Anne of Green Gables]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 books, British novels, English-language novels

Anne of Green Gables is a book by Canadian author Lucy Maud Montgomery. It was published in 1908. It was written as fiction for readers of all ages. Since the middle 20th century it has been classified as a children's book. Montgomery wrote the book after seeing a newspaper article about a couple that were mistakenly sent an orphan girl instead of a boy, yet decided to keep her.

The book takes place on Prince Edward Island, Canada, where the author grew up.

[[Secondary sex characteristic]]

CATEGORIES: Sexuality

Secondary sex characteristics are features which make it possible to tell the sexes of a species apart. They are not directly linked to reproduction. 

Male birds usually have much more colourful feathers (plumage), the females are usually better able to hide, because their plumage is camouflaged.

Well-known secondary sex characteristics in humans are the deeper voice, facial hair (mustache and beard) and more muscular build in men. In women, those characteristics usually cited are more prominent breasts, lips, eyes, long/fast growing hair, no facial hair, wider hips, more fat, and generally a higher voice. Faces, generally, make a big impact. It is the part other people interact with.

However, the wider hips are needed to give birth. Babies are born through the space between the three bones of a woman's pelvis. So is doubtful to call this a secondary characteristic, except so far as the width helps attract mates. Breasts are also essential, but in humans they are much larger in proportion to other mammals, and they do serve to attract males. 

[[Poltergeist]]

CATEGORIES: Folklore

De-poltergeist.ogg (from German poltern, meaning to rumble or make noise, and Geist, meaning "ghost", "spirit", or "embodiment") is a spirit or ghost that is able to move and influence objects. Poltergeists are said to be invisible.

Poltergeists are said to bother only one person at a time. This person is called their "focus". Poltergeists will bother only their focus. They are said to only last a few weeks, then will move on to another target. Often poltergeists are reported around children and adolescents. Some scientists think that poltergeists only exist in a person's head as a result of psychokinesis. They think that the "poltergeist effect" is a result of mental trauma.

[[Pura Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Sports trophies and awards, Cricket

The Pura Cup (formerly known as the Sheffield Shield) is a first class cricket competition in Australia. The six state teams play in a round-robin series of 4-day matches against every other team. After each pair of teams have played each other twice, the two highest ranked teams play a 5-day final.

[[Mercy]]

CATEGORIES: Everyday life

Mercy can refer both to a compassionate behavior on the part of those in power (for example, mercy shown by a judge toward a criminal by not punishing him (or her) her as much as he (or she) might be punished) or on the part of a compassionate third party (e.g. a trip out of mercy trying to treat sick children in Africa). The word is very common in several religions (for example, the mercy of God). 

[[Tatnet]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Tatars, Tatarstan

Tatnet (short for "Tatar Internet") is the name Tatar-speaking Internet users commonly use for the "segment of the Internet" about the Tatar people or Tatarstan. It includes webpages and websites in many languages.

The first e-mail message in Tatar was probably sent and received in 1991 when employees of the Tatar-Bashkir Service of Radio Liberty/Radio Free Europe Inc. started using the Internet and electronic communication on a regular basis. In 1994, a Tatar-language mailing list (TMG, standing for Tatar Mailing Group) was established and this year is commonly regarded as the birthyear of the Tatar Internet. Since approximately 2000, Tatnet has been developing explosively, with many web pages and web sites added to it annually. The existence of Tatnet continues to contribute tremendously to the cohesion and consolidation of the Tatar people, a significant achievement because Tatars are despersed all over the world and a substantial majority of Tatars live outside their ethnic homeland, Tatarstan. Tatar Internet users employ Latin and Cyrillic scripts with the former gradually becoming more dominant.

[[Tatarstan]]

CATEGORIES: Tatarstan, Autonomous areas, Federal subjects of Russia

Tatarstan is an autonomous republic within Russia. The republic is about 800 kilometers (497 miles) east of Moscow. It is between the Volga River and the Kama River (a tributary of the Volga), and extends east to the Ural Mountains. Most of the people are Tatars,

Its capital is Kazan.

[[Charles Chesnutt]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 births, 1932 deaths, Writers from Ohio, Writers from Cleveland, Ohio

Charles Waddell Chesnutt (June 20, 1858 – November 15, 1932) was an African-American writer.  He wrote several books like The Marrow of Tradition and The House Behind the Cedars as well as for a short story about a haunted yard called The Goophered Grapevine.

[[Kansas City Royals]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas City Royals, 1969 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Missouri

The Kansas City Royals are a Major League Baseball team based in Kansas City, Missouri. They began play in 1969. The Royals won a World Series title in 1985. From 1973 to the present, the Royals have played in Kauffman Stadium. They are owned by David Glass, managed by Ned Yost, and their General Manager is Dayton Moore.

The old minor league baseball team in Kansas City had been called the Blues. There was also a famous Negro league baseball team called the Kansas City Monarchs. The Royals name and their team color blue are at least partly in honor of those older teams. The Kansas City Royals returned to the World Series in 2014 but lost to the San Francisco Giants.  However, they won their second World Series championship in 2015, defeating the New York Mets 4 games to 1.

[[Edwidge Danticat]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Haitian people, Writers from New York City, Caribbean people

Edwidge Danticat (born January 19, 1969) is a Haitian born American writer. Her books include Krik? Krak! and Breath, Eyes, Memory, which was chosen for the Oprah Book Club in 1998.

[[Detroit Pistons]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in Detroit, Michigan

The Detroit Pistons are a team of the National Basketball Association. While billed as a Detroit team, its home arena has been The Palace of Auburn Hills, located in the northern suburb of Auburn Hills, Michigan, from 1988 from 2018. The Pistons will move to the city of Detroit for the 2017–18 season, sharing the new Little Caesars Arena with the Detroit Red Wings of the NHL. In 1948, the team was in Fort Wayne, Indiana, but that was before moving to Detroit in 1957. The team has won three NBA championships in 1989, 1990, and 2004. Their head coach is Dwane Casey, they are owned by Tom Gores and their general manager is Troy Weaver.

[[History of the Americas]]

CATEGORIES: History of North America, History of South America

The history of the Americas is the history of North and South America, including Central America and the Caribbean. It begins with people migrating to these areas from Asia and possibly Oceania during the height of an Ice age. These groups are generally believed to have been isolated from peoples of the "Old World" until the coming of Europeans in the 10th and 15th centuries.

The ancestors of today's Native Americans were hunter-gatherers who migrated into North America. The most popular theory says that migrants came to the Americas via the Bering Land Bridge, Beringia, the land mass covered by the cold ocean waters in the Bering Strait. Small Paleo-Indian groups probably followed the mammoth and other prey animals. It is possible that groups of people may also have traveled into North America on shelf or sheet ice along the northern Pacific coast.

Cultural traits brought by the first immigrants later evolved and spawned such cultures as Iroquois on North America and Quechuas of South America. These cultures later developed into civilizations. In many cases, these cultures expanded at a later date than their Old World counterparts. Cultures that may be considered advanced or civilized include: Zapotec, Toltecs, Olmec, Maya, Aztecs, and the Inca.

[[Lifeguard]]

CATEGORIES: Emergency services

A lifeguard is a person on the beach or at a public pool who shows people the correct way of using the water facility and stops accidents from happening. They are trained in rescue situations. Lifeguards are usually found at most public pools and lakes.

[[A Night at the Opera (Queen album)]]

CATEGORIES: Queen albums, 1975 albums, Rock albums

A Night at the Opera is a Queen album from 1975.  It is generally regarded as Queen's strongest and most influential album. The album is in the 2005 book 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die. It was reportedly the most expensive album ever recorded at the time of it's release.

[[News of the World (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Queen albums, 1977 albums, Rock albums

News of the World is the seventh studio album from the English rock band Queen, released in 1977.

[[The Scream]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century paintings

The Scream refers to different versions of a painting made by Edvard Munch. They were painted in the early 20th century, and drawn using many types of materials. These include lithography, tempera paint, oil paint and pastel.

The first version of The Scream was drawn in 1893. Two pastel drawings, two paintings and also some lithographs were printed.

[[Jazz (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Queen albums, 1978 albums, Rock albums

Jazz is a 1978 album by English rock band Queen. It was the band's seventh studio album.

[[The Game (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Queen albums, 1980 albums, Rock albums

The Game is a rock album by English band Queen released June 30, 1980. It was the only Queen album to reach the #1 position in both the United Kingdom and the United States.

[[Flash Gordon (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Queen albums, 1980 albums, Rock albums, Flash Gordon

Flash Gordon is a 1980 album by English rock band Queen. It is the soundtrack album to the science fiction movie Flash Gordon.

[[Mark Speight]]

CATEGORIES: English television presenters, People from Staffordshire, Suicides by hanging in the United Kingdom, 1965 births, 2008 deaths

Mark Warwick Fordham Speight (6 August 1965 – 13 April 2008) was a British television presenter. He was best known for was showing the long-running BBC children's art program SMart.  He found his fiancee, Natasha Collins, also a BBC presenter dead at their flat in London on January 2008. He was then arrested as a suspect, but was released without any charges put against him. On 13 April 2008, police found his body hanging from the roof of the MacMillan House in London.

[[Mettingen]]

CATEGORIES: Steinfurt Rural District

Mettingen is a municipality in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.

[[Mauves]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Mauves   is a village and commune of the Ardèche département in the center of southern France. It has a population of about 1,100 people as of the year 1999.

[[Mercuer]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Mercuer is a village and commune of the Ardèche département in the center of southern France. The commune has a population of about 1,000 people as of the year 1999.

[[Le Pouzin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Le Pouzin   is a village and commune of the Ardèche département in the center of southern France. The commune has a population of about 2,700 people as of the year 1999. 

[[Quintenas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Quintenas   is a village and commune of the Ardèche département in the center of southern France. The commune had a population of about 1,200 people as of the year 1999.

[[Rochemaure]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Rochemaure is a commune in the Ardèche département in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 1,800 people as of the year 1999.

[[Rosières]]

Rosières can be any of the following places in France:

[[Rosières, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Rosières is a commune of the Ardèche département in the south-eastern part of France.  The commune has a population of about 1,000 people as of the year 1999.

[[Ruoms]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Ruoms is a commune of the Ardèche département in the southern part of France.  The commune has a population of about 2,100 people as of the year 1999.

[[Ucel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Ucel is a town and commune in the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.  The commune has a population of about 1,700 people as of the year 1999.

[[Tokio Jokio]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 movies, Looney Tunes, English-language movies

Tokio Jokio is a 1943 Looney Tunes short movie directed by U.S. Corporal Norman McCabe and released to movie theaters by RKO Radio Pictures. It stars Mel Blanc. The movie is a Tokyo newscast about all areas of everyday living in Japan.

[[List of Solar System objects]]

CATEGORIES: Solar System, Astronomy lists

This is a list of Solar System objects by orbit, by distance from the sun.

Most named objects in this list have a diameter of 500 km or more.

The Solar System also contains:

[[Daimyo]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, Samurai, Daimyo, 10th century establishments in Japan, 19th century disestablishments in Japan

The daimyo (Ja-大名.oga) were powerful feudal rulers from the 10th century to the early 19th century in Japan. Each daimyo had control over a part of the country. The Shogun had power over the daimyo.

[[Evil on Your Mind]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 songs, Country songs

"Evil on Your Mind" is the name of a popular country music song, originally made famous by Grand Ole Opry star, Jan Howard in 1966.

In the mid-60s, Jan Howard was not acquiring any significant hits. Only one of her songs hit the Top 20, which was in 1960 with, "The One You Slip Around With", which hit No. 13. In 1966, Howard wrote and released her first single of the year, "Evil on Your Mind". The song was written by Howard, and talked of her troubled marriage to legendary singer-songwriter, Harlan Howard. The song hit the Top 5 on the Billboard Country music charts, peaking at No. 5 there. Soon an album of the same name was released that year, featuring Howard's big hit. A follow-up single was released that titled, "Bad Seed" which hit the Top 10 that year, proving a successful follow-up for Howard. The song set the stage for a number of Top 20 and Top 10 hits Howard would have as a solo and duet artist between 1966 and 1971.

The song talks about a husband trying to convince his wife to visit her sister out west, but the narrator (the wife) notices that something is going on, which her husband is trying to hide. She believes he's thiking of having an affair, which she calls, "evil on your mind". 

The song has been mentioned the in the book, Heartaches By the Number: The 500 Greatest Country Singles. 

A rock music group titled, The Stumbleweeds recorded Howard's "Evil on Your Mind".

[[Jan Howard]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American country musicians, American singer-songwriters, American country singers, Writers from Missouri, Musicians from Missouri, Singers from Missouri

Jan Howard (born Lula Grace Johnson; March 13, 1929 – March 28, 2020) was an American country music singer-songwriter and Grand Ole Opry star. She was one of country music's trailblazing female vocalists during the height of her career in the mid-1960s. 

Her last name (Howard) comes from her ex-husband, legendary singer-songwriter, Harlan Howard.

Jan Howard's bigggest hit and signature song is the 1966 classic Country hit, "Evil on Your Mind", which has been featured in the book, Heartaches By the Number: The 500 Greatest Country Music Singles. In the late 60s and early 70s, she dueted with Bill Anderson, on a number of hits that hit the Top 10, including the No. 1 hit "For Loving You".

Howard died on March 28, 2020 in Gallatin, Tennessee of pneumonia at the age of 91.

[[Howell County, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 establishments in Missouri, Missouri counties

Howell County is a county in the U.S. state of Missouri. As of 2000, 37,238 people lived there. Its county seat is West Plains. Howell County was organized on March 2, 1857, from Oregon County. It was named for James Howell, who made the first settlement in Howell Valley.

[[Oregon County, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Missouri counties, 1845 establishments in Missouri

Oregon County is a county in the U.S. state of Missouri.  It was organized in 1845 and named for the Oregon Territory.  As of 2000, 10,344 people lived there.  Its county seat is Alton.

[[Oregon Territory]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in the United States, History of Oregon, History of Idaho, History of Washington (U.S. state), History of Montana, 19th century in Wyoming, Former territories of the United States, Oregon Trail

The Oregon Territory is the name that was applied first to the unorganized Oregon Country claimed by both the United States and Britain (but normally referred to as the Oregon Country). In 1846 the two countries agreed to split this territory. The organized U.S. territory formed from the southern part was also called "Oregon Territory" when it existed, between 1848 and 1859. 

The Territory of Oregon was organized on August 14, 1848, by an act of Congress out of the U.S. portion of the Oregon Country below the 49th parallel north. It originally included all of the present-day states of Idaho, Oregon and Washington, as well as Montana west of the Continental Divide, and Wyoming west of the Continental Divide and north of the 42nd parallel north—the northern border of the Mexican Cession.

The first territorial capital was in Oregon City. The capital was later moved to Salem in 1851.

In 1853, the portion of the territory north of the lower Columbia River and north of the 46th parallel east of the river was organized into the Washington Territory.

On February 14, 1859, the territory entered the Union as the U.S. state of Oregon within its current boundaries. The remaining eastern portion of the territory (the portions in present-day southern Idaho and western Wyoming) was added to the Washington Territory.

In 1861 and then 1863, portions to the east were organized into the Nebraska Territory and Idaho Territory (respectively.)

[[Continental divide]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

A continental divide is a line of raised terrain that creates a border between two watersheds. Water falling on one side of the line travels to one ocean, and water on the other side travels to another, perhaps on the other side of the continent. 

Because the exact border between bodies of water is usually not very easy to see, the continental divide is not always clear. The International Hydrographic Organization's publication Limits of Oceans and Seas describes the exact boundaries of oceans, but it is not recognized around the world. A complication is that some rivers empty into deserts or inland seas, and so do not end up in the ocean.

[[Terrain]]

CATEGORIES: Physical geography

Terrain, or relief, is the third or vertical dimension of land surface (aka "up and down" dimension.) When relief is described underwater, the term bathymetry is used. Topography has recently become an additional synonym, though in many parts of the world it retains its original more general meaning of description of place.

Terrain is used as a general term in physical geography, referring to the lie of the land. This is usually expressed in terms of the elevation (height of the land,) slope (angle of the elevation,) and orientation of terrain features. Terrain affects surface water flow and distribution. Over a large area, it can affect weather and climate patterns

[[First Baptist Church of Hammond]]

CATEGORIES: Baptist churches, Churches in the United States, Buildings and structures in Indiana, 1887 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Indiana

The First Baptist Church of Hammond (or FBCHammond) is a fundamental Independent Baptist church in Hammond, Indiana.  It is the largest church in the state of Indiana and one of the largest churches in the United States. It was founded in 1887. It was under Jack Hyles' leadership from 1959-2001 that it became a megachurch, one of the first in the United States, with a steady weekly attendance of around 20,000. It also operates Hyles-Anderson College and two K-12 schools, named City Baptist Schools (for children of the bus route of the church) and Hammond Baptist Schools (for children of the members of the church). Jack Schaap, Hyles' son-in-law, succeeded as pastor after Hyles' death for 11 years until he was fired in 2012 for having sex with a 16 year old girl.

[[Yves Chauvin]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, French chemists, French Nobel Prize winners, People from West Flanders

ChemistryYves Chauvin (10 October 1930 – 28 January 2015) was a French chemist, born in Menen, Belgium. He was awarded a Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2005. He was the honorary research director at the Institut français du pétrole and a member of the French Academy of Science.  Chauvin received his degree from the Lyon's School of Chemistry, Physics and Electronics in 1954.

He was awarded the 2005 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, along with Robert H. Grubbs and Richard R. Schrock, for his work from the early 1970s on olefin metathesis. Chauvin was embarrassed to receive his award and at first did not want to accept it http://www.spiegel.de/wissenschaft/mensch/0,1518,378142,00.html. In the end, he accepted the award from the King of Sweden and gave a big speech http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/chemistry/laureates/2005/chauvin-photo.html.

[[Robert Grubbs]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American academics, American autobiographers, American chemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Columbia University alumni, Scientists from Kentucky, University of Florida alumni

ChemistryRobert H. Grubbs (born 27 February 1942 in Possum Trot, Kentucky) is an American chemist. He won Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2005.

[[CD]]

CD can mean:

[[Billabong]]

Billabong is an Australian word.

[[CBS Corporation]]

CBS Corporation was an American mass media corporation focused on broadcasting, publishing, and television production. Until 2005, the company was known as Viacom. A new company, keeping the Viacom name, was spun off from CBS.

In 2019, CBS Corporation and Viacom were merged together. This created ViacomCBS, a combination of the two companies. The merger was finished on December 4, 2019.

[[Console manufacturer]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies

A console manufacturer is a company that makes and sells video game consoles. It is a multimillion-dollar industry.

[[History of computer and video games]]

CATEGORIES: Video games

Video games were introduced as an entertainment medium in 1971, becoming the start for a big entertainment industry in the late 1970s/early 1980s in the United States, Japan, and Europe. After a bad industry collapse in 1983 and a rebirth two years later, the video game industry has experienced large growth for over twenty years. Now, it is a $10 billion industry and it earns almost as much money as the motion picture industry.

Nowadays, we have companies such as Xbox, PlayStation, and Nintendo that are very popular in most countries.

[[Jimboomba, Queensland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Queensland

Jimboomba is a town in south east Queensland, Australia. About 1,400 people live there. It is 21 kilometers north of Beaudesert on the Mount Lindsay Highway. The word Jimboomba is an Indigenous Australian word which means "Loud thunder, little rain."

[[Charles, Prince of Wales]]

CATEGORIES: English Dukes, Knights of the Garter, Order of Merit, Royalty from London, Princes and Princesses of Wales, Privy Councillors (UK), Scottish nobility, 1948 births, Living people, Elizabeth II

Charles, Prince of Wales KG KT GCB OM PC (Charles Philip Arthur George; born 14 November 1948), is the eldest son of Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. He has held the titles of Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester since 1958. Currently, he is the heir apparent to be king of the United Kingdom. He is the oldest heir apparent ever, and has been heir apparent for the longest ever.

Prince Charles was born at Buckingham Palace in London, He was first son of Elizabeth II and Prince Phillip Duke of Edinburgh, He is grand son of George VI of the United Kingdom and Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother, He was baptised at Buckingham Palace.

He was married to his first wife, Diana, Princess of Wales, from 1981 until they divorced in 1996, causing some controversy with respect to the royal line of succession. They had two sons, Prince William and Prince Harry. Charles has been married to his second wife, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, since 2005.

On 25 March 2020, Charles tested positive for COVID-19.

[[Formaldehyde]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Formaldehyde (or Methanal) is a chemical compound.

It is a colorless gas with a strong smell. Like other aldehydes, it is flammable and toxic.

It is the simplest aldehyde. Its main application is as a disinfectant. It is a biocide, this means it can kill most bacteria and fungi. It is also used to make dyes, to make textiles, wrinkle-free preservatives, explosives, and certain polymers. About 23 million tonnes (50 billion pounds) of formaldehyde was made worldwide in 2005. On May 21, 2002, a worker in a explosive making factory dropped a lighter and the flame immediately spread to the formaldehyde, which in turn caused to fire to blaze abnormally. This caused 17 known deaths and 39 known injuries. These days, the chemical is used less frequently.

[[Tulu language]]

CATEGORIES: Dravidian languages

Tulu is a language spoken in south India, mainly in the states of Karnataka and Kerala. In Karnataka it is spoken mainly in the district of Dakshina Kannada. In Kerala it is spoken in the Kasargod district. The area where Tulu is spoken is sometimes called Tulunadu.

[[SMart]]

CATEGORIES: BBC Television programmes, English-language television programs

SMart is a long running children’s art show. The presenters show how to create pictures from items easily found around the house.

The show has a number of spin offs, because it is so popular. Some of these are

[[Hot Space]]

CATEGORIES: Queen albums, 1982 albums, Rock albums

Hot Space is an album by English rock band Queen, released in 1982.

[[The Works (Queen album)]]

CATEGORIES: Queen albums, 1984 albums, Rock albums

The Works is a 1984 pop/rock album by English band Queen. It was the band's eleventh studio album.

[[A Kind of Magic]]

CATEGORIES: Queen albums, 1986 albums, Rock albums

A Kind of Magic is a 1986 album by English rock band Queen. It was the band's twelfth studio album, and is based on the soundtrack to the movie Highlander.

[[The Miracle (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Queen albums, 1989 albums

The Miracle is a 1989 album by English rock band Queen. It was the band's thirteenth studio album.

[[Innuendo (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Queen albums, 1991 albums

Innuendo is a 1991 album by English rock band Queen. It is the band's fourteenth studio album and the last to be composed entirely of new material. It is also their final studio album to be released while lead singer Freddie Mercury was still alive.

[[Made in Heaven]]

CATEGORIES: Queen albums, 1995 albums

Made in Heaven is Queen's fifteenth studio album, released in November 1995. After Freddie Mercury's death in 1991, the remaining band members John Deacon, Roger Taylor and Brian May worked with vocals that Mercury had previously recorded, along with newly recorded lyrics by the remaining band members. Made In Heaven was the last studio album performed by all four original band members.

[[Sassanid Empire]]

CATEGORIES: History of Pakistan, History of Persia, Ancient history of Azerbaijan, Mesopotamia, Former countries in the Middle East, Royal dynasties, Empires, 224 establishments, 651 disestablishments, 3rd century establishments in Asia, Establishments in Africa, 7th century disestablishments in Asia, Disestablishments in Africa

The Sassanid Empire or Sassanian Dynasty  is the name used for the Iranian dynasty which lasted from 224 to 651 AD.

The Sassanid Empire, which succeeded the Parthian Empire, was recognized as one of the two great powers in Western Asia, alongside the Roman Empire and later the Byzantine Empire, for more than 400 years.

[[Edguy]]

CATEGORIES: Power metal bands, Hard rock bands, German heavy metal bands

Edguy is a metal band from Fulda, Germany. Their style of metal is power metal. They formed in 1992. The members right now are: Tobias Sammet (vocals), Jens Ludwig (guitar), Dirk Sauer (guitar), Tobias Exxel (bass), Felix Bohnke (drums).

[[Turbonegro]]

CATEGORIES: Punk bands, Hard rock bands, Norwegian heavy metal bands

Turbonegro is a punk band from Oslo, Norway. They formed in 1989. They call their style deathpunk, which is a mixture of punk and hard rock. The members are: Hank Von Helvete (vocals), Happy-Tom (bass), Euroboy (guitar), Pål Pot Pamparius (guitar, keyboard), Tomas Dahl (drums)

Friends of the band are Bam Margera.

[[Cheek]]

CATEGORIES: Face

Cheeks (also called the buccal cavity) are the area of the face under the eyes and between the nose and the ears.

It is fleshy in humans and mammals, the skin being held up by the chin and the jaws, and making the wall of the human mouth, touching the cheekbone below the eye.

In animals, markings on the cheek area (i.e. stripes/spots), often are features between species or individuals.

[[Simony]]

CATEGORIES: Types of crime

Simony means that one pays for an office or a position in the hierarchy of Christian church. It is an offense against canon law. Simony became widespread in the Catholic Church in the 9th and 10th centuries. The name comes from Simon Magus, who appears in the Acts of the Apostles 8:18-24. Simon Magus offers the disciples of Jesus, Peter and John, payment so that anyone he would place his hands on would receive the power of the Holy Spirit. This is the origin of the term simony. but it also extends to other forms of trafficking for money in "spiritual things".

[[Flesh]]

CATEGORIES: Body parts

Flesh is the soft part of the body between the skin and the bones. It is sometimes compared to bones, in the saying flesh and bone. If it is to be eaten, it is normally called meat instead.

[[Locomotive]]

CATEGORIES: Locomotives

A locomotive is the part of a train that makes the train move. Normally, it is the first part of the train, and has an engine.

[[The Man Who Knew Too Much]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 movies, 1930s thriller movies, British thriller movies, Movies directed by Alfred Hitchcock, Movies composed by Bernard Herrmann, English-language movies

The Man Who Knew Too Much is a 1934 suspense movie directed by Alfred Hitchcock and released by the Gaumont British company. It was one of the most successful and critically acclaimed movies of Hitchcock's British period.

Hitchcock remade the movie in 1956 for Paramount Pictures, the only one of his movies that he ever remade. The two movies are however very different in tone, in setting, and in many plot details.

[[Regent]]

CATEGORIES: Regents

A regent is a position of government in a country where there is a monarchy (like a king or queen). They're an "acting monarch", and does the job of a monarch where the real monarch is either too young, sick or cannot do what he is meant to for some other reason. 

They may also be voted in if there are no monarchs in line to the throne, for instance, if the current monarch does not have any relatives when they die.

[[Transcendental Meditation]]

CATEGORIES: Meditation, New religious movements

The Transcendental Meditation technique, or TM technique is a kind of meditation that was developed by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. Today, the name is trademarked.

The meditation technique is practiced while sitting down with the eyes closed and is practiced twice a day.

Reviews of studies on the effects of the Transcendental Meditation technique show some results are not definite while some reviews of studies show patterns of positive effects.

[[Honshū]]

CATEGORIES: Honshu

ja-Honshu.ogg is the biggest island of Japan. 

Honshū is also Japan's main island. It is south of Hokkaidō across the Tsugaru Strait, north of Shikoku across the Seto Inland Sea, and northeast of Kyūshū across the Kanmon Strait. It is the seventh biggest island, and is the island with the second highest number of people in the world after Java. 

[[Most Haunted Live!]]

CATEGORIES: British reality television series, English-language television programs

Most Haunted Live is a British paranormal television program based on investigating possible paranormal activity.  It is shown on the satellite and cable channels Living, Living2 and Virgin 1 (Formerly Ftn), mainly for the UK market. It is the Live version of Most Haunted which is going into its 10th series on February 19, 2008. It is made by Antix Productions, and is led by Yvette Fielding and her husband Karl Beattie.

[[Gerolamo Cardano]]

CATEGORIES: 1501 births, 1576 deaths, Astrologers, Italian esotericists, Italian mathematicians, Italian physicians

Gerolamo Cardano or Girolamo Cardano (English Jerome Cardan, Latin Hieronymus Cardanus; September 24, 1501 - September 21, 1576) was a celebrated Italian Renaissance mathematician, physician, and astrologer.

As he was an illegitimate child, he could not enter the college of physicians. Despite this he was a relatively successful physician. The first description of Typhoid fever is attributed to him. 

Cardano was often short of money, and gambled compulsively. A book of his, Liber de ludo aleae (Book on Games of Chance in the English), contains the first systematic treatment of probability, as well as a section on cheating. He wrote it c. 1564, but it was first published posthumously, in 1663.

He invented various things, including the Cardan grille and the Baguenaudier. He also believed that perpetual motion was impossible, except for stars.

[[Violent crime]]

CATEGORIES: Types of crime, Violence

Violent crime means a crime where the offenders use violence upon the victim.  Different countries have different definitions of violent crime.  Common examples of violent crime include homicide, abduction, robbery etc.

[[Roentgenium]]

CATEGORIES: Transition metals

Roentgenium (rɛntˈgɛniəm, /rʌntˈdʒɛniəm/) is a chemical element. It is a transition metal. Its symbol is Rg, and its atomic number is 111.

The element is named in honor of a German physicist Wilhelm Röntgen.

So far, it has not been found in nature. There seem to be 7 isotopes. All of them are radioactive. They have a half life of between 1.6 milliseconds and 26 seconds. Because of the Inert pair effect, it could have a color similar to that of gold.

[[Michigan International Speedway]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR tracks, 1968 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Michigan, IndyCar Series tracks

The Michigan International Speedway (or MIS) is a two-mile (3.22 km) long racetrack. It contains more than 1,400 acres, near Brooklyn, Michigan. The track is used mostly for NASCAR events. It is sometimes known as the "sister track" of Texas World Speedway. Construction for the track began on September 28, 1967, and opened October 13, 1968 with budget of around $4–6 million.

Michigan is now one of the fastest tracks in NASCAR due to its wide, sweeping corners and long straightaways. It normal speeds of more than 190 mph, but corner entry speeds easily pass 200 mph (~320 Km/h).

[[International health]]

CATEGORIES: Health, Travel

International health means two different, but related, things. It means care of people who travel from one country to another, and knowledge of diseases foreign to the traveler. It also means people from one country trying to improve health in another.

[[Salam]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, Arabic words and phrases

Salam (سلام, ar), sometimes spelled salaam, is an Arabic word that literally means "peace", but is also used as a general greeting, above all in Arabian countries and by the Muslims and Persian language countries, but also in other countries where Islam is important. 

As-salamu ʿalaykum (ٱلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْكُمْ) is a greeting in Arabic that means "peace be upon you". The greeting is a standard salutation among Muslims, whether socially or within worship and other contexts.  The typical response to the greeting is wa-ʿalaykumu as-salām (وَعَلَيْكُمُ ٱلسَّلَامُ; "and upon you be peace"). The full version of the greeting is as-salamu ʿalaykum wa-rahmatullahi wa-barakatuh (ٱلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْكُم وَرَحْمَةُ ٱللَّٰهِ وَبَرَكَاتُهُ‎, "peace be upon you, as well as the mercy of God and His blessings"), with the full response being wa-ʿalaykum as-salam wa-rahmatullahi wa-barakatuh (وَعَلَيْكُمُ ٱلسَّلَامُ وَرَحْمَةُ ٱللَّٰهِ وَبَرَكَاتُهُ). It is also preferred to use the greeting when arriving and also while leaving. It was reported that Abu Hurairah said "When one of you joins a gathering, let him say 'Peace'. When he wants to get up and leave, let him say 'Peace'. The former is not more important than the latter" (Hasan hadith reported in Jāmiʿ at-Tirmidhi). 

In addition, As-Salam is one of the 99 Names of God.

The Hebrew version is shalom, that in Israel is used in the same way like salaam.

[[Tekken (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Tekken, Video game series

Tekken is a fighting video game series made by Namco (now Bandai Namco Games).

[[Tekken 3]]

CATEGORIES: Tekken, 1998 video games

Tekken 3 is a 1998 fighting video game made by Namco.

[[Tekken Tag Tournament]]

CATEGORIES: Tekken, 2000 video games, PlayStation 2 games

Tekken Tag Tournament is an update to Tekken 3. It has most of the characters from the past games. It was released for PlayStation 2 in 2000.

[[Tekken 4]]

CATEGORIES: Tekken, 2002 video games, PlayStation 2 games

Tekken 4 is a 2002 fighting video game made by Namco for the PlayStation 2.

[[Discussion]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

[[Tekken 5]]

CATEGORIES: Tekken, 2004 video games

Tekken 5 is a fighting video game made by Namco for PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable and PlayStation 3.

[[Tekken 6]]

CATEGORIES: Tekken, 2008 video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Video game sequels, Video games developed in Japan

Tekken 6 is a fighting video game made by Namco. It was released in Japanese arcades on November 26, 2007. It was released on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on October 27, 2009. It was released on the PlayStation Portable on November 24, 2009.

[[Sola scriptura]]

CATEGORIES: Protestant theology

Sola scriptura (Latin for "by scripture alone") means "The Bible only". Protestants believe that they should only read the Bible to find out what God wants. They do this instead of listening to the Pope or the Roman Catholic Church.

Sola scriptura was a principle of the Protestant Reformation of the reformer Martin Luther and is a principle of Protestants today (see Five solas).

[[Tatar]]

Tatar might mean:

[[Human Rights Watch]]

CATEGORIES: Organizations in New York City, International organizations, Human rights organizations in the United States

Human Rights Watch is an international non-governmental organization. Its activities include research and advocacy on human rights. The headquarters of the organization is in New York City.

[[Arms trafficking]]

CATEGORIES: Types of crime

Arms trafficking or gun-running is smuggling of weapons and ammunition. Arms trafficking happens everywhere but it is a very big problem in places with violent political conflict or civil war. International organizations for human rights, including Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch are looking into fixing this problem.

[[Sola fide]]

CATEGORIES: Protestant theology

Sola fide means "Faith only". Most protestants believe that people must trust Jesus. They have to trust that Jesus brings people back into relationship with God. Christians believe that sin creates a gap between people and God, and Jesus, who was perfect, died, taking the punishment for sin in place of people, bridging the gap. This is called salvation because Jesus 'saves' people from a life and afterlife without God. The idea of sola fide means that trust in Jesus is the only way to get salvation and finally get into heaven after death.

This belief in faith as the only way to be saved was a principle of the Protestant Reformation of the reformer of the Catholic Church Martin Luther and is a principle of Protestants today (see Five solas). Some groups like the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Christians believe Jesus died to bridge the gap between God and people, but they must also try to be good people in order to get salvation. Protestants also believe that Christians need to do what is right, but their salvation only depends on their faith.

[[Society of Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: Jesuits

The Society of Jesus (Latin: Societas Iesu, S.J. and S.I. or SJ, SI ) is a Roman Catholic Church religious order whose members are called Jesuits, Soldiers of Christ, and Foot soldiers of the Pope, because the founder, Saint Ignatius of Loyola, was a knight before becoming a priest.

Jesuits are the largest male religious order of the Roman Catholic Church with 19,216 members (13,491 priests, 3,049 scholastic students, 1,810 brothers and 866 novices).

The Society of Jesus is consecrated under the patronage of the Madonna Della Strada.  It is led by a Superior General, currently Arturo Sosa.

The headquarters of the society, its General Curia, is in Rome.

Within the Catholic Church, there has been a sometimes tense relationship between Jesuits and the Vatican.  This is due to questioning of official Church teaching and papal directives, such as those on abortion, birth control, women deacons, homosexuality, and liberation theology.

However, as of 2013, the current Pope, Pope Francis, is a Jesuit himself.

[[Rosenhan experiment]]

CATEGORIES: Psychiatry, Experiments

The Rosenhan experiment is a test in psychiatry. It wants to see how good a psychiatric diagnosis really is. The first person to do the test was David Rosenhan. The test is named after him. It was first conducted in 1972. Rosenhan published the results in the journal Science under the title "On being sane in insane places."

The test is made of two parts. In the first part, psychiatrically sane people said they heard hallucinations, to get admitted to a psychiatric ward. This was done to test how the psychiatric hospitals would react. The second part was the reverse. Rosahan told the hospitals, he would send fake patients. But he did not send any fake patients. 

The results of the study were very controversial. When Rosenhan sent the people, the hospitals was unable to detect them. On the other hand, when he told them he had sent some patients, but really did not, the hospitals recognised a large number of fake patients.  The study said that it was impossible to tell a difference between the sane and the insane. 

[[Chassiers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Chassiers is a town and commune in the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 850 people as of the year 1999.

[[Châteaubourg]]

Châteaubourgcan be one of 2 communes in France:

[[Châteaubourg, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Châteaubourg is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.  The commune has a population of about 200 people as of the year 1999.

[[Châteauneuf-de-Vernoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Châteauneuf-de-Vernoux is a town and commune of the Ardèche département, in the southern part of France.

[[Dominican Order]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic religious orders

The Order of Preachers (Latin:Ordo Praedicatorum, OP) is a Roman Catholic religious order. Its members follow the rules Saint Dominic gave them in the 13th century. After the 15th century they are commonly known as Dominicans.

[[Dominican]]

Dominican might mean:

[[M-Train]]

CATEGORIES: Australian transport companies, Public transport in Melbourne, 2004 disestablishments

M>TrainM>Train was a train operator of half of Melbourne's suburban railway network. It stopped operations at 3:00am 18 April 2004, with Connex Melbourne then taking over all rail operations. M>Train and M>Tram's slogan was Moving Melbourne. M>Train operated the Craigieburn, Cranbourne, Frankston, Pakenham, Sandringham, Sydenham, Upfield, Werribee, Williamstown lines, and maintained the 3 underground city loop stations. Their network was more than 268 kilometers long, and owned 125 trains, with 62 new trains on order when M>Train stopped operations.

[[Diploma]]

CATEGORIES: Academia, Qualifications

A diploma is a certificate you receive when you have studied a subject with good results. For many jobs a diploma is needed, because it proves that you are good at the subject you studied. A diploma is usually a basic degree that is lower than a Bachelor's degree.

[[Authorized King James Version]]

CATEGORIES: King James Bible, Bible versions, 1611, 17th century works

The Authorized King James Version is a translation of the Bible into the English language.  This version of the Bible is also called the Authorized Version (AV) or as the King James Version (KJV) in the United States.

The name "King James" comes from King James I of England, who told the Church of England to begin working on it in 1604. The first book was published in 1611.

Although it is one of the oldest English translations of the Bible, it is still one of the most widely read versions today. A 2014 survey in the United States found that 55% people who read the Bible were using the King James Version. The next most widely-read version was the New International Version at 19%, while other versions were used by less than 10%.

[[809 Lundia]]

CATEGORIES: Asteroids

809 Lundia is a small, binary, V-type asteroid orbiting in the Flora family in the Main Belt. It is named after Lund Observatory, Sweden.

The V-type spectrum says that it is not genetically related to the Flora family, but rather is probably a piece (actually two pieces) blown off the surface of nearby 4 Vesta by a big impact in the past. Its orbit is too far from Vesta for it to actually be a member of the Vesta family It is not clear how it came at an orbit so far from Vesta, but other examples of V-type asteroids fairly far from their parent body are known. A mechanism of interplay between the Yarkovsky effect and nonlinear secular resonances (mainly involving Jupiter and Saturn) has been suggested.

[[Hato Mayor Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Dominican Republic, 1984 establishments in North America, 1980s establishments in the Dominican Republic

Hato Mayor is a Dominican province; it is on the eastern part of the country. Its name comes from the name of its capital city, Hato Mayor del Rey (in English: the largest cattle farm of the King).

It is one of the last provinces created in the Dominican Republic; it was made a province on 3 December 1984. The province's territory was part of the El Seibo province.

[[Rheine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Rhine-Westphalia, Steinfurt Rural District

Rheine is a city in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is the biggest city in the district.

[[Recke]]

CATEGORIES: Steinfurt Rural District

Recke is a municipality in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.

[[Bryggen]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Europe, Buildings and structures in Norway

Bryggen (Norwegian for the Wharf), also known as Tyskebryggen (the German Wharf), is a series of Hanseatic commercial buildings found on the eastern side of the fjord coming into Bergen, Norway. Bryggen is on the UNESCO list for World Heritage sites. The name has the same origin as the Flemish city of Brugge.

[[Ibbenbüren]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Rhine-Westphalia, Steinfurt Rural District

 Ibbenbüren  or Ibbenbueren is a medium-sized town in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is on position 185 of the biggest cities in Germany and the biggrst city in Tecklenburger Land.

[[Westerkappeln]]

CATEGORIES: Steinfurt Rural District

Westerkappeln is a municipality in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is about 15 km north-west of Osnabrück.

[[Osnabrück (district)]]

Osnabrück (ɔsnaˈbʁʏk) is a district (Landkreis) in Lower Saxony, Germany. It is near the districts of Emsland, Cloppenburg, Vechta and Diepholz, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia (districts of Minden-Lübbecke, Herford, Gütersloh, Warendorf and Steinfurt) and the City of Osnabrück.

[[Michelle Branch]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Singers from Arizona

Michelle Jacquet Branch-Landau (born July 2, 1983) is a singer from the United States. She writes songs and plays the guitar. She made her first album, Broken Bracelet, in 2000, and released the platinum-selling albums The Spirit Room and Hotel Paper in August 2001 and June 2003, respectively. During this period, she worked with Carlos Santana on the single "The Game of Love", which won a Grammy Award. In 2004, she formed the musical duo The Wreckers with fellow musician Jessica Harp.

[[Scanning electron microscope]]

CATEGORIES: Microscopes

The scanning electron microscope (SEM) is a type of electron microscope that uses a focused beam of high-energy electrons in producing a variety of signals at the surface of a solid specimen. The signals produced by the interacting electrons contain useful information such as the shape, atomic structure and conductivity.

[[Leporidae]]

CATEGORIES: Lagomorphs

Leporidae is a mammal family in the order Lagomorpha. It has about 60 species of rabbits and hares. The animals of the family Leporidae are called Leporids. The names "rabbit" and "hare" are not names of separate biological groups, but are "randomly" given to different leporid species.

[[Casimir III of Poland]]

CATEGORIES: 1310 births, 1370 deaths, Kings of Poland, Piast dynasty

Casimir III the Great (Kazimierz III Wielki) (April 30, 1310 – November 5, 1370) was the King of Poland from 1333 until 1370. He was the son of Wladyslaw I the Short. He was the last king of the Piast dynasty, his daughter Jadwiga having married the Lithuanian duke Wladyslaw Jagiello.

Casimir III is the only Polish king to ever receive the title of "the Great". His reign was a time of prosperity and growth for the Polish kingdom. He focused on the economy and strengthening of the country and not on wars and expansion. He kept peace with the Teutonic Order during his reign, for he knew that Poland was weak and would not survive the confrontation with the knights. Because of that, he focused his attention on the south-eastern borders of the country and expanded there. In 1340, he conquered Red Ruthenia (Lviv along with it) from Hungary. Various trade laws created by him made it easier for Polish cities to gather more wealth. Cracow and Lviv gained in importance during his reign.

[[Thunbergia]]

CATEGORIES: Acanthaceae

Thunbergia Retz. is a genus of flowering plants in the family Acanthaceae, native to tropical regions of Africa, Madagascar and southern Asia. Its members are known by various names, including thunbergias; clockvine on its own usually refers to Thunbergia grandiflora, while Thunbergia alata is often known as Black-eyed Susan vine or just Black-eyed Susan (not to be confused with other flowers called Black-eyed Susan). Orange clockvine is the name of Thunbergia gregorii.

Thunbergia was named for Carl Peter Thunberg.

[[The Pillows]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese musical groups, People from Hokkaido

The Pillows (or the pillows) is a Japanese rock band made in 1989. They sang FLCL's theme song.

[[Rio Negro (Amazon)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Brazil, Rivers of Venezuela, Rivers of Colombia

The Rio Negro is a river which flows through the Amazon rainforest in north-western Brazil, in the state of Amazonas.

It is the largest blackwater river in the world. It is called Negro (Spanish and Portuguese for "black") because its waters are colored by particles of humus, which make them look much like tea.

The Rio Negro is the largest tributary of the Amazon on the left-hand side (as it goes towards the sea). It starts in Colombia and ends in the Amazon basin.

Rio Negro has a very high species richness. About 700 fish species have been documented in the river basin, and it is estimated that the total is 800–900 fish species, including almost 100 endemics and several undescribed species. Among these are many that are important in the aquarium trade, including the cardinal tetra.

[[Castella]]

CATEGORIES: Cakes

Castella (Kasutera in Japanese) is a sponge cake produced in Japan. It is made of sugar, flour, eggs, and starch syrup, very common at festivals and as a street food.

It was originally produced in Portugal during medieval times, and when the Portuguese reached Japan they gave some of it to the Japanese nobility. The name is derived from Portuguese Pão de Castela which means "bread of Spain".

[[Mallow, County Cork]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Ireland, County Cork

Mallow (Irish Mala "plain of the rock") is the "Crossroads of Munster" and the administrative capital of north County Cork, in the Republic of Ireland. The Northern Divisional Offices of Cork County Council are in the town.

[[List of Gumby episodes]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of animated television series episodes

This list displays the 7 pilot and all 233 episodes of Gumby.

[[Krishnadevaraya]]

CATEGORIES: 1509 births, 1529 deaths, Indian monarchs, Kings and queens

Sri Krishnadevaraya (ಶ್ರೀ ಕೃಷ್ಣದೇವರಾಯ, శ్రీకృష్ణదేవరాయలు, 1509-1529 CE) was the most famous king of Vijayanagara Empire. He ruled the Vijayangara empire at the most important time. He is considered to be one of the great kings of India. Emperor Krishnadevaraya also earned the titles Kannada Rajya Rama Ramana (ಕನ್ನಡರಾಜ್ಯರಮಾರಮಣ), Moorurayaraganda (ಮೂರುರಾಯರಗಂಡ) (what means King of three kings) and Andhra Bhoja (ఆంధ్రభోజ). Much of our information about his reign comes from the accounts of Portuguese travelers Domingos Paes and Nuniz. King krishnadeva Ray and was the 3rd and the greatest ruler of the Tulava empire 

Paes describes the king's attitude to law and order by the sentence, "The king maintains the law by killing."  Offences against property (designed to maintain stability) and for murder ranged from cutting of a foot and hand for theft and beheading for murder (except for those occurring as a result of duel). Paes could not estimate the size of Vijaynagar as his view was obscured by the hills but estimated the city to be at least as large as Rome. Furthermore, he considered Vijaynagar to be "the best provided city in the world" with a population of not less than a half a million.

Paes praises Krishnadevaraya as, “the most feared and perfect King… a great ruler and a man of much justice”. 

The rule of Krishnadevaraya was an age of good literature in many languages. But it is known as a golden age of Telugu literature. Many  Telugu, Sanskrit, Kannada and Tamil poets enjoyed the patronage of the emperor. Emperor Krishnadevaraya was fluent in many languages.

[[Tocantins River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Brazil

The Tocantins River is a river that flows through the northeastern part of Brazil. It rises in the district with a lot of mountains known as the Pireneus.  These can be found to the west of the Federal District. Its western tributary, the Araguaia River, has headwaters very far south on the slopes of the Serra dos Caiapós.

[[Bukka]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors and empresses, Indian monarchs, 1356 births, 1377 deaths

Bukka ಬುಕ್ಕ್ (1356-1377 CE) (also known as Bukka Raya I was an emperor of the Vijayanagara Empire from the Sangama Dynasty. Bukka patronised Telugu poet Nachana Soma.

It is said that Bukka also sent a mission to China during his reign.

Important works of literature were also written during his rule. Dozens of scholars lived under the guidance of Vidyaranya and Sayana. Sayana's commentary on the Vedas, Brahmanas and Aranyakas was written under the patronage of Bukka.

[[McGill University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Colleges and universities in Canada, 1821 establishments in North America, 1820s establishments in Canada, Montreal

McGill University or just McGill is an English language university in Montreal, Canada. It was created in 1821, few years before the country Canada existed. McGill University ranks first in Canada for 16 consecutive years according to Maclean's University Rankings.

[[Renault Koleos]]

CATEGORIES: Sport utility vehicles, Renault automobiles, Busan

The Renault Koleos is the second SUV from Renault after the Renault Scénic RX4. It was first presented on the Geneva Motorshow in the year 2000, then on the "Autosalon Paris" 2006. It was designed by Patrick le Quément (chief designer) and developed by Nissan.

This car is 4520 mm long, 1890 mm wide and 1700 mm high and has a weight of 1800 kg.

[[Beagle]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The Beagle is a breed of small to medium-sized dog. It is a Hound, and it has short legs and long, soft ears. Beagles are mostly developed for hunting and finding hare, rabbit, and other kinds of game. They can do this because they can smell well and have very quick instincts. They are also popular as pets because of their good size, sweet temper, and health. This kind of character also makes them be used very much for animal testing. 

Beagles can have coats of different colors. Some variations can be tri-colored, orange, red, or lemon, although they are widely known for sporting the tri-colored look (Black, brown, and white). They usually have brown eyes.

Although beagle-type dogs have existed for over 2,000 years, the modern kind came from Great Britain around the 1830s.

Beagles have been included in popular culture since the times when Queen Elizabeth began to rule, in literature and paintings, and more recently in movie, television and comic books. Snoopy of the comic strip Peanuts has been picked as "the world's most famous beagle". 

[[N. T. Rama Rao]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1996 deaths, Indian actors, Indian movie directors, Indian movie producers, Indian politicians

Nandamuri Taraka Rama Rao (Telugu:నందమూరి తారక రామా రావు)(28 May 1923–18 January 1996), more commonly known as N.T. Rama Rao, NTR by his fans, or Anna garu, was an Indian movie actor, director, producer, and politician. He founded the Telugu Desam Party and served three times as Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. His movies included mythological, social, and folk themes. He was awarded the Padma Shri by the Government of India in the 1960s for his work in Telugu cinema. After acting, Rao became a political activist and party leader.

[[Piast dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: Piast dynasty

The Piast dynasty was a Polish dynasty that ruled Poland as first lords in the 10th century, until 1370. Piasts ruled also in Masovia until 1526 and Silesia until 1675.

[[M-Tram]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport in Melbourne, Australian transport companies

M>Tram

M>Tram was a tram operator in Melbourne, Victoria. They got a 12-year contract on 29 August, 1999 to run the Swanston Trams franchise, which was later renamed to M>Train. M>Tram stopped running trams in April 2004. Yarra Trams runs all tram services in Melbourne now. M>Tram's slogan was Moving Melbourne.

[[Scrooge McDuck]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in the 1940s, Fictional ducks, Disney characters

Scrooge McDuck or Uncle Scrooge is a fictional character first appearing in the Disney comic book Christmas on Bear Mountain. The character was created by Carl Barks and has appeared in many comic books, television shows (most notably in his own animated television series DuckTales) movies, and video games. Since 1952 Scrooge McDuck has appeared in his own comic book series, called Uncle Scrooge. He is partially based on the fictional character Ebenezer Scrooge, from Charles Dickens' novel, A Christmas Carol and on the real Scottish-born American businessman Andrew Carnegie, whose life story resembles that of Scrooge McDuck. 

Scrooge was born in Scotland in 1867, the son of Fergus McDuck. His family is very poor, so Scrooge emigrates to USA where he finds gold and becomes rich. In 1902 he moves to Duckburg and builds the Money Bin on Killmotor Hill in the center of Duckburg. Over the next years, Scrooge travels the world, learning about many cultures. In 1930, Scrooge became the richest duck on Earth. 

In 1942, Scrooge retires and buys a mansion called the Manor McDuck. In 1947, he invites his nephew Donald Duck and his grand-nephews Huey, Dewey and Louie to spend Christmas at his mansion. His main enemies include the criminal gang called the Beagle Boys who keep trying to steal Scrooge's money, and Flintheart Glomgold, the second richest duck in the world, who tries to destroy Scrooge's wealth and become the richest duck in the world. 

Despite his huge wealth, Scrooge does not like to spend his money, and instead likes to swim in his "Money Bin" full of coins. Although he is well-meaning and cares about his relatives and other people, he reluctantly gives allowance to his grand-nephews, with the condition that they spend it wisely.

[[Money Bin]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional buildings and structures, DuckTales

Money Bin is a fictional building that Scrooge McDuck owns. The building was constructed in 1902, after Scrooge entered the diamond market.

The building contains all of Scrooge's fortune, which is 'quadrillions' of dollars. The old duck also owns factories, mines, railroads, oil wells and spaceships. 

The building appears on Ducktales, The Life and times of Scrooge McDuck, and Ducktales the movie.

[[Resurrection Ship]]

CATEGORIES: Battlestar Galactica

The Cylon Resurrection Ship is a fictional type of spacecraft found in the television series Battlestar Galactica. The ship is a part of Cylon fleet.

Cylons who are killed have their consciousness downloaded into a nearby resurrection ship. A new body is created for their consciousness. This lets them live again after they die. If a cylon is too far away from the nearest resurrection ship, death will be permanent. With nowhere for the consciousness to download to, they will simply cease to exist.

[[DIY]]

CATEGORIES: Construction, Culture

DIY or Do it yourself is a method of home improvement, where the home owner gets materials and tools for themself, then does the work on their own, without professional help.

DIY can also mean using any skill to do work or a hobby for fun and not hire help. An example is an activity in arts and crafts. A DIY culture is also used in the alternative rock, punk rock, and indie rock music scenes; and in the zine community. 

[[Boleslaw I of Poland]]

CATEGORIES: 967 births, 1025 deaths, Polish dukes, Kings of Poland, Piast dynasty

Bolesław I the Brave (Polish Bolesław I Chrobry) (967 - June 17, 1025) was the duke of Poland from 992 to April 18, 1025 and King of Poland from April 18 to June 17, 1025.He was also a duke of Bohemia known as Boleslav IV from 1003 to 1004. He was the son of Mieszko I, first known ruler of Poland.

[[Bo Diddley]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2008 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Musicians from Mississippi, Singers from Mississippi

Bo Diddley (born Ellas Bates, December 30, 1928 in McComb, Mississippi, died June 2, 2008 in Archer, Florida) was an American singer, guitarist and songwriter. He was one of the original rock and roll musicians; he, along with others, created rock music.

In 1955, he recorded and released his first songs. He is most famous for the rhythm which he has made popular in many of his recordings. The rhythm has become known as the Bo Diddley beat. Some of the most popular songs which feature the Bo Diddley beat include "Not Fade Away" and "I Want Candy", George Michael's song "Faith" and U2's song "Desire". Bo Diddley is also famous for the unusual shapes of many of his guitars, for his exciting stage shows and for his use of female musicians.

Bo Diddley made many appearances on radio, television and in the movies. In 1956, he co-wrote the popular song "Love Is Strange" for the singing duo Mickey and Sylvia.

Some of his most popular songs are: "I'm A Man" (1955), "Pretty Thing" (1955), "Bring It To Jerome" (1955), "Diddy Wah Diddy" (1955), "Who Do You Love" (1956), "Mona (I Need You Baby)" (1957), "Before You Accuse Me" (1957), "Crackin' Up" (1959), "Say Man" (1959), "Say Man, Back Again" (1959), "Road Runner" (1960), "Pills" (1961), "You Can't Judge A Book By The Cover" (1962) and "I Can Tell" (1962).

Bo Diddley often sang simple or amusing songs about himself. Some of these songs are "Bo Diddley" (1955), "Diddley Daddy" (1955), "Hey Bo Diddley" (1957), "Bo Meets The Monster" (1958), "Bo Diddley's A Gunslinger" (1960), "Just Like Bo Diddley" (1989), "Bo Diddley Is Crazy" (1996) and "Oops! Bo Diddley" (1996).

His songs have been recorded by many other popular recording artists, including Aerosmith, The Animals, Eric Clapton, Creedence Clearwater Revival, Dr. Feelgood, The Doors, Buddy Holly, Chris Isaak, New York Dolls, Quicksilver Messenger Service, Rolling Stones, Bob Seger, George Thorogood and The Destroyers, The Who and The Yardbirds.

In 2003, U.S. Representative John Conyers paid tribute to Bo Diddley in the United States House of Representatives when he described him as "one of the true pioneers of rock and roll, who has influenced generations".

In 2005, Bo Diddley celebrated his 50th anniversary in music with successful tours of Australia and Europe and with coast-to-coast shows across North America.

On June 2, 2008, Diddley died from heart failure at the age of 79.

[[DuckTales]]

CATEGORIES: DuckTales, Television series by Disney, Animated television series, First run syndicated television programs, 1987 American television series debuts, 1990 American television series endings, English-language television programs

DuckTales is an animated Disney television series. The main characters of the series are Scrooge McDuck and his great nephews Huey, Dewey and Louie. The series was originally shown from September 11, 1987 to May 6, 1990. It had a total of 100 episodes. There has been a movie and a spinoff TV show.

[[All Grown Up!]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 American television series debuts, 2008 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, American animated television series, Nickelodeon television series, Television series set in California, Television spin-offs, English-language television programs

All Grown Up! was a Nickelodeon animated television series. It was set in California. It was a spin-off of the Rugrats series. The series was about the original Rugrats characters being nine to thirteen years older. It was first shown on April 12, 2003.

[[Randalstown]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Northern Ireland, Settlements in County Antrim

Randalstown is a town in County Antrim in Northern Ireland.

One famous person who came from Randalstown is the suspected serial killer John Bodkin Adams, born in 1899.

[[Connex Melbourne]]

CATEGORIES: Australian transport companies, Public transport in Melbourne, Rail transport in Australia

Connex was a train operator in Melbourne, Australia. They ran all Melbourne railway lines, and took over all M-Train services on April 16, 2003, however Metro Trains Melbourne took over all Connex's services on November 30, 2009. All Connex services used the Metcard fare system.

[[Battlestar Galactica]]

CATEGORIES: Battlestar Galactica, 1978 television series debuts, 1979 television series endings

Battlestar Galactica is a science fiction franchise. It includes two separate television series, one sequel series, movies, books, comic books, toy and other merchandise. The series are named after the main spacecraft, the Battlestar (a large type of warship in space) Galactica.

[[Black-capped chickadee]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of North America, Passeriformes

The black-capped chickadee (Poecile atricapillus) is a passerine songbird of the family Paridae. It lives in Canada, Alaska and the northern United States. This is a small, common bird which sings a simple song. 

[[Harihara]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu mythology

Harihara is the deity that combines Vishnu and Shiva. It comes from the Hindu tradition. Harihara is also sometimes used as a philosophical term when one wants to speak of the unity of Vishnu and Shiva as different aspects of the same Supreme God. 

[[Harihara I]]

CATEGORIES: Indian monarchs, 1336 births, 1356 deaths, Emperors and empresses

Harihara I, (1336-1356 CE) also called Hakka ಹಕ್ಕ and Vira Harihara I, was the founder of the Vijayanagara empire. He was the eldest son of Bhavana Sangama and was founder of the Sangama dynasty, the first among the four dynasties that ruled Vijayanagara. Immediately after coming to power, he built a fort at Barkuru, on the west coast of present day Karnataka. Kannada inscriptions of his time call him Karnataka Vidya Vilas (master of great knowledge and skills), Bhashegetappuvarayaraganda (punisher of those feudatories who do not keep their promise), Arirayavibhada (fire to enemy kings). Among his brothers, Kampana governed Nellur region, Muddppa administered Mulabagalu region, Marappa oversaw Chandragutti and Bukka Raya was his second in command.

At first he conquered the valley of Tungabhadra River, then he expanded his control to certain regions of Konkan and Malabar Coast. By that time Hoysala Empire had lost its last ruler  and Harihara I could gain power.

An inscription of 1346 speaks of Harihara I as the ruler of “whole country between the eastern and the western seas, and the inscription describes Vidya Nagara (that is, the city of learning) as his capital.

Harihara I was succeeded by Bukka I who was the most distinguished amongst the five rulers (Panchasangamas) of the Sangama dynasty.

[[Tibetan people]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan people, Ethnic groups in China

The Tibetan people (བོད་པ་) are an ethnic group that is native to Tibet. They number about 7.8 million. In 2014, there were 7.5 million Tibetans living in Tibet and the 10 Tibetan Autonomous Prefectures in Gansu, Qinghai and Sichuan. Large populations of Tibetans live outside of Tibet, in other parts of China, and in India, Nepal and Bhutan.

Tibetans speak the Tibetic languages. Many of these languages are cannot be understood by each other. These languages are also spoken by people in Baltistan, Ladakh, Nepal, Sikkim and Bhutan. The main language among Tibetans in Tibet is the Central Tibetan language.

Most Tibetans practice Tibetan Buddhism. Some practice the native Bön religion. There is a small Muslim minority.

[[Li people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in China

The Hlai or Li (黎) are an ethnic group living primarily on the island of Hainam, off the southern coast of mainland China and just east of Vietnam. The Hlai are one of the 56 ethnic groups officially recognized by the Chinese government.

The Hlai were known to the Sui Dynasty Chinese by the name Liliao. Presently they refer to themselves as the Hlai or Sai people. The ethnic group is called Lí in Mandarin and Lai in Cantonese.

The Hlai people have their own language. Some dialects of the Hlai language are too different from each other for people to mutually understand each other. The Hlai language is distantly related to languages such as Thai, Lao, and Cuengh. The Hlai language did not have a writing system before the 1950s, when the Latin alphabet was adopted. Some to most Hlai people nowadays can understand Mandarin and Hainanese.

[[Li]]

Li could mean:

[[Altes Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Berlin, Museums in Germany

Altes Museum (German for Old Museum) is a museum in Berlin. It is on an island of the Spree River. The museum is made of Greek columns but it is not of Greek origin. It was created between 1822-1830 in a major German city.

[[The Sleepers]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s paintings, French paintings

The Sleepers is a painting by Gustave Courbet. The painting was made in 1866. In it, two naked women lie on a bed.  It is typical of Courbet's later erotic paintings.  The painting is done in oil on canvas. It measures 135 cm high and 200 cm wide. It is currently in the museum Petit Palais in Paris, France. The painting is also known as The Dream (French: Le Sommeil), or Lust or The Sloth and Friends.

[[Religion in China]]

CATEGORIES: Religion in China

The main religions in China are Buddhism, Chinese folklore, Taoism and Confucianism among many others

Abrahamic religions are also practised. There is a Kaifeng Jewish community living in China. Also, Islam has been historically popular, introduced since the Tang Dynasty. The Hui people and Uyghur people are Muslims.

[[Kim Ungyong]]

CATEGORIES: Child prodigies, South Korean people, 1963 births, Living people

Kim Ung-yong (born 8 March 1962) was a Korean  child prodigy. He was able to read and write in Japanese, Korean, German and English before he turned four years old. At the age of four, on 2 November 1967, he answered differential and integral calculus questions on Japanese television, showed that he could speak German, English, Japanese and Korean, and write poetry. Kim was listed in the Guiness Book of World Records under "Highest IQ"; the book guessed the boy's score at "over 200."

Kim was a guest student of physics at Hanyang University from the age of 3 until he was 6. At the age of 7 he was invited to the United States by NASA. He finished his university studies, eventually getting a Ph.D. in physics at Colorado State University  before he was 15. In 1974, during his university studies, he began his research work at NASA and continued this work until his return to Korea in 1978.

When he returned to Korea, he decided to switch from physics to civil engineering and eventually received a doctorate in that field. Kim was offered the chance to study at the most prestigious universities in Korea, but instead chose to attend a provincial university.

As of 2007 he also serves as adjunct faculty at Chungbuk National University.

[[Hikaru]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Hikaru (or Hikari) is a adaptation of 光, a Japanese language kanji which means "light" or "shining." It is also a given name. Some people with this given name are:

[[Hikaru Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: Child prodigies, People from Osaka Prefecture, American chess players, 1987 births, Living people, Chess grandmasters

Hikaru Nakamura is the leading U.S. chess grandmaster (GM). He was born on 9 December 1987 in Japan (Hirakata, Osaka Prefecture). His parents moved to the United States when he was two. He has won the U.S. chess championship four times, and represented the United States at five Chess Olympiads.

In 2011, Nakamura won the Tata Steel Grandmaster A tournament in Wijk aan Zee. His opponents included world #1 and defending champion Magnus Carlsen, former world champion Viswanathan Anand, world #2  Levon Aronian, and former world champion Vladimir Kramnik.

[[Quickdraw]]

CATEGORIES: Rock climbing

A quickdraw is used in rock climbing for lead climbing. One end is hooked into an anchor in 

the wall. Afterwards the rope is hooked into the other end. Usually quickdraws are used every few meters. Quickdraws are made of two carabiners connected by a sling. Quickdraws can hold up to 22 kN.

The quickdraw has one straight gate carabineer and one bent gate carabineer. The bent gate carabineer should always be the one clipped to the rope. For leading and top roping at an indoor climbing wall usually a quickdraw is already attached to each of the protection points on the route. The lower carabineer, (the one with the bent gate) should be clipped so the gate is pointing away from the rope and pointing away from the climbing wall or rock face. Doing this will help prevent the quickdraw from twisting the gate into the wall. The rope should run freely through the spine of each carabineer, not along the gate. The spine is the strongest part of the carabineer.

[[Seedling]]

CATEGORIES: Plant anatomy

A seedling is a small plant that grows from a seed.

[[David Boreanaz]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American movie actors, American Roman Catholics, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Buffalo, New York, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Whedonverse, American movie directors, American movie producers, American television directors, American television producers, Saturn Award winners

David Paul Boreanaz (born May 16, 1969) is an American actor. He is best known for his role on the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel. On both of these shows, he played the character Angel. From fall of 2005 to spring of 2017, he has played FBI agent Seeley Booth on Bones.

[[Ocean]]

CATEGORIES: Oceans

An ocean is a large area of water between continents. Oceans are very big and they join smaller seas together. Oceans (or marine biomes) cover 72% of Earth. There are five main oceans together. They are:

1. Pacific Ocean

2. Atlantic Ocean

3. Indian Ocean 

4. Southern Ocean 

5. Arctic Ocean

The largest ocean is the Pacific Ocean. The smallest ocean is the Arctic Ocean. Many types of animals live in oceans, such as carp, crabs, starfish, sharks, and whales.

Different water movements separate the Southern Ocean from the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans. The Southern Ocean is also called the Antarctic Ocean, because it covers the area around Antarctica.

The deepest ocean is the Pacific Ocean. The deep ocean is characterised by cold temperatures, high pressure, and complete darkness. Some very unusual organisms live in this part of the ocean. They do not require energy from the sun to survive, because they use chemicals from deep inside the Earth.

[[Work (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Kelly Rowland songs, 2008 songs

"Work" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Kelly Rowland. It was written by Rowland, Scott Storch and Jason "Pooh Bear" Boyd and co-produced by Storch and Boyd for Rowland's second studio album, Ms. Kelly (2007). 

Following the less successful chart performances of previous singles "Like This" and "Ghetto", "Work" was released during the first quarter of 2008 (see 2008 in music) as the album's second single in most international music markets. The song has since enjoyed commercial success, becoming Rowland's best-charting solo single since her 2002 song "Stole," reaching the top of the charts in Bulgaria and Poland, as well as the top 10 in Australia, Finland, France, Ireland, Malta, Poland, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.

[[Eluveitie]]

CATEGORIES: Swiss heavy metal bands, Death metal bands, Folk metal bands, Musical groups established in 2002, 2002 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Finland

Eluveitie is a folk metal band from Switzerland. They started in 2002. Their style is a mixture of Celtic folk metal and melodic death metal. Their style is sometimes called Celtic Metal. Some of their lyrics are in Gaulish, others in English. They were founded by Christian "Chrigel" Glanzmann. 

[[Heaven Shall Burn]]

CATEGORIES: German heavy metal bands, Death metal bands, Deathcore bands, Metalcore bands

Heaven Shall Burn is a death metal band from Saalfelden, Germany. Their music style is called Deathcore which is a mixture of metalcore and death metal. Their members are: Matthias Voigt (drums), Maik Weichert (guitar), Alexander Dietz (guitar), Eric Bischoff (bass) and Marcus Bischoff (vocals).

[[Paranaguá]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraná State, 1648 establishments, 17th-century establishments in Brazil

Paranaguá is a coastal city in the state of Paraná in the south of Brazil. Founded in 1648, it is Paraná's oldest city. Its population was 147,934 as of January 2006 and an area of 826,652 km².

It is known for its excellent port facilities, being the sea port for Curitiba, the capital of Paraná.

The Port of Paranaguá is the sixth largest port in the world, the second largest in Brazil and the largest grain port of Latin America. His territorial extension is 13 km². It is the second largest port in Brazil, but the first in export of grains.

[[Datura stramonium]]

CATEGORIES: Nightshades

Datura stramonium, known by the common names, jimson weed, ditch weed, stink weed, loco weed,Korean morning glory, Jamestown weed, thorn apple, angel's trumpet, devil's trumpet, devil's snare, devil's seed, mad hatter, crazy tea, malpitte, the Devil's balls, is an erect annual herb, on average 30 to 150 cm (1-5 feet) tall with erect, forking and purple stems. The leaves are large, 7 to 20 cm (3-8 in) long and have irregular teeth

Flowers are trumpet-shaped, white to purple, and 2-7 in long.The fruit are walnut-sized, egg-shaped, and covered in prickles, they split into four chambers, each chamber with dozens of small black seeds

[[Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 action movies, 2000s adventure movies, Indiana Jones movies, Jungle movies, Movies set in South America, Movies set in the 1950s, Movies composed by John Williams

Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull is a 2008 American adventure movie directed by Steven Spielberg. The story of the movie was written by Spielberg and executive producer George Lucas. Set in 1957, this fourth movie in the Indiana Jones movie series is based around an older and wiser Indiana Jones (played by Harrison Ford) against agents of the Soviet Union–led by Spalko (Cate Blanchett)–for the crystal skull. Indy is helped by his former lover Marion Ravenwood (played by Karen Allen), Mutt (played by Shia LaBeouf) and friend Mac (played by Ray Winstone). John Hurt, Jim Broadbent, and Ian McDiarmid also play fellow academics.

The movie was in "development hell" since the 1989 release of Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, because Spielberg and Ford did not agree over Lucas's choice of the skull as the center plot device. Screenwriters Jeb Stuart, Jeffrey Boam, M. Night Shyamalan, Frank Darabont and Jeff Nathanson wrote early versions, before David Koepp's script was chosen by all three men. Shooting finally started on June 18, 2007, and took place in New Mexico, New Haven, Connecticut, Hawaii, Fresno, California, and at soundstages in Los Angeles. This movie uses more stunts than CGI (computer generated images) so that the movie looks like the rest in the series. The music was created once again by John Williams.

[[Indian Premier League]]

CATEGORIES: Indian Premier League, 2008 establishments in India

The Indian Premier League is a Twenty20 cricket tournament in India. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) began the tournament after a dispute with the Indian Cricket League. The first season of the Indian Premier League began on 18 April 2008.Mumbai Indians is most successful lifted fifth title chennai super kings lifted third title in 2018, kolkata lifted two times,rajasthan and hyderabad lifted once

There are the eight franchises that field teams to play in the IPL:

Five other teams have played in the IPL but stopped due to cost:

[[Fernando Pessoa]]

CATEGORIES: People from Lisbon, Portuguese writers, Deaths from liver disease, 1888 births, 1935 deaths

Fernando António Nogueira Pessoa (Lisbon, 13 June 1888 - Lisbon, 30 November 1935), also known as Fernando Pessoa, was a Portuguese poet and writer. 

Pessoa is considered one of the greatest Portuguese poets. He has been compared to Luís Vaz de Camões. His works reflect the infuence of classic tradition and French symbolism and his poetry reflects nostalgia. 

He is famous for having written under 73 different names. Each had its own presumed biography, physical qualities, relationship to the others,  poetic voice, and point of view. Pessoa believed that a person could have more than one integrated personality. His work was also influenced by the English language which he learned in South Africa, where he spent a great part of his youth. 

[[Gaeltacht]]

CATEGORIES: Gaeltacht

Gaeltacht areas are regions where many or most of the people speak the Irish language. They are in the Republic of Ireland. The largest Gaeltacht areas are in the counties of Kerry, Cork, Galway, Mayo, Donegal, Waterford and Meath. 

At the time of the 2006 census of the Republic of Ireland, the population of the Gaeltacht was 91,862, about 2.1% of the state's 4,239,848 people. The main concentrations of Irish speakers are in the western counties of Donegal, Mayo, Galway, Kerry, and Cork. But in Gaeltacht electoral districts the percentage of Irish speakers is much higher.

[[Harassment]]

CATEGORIES: Human behavior

Harass or harassment is when a person annoys or upsets someone else, usually repetitively. It is done on purpose and makes the target feel scared, worried or sick from fear. These are behaviors that appear to be disturbing, upsetting or threatening.

There are a lot of types of harassment: bullying at school or by neighbors, sexual harassment at work or when someone borrowed money, or racial and religious discrimination. There are laws against harassment in many countries, and employers now have a duty to protect employees from harassment.

[[Brná nad Labem]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Brná nad Labem (German: Birnai) is a part of city Ústí nad Labem, Czech republic. It is a small part of landscape park České středohoří on the right side of river Labe, and is close to Ústí nad Labem. Its area is about 4,23 km². 

[[Goodies (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 songs, Ciara, R&B songs, Songs about sexuality

Goodies is a song recorded by American R&B singer Ciara and rapper Petey Pablo for Ciara's debut album Goodies (2004) and written by Ciara, Sean Garrett, LaMarquis Jefferson, Craig Love and Jonathan Smith.  "Goodies" is a combination of crunk and R&B.  The song's lyrics are about female empowerment and virginity.  The protagonist does not want to an object, while performing over a complex beat.  The song's protagonist rejects a male's sexual advances, proclaiming that he will never get her "goodies" because "they stay in the jar".

[[James I of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: House of Stuart, Kings and Queens of Scotland, 1394 births, 1437 deaths

James I (December 10, 1394 – February 21, 1437) was King of Scots from April 4, 1406, and ruled as King of Scots from May 1424 until February 21, 1437.

[[Shameless]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 British television series debuts, 2000s British television series, 2010s British television series, BAFTA Award winners, British drama television series, Television series set in Manchester, English-language television programs

Shameless is a BAFTA award-winning British comedy-drama television series set in the fictional Chatsworth Estate in Manchester, United Kingdom. Produced by Company Pictures for Channel 4, the first seven-episode series aired weekly on Tuesday nights at 10pm from 13 January 2004. The dramedy which deals with issues related to chav culture in the UK has been accorded critical acclaim by various sections of the British media, including The Sun newspaper and Newsnight Review on BBC Two.

[[Stele]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeology, Art

A stele is a stone or wooden slab, mostly taller than it is wide, that is built so that people will remember something when they look at it. Mostly it is decorated with the names and titles of the person that shall remind of. This is inscribe, carved in relief or painted onto the slab.

[[Qingzang railway]]

CATEGORIES: Tibet, Transport in the People's Republic of China, Rail transport in Asia

The Qingzang railway (also called Qinghai–Xizang railway, or Qinghai–Tibet railway) is a railway line from Xining, Qinghai Province, to Lhasa in Tibet.

The line includes the Tanggula Pass, at 5,072 m (16,640 feet) above sea level the world's highest rail track and Tanggula Railway Station which is the highest railway station. The 1,338 m Fenghuoshan tunnel is the highest rail tunnel in the world, at 4,905 m above sea level. The 3,345-m Yangbajing tunnel is the longest tunnel on the line. It is 4,264 m above sea level, 80 kilometres north-west of Lhasa.

More than 960 km, or over 80% of the Golmud-Lhasa section, is at an altitude of more than 4,000 m. There are 675 bridges, totalling 159.88 km, and over half the length of the railway is laid on permafrost. The railway which was finished in 2006 is said to not help the people of Tibet.

It takes about 3 days to go from Lhasa to Guangzhou or Shanghai.

[[Ostrava]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Czech Republic

Ostrava is the third biggest city in the Czech Republic. It is also the government center of the Moravian-Silesian Region. The town was founded in 1267 and lies in the north-eastern part of the country. More than 300,000 people live there.

[[Sleep disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Sleep disorders

A sleep disorder is a problem that stops people from sleeping normally. But really what is normal sleeping? There are many sleep disorders, and some of them are very serious.  A test commonly ordered for some sleep disorders is the polysomnogram.

[[Kirk Cameron]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American child actors, American Evangelicals, American movie actors, American television actors, Christian ministers, Christian writers, Converts to Christianity, Creationists, Left Behind, People's Choice Award winners

Kirk Thomas Cameron (born October 12, 1970) is an American actor best known for playing "Mike Seaver" on the television situation comedy, Growing Pains, and in other television shows and movies. He was the main actor in the Left Behind movie series and in Fireproof. He is also an active Christian evangelist, and works with Ray Comfort on The Way of the Master. He co-started The Firefly Foundation with his wife, actress Chelsea Noble.

[[Get on the Bus]]

CATEGORIES: Destiny's Child songs, 1999 songs

"Get on the Bus" was the third single from girl group Destiny's Child.  The song featured rapper/producer Timbaland and is lifted from the original motion picture soundtrack of Why Do Fools Fall in Love (1998).  It was the second single to be lifted from the soundtrack following Melanie B's debut single, "I Want You Back".  Produced by Timbaland, it peaked at number twelve on the UK and Netherlands charts, and at number sixty on the German chart.  The single was not commercially released in the U.S. and other major markets, It did receive some minor US Urban radio airplay, peaking at #58 on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay chart. The music video was directed by Earle Sebastian.

[[South China Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of China, Seas of the Pacific Ocean

The South China Sea is an ocean region in the south of China. It is a part of the Pacific Ocean.

The sea and its islands and reefs are claimed by many nations, including China, Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei. These claims are mirrored in the many names used for the islands and the sea.

[[Leo Belgicus]]

CATEGORIES: Cartography

The Leo Belgicus is a map of the former Low Countries (the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium and a small part of northern France).  They are drawn in the shape of a lion.  The Leo Belgicus that came first was drawn by the Austrian cartographer Michael Aitzinger in 1583.  The Netherlands were fighting the Eighty Years' War for freedom at this time.

There were three different drawings. In the most common one, the lion's head was found in the northeast part of the country and the tail in the southeast part of the country.  The most famous version is the drawing of Claes Janszoon Visscher. It was made in 1609 when the Twelve Years' Truce was written.  The third version was made late in the war. It was made after the freedom of the Dutch Republic was given in the Peace of Westphalia of the year 1648. It is called the Leo Hollandicus, the Holland Lion, and shows only the province of Holland.

[[Tebibyte]]

CATEGORIES: Computing measurement

A tebibyte (TiB) is a unit of measurement in computers and similar electronic devices. Tebibytes hold 1024 gibibytes (GiB) or 1,099,511,627,776 bytes. Some people incorrectly call this number of bytes a terabyte, which is actually one trillion bytes, or 1000 gigabytes (GB).

1024 tebibytes make one pebibyte.

[[Petabyte]]

CATEGORIES: Computing measurement

A petabyte (PB) is a unit of measurement in computers and similar electronic devices. One petabyte holds 1024 terabytes (TB) or 1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes. 

Large organisations use petabytes of storage to hold massive amounts of data. To store this amount of data at home would require about 1000 large home computers.  People at home probably do not use petabytes, they would use terabytes (primarily for very large backups), gigabytes, megabytes and occasionally kilobytes.

One thousand petabytes make one exabyte. 

[[Exabyte]]

CATEGORIES: Computing measurement

An exabyte (EB) is a unit of measurement for computers of the future. One exabyte holds 1000 petabytes (PB) or a million trillion (1,000,000,000,000,000,000) bytes. An exabyte is large enough that it would take about 10,000 to 100,000 home computers to store this amount of data.

One thousand exabytes make one zettabyte.

[[Zettabyte]]

CATEGORIES: Computing measurement

A zettabyte (ZB) is a unit of measurement for computers of the future. One zettabyte holds 1000 exabytes (EB) or a billion trillion (1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000) bytes, and 1000 zettabytes make one yottabyte. 

A zettabyte is so large that it would take about a million supercomputers (or a billion powerful home computers) 

to store this amount of data.

[[Yottabyte]]

CATEGORIES: Computing measurement

A yottabyte (YB) is a unit of measurement for computers of the future. One yottabyte holds 1000 zettabytes (ZB) or a trillion trillion (1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000) bytes. This will never exist.

A yottabyte is so large that it would take about a million supercomputers to store this amount of data.

[[Nature's services]]

CATEGORIES: Economics, Ecology

Nature's services is a term for the ways in which nature benefits humans. It means particularly those benefits that can be measured in economic terms. Robert Costanza and other theorists of natural capital analysed nature's services to humanity in the 1990s.

The economic contribution of seventeen of these services they calculated to be about US$33 trillion per year, greater than the activities of the whole human economy, which was about US$25 trillion.

This was based on estimated costs of replacing the services nature provides. For that purpose they were compared with equivalent services that are produced by humans. This calculation makes clear that mankind cannot develop without nature's services.

This study is central for the theory of natural capital.

But this study had no great influence on government policy or on WTO, IMF or G8 economic and trade policy.

[[Signing Time!]]

CATEGORIES: American television series, 2002 television series debuts, 2008 television series endings

Signing Time! is a children's television show. It teaches American Sign Language to children age one through eight. It is shown in the United States. It is hosted by Rachel de Azevedo Coleman. It is shown by American Public Television in many cities across the United States.

Research shows that sign language can help children's learning ability to grow. With just a few simple American Sign Language signs, babies and toddlers — some as young as nine months old — can show people their needs before they can speak, which may make them have fewer tantrums. School-aged children enjoy the benefits of learning a second language. Children with developmental delays or special needs can find their own “voice” by using their hands to talk using sign language.

Signing Time helps children learn through three senses — visual (seeing), auditory (hearing), and kinesthetic (touch) — and reaches children with different learning styles and abilities by making children want to communicate with other people through signing, singing, speaking and dancing.

In the series, songwriter and musician Rachel Coleman, her daughter Leah (who is deaf), Alex (Leah’s cousin who can hear), and their pet frog named Hopkins, who is a cartoon, teach hundreds of useful American Sign Language signs. Children learn signs for words, questions, phrases, movements, colors, sports, days of the week, everyday objects, and activities that are done a lot. Signing Time! makes learning sign language easy for the whole family.

[[Wuthering Heights]]

CATEGORIES: 1847 books, English novels, English-language novels, Yorkshire

Wuthering Heights is a novel by Emily Brontë. It was first published in 1847 under the pseudonym (false name) "Ellis Bell". After her death, a second edition was edited by her sister Charlotte. The story is about the love of Heathcliff and Catherine Earnshaw, foster siblings in Yorkshire. It is a classic of English literature, and has been made into movies many times.

[[Capitol Hill Baptist Church]]

CATEGORIES: Southern Baptist Convention, Churches in the United States, Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C., 1877 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Washington, D.C.

The Capitol Hill Baptist Church is a Baptist church on Capitol Hill in Washington D.C.. Mark Dever serves as the senior pastor of the church. It is linked with the Southern Baptist Convention.

[[Gerry and the Pacemakers]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands, Musical groups from Liverpool

Gerry and The Pacemakers were an English rock and roll group during the 1960s. Like The Beatles, they came from Liverpool and were also managed by Brian Epstein.

[[Left Behind (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Left Behind, Christian eschatology

The Left Behind series (or just Left Behind) is a fictional book series written by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. The series takes place during, and after the rapture. Besides the best-selling fiction book series, there are also graphic novels, CDs, and a Left Behind: The Kids series.

[[Master Chief]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2001, Halo characters, Video game protagonists

Master Chief Petty Officer John-117 is a fictional person.  He is the main protagonist of the Halo video game series. He is also called Master Chief, or Spartan-117.

Master Chief is a player character in Halo: Combat Evolved, Halo 2, Halo 3, Halo 4 and Halo 5: Guardians.  He also is also featured in several novels and other games in the Halo series.

The character is never seen without his green-colored armor and helmet. He is one of the most recognizable characters from Halo. Several action figures of the character are available.

[[Arrowhead]]

CATEGORIES: Ammunition

An arrowhead is point of an arrow, or a shape resembling such a point.http://www.uwlax.edu/MVAC/educators/Glossary/MP.htm https://web.archive.org/web/20100311053906/http://www.uwlax.edu/MVAC/Educators/Glossary/MP.htm

Arrowheads are found all over the United States.  Archaeologically they are usually made of stone: primarily being flint, obsidian, or chert; but in many excavations bone, wooden and metal arrowheads have been found.  

In North America,  Arrowheads are sometimes mistakenly attributed to the Historic Period American Indians, but are actually from North America's prehistoric ancestors; some arrowheads date back to over 15,000+ years old (Paleo-Clovis Culture).  

In Scandinavia during the Viking age a wide range of arrowheads were used for a variety of tasks.

Arrowheads are attached to arrow shafts and may be "thrown" (similar to a spear thrower), or fired from a bow.

[[Obsidian]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones, Igneous rocks

Obsidian is a natural volcanic glass found as a kind of igneous rock. It is produced when lava high in silica (SiO2) cools rapidly, and solidifies without time for crystal growth. Because there is no crystal structure, obsidian blade edges can reach almost molecular thinness, leading to its ancient use as arrowheads, and its modern use as surgical scalpel blades.

[[Obsidian (disambiguation)]]

Obsidian can refer to:

[[Isle of Arran]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Scotland

Arran or the Isle of Arran  is the largest island in the Firth of Clyde, Scotland.

With an area of 432 it is the seventh largest Scottish island. Just over 5,000 people live there.

Arran shares with the Hebrides cultural and physical similarities. Arran is mountainous and has been described as a "geologist's paradise".p11/17

People have lived there since the early Neolithic period, from which time on there are numerous prehistoric remains.

From the 6th century on peoples from Ireland colonised the island and it became a centre of religious activity. During the troubled Viking Age, Arran became the property of the Norwegian crown before becoming formally absorbed by the Kingdom of Scotland in the thirteenth century.

The 19th century "clearances" led to significant reductions in population and the end of the Gaelic language and way of life.

The economy and population have recovered in recent years, the main industry being tourism. There is diversity of wildlife, including three species of tree endemic to the area. There are regular field trips in the summer by geology and biology students.

[[Kurud]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in India, Settlements in Chhattisgarh

Kurud is a town found in the center of the state of Chhattisgarh in India.

[[Germanic paganism]]

CATEGORIES: Paganism

Germanic paganism was a religion. It was a form of paganism. It was practiced in Central and Northern Europe before Christianity came there. The best documented form is called Norse paganism today. The religion was polytheistic, there were many gods. The main ones seem to have been Odin and Thor. Beforehand, the most important one may have been Tyr.

[[Miguel Ángel Asturias]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1974 deaths, Guatemalan writers, Guatemalan politicians

Miguel Ángel Asturias Rosales (October 19, 1899 - June 9, 1974) was a writer and diplomat from Guatemala. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1967 for his Banana Trilogy. He also wrote El Hombre que lo tenía todo todo todo.

He was very important for literature in his country.

[[Hindustan]]

The term Hindustan may relate to various aspects of three geographical areas:

Hindustan can also refer to the following:

[[Plymouth Colony]]

CATEGORIES: Plymouth Colony, 1620 establishments, 1691 disestablishments

Plymouth Colony was an English colony in North America. It existed from 1620 to 1691.  At its height, Plymouth Colony occupied most of the southeastern part of the modern state of Massachusetts. 

[[Open proxy]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

An open proxy is a proxy server which any Internet user can use. Generally, a proxy server allows users within a network group to store and forward Internet services such as DNS or web pages, so that not as much bandwidth is used and it is more controlled. With an "open" proxy, however, any user on the Internet is able to use this forwarding service.

By using some open proxies ("anonymous" open proxies), users can hide their true IP address.  Anonymous open proxies will also make the user more anonymous and secure when browsing the web or using other internet services: a user's true IP address can be used by a hacker to get information from the user's computer.

Sometimes people will abuse open proxies, and so they are often seen as a problem.  Using open proxies can be sometimes dangerous as person providing them can be collecting user information.

[[Zombie (computing)]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

A zombie computer (often shortened as zombie) is a computer attached to the Internet that has been compromised by a hacker, a computer virus, or a trojan horse. 

Generally, a compromised machine is only one of many in a botnet, and the hacker will make the computer do unwanted things from far away. Most owners of zombie computers do not know that their system is being used in this way. Because the owner tends to not know, these computers are compared to zombies.

[[Rapture]]

CATEGORIES: Christian eschatology

The Rapture (meaning "to carry to another place") is a future event in Christian theology where Jesus Christ will return to Earth to bring his followers to Heaven. In Christianity it is believed that following this amazing event, the world will go through what is called the tribulation. Then later following, will come the millennium (a thousand years).

[[Zeeland]]

CATEGORIES: Zeeland

Zeeland (also called Zealand) is a province in Netherlands. It is on the south-western part of the country. About 380,000 people live in this province.

[[Edo period]]

CATEGORIES: Periods in Japanese history, Samurai, 1603 establishments, 17th century establishments in Japan, 1868 disestablishments in Japan, 1600s establishments in Asia

Edo period, also called the Tokugawa period (徳川時代 Tokugawa-jidai), is the time between 1600 and 1868 in the history of Japan.  During this long time Japanese society was ruled by the Tokugawa shogunate and the country's 300 regional feudal lords.

These years come after the Azuchi-Momoyama period and before the Meiji Restoration and the development of modern Japan.

The Tokugawa shogunate was established at Edo in 1603 by the shogun Tokugawa Ieyasu. The period was marked by the influence of neo-Confucianism and Shinto. The 15th and last shogun was Tokugawa Yoshinobu.

The period ended with the Meiji Restoration, which was the restoration of imperial rule. The Edo period is also known as the beginning of the early modern period of Japan.

[[Graduation (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Kanye West albums, Hip hop albums

Graduation is the third studio album by American hip hop recording artist and producer Kanye West. It was released on September 11, 2007 on Roc-A-Fella Records. It is also West' last album to be influenced by a college theme in both the albums title and artwork.

[[Savior]]

CATEGORIES: Theology

Savior (or Saviour) refers to a someone who has saved another from danger. It can also refer to someone who has helped people achieve Salvation. Many religions have a Savior, though the way they use the idea varies. 

Christianity's savior is Jesus, the Christ.(Gospel of Matthew 1:21) In Judaism, Jesus is not considered a savior. They believe that the Messiah, their own concept of a savior, has not yet comeNovember 2012. In Islam, their savior is MahdiNovember 2012. In Hinduism, Shiva, Vishnu, and Devi are referred to as saviors.November 2012

[[Pebibyte]]

CATEGORIES: Computing measurement

A pebibyte (Peta Binary Byte, abbreviated PiB) is a large unit of measurement of bytes (computer memory). 

1 pebibyte = 250 bytes = 1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes = 1,024 tebibytes. It is related to the petabyte which is 1015 bytes.

1024 pebibytes make one exbibyte.

[[Exbibyte]]

CATEGORIES: Computing measurement

An exbibyte (EiB) is a large unit of measurement for computers of the future. Exbibytes hold 1024 pebibytes (PiB) or 1,152,921,504,606,846,976 bytes. Some people call this number of bytes an exabyte.

1024 exbibytes make 1 zebibyte.

[[Okrouhlička]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Okrouhlička is a small village in the Havlíčkův Brod District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 199 people live thereApril 2012. It covers 6,84 km². Okrouhlička was first documented in 1307.April 2012

[[Water buffalo]]

CATEGORIES: Bovines

Water buffaloes are a kind of bovine. There are Wild Asian Water Buffaloes and domestic buffaloes or domestic Asian water buffalo. They are bred in Asia, South America and in Southern Europe. They were bred from the Wild Asian Water Buffalo, which is now an endangered species.

Today, these buffaloes are used for their milk, which has more fat than that of cows. The milk is processed to make Mozzarella, and curd. Feral populations are sometimes used to manage uncontrolled growth of vegetation around wetlands. They will simply graze it off. This keeps such bodies of water usable by birds and other wildlife.

Females normally give birth to calves every other year. Young bulls  usually stay with herds of mothers, which have about 30 buffalo, for three years after birth. They then go on to form small all-male herds.

Water buffalo have been kept by humans for more than 5,000 years. They have helped humans with their meat, horns, hides, milk, butterfat, and power, plowing and transporting people and crops.

Wild water buffalo are endangered. They live only in a small number of protected areas in countries like India, Nepal, Bhutan, and Thailand.

[[Lípa (Havlíčkův Brod District)]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Lípa is a village in the Havlíčkův Brod District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 1024 people live there. It covers 14,7 km². Lípa was first documented in 1351.

[[Věžnička]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Věžnička is a village in the Jihlava District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 116 people live there. It covers 4.51 km². Věžnička was first documented in 1502.

[[Kamenná (Jihlava District)]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Kamenná  is a village in the Jihlava District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 171 people live there. It covers 6,33 km². Kamenná was first documented in 1308.

[[Větrný Jeníkov]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Větrný Jeníkov is a village in the Jihlava District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 582 people live there. It covers 12,22 km². Větrný Jeníkov was first documented in 1226.

[[Florida State University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Coast Conference, Colleges and universities in Florida, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Tallahassee, Florida, 1851 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Florida

Florida State University is a large school in Tallahassee, in the north part of Florida, U.S.A. It is one of the two most important public universities in Florida, together with the University of Florida. More than 40,000 students go to school there, usually starting after high school (secondary school) at an age of about 18 years. About 9,000 of the students already have a degree (diploma) from college, and are learning even more, to earn an advanced degree.

The University is made up of 16 colleges: Arts and Sciences; Business; Communication; Criminology and Criminal Justice; Education; Engineering; Human Sciences; Information; Law; Medicine; Motion Picture, Television and Recording Arts; Music; Nursing; Social Sciences; Social Work; and Visual Arts, Theatre and Dance.

Florida State University is more than 150 years old. The fees to attend the school (tuition) in 2006 were $3,175 for people from Florida and $16,306 for people from other places, for each term (about 4 months).

Their athletics team, the Seminoles have 17 varsity teams and have claimed 2 national championships (1993, 1999) in football.

[[1989 Tiananmen Square protests]]

CATEGORIES: 1989, 1980s in Asia, 20th century in China, April events, Beijing, Mass murder in the 1980s, Massacres in Asia, Politics of the People's Republic of China

The 1989 Tiananmen Square protests were protests in April and June of that year. China calls this the June Fourth Incident, but to most of the world it is the Tiananmen Square massacre.

[[Evangelism]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology, Evangelicalism

Evangelism is the Christian practice of preaching about Jesus Christ to both Christians and non-Christians. The purpose of most evangelism is to help others receive eternal (forever) salvation to people who have not heard of, or have denied God. Evangelism is done in obedience to the Great Commission, a command from Jesus to his disciples to convert others, as recorded in the New Testament. 

Christians who are superior at evangelism are known as evangelists, whether in their areas or to far away places. Some Christian traditions consider evangelists to be in a leadership position, and they may be found preaching to large meetings.   

[[Southern Baptist Convention]]

CATEGORIES: Southern Baptist Convention, 1845 establishments in the United States

The Southern Baptist Convention (SBC) is a United States-based Christian denomination. The name Southern Baptist Convention refers both to the denomination and to its annual meeting of members. They split from the northern Baptists in 1845 over the slavery question. 

[[Times Square]]

CATEGORIES: Town squares, Manhattan

Times Square is a section of Manhattan, New York City. It is a major center for tourism, show business and commerce. The square is at the meeting point of Broadway, 7th Avenue and 42nd street. One of the biggest stations in the New York City Subway system is under Times Square. The well-known city street area is probably most famous for its New Year's Eve ball drop that happens every year.  It is one of the most famous sights of New York.

[[FutureSex/LoveSounds]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Justin Timberlake albums, Pop albums, R&B albums

FutureSex/LoveSounds is the second solo studio album by American pop singer Justin Timberlake. It was released on September 12, 2006 through Jive Records and Zomba Records. Timberlake started the FutureSex/LoveShow tour in support of the album in January 2007. He worked with several notable producers including: Danja, Rick Rubin, Timbaland and will.i.am.  The album originally sold slightly more than his first solo album, Justified, with worldwide sales in excess of 9 million, 4 million of which have been sold in the United States alone. As of February 2018 the album has sold over 15 million units CSPC.

[[Dilemma (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 songs, 2000s ballads, Kelly Rowland songs, Nelly songs

"Dilemma" is the 2002 hit single by the rapper Nelly. The song featured Kelly Rowland from Destiny's Child. It was  released from the 2002 album Nellyville. "Dilemma" was Kelly Rowland's first international solo song away from Destiny's Child. She had previously appeared on Avant's "Separated", which was released in the United States only. It was also the first single from her debut album Simply Deep.  It is based melodically on and uses lyrical elements of Patti LaBelle's "Love, Need and Want You" from her 1983 album I'm In Love Again. LaBelle also plays a part in the music video, as Kelly Rowland's mother. Kelly Rowland's part in "Dilemma" was originally offered to Christina Aguilera, but Aguilera declined the offer. Two years later, Nelly approached Aguilera once again for the recording of "Tilt Ya Head Back", a critically-acclaimed but less successful track (in terms of the Billboard Hot 100 chart) on Nelly's later album Sweat.

[[Bring Me to Life]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 songs, Daredevil (movie series), Grammy Award winning songs, Music memes, Evanescence songs

"Bring Me to Life" is the first single from Evanescence's multi-platinum first album "Fallen". At the 2004 Grammy Awards the song won the award for Best Hard Rock Performance.

[[Charybdis]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures

Charybdis is a sea monster in Ancient Greek mythology. It was said that she was a daughter of Poseidon and that when she breathed in and out the sea would rise and fall. She was also the sister of Scylla.When angry she would turn into a whirlpool and suck in anything within half a mile

[[Scylla]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures, Mythology

Scylla was a sea monster in Greek mythology. She was said to be the daughter of Poseidon. Scylla was a water dwelling version of the Hydra and the sister of Charybdis.

Some myths explain Scylla's beginnings. One of them says she was one of the daughters of Phorcys the Greek God of the Deep. Another says that Scylla was a very pretty fairy who was liked by Poseidon, but the jealous Amphitrite turned her into a monster by poisoning the water of the place where Scylla would swim.

One says that a jealous Circe poured a potion into the sea water and then made Scylla transform into a monster with four eyes and six long necks with ugly heads. Her body had 12 tentacle looking legs and a tail. She attacked the ships of nearby people.

In another myth, Heracles (also known as Hercules) came across Scylla when traveling and then killed her. The sea-god Phorcys, then restored her to life.

[[Going commando]]

CATEGORIES: Slang, Underwear

Going commando means wearing no underwear. 

People have many different reasons for going commando. Some people do it to feel comfortable. Other people do it because their culture (the group they grew up with) does not have underwear. ‘Going commando’ refers to wearing no underwear but still wearing clothes on your bottom half (trousers etc)

[[Smurfette]]

CATEGORIES: Smurfs, Comics characters

Smurfette is the main protagonist in The Smurfs franchise. She is the only female smurf in The Smurf Village. Most of the other smurfs like her because of her beauty. She is not the smartest smurf. Often she gets caught in traps while looking at herself in the mirror. She does not seem to have an attraction for many of the other smurfs.

Later other female smurfs appeared, although it is unclear how they came into being.

[[Smuggler's Run]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 video games, Game Boy Advance games, PlayStation 2 games

Smuggler's Run released in Japan as CRAZY BUMP'S ~ Kattobi Car Battle! is an early video game developed by Angel Studios (now Rockstar San Diego) and published by Rockstar Games for the PlayStation 2 console. In the game you drive multiple vehicles including trophy trucks, SUVs, and cars. The game is rated T for teen and you can hit cops and animals but they will not die.

One sequel to the game was produced: Smuggler's Run 2, which was released for the Sony PlayStation 2 on October 30, 2001. The game was later ported to the Nintendo GameCube on August 7, 2002 and renamed Smuggler's Run: Warzones.

The original Smuggler's Run is now a part of the Sony Greatest Hits series of games that have reached a particular sales milestone for the Sony PlayStation 2.

[[My Gym Partner's A Monkey]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series, Cartoon Network series, English-language television programs, 2005 television series debuts, 2008 television series endings

My Gym Partner's a Monkey is a show on Cartoon Network. It is about a human boy named Adam Lyon who used to go to a normal human school but the principal says he is an animal because he spelled "Lyon" with an i. He then goes to Charles Darwin Middle School (named after the scientist Charles Darwin) and he makes friends with the animals at the school.

[[Systems science]]

CATEGORIES: Systems scientists, Systems theory

Systems science is the interdisciplinary field of science, that studies the principles of systems in nature, in society and in science itself.

Types of systems science are systems theory, cybernetics and chaos theory, and all kinds of similar sciences.

The aim of systems science is to develop interdisciplinary foundations for all science. This foundation is used in a variety of areas, such as engineering, biology, medicine and social sciences.

[[Systems theory]]

CATEGORIES: Systems theory

Systems theory is the study of the nature of systems in nature, society, and science.  More specifically, systems theory is a framework to analyze or describe any group of things which work together to produce some result. This can be a single organism, any organization or society, or any electronic, mechanical or informational artifact. 

Systems theory as a technical and general academic area of study. It was founded by Ludwig von Bertalanffy and others in the 1950s. 

[[Emotion (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Destiny's Child songs, 2001 songs

"Emotion" was remade by R&B group Destiny's Child in 2001, it was produced and arranged by Mark J. Feist. The song is a remake of Emotions by the Bee Gees and Samantha Sang.

[[McDonaldland]]

CATEGORIES: Advertising, McDonald's

McDonaldland was a "fake" cartoon land made by the fast food restaurant, McDonald's. McDonaldland was used in commercials, which are short clips on TV to sell things. McDonaldland was used to sell McDonald's Happy Meals (the kid's meal). The McDonaldland people were Big Mac, Birdie, Captain Crook, CosMc, Fry kids, Grimace, Hamburglar, Iam Hungry, and some others. The main person is Ronald McDonald. McDonald's got sued (a case for money) by a company that said everything in McDonaldland was a ripoff (copy with little difference) of their TV show. McDonald's gave them one million dollars and lost many of the people who were in the commercials. 4 were left and they were in the real world instead of a cartoon land. Now in later years, Ronald has been in the commercials by himself without any of the McDonaldland people.

[[Atlético Madrid]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Madrid, 1903 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in Spain

Club Atlético de Madrid is a Spanish football team from Madrid, the capital city of Spain, that play in La Liga. They are managed by Diego Simeone and they play their home games at the Wanda Metropolitano. They have had famous players like Luis Suárez, Antoine Griezmann, Kieran Trippier, Jan Oblak, and Renan Lodi. 

In the number of titles, Atlético Madrid is the third most successful club in Spanish football, behind Real Madrid and Barcelona.

[[Buttocks]]

CATEGORIES: Torso

The buttocks are two parts of the body. They are on the back of the pelvic area and give padding when people sit. They can also arouse human sexuality.

Buttocks are formed mainly from two large muscles on each side. These are the gluteus maximus and the glutius medius. They go from the hip to the top of the leg, so they are not there just for decoration. The role of the buttocks in sitting and in sexual arousal are secondary functions in our species.

In some African populations the buttocks look bigger because of extra fat. This condition is known as steatopygia. It is an inherited condition first noticed in the Khoisan (San people) of southern Africa and the pygmies of central Africa. Now it has been recognised in the people of the Andamanese islands in the Pacific Ocean.

Slang words for the buttocks include "booty", "butt", "hiney", and "ass".

[[Toyota Camry]]

CATEGORIES: Toyota automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Sedans, Front wheel drive vehicles

The Toyota Camry (ˈ; Japanese: トヨタ・カムリ) is a made by Toyota since 1980. The name "Camry" comes from the Japanese word kanmuri (冠, かんむり), which means "crown".

[[Kush]]

CATEGORIES: History of Africa, Ancient Egypt

Kush civilization had its center in the region of Nubia. This was in northern Sudan of today. We know about it through the Egyptians who moved south around 2500 BC. When the Middle Kingdom of Egypt ended an independent kingdom of Kush developed. About 1500 BC Egyptians moved southwards again, but this time met organized resistance. Historians are not sure whether this resistance came from many city states or a single unified empire. The Egyptians won, and the region became a colony of Egypt under the control of Thutmose I. The region supplied Egypt with resources.

In the eleventh century BC internal disputes in Egypt caused colonial rule to collapse and an independent kingdom arose based at Napata in Nubia. This kingdom was ruled by locals who overthrew the colonial regime. But Kush had many beliefs and gods in common with Egypt.

[[Cybernetics]]

CATEGORIES: Systems, Systems theory

Cybernetics is the study of control and communication in the animal and the machine. Norbert Wiener added: "Information is information, not matter or energy".155

Ross Ashby defined it as: "the art of steermanship... co-ordination, regulation and control will be its

themes, for these are of the greatest biological and practical interest... it treats, not things but ways of

behaving. It does not ask “what is this thing?” but “what does it

do?” Ashby continued: 

Louis Couffignal said cybernetics was "the art of ensuring the efficacy of action".

Cybernetics was from the first an inter-disciplinary field of study. It included people from at least a dozen academic disciplines. There were two events which sparked it off after World War II. The first was that scientists from different backgrounds had, during the war, worked together on various military projects. They learned a good deal about how to cooperate with their various partners. The second event was the invention of computers during the war.

The countries which started cybernetics were Britain and the United States, but the idea spread quickly to France, Russia and other countries. Another, more famous, example of 'interdisciplinary studies' was molecular and cell biology.

[[Complexity]]

CATEGORIES: Systems, Systems theory

Complexity is a property of something with many parts and a complicated arrangement. It is also the state of being complex. Its opposite is simplicity. In science, complexity is also the name for systems science. 

[[Complex system]]

CATEGORIES: Systems

A complex system is one where smaller elements make complex things happen. These smaller elements can be simple elements or they can be complex systems within themselves. Any such complex elements can be interrelated in simple or complex ways and may be hard to identify as distinct.

[[Control theory]]

CATEGORIES: Systems, Systems theory

Control theory is an interdisciplinary branch of engineering and mathematics. It deals with the behavior of systems. The desired output of a system is called the reference. In that context, a system can be influenced by certain input values. Depending on the input values, the system may change its state or its behavior. Common questions control theory asks: 

One of the first modern people to talk about control theory was James Clerk Maxwell. In his work On Governors, of 1868, he looked at the dynamic properties of centrifugal governors, as they were used by steam engines. Such governors were already used to regulate the speed of windmills.

[[Acura]]

CATEGORIES: Automobile companies of Japan, 1986 establishments in Japan

Acura is the luxury brand of the car company Honda. It has been used in the United States, Canada and Hong Kong since March 1986. The brand has been used to market Honda's luxury cars and high performance models. Before Acura, most Japanese cars were economical in design.

[[Cabal Online]]

CATEGORIES: Online games

Cabal Online is a free Massive Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game (MMORPG) created by ESTsoft Corporation.

[[Blackletter]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Ages, Typography, Writing

Blackletter or Gothic script is an old way to write. Blackletter in writing or print was used in Western Europe from about 1150 to the 17th century. It was used for printing in Germany until the 20th century.

Letter shapes in printing were copied from letter shapes in a style of handwriting. So, the Gothic script of northern Europe and the Latin script used in Italy were both copied into print typography.

[[Super Smash Bros.]]

CATEGORIES: Super Smash Bros., 1999 video games, Nintendo 64 games, Virtual Console games

Super Smash Bros. is a crossover fighting game made by HAL Laboratory and Nintendo for the Nintendo 64. It was sold in Japan on January 21, 1999, in North America on April 26, 1999, and in Europe on November 19, 1999. Super Smash Bros. is the first game in the Super Smash Bros. series. The second game in the series is Super Smash Bros. Melee for Nintendo GameCube and was sold in 2001. Super Smash Bros. Brawl is the third game in the series and was made for Wii. Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U are be the fourth games to be release for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U. Super Smash Bros. was in the Wii's Virtual Console in Japan on January 20, 2009, ten years after it was made for Nintendo 64. Super Smash Bros Ultimate was released for Nintendo Switch.

In the game, the players can control every characters from the video game series, including Mario, Pokémon, The Legend of Zelda and many others. The games are very different compared to other fighting games. Other characters include Ike, Marth, Zelda/Sheik, Kirby, Ganondorf, Sonic the Hedgehog, Solid Snake, and Jigglypuff among others.

[[Falkland Islands wolf]]

CATEGORIES: Canids

The Falkland Islands wolf (Dusicyon australis), also known as the warrah, Falkland Islands dog, Falkland Islands fox, or Antarctic wolf, is a species of wolf that used to live on the Falkland Islands. They were blamed for killing sheep, but it is not known if they did or not. The last fox died in 1876. This species probably fed on penguins, seals and vegetation.

It is unclear how they got to the Falkland Islands. The most common theory was that the warrah descended from domestic dogs brought to the Falkland Islands by the Yaghan of Tierra del Fuego. This explained the lack of their fear of humans. 

However, this theory was seen as implausible because the Falkland Islands are far from mainland South America and the sea between the mainland and the islands is very windy, making it impossible to cross in simple canoes. Now, the accepted theory is that the warrah crossed into the Falkland Islands on a former ice bridge connecting the mainland and the islands.

[[SNoW]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Singers from Tokyo

SNoW (born June 11, 1985 in Tokyo, Japan) is a J-Pop singer. She is now studying at Santa Monica College in California. She was raised in a two language environment. Her favorite artists include Ani DiFranco, Iggy Pop, Talking Heads, and Jack Johnson.

Her first single "Yes" was released under an indie record label in November 2004. In 2005, she changed labels to Sony Music Entertainment Japan. With Sony, she released "Hanabi made Ato Sukoshi" (花火まであとすこし - unofficial translation: "A Little Longer Until the Fireworks") in July. Her third single, "Sakasama no Chō" (逆さまの蝶, "The Inverted Butterfly"), was released on January 25, 2006. "Sakasama no Chō" was the opening theme of the 2005/2006 anime Jigoku Shoujo (地獄少女). It will also be used in the movie Humoresque to be released in February 2006. The opening theme for Jigoku Shōjo's second season, "NightmaRe", was also performed by SNoW. It was released as a single on December 6, 2006.

[[Funnel cloud]]

CATEGORIES: Clouds

A funnel cloud is a funnel-shaped cloud of condensed water droplets.  They usually appear with a rotating column of air.   These extend from the bottom of a cloud that does not touch the ground or a water surface. A funnel cloud can usually  be seen as a cone or needle shaped cloud that extends out from the main cloud base. Funnel clouds, very often, develop when supercell thunderstorms happen.

If a funnel cloud touches the ground, it becomes a tornado. Most tornadoes begin as funnel clouds.  Many funnel clouds that appear do not actually touch the ground, and do not become tornadoes.  Tornadoes can only be seen when they pick up stuff off the ground (debris), but one can see them from a distance of many miles.

A funnel cloud that makes contact with water is called a waterspout. 

A funnel cloud that touches the ground in front of a snow squall is called a winter waterspout.

[[Wallington High School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in New Jersey

Wallington Jr/Sr High School is a six-year public high school that serves students in seventh through twelfth grade from Wallington, in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States, as part of the Wallington Public Schools.

[[Waterspout]]

CATEGORIES: Weather

A waterspout is a funnel cloud over water. It is a nonsupercell tornado over water. Waterspouts do not suck up water; the water seen in the main funnel cloud is actually water droplets formed by condensation. It is weaker than most of its land counterparts.

[[Bob Jones University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in South Carolina, Greenville, South Carolina, 1917 establishments in the United States, Christian colleges and universities in the United States, 20th-century establishments in South Carolina

Bob Jones University (BJU) is a private Protestant Christian university in Greenville, South Carolina. The university was founded in 1927 by Bob Jones, Sr. (1883-1968), an evangelist. The school has around 3,000 students attending it, and there are 2,755 undergraduate students attending. Until the 1970s, BJU only allowed white students to attend. Afterwards, it banned interracial dating.

[[Mordecai Ham]]

CATEGORIES: 1877 births, 1961 deaths, American Baptists, Christian religious leaders, Evangelists, People from Kentucky

Mordecai Fowler Ham, Jr. (April 2, 1877 – November 1, 1961) was an American evangelist. He entered his ministry in 1901. In 1936, he started his Christian radio evangelism career. He continued working as an evangelist until shortly before his death in 1961.

[[Charles Templeton]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2001 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Canadian politicians, Cartoonists, Canadian journalists, Canadian inventors, Canadian writers, People from Toronto

Charles Bradley Templeton (October 7 1915 - June 7 2001) was a Canadian cartoonist, evangelist, agnostic, politician, newspaper editor, inventor, broadcaster and author. At the age of 17 during the Great Depression, Chuck Templeton (as he was then known) got his first job as a sports cartoonist for The Globe and Mail. This would be the first of many of his careers. In the late 1990s, he was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease.  He died from problems with the disease in 2001.

[[Billy Graham Evangelistic Association]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations

The Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) is an organization founded by Rev. Billy Graham in 1950. The purpose of the BGEA is to tell the gospel of Jesus Christ to as many people as they can. They have done this through crusades, evangelism training, youth outreach, television broadcasts, and radio programs, just to name a few. The current President of BGEA is Graham's son Franklin.

[[Washington National Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Anglican Cathedrals, Cathedrals in the United States, Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C.

The Washington National Cathedral is a cathedral of the Episcopal Church in the United States. Congress officially made it the non-denominational National House of Prayer. Located in Washington, D.C., the capital of the United States, it is the sixth largest cathedral in the world and second largest in the United States. It was built between 1907 and 1990.

On Tuesday, August 23, 2011, the central tower on the Cathedral was damaged by an earthquake. A 5.8-magnitude earthquake struck northern Virginia, about 135 from Washington D.C. The earthquake knocked off some of the cross-shaped finial stones. Finials are the decorative top of the pinnacles or towers. One pinnacle is leaning to the side. The inside of the cathedral did not receive any serious damage from the earthquake.

Officials have stated that it will cost millions of dollars to repair the damage. The cost of repairs will not be covered by insurance. There are many cracks in the limestone exterior. There was concern that the landfall of hurricane Irene would cause more damage. The hurricane did not cause any additional damage to the cathedral.

State funerals for three American Presidents have been held at the cathedral:

Memorial services were also held for presidents Warren G. Harding, William Taft, Calvin Coolidge, Harry S Truman, and Richard M. Nixon.

[[United States Postal Service]]

CATEGORIES: United States Postal Service, 1971 establishments in the United States

The United States Postal Service (USPS) was founded in 1971, replacing the United States Post Office Department. Its headquarters is in Washington D.C. In the United States, it is referred to as "the post office", "the postal service", or just "the mail". Its job is to deliver letters, packages, and other items to people.

[[Parkinson's disease]]

CATEGORIES: Parkinson's disease

Parkinson's disease (or PD, sometimes simply "Parkinson's") is a disease that slowly damages the central nervous system. The central nervous system is made up of the brain and spine. When a person gets Parkinson's disease, the cells that make dopamine in a part of the brain die. Dopamine cells send information to other cells which makes us do the actions we do. Because of this, Parkinson's disease mainly affects the body's motor system.

Parkinson's disease is a disease that gets worse over time. People normally get Parkinson's disease when they are over 50 years old. It is sometimes very hard for doctors to detect.

[[Samford University]]

CATEGORIES: Christian colleges and universities in the United States, Colleges and universities in Alabama, 1841 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Alabama

Samford University is a private, Southern Baptist-related university in Homewood, Alabama, a suburb of Birmingham, Alabama. Samford ranked 118 out of 262 institutions in U.S. News and World Reports'  college rankings.

[[Hainanese chicken rice]]

CATEGORIES: Rice dishes

Hainanese chicken rice is a dish created by the people that originated from Hainan. It is a plate of chicken served with rice cooked in chicken oil. It is more widely known as one of the national dishes of Singapore.

[[Vortex (disambiguation)]]

A vortex is a dynamic phenomenon of fluids.

Vortex could also mean:

In amusement:

In fiction:

In gaming:

In music:

In science and technology:

In television:

In other fields:

[[Vortex]]

CATEGORIES: Fluid mechanics

A vortex (pl. vortices) is a spinning, often turbulent, 

flow of fluid. The motion of the fluid swirling rapidly around a center is called a vortex. The speed and rate of rotation of the fluid are greatest at the center and become smaller with distance from the center.

[[Libertia]]

CATEGORIES: Iridaceae

Libertia is a genus of monocotyledenous plants in the family Iridaceae. There are 15 species in the genus. The plants can be found growing in the southern hemisphere.

[[Alan Dawazhouma]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, C-pop singers, Chinese musicians, Chinese singers, J-pop singers, People from Sichuan, Pop musicians, Tibetan people

Alan Dawazhouma (known as alan) or 阿兰 is a Tibetan-Chinese singer and erhu player from Sichuan province who debuted in 2005 with 声声醉如兰. As well as Tibetan and Mandarin, she speaks some English and Japanese. Her first release in Japanese was the single, 明日への讃歌.

[[Tibetan]]

Tibetan can refer to:

[[V/Line]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport in Melbourne, Australian transport companies

V/Line is a regional train operator in Victoria, Australia. They operate all regional trains outside the Connex network, as well as some bus services that take people a long way.

[[Carpool]]

CATEGORIES: Road transport

Carpooling is sharing a car with other passengers to help share the cost of operating the car. Besides being cheaper than driving many cars at the same time, it also reduces traffic congestion. There are many companies that provide carpooling services such as Ola, MyCotra, Quickride, and Uber.

[[Middleweight]]

CATEGORIES: Boxing

In boxing, the term Middleweight is used for a specific group of people based on weight. A middleweight is a boxer weight does not exceed 160 pounds (73 kg).

Boxing organizations created many divisions so that fighters could fight people of the same size. 

The first heavyweight champion under modern rules was Irish boxer Jack (Nonpareil) Dempsey.

Famous heavyweight champions have include Bob Fitzsimmons, Nino Benvenuti, Rocky Graziano, Marvin Hagler, Bernard Hopkins, Roy Jones Jr., Jake LaMotta, Carlos Monzon, 

Sugar Ray Robinson, Tony Zale and Sugar Ray Leonard.

[[Moneymore]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Northern Ireland

Moneymore is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. It is 5 from Cookstown and 5 from Magherafelt.

[[Denpasar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indonesia, Bali

Denpasar (Denpasar) is the capital city of the province of Bali, Indonesia. It is also the site of Ngurah Rai Airport, the main gateway to Bali. It has a population of 897,300 (2017).

[[Toome]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Northern Ireland, Settlements in County Antrim

Toome (or Toomebridge) is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. It is 7 from Magherafelt and 11 from Antrim. It is close to the River Bann.

[[Kuta]]

CATEGORIES: Bali, Towns in Indonesia

Kuta is a town in southern Bali, Indonesia. Once it was a fishing village. It was one of the first towns on Bali to become popular with tourists. It is one of Indonesia's major tourist destinations. It has a long sandy beach, and many restaurants and bars. It is near Bali's Ngurah Rai Airport.

On October 12, 2002, a series of bombings killed more than 200 people in Kuta. The bombings happened outside two nightclubs.

[[An Inconvenient Truth]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 movies, Climate change, American documentary movies, Energy, Green politics, Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award

An Inconvenient Truth is a 2006 documentary movie about global warming directed by Davis Guggenheim, presented by former United States Vice President Al Gore. The movie was first shown at the 2006 Sundance Film Festival. It opened in New York and Los Angeles on May 24, 2006. The movie was released on DVD on November 21, 2006. A companion book by Gore reached Number 1 on the paperback nonfiction New York Times bestseller list on July 2, 2006.  The movie won Academy Awards for Best Documentary Feature and for Best Original Song.

An Inconvenient Truth is the story of Al Gore and his efforts to tell people about the climate change concerns. Gore says, "I've been trying to tell this story for a long time and I feel as if I've failed to get the message across." The movie closely follows a "slide show" presentation that Gore has shown throughout the world. It shows Gore's exploration of the global warming data, and predictions regarding climate change and its potential for disaster.

[[Gary Megson]]

CATEGORIES: English football managers

Gary Megson (born: 20 June 1960) is an English former football player and manager. He is best known for being the manager of the West Brom team which gained promotion to the Premier League.

[[Matt Hardy]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Raleigh, North Carolina, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni, American bloggers

Matthew "Matt" Moore Hardy (born September 23, 1974) is an American professional wrestler. He works for OMEGA Championship Wrestling and Ring of Honor (ROH). He has workied for World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. He teams with his younger brother Jeff Hardy.

[[Kerobokan Prison]]

CATEGORIES: Prisons, Bali, Buildings and structures in Indonesia

Kerobokan Prison is a prison in the town of Kerobokan in Bali, Indonesia. In addition to local criminals, a number of foreigners are held there, notably Schapelle Corby and the Bali Nine — all convicted of drug smuggling.

[[Edmund Spenser]]

CATEGORIES: 1552 births, 1599 deaths, People buried in Westminster Abbey, English poets, British poets laureate

Edmund Spenser (ˈ; c. 1552 – 13 January 1599) was an important poet from England. He is most famous for his epic poem The Faerie Queene, which talks about different knights who fight against evil. The poem also praises Queen Elizabeth I of England. He wrote also many sonnets and poems. The sonnets were collected under the name of Amoretti.

Edmund Spenser invented a new rhyme-scheme for sonnet (abab bcbc cdcd ee) and a nine-line stanza (ababbcbcc). These forms are today called Spenserian sonnet and Spenserian stanza. Spenserian stanza was later used by many poets, among others by George Gordon Byron, Percy Bysshe Shelley, John Keats and Alfred Tennyson. 

[[Papua]]

Papua may refer to:

[[Papuan languages]]

CATEGORIES: Languages

The term Papuan languages means languages of the western Pacific which are neither Austronesian nor Australian. That is, the term is defined negatively and does not mean a linguistic relationship. 

[[Lombok]]

CATEGORIES: Lombok, Islands of Indonesia, Lesser Sunda Islands, Australasia, Gondwana

[[The Faerie Queene]]

CATEGORIES: 16th-century British poems, Epic poems

The Faerie Queene is an English epic poem by Edmund Spenser. The poem was first published in 1590. A longer version of the poem was published in 1596. This version of the poem is in six parts or books. 

The Fairie Queene is about different knights who fight against evil. It is an allegorical work, and each book of the poem is about a different virtue. The poem also praises Queen Elizabeth I of England and her family, the Tudors. Queen Elizabeth liked the poem so much that she gave Spenser a pension as a reward.

[[Torres Strait Islanders]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous peoples of Australia, Queensland

Torres Strait Islanders are the indigenous people of the Torres Strait Islands, part of Queensland, Australia. They are culturally related to the coastal peoples of Papua New Guinea. They are regarded as being distinct from other Aboriginal peoples of the rest of Australia. There are also two Torres Strait Islander communities on the nearby coast of the mainland.

[[Australian megafauna]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of animals, Animals of Australia

Australian megafauna is a word used to describe a number of animal species in Australia that are quite a bit bigger than their closest living relatives. These species became extinct during the Pleistocene (16,100±100 - 50,000 years before present), but exact dates for their extinction have only been discovered recently.

Some mythological creatures from the Aboriginal dreamtime look a bit like animals from the prehistoric Australian megafauna.

[[Omagh bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 in the United Kingdom, 1990s crimes in the United Kingdom, 1990s explosions, 1990s in Northern Ireland, 1990s murders in Europe, Attacks on buildings and structures in Northern Ireland, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1990s, August events, Building bombings in the United Kingdom, Car and truck bombings in Europe, County Tyrone, Explosions in Northern Ireland, Irish Republican Army, Mass murder in Northern Ireland, Mass murder in the 1990s, Massacres in the United Kingdom, Terrorist incidents in the 1990s, The Troubles

The Omagh bombing was a car bomb attack by the Real Irish Republican Army in Omagh, County Tyrone, Northern Ireland, on 15 August 1998. 29 people were killed and over 300 people were hurt.

[[Themis (hypothetical moon)]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons

On April 28, 1905, the American astronomer William H. Pickering said that he had found a tenth moon of the planet Saturn. Pickering named the moon Themis. No other astronomer has ever seen the moon that Pickering said he saw. Because of this, astronomers do not count Themis as an official moon of Saturn.

Pickering tried to figure out an orbit for Themis. He thought that Themis had an inclination of 39.1° to the ecliptic, with 0.23 eccentricity (0.23) and a semi-major axis distance of 1,457,000 km. This meant that Themis had an orbit like the moons Titan and Hyperion. Pickering believed that it took Themis 20.85 days to orbit Saturn, in a prograde motion.

Pickering thought that the diameter of Themis was about 38 miles (61 km). Pickering had also discovered the moon Phoebe, but modern astronomers know that Pickering made a mistake when he gave 42 miles (68 km) as the diameter of Phoebe. Because astronomers know how Pickering made his mistake, they can say that if Themis existed, it would have a diameter of 200 km.

In April 1861, Hermann Goldschmidt also thought he discovered a new satellite of Saturn between Titan and Hyperion. Goldschmidt called this moon Chiron. The moon Chiron also does not exist, but the name was used much later for the comet/asteroid 2060 Chiron.

In 1906, the French Academy of Sciences gave Pickering the Lalande Prize of the French Academy of Sciences for his "discovery of the ninth and tenth satellites of Saturn".

The actual tenth satellite of Saturn (in order of discovery) was Janus, which was discovered in 1966 and confirmed in 1980. Its orbit is far from the supposed orbit of Themis.

There is also an asteroid named 24 Themis.

[[Real Irish Republican Army]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Ireland, Nationalist organizations in Europe, National liberation movements, Irish Republican Army, 1997 establishments in the United Kingdom, Organisations based in the United Kingdom

The Real Irish Republican Army (or Real IRA) is a group from Ireland who want Northern Ireland to become part of the Republic of Ireland, and want it to leave the United Kingdom. The group started after they left the Provisional Irish Republican Army, after an argument. On 15 August 1998 they did the Omagh bombing, which killed 29 people and hurt over 300 people. They have shot police officers and have also bombed places in England, such as London and Birmingham. It is against the law to be a member of the Real IRA.

[[The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck]]

CATEGORIES: Comic books, Disney

The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck is a comic book painted and written by Don Rosa. To make it, Rosa needed to see Carl Barks's stories and the more important facts of Scrooge's fictional life.

[[General Certificate of Secondary Education]]

CATEGORIES: General Certificate of Secondary Education, Education in the United Kingdom

The General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) is a set of exams taken in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and other British territories. They are usually taken by students aged 15–16, after two years of study. Some students can take their exams early if their teachers think the students are capable. Most students taking their GCSEs study between 5 and 12 subjects.

All pupils have to study English, mathematics and science until they are 15-16. They do not have to take the GCSE exams, but the large majority do so. In Wales, students must also study Welsh until they are 14.

Most schools require that a pupil passes 5 or more GCSE exams at grades 4 or 5 or above before they can move on to study A-levels.

In 2020, the exams were cancelled for the first time due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

[[Edo]]

CATEGORIES: History of Tokyo, 1457 establishments, Establishments in Japan, 1868 disestablishments in Japan, 15th century establishments in Asia

Edo is the former name of the Japanese capital Tokyo, and was the seat of power for the Tokugawa shogunate which ruled Japan from 1603 to 1868. During this period it grew to become one of the largest cities in the world.

[[Renault Vel Satis]]

CATEGORIES: Renault automobiles

The Renault Vel Satis was a large automobile created by the French car manufacturer Renault. It has five seats and four doors. It was produced from 2001 to 2009· It was known for its daring styling and was sold in the UK from 2002 to 2005 but was dropped there due to poor sales. Renault also produced another big car with bold styling called the Avantime which was a coupe/grand tourer but it was a poor seller with only 8,557 made between 2001 and 2003.   

[[Korean food]]

CATEGORIES: Korean food

Korean food came from very old traditions in Korea. It has developed through many environmental, political, and cultural changes. There are special rules for eating meals in Korea.

Korean food is mostly made up of rice, noodles, vegetables, and meats. Most Korean meals have many side dishes (called banchan) along with their steam-cooked rice. Kimchi is usually eaten at every meal. Sesame oil, doenjang, soy sauce, salt, garlic, ginger, pepper and gochujang are ingredients that are often used in the food.

In different provinces of Korea, its ingredients and dishes are different, too. The Korean royal court cuisine used to serve all the best dishes from each province for the royal family. People follow special rules when they eat meals in Korea.

[[Cryptanalysis]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

Cryptanalysis (from the Greek kryptós, "hidden", and analýein, "to loosen" or "to untie") is the study of methods for obtaining the meaning of encrypted information, without access to the secret information which is normally required to do so. Typically, this involves finding a secret key. In non-technical language, this is the practice of codebreaking or cracking the code, although "break" can also mean just a part of a complete solution.

People have been making and breaking codes for many centuries. In the 1930s specialized machines were invented to do the calculations. Code-breaking machines such as the Colossus computer were important during World War II. Computers were the main tool of cryptanalysis in the Cold War and later.

[[International General Certificate of Secondary Education]]

CATEGORIES: Education

The International General Certificate of Secondary Education, or IGCSE, is an international exam for school students. It is typically taken by 14 to 16-year–olds, and it makes students ready for more academic work, including moving to A-Level and AS-Level study. The IGCSE is recognised as the same quality as the United Kingdom GCSE.

IGCSE courses cover subjects from a variety of areas: Languages, Humanities, Social Sciences, Mathematics, Creative, Technical and Vocational.

Most subjects can be studied at two levels of ability, either an easier level or a harder level. This is so that the IGCSE is appropriate for students with different levels of ability. It is planned to be appropriate for students whose first language may not be English and this is seen in all the tests for the IGCSE.

[[Sánchez Ramírez Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Dominican Republic, 1952 establishments in the Dominican Republic

Sánchez Ramírez is a province of the Dominican Republic. It is in the central part of the country. Its capital city is Cotuí.

It was created in 1952. It was a municipality of the Duarte province before being elevated to the category of province.

[[Diane Abbott]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, BBC people, Black British people, British feminists, Democratic socialists, Labour MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Paddington, Politicians from London, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–, Women politicians

Diane Julie Abbott (born 27 September 1953) is a British politician. She was born and raised in London. Her parents were Jamaican immigrants. She is the Member of Parliament for the Hackney North and Stoke Newington constituency in London. She was the first black woman to be elected to the House of Commons when she was elected in the 1987 General Election. In 2010, Abbott became Shadow Public Health Minister after unsuccessfully standing for election as leader of the Labour Party. Abbott was made Shadow Home Secretary by Jeremy Corbyn in October 2016.

She attended Newnham College, Cambridge.

Abbott is a frequent public speaker, newspaper contributor and TV performer.  She has been on programmes such as Have I Got News For You, Celebrity Come Dine with Me and Cash in the Celebrity Attic.

[[Hywel Francis]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, British historians, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for Welsh constituencies, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015

David Hywel Francis (6 June 1946 – 14 February 2021) was a Welsh politician and the Member of Parliament for the Aberavon constituency in the United Kingdom. He was elected in the 2001 General Election.

He was a member of the Labour Party.

[[Frank Doran]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2017 deaths, Members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies, Labour MPs (UK)

Frank Doran (born April 13, 1949 in Edinburgh, Scotland–died October 30, 2017) was a Scottish politician and the  Member of Parliament for the Aberdeen North constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected to the House of Commons in the 1987 general election for Aberdeen South but was defeated in 1992. He is a member of the Labour Party. 

[[Anne Begg]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies, Labour MPs (UK)

Dame Anne Begg, DBE (born December 6, 1955) is a Scottish politician and the  Member of Parliament for the Aberdeen South constituency in the United Kingdom. She was elected in the 1997 general election.

Begg is the first permanent wheelchair user in the House of Commons.

She is a member of the Labour Party.

[[John Reid, Baron Reid of Cardowan]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Former members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies, Former Labour MPs (UK)

John Reid, Baron Reid of Cardowan (born 8 May 1947) is a Scottish football club chairman and a Labour Party politician.  He was the Member of Parliament for the Scottish  constituency of Airdrie and Shotts in the United Kingdom. He was first elected to the House of Commons in the 1987 general election for the Motherwell North constituency. The boundary of the constituency was changed, and in the 1997 election he was elected to the new constituency of Hamilton North and Bellshill. After more boundary changes in 2005 he was elected to the new constituency of Airdrie and Shotts.

He is the former Home Secretary. 

Reid did not stand in the 2010 election, and was made a life peer instead.

He is Chairman of Celtic Football Club in Glasgow.

He is a member of the Labour Party.

[[Gerald Howarth]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Conservative MPs (UK)

James Gerald Douglas Howarth, known as Gerald Howarth (born September 12, 1947) is a British politician and the Member of Parliament for the English  constituency of Aldershot in the United Kingdom. He was first elected to the House of Commons in the 1983 general election for the Cannock and Burntwood constituency but lost in the 1992 general election. 

He was re-elected at the 1997 General Election as MP for Aldershot. 

He is currently Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence as Minister for International Security Strategy.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.

[[Mount Agung]]

CATEGORIES: Bali, Volcanoes of Indonesia

Mount Agung (Gunung Agung) is a volcano on Bali. Mount Agung last erupted in 1963-1964. The lava just missed the Mother Temple of Besakih, which is located on high on the slopes of this sacred mountain. Over 1,000 people were killed and a number of villages were destroyed in this eruption.

Gunung Agung is an active volcano, with a large and deep crater that occasionally emits smoke and ash. The last major eruptions occurred in November 2017.

[[Mount Batur]]

CATEGORIES: Bali, Volcanoes of Indonesia

Mount Batur (Gunung Batur) is a volcano on Bali. Mount Batur last erupted in 2000. It is a volcano inside an older, larger, volcano. The original eruption, about 30,000 years ago, is one of the largest known volcanic events on Earth. The volcano is now 1,717 metres (5,633 feet) high. There are many people — whole villages — living inside the caldera.

[[Mount Rinjani]]

CATEGORIES: Lombok, Volcanoes of Indonesia

Mount Rinjani or Gunung Rinjani is an active volcano on Lombok, Indonesia. It is 3726 high, making it the second highest volcano in Indonesia. It last erupted in 2009.

[[Mataram]]

CATEGORIES: Lombok, Cities in Indonesia, West Nusa Tenggara

Mataram is a city on the west side of the island of Lombok, Indonesia. It is the capital and largest city of West Nusa Tenggara province, and has a population of around 342,896 people as of the year 2005.

[[Megawati Sukarnoputri]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Muslims, Presidents of Indonesia, Vice-Presidents of Indonesia

Diah Permata Megawati Setiawati Soekarnoputri (born January 23, 1947), was President of Indonesia from July 23, 2001 to October 20, 2004. She was the Indonesia's first female President, and leader born after independence. On September 20, 2004, she lost her campaign for re-election in the 2004 Indonesian presidential election. She was also the country's vice president from 21 October 1999 to 23 July 2001. She is the daughter of Indonesia's first president, Sukarno.

[[Kingdom of Kerma]]

CATEGORIES: History of Africa, Ancient Egypt

The Kingdom of Kerma was a state in Nubia from around 2500 BC to about 1520 BC.  It was based in the city of Kerma in Upper Nubia and was a major centre during the Middle Kingdom period of Egypt.  It had a distinct civilization (for example very fine and original ceramics have been found).

The site of Kerma includes both an extensive town and a cemetery consisting of large tumuli.  Because one can find there much examples of Nubian culture and burial practices at the site, scholars think that the Egyptian statues and other Egyptian objects found at Kerma arrived through trade.

In 2003, a Swiss archaeological team working in northern Sudan uncovered one of the most remarkable Egyptological finds in recent years. At the site known as Kerma, near the third cataract of the Nile, archaeologist Charles Bonnet and his team discovered a ditch within a temple from the ancient city of Pnoubs, which contained seven monumental black granite statues. Magnificently sculpted, and in an excellent state of preservation, they portrayed five pharaonic rulers, including Taharqa and Tanoutamon, the last two pharaohs of the 'Nubian' Dynasty, when Egypt was ruled by kings from the lands of modern-day Sudan. For over half a century, the Nubian pharaohs governed a combined kingdom of Egypt and Nubia, with an empire stretching from the Delta to the upper reaches of the Nile.

[[Aladdin (1992 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 romance movies, 1990s adventure movies, 1990s musical movies, Aladdin (Disney), American family movies, American musical movies, American romance movies, Disney animated movies, Disney Renaissance, Movies based on fairy tales, Movies composed by Alan Menken, Movies composed by Harry Gregson-Williams

Aladdin is a 1992 American animated musical fantasy movie. It was produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and released by Walt Disney Pictures. Aladdin is the 31st animated movie in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. It was part of the Disney movie era known as the Disney Renaissance. The movie was directed by John Musker and Ron Clements. It is based on the Arab folktale of Aladdin and the magic lamp from One Thousand and One Nights. The voice cast features Scott Weinger, Jonathan Freeman, Robin Williams, Linda Larkin, Frank Welker, Gilbert Gottfried, and Douglas Seale.

Aladdin was released on November 25, 1992. It got positive reviews and was the most successful movie of 1992, earning over $217 million in revenue in the United States, and over $504 million worldwide. The movie also won many awards, most of them for its soundtrack. Some people have accused it of being racist, because the heroes are light-skinned and have American accents while the villains are dark-skinned and have Arab accents. Aladdin's success led to other material inspired by the movie, including two direct-to-video sequels, The Return of Jafar and Aladdin and the King of Thieves; an animated television series; toys, video games, spin-offs, and Disney merchandise. A Broadway adaptation debuted in 2014.

[[D. B. Cooper]]

CATEGORIES: American criminals, Mysterious people, Missing people

D. B. Cooper (also known as Dan Cooper) is an alias (false name) for a man who hijacked an airplane in November 24, 1971. At that time, airline passengers were not searched before boarding their planes. He carried a bomb onto a flight between Portland, Oregon and Seattle, Washington. He received the ransom payment of $200,000.  He jumped from the airplane, which was a Boeing 727.  When he jumped, the airplane was in the Pacific Northwest, perhaps over Woodland, Washington. Hundreds of suspects have been named through the years, but no conclusive evidence has surfaced regarding who Cooper was, or where he lived. The FBI believes he did not survive the jump. Several people have tried to explain what happened after the jump. Some of these explanations contradict each other.

Because no one expected he would jump and because little is known of what happened afterwards, people are still interested in the case. The Cooper case (code-named "Norjak" by the FBI) remains an unsolved mystery.

The case is famous for its lack of evidence.  A few important clues have arisen, nevertheless. In late 1978, a placard, which had instructions on how to lower the rear stairs of a 727 was found just a few flying minutes north of Cooper's projected drop zone. It is believed that this is from the rear stairway of the plane from which Cooper jumped. In February 1980, eight-year-old Brian Ingram found $5,880 in decaying $20 bills on the banks of the Columbia River.

In October 2007, the FBI announced it was able to get a partial DNA profile of Cooper from the tie he left on the hijacked plane. The FBI warehouse had lost other material with his DNA. On December 31, 2007, the FBI revived the unclosed case: They published never before seen composite sketches and fact sheets online. They did this because some people might remember them, and help identify Cooper. In a press release, the FBI said that it still does not believe Cooper survived the jump, but wanted to know who Cooper was. In March 2008, the FBI announced that another possible clue was being investigated after a torn, tangled parachute was found within the bounds of Cooper's probable jump site near the town of Amboy, Washington.  However, the FBI announced on April 1, 2008 that the parachute in question was not D. B. Cooper's. The man responsible for packing the four parachutes said that the recently discovered parachute was not Cooper's, as his was nylon, and the newly discovered parachute was silk, dating from the 1940s.

Normally, the criminal laws cannot work against people years after their crimes (statute of limitations). In 1976, to prevent D. B. Cooper from escaping punishment, a Portland grand jury charged D. B. Cooper with crimes.

Since 1999, Ariel, Washington holds an annual D. B. Cooper celebration on the anniversary of his jump.

He is said to be a disabled veteran.

[[Alistair Darling]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Chancellors of the Exchequer, Labour MPs (UK), UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, Members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies

Alistair Maclean Darling (born November 28, 1953) is a British Labour Party politician who was the Chancellor of the Exchequer from June 2007 to May 2010 and also held several posts in Tony Blair's government. He is the Member of Parliament for Edinburgh South West.

Alistair Darling was born in London. He was first elected to the House of Commons at the 1987 General Election. His government posts under Tony Blair include: Chief Secretary to the Treasury (1997-1998), Secretary of State for Work and Pensions (1998-2002), Transport Secretary (2002-2006), Scottish Secretary (2003-2006) and Secretary of State for Trade and Industry (2006-2007).

[[Moa]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of New Zealand, Ratites, Extinct species, Flightless birds, Struthioniformes, Megafauna

The moa were large flightless birds. They lived only in New Zealand, and are now all extinct.

There were nine species (in six genera) of Moa. The largest and best known were the genus Dinornis, which grew up to 3.6 meters (12 feet) tall, and weighed as much as 230 kilograms (510 pounds). 

The group of birds to which the moa belong had been in existence since the Cretaceous period. The Māori people arrived in New Zealand from Oceania about a thousand years ago. Then, moas lived in large numbers, especially on South Island. Archaeological sites with evidence of moa hunting are all over New Zealand. The moas became extinct about five hundred years ago. The moas had survived being hunted by Haast's eagle. However, they could not survive being hunted for food by the Maoris.

Recent extinctions (also mostly birds) have been caused by habitat change and introduced species.

[[Malacology]]

CATEGORIES: Branches of zoology, Molluscs

Malacology is the study of molluscs. These animals include snails, slugs, octopus, squid, and bivalves generally, such as clams and mussels. Most of them have shells. The shells are often collected for their beauty and interest. Many people eat molluscs, especially those people who live near the ocean.

Those scientists who study molluscs are called malacologists. They identify and classify them, and find out everything they can about their lives.

[[Placard]]

CATEGORIES: Human communication

A placard is a sign made to inform people about something. Often, they are used to warn about danger. Very often, hazard symbols (special pictograms) are used. 

Sometimes, placard is also used to mean a leaflet that shows how a certain machine should be operated.

[[Budíkov]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Budíkov is a village in the Pelhřimov District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 283 people live there and it has 6,64 km². Budíkov was first documented in 1226.

[[Typha]]

CATEGORIES: Poales

Typha is a genus of plants. They are found in wetland habitats. They are commonly found in the Northern Hemisphere, but may be found in wetlands elsewhere. These plants are known in British English as bulrush, bullrush or reedmace, and in American English as cattail or punks.

[[Sickle-cell disease]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Genetic disorders, Blood

Sickle cell anaemia is a genetic disease. It affects red blood cells. It changes the cells from flexible disks into rigid crescents. When many red cells take this shape veins get blocked. This can cause damage to many organs. The organ damage increases with time and leads to an early death.

[[David Miliband]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British atheists, Former Labour MPs (UK), Jewish atheists, Jewish British politicians, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Camden (London borough), Politicians from London, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015

David Wright Miliband (born 15 July 1965) is a British politician who was the Foreign Secretary from June 2007 to May 2010 and a member of Tony Blair's cabinet. He was the Member of Parliament for South Shields in Tyne and Wear. He is the CEO of the International Rescue Committee.

David Miliband was born in London to Polish-Jewish parents and is an atheist. He was raised in Primrose Hill, London. He is the elder son of Marxist Ralph Miliband and Marion Kozak. He is the elder brother of Labour leader Ed Miliband. He was educated at the University of Oxford and was the head of the Number 10 Policy Unit from 1997-2001. He was first elected in the 2001 general election. After being part of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown's governments, Miliband was a candidate in the 2010 Labour leadership contest. Despite Miliband being favourite to win the contest, his brother Ed narrowly won the contest in September 2010. Miliband chose not to be a member of Ed's shadow cabinet.

[[Jack Straw]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, English Anglicans, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Lord Chancellors, Politicians from Essex, Privy Councillors (UK), Secretaries of State for the Home Department, Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015

John Whitaker 'Jack' Straw (born 3 August 1946 in Buckhurst Hill, Essex, England) is a British politician. He held several Cabinet posts in the Labour government under Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. He is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Blackburn.

Jack Straw became a Labour Party MP at the 1979 General Election for the constituency of Blackburn. He was promoted to the shadow cabinet in 1987 and became the Home Secretary when Labour returned to power in 1997.  His other cabinet posts included: Foreign Secretary (2001-2006), Leader of the House of Commons (2006-2007) and Justice Secretary (2007-2010). He did not choose to become a member of Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet.

[[Jacqui Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from Worcestershire, Secretaries of State for the Home Department, BBC 100 Women

Jacqueline Jill "Jacqui" Smith (born 3 November 1962) is an English politician. She was the first female Home Secretary of the United Kingdom. She was born in Malvern, Worcestershire. She was the Member of Parliament for the Redditch constituency. She was first elected in the 1997 general election. She lost her seat at the 2010 General Election.

She is a member of the Labour Party.

[[Des Browne, Baron Browne of Ladyton]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Former members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies, Former Labour MPs (UK)

Desmond "''Des''" Henry Browne, Baron Browne  (born March 22, 1952) is a Scottish politician and was Secretary of State for Defence and Secretary of State for Scotland. He was first elected in the 1997 general election, and was the Member of Parliament for the Kilmarnock and Loudoun constituency in the United Kingdom until 2010, when he was created a Life Peer 

He is a member of the Labour Party.

[[Alan Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: Labour MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from London, 1950 births, Living people

Alan Arthur Johnson (born 17 May 1950) is an English politician and former Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer. He was born and raised in London. He has been the Member of Parliament for the Hull West and Hessle constituency in the East Riding of Yorkshire since the 1997 general election.

He is a member of the Labour Party.

Johnson has been married twice. His first marriage was to Judith Elizabeth Cox. They had one son and two daughters. After his divorce he married Laura Jane Patient in 1991. They had a son, born in 2000.

[[Hilary Benn]]

CATEGORIES: Labour MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from London, 1953 births, Living people

Hilary James Wedgwood Benn (born 26 November 1953) is an English politician. He was born in Hammersmith, west London. Since October 2010, he has been the Shadow Leader of the House of Commons. He is the Member of Parliament for the Leeds Central constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in 1999 in a by-election. He is a member of the Labour Party. He is the middle son of Tony Benn (1925-2014) and Caroline Benn (1926-2000).

[[Douglas Alexander]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies, Labour MPs (UK)

Douglas Garven Alexander (born October 26, 1967) is a Scottish politician.  Before  the 2010 General election he was Secretary of State for International Development, afterwards he became the Shadow Secretary of State for International Development and is now Shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. He is the Member of Parliament for the Paisley and Renfrewshire South constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in 1997 in a by-election. 

He is a member of the Labour Party.

[[John Hutton, Baron Hutton of Furness]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Former Labour MPs (UK), UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, United Kingdom Life Peers

John Matthew Patrick Hutton, Baron Hutton of Furness (born 6 May 1955) is an English politician. He is a member of the Labour Party.

He was the Member of Parliament for the Barrow and Furness constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election, and retired in 2010. In March 2011 he published a report on public sector pension reform.

The report states that radical reform to the pension plans of six million public sector workers still leave them with "hugely generous" settlements. The retirement crisis has been caused by the scrapping of gold-plated final salary pension schemes for private sector workers coinciding with low interest rates and a lacklustre stock market. House prices have also fallen. "Future pensioners are likely to be confronted by a crisis of expectations and a squeeze in income", the report warns.

[[Harriet Harman]]

CATEGORIES: British feminists, Labour MPs (UK), Leaders of the Opposition (United Kingdom), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from London, 1950 births, Living people

Harriet Ruth Harman (born 30 July 1950) is a British politician who was the Deputy Leader of the Labour Party from 2007 to 2015. She was born and raised in West London. She has held cabinet posts in the Labour governments of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. Following Brown's resignation as Labour leader on 11 May 2010, Harman was the acting leader of the Labour Party until Ed Miliband was elected on September 25, 2010. Until 2015 she was the Deputy Leader and ex-officio member of the Shadow Cabinet. She was also Shadow Deputy Prime Minister and Shadow Secretary of State for International Development.

She is the Member of Parliament for the Camberwell and Peckham constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. She was first elected for Peckham in a by-election in 1982.

[[James Purnell]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Former Labour MPs (UK)

James Mark Dakin Purnell (born March 2, 1970) was an English politician was Secretary of State for Work and Pensions in 2010. He was the Member of Parliament for the Stalybridge and Hyde constituency in the United Kingdom from the elected in the 2001 general election until he retired at the 2010 general election.  He is currently the Head of the Open Left project at the left leaning think tank Demos

He is a member of the Labour Party.

[[Paul Murphy, Baron Murphy of Torfaen]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Members of the British House of Commons for Welsh constituencies, Labour MPs (UK)

Paul Peter Murphy, KCMCO, KSG  (born November 25, 1948) is a Welsh politician and held several cabinet posts, including Secretary of State for Wales. He is the Member of Parliament for the Torfaen constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1987 general election. 

He is a member of the Labour Party.

[[Ruth Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Former Labour MPs (UK)

Ruth Maria Kelly (born May 9, 1968) is now an economist working for the HSBC Bank. She was a British politician and had been a Cabinet Minister. 

She was the Member of Parliament for the Bolton West constituency in the United Kingdom from the 1997 general election to the 2010 general election

She is a member of the Labour Party.

[[Hazel Blears]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Labour MPs (UK)

Hazel Anne Blears (born May 14, 1956) is an English politician.   and is the Member of Parliament for the Salford and Eccles constituency. She was first elected in the 1997 general election as member for the Salford constituency.  

She held several government posts under Prime Ministers Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, including Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government, up until the 2010 general election

She is a member of the Labour Party.

[[Geoff Hoon]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Derby

Geoffrey William Hoon (born 6 December 1953) is an English politician and held several government posts. He was born in Derby. He was the Member of Parliament for the Ashfield constituency in the United Kingdom from his first elected in the 1992 general election until he retired in 2010.

Hoon is a member of the Labour Party.

[[Ed Balls]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Co-operative movement, Harvard University alumni, Labour MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Norwich, Politicians from Nottinghamshire, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015

Edward Michael "Ed" Balls (born 25 February 1967) is a British politician.  He was the shadow Home Secretary in Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet. He was born in Norwich, Norfolk and moved to Nottinghamshire during his childhood. He is the Labour Party and was theCo-operative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Morley and Outwood in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.

He was first elected in the 2005 general election and held the post of Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families from June 2007 to May 2010. He was a candidate to become leader of the Labour Party in September 2010 and lost to Ed Miliband. Ed Balls lost his seat in the 2015 general election

[[Ed Miliband]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Jewish British politicians, Labour MPs (UK), Leaders of the Labour Party (UK), Leaders of the Opposition (United Kingdom), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Camden (London borough), Politicians from London, Privy Councillors (UK), Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–

Edward Samuel Miliband MP (born 24 December 1969) is a British politician. He was the leader of the Labour Party and of the Official Opposition. He is also the Labour Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Doncaster North, and is a former cabinet minister.

He was born in University College Hospital, Bloomsbury, London and raised in Primrose Hill. His parents were Polish-Jewish immigrants. He is the younger son of the Marxist thinker Ralph Miliband. At the London School of Economics, he obtained a Master's degree in Economics, and then became an advisor to Labour politicians such as Harriet Harman and Gordon Brown. At the 2005 general election, he was elected to be the MP for Doncaster North. His first job in government was as the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change, which he took up on October 3, 2008 and remained as until Labour lost the 2010 General Election.

In September 2010, he defeated his brother David Miliband by a small number of votes to become leader of the Labour Party.

He resigned as leader in May 2015 after Labour lost to the Conservative Party in the 2015 General Election. Jeremy Corbyn replaced him.

[[Andy Burnham]]

CATEGORIES: Labour MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, Privy Councillors (UK), British socialists, British feminists, English Roman Catholics, People from Merseyside, People from Warrington, Politicians from Lancashire, 1970 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Cambridge

Andrew Murray Burnham (born 7 January 1970) is an English politician. He was a candidate in the 2010 Labour leadership election. As of 2012 Burnham was Shadow Secretary of State for Health within Ed Miliband's Shadow Cabinet. He is the Member of Parliament for the Leigh constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 2001 general election. 

Burnham was born in Old Roan, Aintree, Lancashire and raised in Culcheth, Warrington.

He is a member of the Labour Party.

On 5 May 2017, he was elected mayor of Greater Manchester.

[[Shaun Woodward]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, English politicians, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Labour MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Bristol

Shaun Anthony Woodward (born 26 October 1958 in Bristol, England) is a British politician and is the Shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland in Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet. He is the Labour Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of St Helens South in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. 

He was first elected in the 1997 general election as the Conservative Party MP for the constituency of Witney but changed to Labour in 1999. At the 2001 General Election he was made the MP for the St Helens South constituency and was the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland from 2007 to 2010. When Ed Miliband became Labour leader, Shaun Woodward was made the Shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. 

[[Yvette Cooper]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Inverness, Scottish politicians

Yvette Cooper (born 20 March 1969) is a British politician.

Cooper is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the Normanton, Pontefract and Castleford constituency in the United Kingdom. She is a member of the Labour Party. Her husband, Ed Balls, represents the neighbouring constituency of Morley and Outwood.

She served in the Cabinet between 2008 and 2010 under Prime Minister Gordon Brown. She was Chief Secretary to the Treasury and then Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. After Labour lost the 2010 general election, Cooper was appointed Shadow Foreign Secretary, then in 2011 Shadow Home Secretary.

[[John Denham]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Labour MPs (UK)

John Yorke Denham (born July 15, 1953) is an English politician. He is the Member of Parliament for the Southampton Itchen constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election. 

He has held many ministerial posts, including

He is a member of the Labour Party.

[[Limnology]]

CATEGORIES: Earth sciences

Limnology is the study of waters that are not part of the oceans or seas. This includes rivers, lakes, swamps, streams, wetlands, water under the ground, and even bodies of water made by people. Scientists who study this are called limnologists. Their work includes biology, chemistry, physics, geology, and hydrology.

The International Society of Limnology  promotes limnology to  scientists throughout the world. There are many centres for such research throughout the world. 

Limnology helps to explain why some lakes have lots of plants and animals and some have very few.  The Freshwater Biological Association which is based next to Windermere in England did a lot of the early work. Limnologists there worked out why deep lakes have cold water at the bottom in summer-time but not in Winter. The reason was that winds in Autumn mix the waters up.

[[Toyota RAV4]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, 2020s automobiles, Toyota automobiles

The Toyota RAV4 is a small sized SUV made by Toyota. Toyota has made the RAV4 since 1994, but has sold it in America since 1996. The RAV4 is sold in a 4-door with an optional V6 engine, the RAV4 is more of a car-like SUV than a truck sized one. The RAV4 EV was an electric version sold in California from 1996 to 2003. The RAV4 shares competition with the similar Honda CR-V, Subaru Forester, and Ford Escape. RAV4 stands for Recreational Active Vehicle with 4-wheel-drive but RAV4s may just come with 2-wheel drive. 

[[Toyota MR2]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Toyota automobiles

The Toyota MR2 and MR2 Spyder were sports cars made by Toyota. They were sold from 1984 until 2007. The MR2 is a mid-engine sports car, similar to cars by Ferrari and Porsche. MR2 is an acronym for midship, rear-wheel-drive, two-seater.

[[Wheaton College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Illinois, Council for Christian Colleges and Universities, Oberlin Group of Libraries, 1860 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Illinois

Wheaton College is a private Evangelical Protestant college in Wheaton, Illinois, a suburb 25 west of Chicago in the United States. It was founded in 1860.

[[Sacred site]]

CATEGORIES: Religious places

A sacred site is a place that is thought of as sacred (or holy) to a particular religion. Every one of the world's major religions has sacred sites. Some religions, such as Islam, think of the sacred sites as being very important to their faith. In other religions such as Protestant Christianity, sacred sites are not so important.

The idea that a place is sacred often comes from something that has happened at the place, or a religious story about that place. Mount Sinai is a sacred site for Jews and Christians because it was on Mount Sinai that Moses received the Ten Commandments of God.

The sacred site might be a natural site, or it might be a building of some sort. One of the most famous natural sites that is also a sacred site is Uluru (also called Ayre's Rock) in Central Australia. It is believed to have been sacred to the aboriginal people for about 40,000 years. Other famous natural sites are the sacred trees of India, Japan and South East Asia.

Very often, buildings have been made on natural sites that were already thought of as sacred. For example, a spring of water coming from the ground might be said to have healing powers. A special well-house might be built around the spring to protect it, and as a place where people might leave offerings (gifts to a god).

Other sites are thought of as sacred because a holy person or saint lived there, or died there, or their body is kept there. The Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem is one of the most sacred sites to Christianity because it is believed that Jesus' body was placed in a tomb there. The city of Mecca is sacred to all Muslim people as the birthplace of the prophet Muhammad.

[[Basil II]]

CATEGORIES: Byzantine Emperors

Basil II (958 – December 15, 1025), was a Byzantine emperor from the Macedonian dynasty from January 10, 976 to December 15, 1025. Under his reign, the Byzantine Empire reached its greatest height since Justinian the Great. Under his reign, the First Bulgarian Empire was completely taken by him, a land that would be part of his empire for 150 years. Because of this, the northern part of the Roman Empire touched the Danube river for the first time in several hundred years. He also took land towards the east.  

[[Battle of Manzikert]]

CATEGORIES: Byzantine Empire, Battles of the Middle Ages, 1071, August events

The Battle of Manzikert, or Malazgirt (Turkish: Malazgirt Sav was fought between the Byzantine Empire and then Seljuq Empire. The Seljuq forces attacked on August 26, 1071 near Manzikert, (modern Malazgirt, Turkey). Its result was one of the most decisive defeats of the Byzantine Empire and the capture of the Byzantine Emperor Romanos IV Diogenes. The Battle of Manzikert played an important role in breaking the Byzantine resistance and preparing the way for the Turkish settlement in Anatolia.

[[Mark Lawrenson]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Liverpool F.C. players

Mark Thomas Lawrenson (born 2 June 1957, in Preston, Lancashire) is a former professional football player, a defender in the Liverpool and  Irish football teams of the 1980s; he has since become a radio, television and internet pundit for the BBC. 

Despite being born in England, UK, he played for the Republic of Ireland national football team due to his Irish ancestry.

[[Red Square]]

CATEGORIES: Moscow, World Heritage Sites in Russia, National squares

Red Square (Красная площадь, ru) is the most famous city square in Moscow, Russia. The square separates the Kremlin, the former royal citadel and currently the official residence of the President of Russia, from a historic merchant quarter known as Kitay-gorod (China-Town). As major streets of Moscow radiate from here in all directions, being promoted to major highways outside the city, the Red Square is often considered the central square of Moscow and of all Russia.

Red Square and the Kremlin are a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Joseph Stalin's body was preserved near Red Square, in Lenin's mausoleum. It was later moved and reburied deep behind the Kremlin Wall without any ceremony.

Red Square is a popular tourist attraction in Russia.

[[George I of Great Britain]]

CATEGORIES: 1660 births, 1727 deaths, Kings and Queens of Great Britain, People from Osnabrück

George I (George Louis) was the ruler of Hanover in North Germany and later also the King of Great Britain and Ireland.

[[Official Opposition (United Kingdom)]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United Kingdom

Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition, or the Official Opposition in the United Kingdom is led by The Leader of the Opposition.  This is usually the political party with the second largest number of seats in the House of Commons, as the largest party will usually form the government. Since May, 2010, the Official Opposition has been the Labour Party.

[[Leader of the Opposition (United Kingdom)]]

CATEGORIES: Leaders of the Opposition (United Kingdom), Opposition leaders

November 2020

The Leader of the Opposition (sometimes known as the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons) in the United Kingdom is the politician who leads Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition is normally the leader of the second largest party in the House of Commons.

The current Leader of the Opposition is Keir Starmer, the leader of the Labour Party.

[[David Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Conservative MPs (UK), Libertarians, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from York, Politicians from Yorkshire, Privy Councillors (UK), Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–

David Michael Davis (born 23 December 1948) is an English politician.  He is a member of the Conservative Party.  In July 2016, Davis became the first Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union under the Theresa May cabinet.

Davis was born in York and raised in south London.

He was the Shadow Home Secretary from 2003 - 2008.  He is the Member of Parliament for the Haltemprice and Howden constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1987 general election for the Boothferry constituency.

On 12 June 2008, Davis said he was going to resign as an MP, and was immediately replaced as Shadow Home Secretary.  This was intended to force a by-election in his seat, for which he intended to seek re-election by mounting a specific campaign designed to provoke wider public debate about the erosion of civil liberties in the United Kingdom.  Following his formal resignation as an MP on 18 June 2008, he officially became the Conservative candidate in the resulting by-election and won it on 10 July 2008.

In 2017, Davis proposed a new treaty between UK and EU to fight crime and terror, after series of terrorist incidents in UK.  In September 2017, he stated that UK was to remain as the part of Europol.  However, EU is said to have refused to discuss Europol, which exchanges crime and counter-terrorism information and intelligence, until it judges that "sufficient progress" has been been on the financial settlement, Ireland and citizen's rights after Brexit. 

On 8 July 2018 Davis resigned as Brexit Secretary.

[[William Hague]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, English historians, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Leaders of the Conservative Party (UK), Leaders of the Opposition (United Kingdom), Politicians from Yorkshire, Privy Councillors (UK), Royal Society of Literature, Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015

William Jefferson Hague, Baron Hague of Richmond (pronounced HAIG; born 26 March 1961) is a British politician. He was Foreign Secretary and First Secretary of State. He was the leader of the Conservative Party from June 1997 to September 2001. He was the Member of Parliament for the Richmond (York) constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.

William Hague was born in Rotherham in West Riding of Yorkshire, England. He first gained national attention when he spoke at the 1977 Conservative Party conference aged 16. He was educated at the University of Oxford. Hague first became a Member of Parliament at a by-election in 1989. In 1995, William Hague was made the Secretary of State for Wales until 1997 when the Conservatives lost the general election. He was elected as Conservative Party leader in 1997. Following the Conservative's defeat in the 2001 General Election, he resigned from the position and was succeeded by Iain Duncan Smith.

He went on to write biographies of William Pitt the Younger and William Wilberforce. In 2005, when David Cameron became the Conservative Party leader, Hague was made the Shadow Foreign Secretary and Secretary of State.

Hague became the Foreign Secretary after the 2010 election in the Conservative Liberal Democrat coalition government. Issues that he was involved in included the Arab Spring and Syrian Civil War as well as the crisis in Crimea. Hague thinks Syrian President Bashar al-Assad should be removed from power, and the Cameron government wanted to help the opposition with air strikes in 2013, but Parliament did not agree and the plans did not go forward. Hague did not run for reelection in the 2015 election and mostly retired from politics after that. He was made a member of the House of Lords as Baron Hague of Richmond, where he is a member today.

[[George Osborne]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Chancellors of the Exchequer, Conservative MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from London, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017

George Gideon Oliver Osborne CH PC (born May 23, 1971) is a British politician. He was the Chancellor of the Exchequer from 2010 through 2016 in the David Cameron government. He is the Conservative Party Member of Parliament for the Tatton constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 2001 general election.

George Osborne was born in Paddington, London, England and was educated at the University of Oxford. He became an MP in 2001 and entered the shadow cabinet in 2004. In 2005, Osborne was made the Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer by Michael Howard and held this post when David Cameron became leader of the Conservative Party. Osborne became Chancellor of the Exchequer on 11 May 2010 and has then has outlined £6.2 billion worth of cuts to help reduce the budget deficit. He left office on 13 July 2016 when Theresa May became Prime Minister. He was replaced by Philip Hammond. In April 2017 he said he would not stand in the 2017 general election. He was made a Companion of Honour in the 2016 Prime Minister's Resignation Honours.

Osborne is part of the old Anglo-Irish aristocracy, known in Ireland as the Ascendancy. He is the heir to the Osborne baronetcy (of Ballentaylor, in County Tipperary, and Ballylemon, in County Waterford).

[[Trojanus of Saintes]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, French Roman Catholics, Year of birth unknown, 530 deaths

Trojanus of Saintes (died c.530) was a 6th century bishop of Saintes, in France. 

He is a Catholic saint, also known as Trojan and Troyen.  His feast day is held on 30 November.

[[530]]

CATEGORIES: 530

Year 530 was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Julian calendar.

[[Celestus microblepharis]]

CATEGORIES: Anguids

Celestus microblepharis are a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family.  It can only be found in Jamaica.

[[Anguidae]]

CATEGORIES: Anguids

Anguidae is a family of lizards.

[[Celestus]]

CATEGORIES: Anguids

Celestus is a genus of lizards.

[[Celestus warreni]]

CATEGORIES: Anguids

Celestus warreni (also known as the Warren's galliwasp or the giant Hispaniolan galliwasp) is a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family.  It can be found in the Dominican Republic and Haiti. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests underneath leaf litter and underneath forest debris. Giant galliwasps are opportunistic predators that feed on insects, earthworms, small mammals, and other reptiles. 

It is threatened by habitat loss.

[[Duquesney's galliwasp]]

CATEGORIES: Anguids

Celestus duquesneyi (also known as the Duquesney's galliwasp or blue-tailed galliwasp) is a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family.  It can only be found  in Jamaica.

[[Celestus fowleri]]

CATEGORIES: Anguids

Celestus fowleri is a kind of lizard in the Anguidae family. It only lives in Jamaica.

[[Jamaica giant galliwasp]]

CATEGORIES: Anguids

The Jamaica giant galliwasp (Celestus occiduus) was a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family. It was only found in Jamaica, and it is now extinct.

[[Tammy Wynette]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, American guitarists, Deaths from pulmonary thrombosis, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Musicians from Mississippi, Singers from Mississippi, 1942 births, 1998 deaths

Virginia Wynette Pugh (usually known as Tammy Wynette, May 5, 1942 – April 6, 1998), was an American country music singer. She was born in Mississippi.

The best-known of her songs is "Stand by Your Man". She had 17 number-one hits during her career.

She died of pulmonary thrombosis.

[[Tricity]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Poland

Triciti (Polish Trójmiasto) is the unofficial name of an urban area with 3 cities: Gdańsk, Gdynia and Sopot in Pomeranian Voivodeship. Tricity is a big centre for tourism.

[[Kaliningrad Oblast]]

CATEGORIES: Kaliningrad Oblast, Oblasts of Russia, Federal subjects of Russia

Kaliningrad Oblast (Калинингра́дская о́бласть, Kaliningradskaya oblast) is an exclave of Russia bordered by Poland, Lithuania and Baltic Sea. The capital of Kaliningrad Oblast is Kaliningrad, formerly Königsberg.

It is quite unusual, first because it is not attached to Russia. It is an exclave on the Baltic coast, with no land connection to the rest of Russia. It has a population of 941,873 (2010 Census). It has a continental climate (Dfb in the Koeppen climate classification).

Its territory was part of historical East Prussia (German: Nord-Ostpreussen), which was an exclave of Germany from 1919 until 1945. That year, it was occupied by the Soviet Union. The region was later annexed to the Soviet Union under border changes of the Potsdam Agreement, when it was attached to the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR). Most of its German population were killed or fled west to West Germany during the last months of the war. The rest were expelled between 1944 and 1950. Russian settlers were moved in and the population is now mainly Russian. As of the 2010 census, only a small number of ethnic Germans remain; most of the several thousand who live in the oblast are recent immigrants from other parts of the former Soviet Union. 

[[Coat of arms of Poland]]

CATEGORIES: Polish culture, National coats of arms

A official Coat of Arms of Poland is the White Eagle with golden crown in its head on red shield.

The White Eagle came from a legend about Lech.

[[Christianization]]

CATEGORIES: Christian terminology, Religious conversion, Culture

Christianization is when a country, nation or region changes their faith to Christianity. It can be started when a local ruler is baptized.

[[Adam Sandler]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Actors from New Hampshire, Actors from Brooklyn, American movie actors, Jewish American actors, Comedians from New York City, Movie producers from New York City, Musicians from New York City, Singers from New York City, Musicians from New Hampshire, Singers from New Hampshire, Screenwriters from New York City, Writers from Brooklyn

Adam Richard Sandler (born September 9, 1966) is an American actor, comedian, musician, screenwriter and movie producer. His family is Jewish and descends from Russian immigrants on both sides. He is best known for comedy movies, such as  Happy Gilmore, The Wedding Singer, Little Nicky, Spanglish, I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry, You Don't Mess with the Zohan and Uncut Gems. He also starred in a dramatic role for Reign Over Me.

Sandler was born in New York City and grew up in New Hampshire.

[[Anguis]]

CATEGORIES: Anguids

Anguis is a member of legless lizards also known as slowworms or blindworms. belonging to the genus Anguidae. Even though they are lizards, slow worms have lost their legs and are usually mistaken for snakes.

[[Anguis fragilis]]

CATEGORIES: Anguids

Anguis fragilis (the slow-worm, or blindworm) is a lizard which is limbless (meaning it has no legs or arms). It has a wide distribution in Europe and Asia, and is one of the few reptiles native to Britain.

When a slow-worm is in danger it can shed (break off) its tail and escape. It can then grow back a new, shorter tail, which it cannot shed.

The female often has a stripe along the back and the male may have blue spots.

Instead of laying eggs, the females give birth to live young (viviparous birth). In the days leading up to birth the female can often be seen basking in the sun on a warm road. 

Slow-worms are often called snakes, but they are not. Slow-worms can blink, but snakes cannot.  They shed their skin in patches like other lizards, rather than the whole skin as most snakes do.

Adult slow-worms grow to be about 50 centimetres long. They are known for their very long life. One was said to have been fifty four years old. 

There are not as many slow-worms as there used to be. Many places where they used to live have been built on. In gardens they can be killed by cats.

[[Major League Baseball on ESPN Radio]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball, Radio programs

Major League Baseball on ESPN Radio is a broadcast presentation of Major League Baseball on ESPN Radio.  The games include the Opening Day game, the Sunday Night Baseball games, Saturday afternoon games, holiday games (like Memorial Day games) and September pennant race games. The All-Star Game and all of the playoffs can also be heard on ESPN Radio including the Division Series, League Championship Series and the World Series.

In addition to affiliate stations on AM/FM radio, ESPN Radio's game broadcasts are also on XM Satellite Radio.  They are not included in the subscription "Gameday Audio" package on MLB.com, however.

[[Calixa Lavallée]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1891 deaths, Canadian composers, Romantic composers

Calixa Lavallée, (born Quebec, 28 December 1842; died Boston, 21 January 1891), was a Canadian-American composer.  For many years he was a travelling musician.  Later he worked hard to improve music education in Canada.  He is famous for composing the music for the Canadian national anthem "O Canada".

[[Sepsis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Sepsis is a very dangerous disease that occurs when an infection goes wrong. Normally the immune system of the body is able to fight the germs and overcome the infection, but in sepsis something goes wrong. The pathogen was at some point able to get into the blood or tissues. The term sepsis is frequently used to refer to septicemia (blood poisoning). Septicemia is only one type of sepsis. Bacteremia specifically refers to the presence of bacteria in the bloodstream (viremia and fungemia are the terms used for  viruses and fungi). A sepsis is a medical emergency, as it can put the life in danger, if it is not acted on.

[[Patrick McLoughlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Conservative MPs (UK)

Sir Patrick Allen McLoughlin CH MP (born November 30, 1957) is an English politician and the current Chief Whip, which is the same job he had in opposition. He was first elected in 1986 in a by-election as the Member of Parliament for the West Derbyshire constituency in the United Kingdom, and since 2010 for its successor, the Derbyshire Dales constituency. 

He is a member of the Conservative Party. In July 2016, Prime Minister Theresa May made McLoughlin Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and Chair of the Conservative Party.

He was knighted in the Resignation Honours of David Cameron in 2016. In Theresa May's Resignation Honours in September 2019, he was made a Companion of Honour.

[[Oliver Letwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Jewish British politicians, Politicians from London

Oliver LetwinMP FRSA (born 19 May 1956) is an English politician. He is currently the Minister of State at the Cabinet Office as well as the Chairman of Policy Review, and Chairman of the Conservative Research Department. He is the Member of Parliament for the West Dorset constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1997 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.

He married Isabel Grace Davidson on 14 September 1984 in Cambridge. They have a twin son and daughter born in July 1993.

[[Caroline Spelman]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from Hertfordshire, Privy Councillors (UK), Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, Women politicians

Dame Caroline Alice Spelman DBE MP (née Cormack, born 4 May 1958) is an English politician. She was born in Bishop's Stortford, Hertfordshire. She is the Meriden constituency in England. She was first elected in the 1997 general election.

In May 2010 she became Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in David Cameron's coalition cabinet, and was sworn as a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010. She served in this role until September 2012, when she was dismissed in a cabinet reshuffle. In 2015, she became Second Church Estates Commissioner.

She is a member of the Conservative Party.

[[Philip Hammond]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Chancellors of the Exchequer, Conservative MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from Essex, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019

Philip Hammond (born 4 December 1955) is an English politician. He was born in Epping, Essex. He became Chancellor of the Exchequer in 2016. He became Secretary of State for Transport on 12 May 2010, and a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010. He is the Member of Parliament for the Runnymede and Weybridge constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1997 general election. In 2017, he announced the Midlands Engine Strategy.

He was a member of the Conservative Party until 2019. He was suspended from the party after voting against the government in a bill to remove the possibility of a no-deal Brexit.

[[Andrew Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Conservative MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from London

Andrew John Bower Mitchell (born 23 March 1956) is an English politician. He was born in Hampstead, London. He was appointed as Secretary of State for International Development on 12 May 2010, and as a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010. He is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the Sutton Coldfield constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1987 general election  for the Gedling constituency but lost in 1997. He returned to parliament in the 2001 general election. 

His father, David Mitchell (1928-2014), was also an MP.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.

In 2007 he started Project Umubano.

On 19 September 2012 he allegedly said to a police officer, 'You don't run this fucking government.... You're fucking plebs.' The media called what happened 'Plebgate'. 

[[David Mundell]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Gay men, Members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies, LGBT politicians, Conservative MPs (UK), Scottish LGBT people

David Gordon Mundell (born May 27, 1962) is a British politician and is the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland. He is the Conservative Party Member of Parliament for the Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale constituency in the United Kingdom. Currently, he is the only Conservative Party MP who represents a Scottish constituency. In July 2016, Mundell became the Secretary of State for Scotland.

David Mundell was born in Dumfries, Scotland and was educated at the University of Edinburgh. In 1999 and 2003, he was elected as a Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) for the South of Scotland region however resigned as an MSP following the 2005 General Election when he was elected as an MP. From December 2005 to the 2010 General Election, he was the Shadow Secretary of State for Scotland. After the 2010 election, a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition was formed and because the Liberal Democrats have more Scottish MP's than the Conservatives, a Liberal Democrat was given the post of Scottish secretary.

On 13 January 2016, Mundell came out as gay on his personal website.

He was previously married to Lynda Carmichael but the couple have divorced. He has three children, one of whom, Oliver Mundell, is a Conservative candidate for the Scottish Parliament in May 2016.

[[Cheryl Gillan]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Cardiff, Politicians from Glamorgan, Disease-related deaths in England

Dame Cheryl Elise Kendall Gillan DBE MP (21 April 1952 – 4 April 2021) was a British politician.  She was the Secretary of State for Wales from 2010 to 2012. She was a Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the Chesham and Amersham constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom from 1992 to 2021. Gillan was born in Cardiff, Wales.

She was first elected in the 1992 general election and became the Shadow Secretary of State for Wales in 2005. When the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition was formed on 11 May 2010, she became the Secretary of State for Wales. She was dismissed from this post in a cabinet reshuffle in 2012.

She was the Chair of the 1922 committee from May until September 2019. This is the powerful committee of backbench Conservative MPs in the House of Commons.

Gillan died on 4 April 2021 in Epsom, England from a long-illness at the age of 68.

[[Owen Paterson]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Conservative MPs (UK)

Owen William Paterson (born June 24, 1956 in Shropshire, England) is a British politician who is the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. He is a Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of North Shropshire in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.

He was first elected in the 1997 general election and first entered the shadow cabinet in 2007.

[[Alan Duncan]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Conservative MPs (UK), English LGBT people, Gay men, LGBT politicians, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from Hertfordshire

Alan James Carter Duncan (born 31 March 1957) is an English politician and a former Minister of State in the Department for International Development. He was born in Rickmansworth, Hertfordshire.

He is the Member of Parliament for the Rutland and Melton constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.

He is openly gay and in a civil partnership with James Dunseath.

[[Theresa May]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Commonwealth Chairpersons-in-Office, Conservative MPs (UK), English Anglicans, Leaders of the Conservative Party (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Eastbourne, People from Oxfordshire, Politicians from Sussex, Privy Councillors (UK), Secretaries of State for the Home Department, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–, Women politicians

Theresa Mary, Lady May (née Brasier, born 1 October 1956) is a British politician and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 2016 to 2019.

She was born in Eastbourne, Sussex, and grew up in Oxfordshire. She is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Maidenhead in the House of Commons. She was the Home Secretary in the David Cameron government. In 2018, she was elected as Commonwealth Chair-in-Office.

On 12 December 2018, 48 Conservative MPs had submitted letters of no confidence to the Chairman of the 1922 Committee Sir Graham Brady, triggering a vote of no confidence. Despite this, May won the confidence vote after 200 MPs vowed support to her leadership. On 15 January 2019 after her Brexit proposal failed in the House of Commons by a 432 to 202 vote, Opposition Leader Jeremy Corbyn filled a motion of no confidence in her ministry, which failed in a 325 to 306 vote.

In March 2019, May said she would resign as Prime Minister if Parliament passed her Brexit deal, to make way for a new leader in the second phase of Brexit.

On 24 May 2019, she announced that her resignation as party leader would take effect on 7 June and she would leave her position as Prime Minister when her replacement is selected. She was replaced by Boris Johnson.

[[Francis Maude]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British lawyers, Conservative MPs (UK), English politicians, Living people, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Berkshire

Francis Anthony Aylmer Maude (born 4 July 1953) is an English politician and the current Minister for the Cabinet Office and Paymaster General. He is the Member of Parliament for the Horsham constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1983 general election for the North Warwickshire constituency but lost in 1992. He returned to parliament in the 1997 general election.

Maude was born in Abingdon-on-Thames, Berkshire. He is a member of the Conservative Party.

[[Jeremy Hunt]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Conservative MPs (UK), UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from London

Jeremy Richard Streynsham Hunt MP (born November 1, 1966) is an English politician. He was born in Kennington, London. He is the Member of Parliament for South West Surrey was the Secretary of State for Health from 2012 - 2018. He was first elected in the 2005 general election.

In July 2018 Hunt became the Foreign Secretary after Boris Johnson resigned from the government. 

He gained a Bachelor of Arts degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from Magdalen College, Oxford. He is a member of the Conservative Party.

He was appointed as a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010.

On 24 May 2019, Hunt announced his campaign to run for Leader of the Conservative Party in the 2019 election. On 20 June, Hunt and Boris Johnson became the final two candidates in the contest. He lost the election to Johnson on 22 July. He later quit as Foreign Secretary.

[[Eric Pickles]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Conservative MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from Yorkshire

Eric Jack Pickles (born 20 April 1952 in Keighley, West Riding of Yorkshire, England) is a British politician and was Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. He is the Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Brentwood and Ongar in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. 

He was first elected in the 1992 general election and entered the Shadow Cabinet in 2007. He was the Chairman of the Conservative Party from January 2009 to May 2010, when he was replaced by Sayeeda Warsi, Baroness Warsi and was appointed the Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government instead. Pickles is standing down at the 2017 general election.

[[Peter Ainsworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2021 deaths, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Former Conservative MPs (UK)

Peter Michael Ainsworth (November 16, 1956 – April 6, 2021) was an English politician and was Shadow Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. He was the Member of Parliament for the East Surrey constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election, but decided not to stand for reelection in 2010.

He was a member of the Conservative Party.

Ainsworth died on April 6, 2021 at the age of 64.

[[Chris Grayling]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Conservative MPs (UK)

Christopher Stephen Grayling (born 1 April 1962) is an English politician and former Secretary of State for Transportation. He is the Member of Parliament for the Epsom and Ewell constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 2001 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.

[[Nick Herbert]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Conservative MPs (UK)

Nicholas Le Quesne Herbert (born April 7, 1963) is an English politician and the Member of Parliament for the Arundel and South Downs constituency.  He was the current Shadow Justice Secretary, and is currently Minister of State for Police/Justice, with his time split between the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice. He is . He was first elected in the 2005 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.

[[Theresa Villiers]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Conservative MPs (UK), Former MEPs, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, MEPs for the United Kingdom

Theresa Anne Villiers (born March 5, 1968) is an English politician. In July 2019, she became Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs for the Boris Johnson ministry. She stopped being it in 2020 She was first elected in the 2005 general election. She is the Member of Parliament (MP) for Chipping Barnet and the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland 2012. Villiers was the Minister of State for Transport from 2010 to 2012.

She was appointed as a Privy Counsellor on 9 June 2010. 

She is a member of the Conservative Party.

[[Andrew Lansley]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, English Anglicans, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from Essex, Privy Councillors (UK), Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, United Kingdom Life Peers

Andrew David Lansley (born 11 December 1956 in Hornchurch, Essex, England) is a British politician who was the Secretary of State for Health in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government from 2010 - 2012. He was the Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the South Cambridgeshire constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. He was first elected as an MP in the 1997 general election. He stepped down at the 2015 general election. 

He was made a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010.

[[David Willetts]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Conservative MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from Birmingham

David Linsay Willetts (born 9 March 1956) is an English politician. He was born in Birmingham. He is the current Minister of State for Universities and Science in the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. He is the Member of Parliament for the Havant constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.

[[Michael Gove]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, BBC newsreaders and journalists, British adoptees, British Anglicans, British columnists, British journalists, Conservative MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Aberdeen, Politicians from Edinburgh, Privy Councillors (UK), Scottish Christians, Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–

Michael Andrew Gove (born 26 August 1967) is an British politician. In July 2019, he became the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for the Boris Johnson administration. In February 2020, he became the Minister for the Cabinet Office.

[[Liam Fox]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Scottish politicians, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, Conservative MPs (UK), Privy Councillors (UK)

Liam Fox (born September 22, 1961 in East Kilbride, Scotland) is a British politician who was the Defence Secretary in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. He was the Member of Parliament (MP) for the Woodspring constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, and since 2010 has represented North Somerset.

Liam Fox studied at the University of Glasgow and became a Conservative Party MP at the 1992 General Election. He served in the shadow cabinet from 1999 to 2010 and became Shadow Defence Secretary in December 2005. In 2005, he tried to become leader of the Conservative Party and lost to David Cameron. Fox stood for leader again in 2016, and lost to Theresa May, who became Prime Minister on 13 July 2016. 

May appointed Fox as the first Secretary of State for International Trade in July 2016.

In September 2017, Fox accused EU of trying to blackmail UK over Brexit deal.

[[Missionary]]

CATEGORIES: Missionaries, Christian religious occupations

A missionary is a person who tries to convert people to his own faith. In Christianity, this is called evangelism. Missionaries are usually sent from churches or worship places of the religion. They can also do other things, such as deliver medicines and cure diseases. Most major religions of the world have missionaries. 

Some famous missionaries are:

[[Partnership]]

CATEGORIES: Society, Business

A partnership is when two or more people work together to complete a task. Those people are partners. Partner may share a business together for the profit of each other. If one business partner ends up making money they both share the profit. Some partners are not individuals but corporations or other groups.

Partnerships may be temporary, e.g. dancing partners (two people who dance together) or partners at a card games such as bridge in which partners work together against the other partners (their opponents).

A partner may also be somebody who lives with another person, e.g. a husband or wife (marriage partners), or a very good friend who shares his or her life with the other person. The word partner in this sense is used a lot in modern times because it does not discriminate between married or unmarried couples.

[[Ruth Graham]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2007 deaths, American painters, American philanthropists, American poets, American Presbyterians, Deaths from pneumonia, Writers from North Carolina

Ruth Bell Graham (June 10, 1920 – June 14, 2007) was the wife of evangelist Billy Graham. She was born at Qingjiang, Kiangsu, China as Ruth McCue Bell, the second of five children. Her parents, Dr. and Mrs. L. Nelson Bell, were medical missionaries at the Presbyterian Hospital 300 miles north of Shanghai.

[[Patrick Star]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1999, SpongeBob SquarePants characters, Television characters

Patrick Star is a fictional character in the Nickelodeon animated television series SpongeBob SquarePants. Bill Fagerbakke plays him. Patrick first appeared in the series' pilot episode, "Help Wanted", which played on May 1, 1999. Patrick was made by animator Stephen Hillenburg. Patrick's biggest character trait is his lack of common sense, which sometimes makes him a bad influence on his best friend, SpongeBob SquarePants.

[[Nick Clegg]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, Deputy Prime Ministers of the United Kingdom, Former Liberal Democrats MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Former MEPs, Leaders of the Liberal Democrats (UK), MEPs for the United Kingdom, People educated at Westminster School, London, Politicians from Buckinghamshire, Privy Councillors (UK), UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017

Sir Nicholas William Peter "Nick" Clegg (born 7 January 1967) is a British politician. He was the Deputy Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government and was also the leader of the Liberal Democrats. He was the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Sheffield Hallam.

Nick Clegg was a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) from 1999 to 2004 and was first elected as a Liberal Democrat MP in the 2005 general election. He became the leader of the Liberal Democrats in December 2007. Following the 2010 General Election, he was made Deputy Prime Minister after a coalition deal with the Conservative Party. He resigned as party leader in 2015 after the May 2015 election because of the party's poor election results.

[[Magnús Eiríksson]]

CATEGORIES: 1806 births, 1881 deaths, Christian theologians, Icelandic writers, Lutherans, Unitarians

Magnús Eiríksson (born 22 June, 1806 in Skinnalón, Iceland; died 3 July, 1881 in Copenhagen, Denmark) was an Icelandic theologian. He lived in Copenhagen at the same time as Søren Kierkegaard (1813-1855) and Hans Lassen Martensen (1808-1884) and viewed their opinions on religion and Christianity with a critical eye.

Magnús Eiríksson was a Lutheran who developed a Unitarian conviction.

[[John Wark]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Scottish footballers

John Wark (born Glasgow, 4 August 1957) is a former Scottish footballer. He used to play football for Ipswich Town F.C. and Liverpool F.C..

[[Nusa Penida]]

CATEGORIES: Bali, Islands of Indonesia

Nusa Penida is an island to the southeast of Bali, Indonesia. The island is a subdistrict of the Klungkung regency. There are two small islands nearby: Nusa Lembongan and Nusa Ceningan. The Badung Strait separates the island from Bali while the Lombok Strait separates it from Lombok.

Diving is very popular around the island and there are many Macaques living on the island.

[[Dungeons & Dragons]]

CATEGORIES: Role-playing games

Dungeons & Dragons is a paper-and-pencil roleplaying game. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson created Dungeons and Dragons in the year 1974.

Many people today think that role-playing games (RPGs) are only played on a computer, but that is not true. From the early 1970s, role-playing games have been played by people sitting together at the same table, using their imaginations and the written rules of the game to play (as well as dice to generate random numbers when needed). 

Players of this type of role-playing game play as imaginary characters that go on heroic adventures. The characters can be many types: a strong warrior, a wise wizard, a skilled thief. One person in the group acts as a moderator, or referee (called the "dungeon master," or DM, in Dungeons and Dragons and "game master", or GM, in other games), of the game. This person is responsible for making sure there is a fair use of the rules and is often also in charge of designing fun, interesting adventures for the other players.

There are now many types of fantasy role-playing games, both traditional paper-and-pencil games and computer games. Many genres of games are played (fantasy, science fiction, horror, war, and so on), and there are hundreds of companies that produce their own written rules systems and software products.

[[Sakoku]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan

Sakoku (Japanese: 鎖国, literally "country in chains" or "lock up of country") was the foreign policy of Japan under which no foreigner or Japanese could enter or leave the country on penalty of death. The policy was enacted by the Tokugawa Shogunate under Tokugawa Iemitsu through a number of edicts and policies from 1633-1639 and remained in effect until 1854 with the arrival of Commodore Matthew Perry and the opening of Japan. It was still illegal to leave Japan until the Meiji Restoration (1868).

But Japan was not completely isolated under the sakoku policy. Rather, it was a system in which strict regulations were applied to commerce and foreign relations by the shogunate.

[[Borneo]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Malaysia, Islands of Brunei, Islands of Indonesia, Greater Sunda Islands

Borneo is the third largest island in the world. It is in the center of maritime southeast Asia. This island is part of three different countries. Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei each have part of Borneo. Indonesia's region is called "Kalimantan" (although Indonesians use this word for the whole island). Malaysia's region of Borneo is called East Malaysia or Malaysian Borneo. The independent nation of Brunei is a small part of the island. Borneo has a rainforest that is in danger because it is valuable. Lumber companies cut trees here illegally.

[[List of islands by area]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of islands

This is a list of islands in the world ordered by area. It includes all islands with an area greater than 250,000 km² (96,526 square miles). Although an island is, in general, any land mass that is completely surrounded by water, some definitions exclude land masses large enough to be considered continents. Placing Australia in the latter category (even though arguments can be made whether it is technically a continent, or merely part of the larger continent called Australasia) makes Greenland the largest island. For the sake of classification the list of islands will begin with Greenland.

[[Baffin Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada, Nunavut

Baffin Island (Île de Baffin) is an island in the territory of Nunavut. It is the largest member of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. It is the largest island in Canada and the fifth largest island in the world, with an area of 507,451 km² (195,928 sq mi). It has a population of 11,000 people as of the year 2007. It is named after the British explorer William Baffin. The island was known to the Norse as Helluland.

[[Substitution cipher]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

A substitution cipher is a form of cryptography.  

In a substitution cipher, a rule is used to change each letter of the message, one at a time.  The rule says to replace (or "substitute") each letter with another letter from the alphabet.  

For instance, this table gives a rule for a substitution cipher:

Using this rule, the sentence "Jack and Jill went up the hill" is changed to "Etar tzn Evmm gkzc dw cuk uvmm".  The Caesar cipher is one example of a substitution cipher.

Substitution ciphers are not safe enough to use for important messages.  Substitution ciphers can be broken by an idea called frequency analysis.  Some letters are more common than others in English sentences: E is the most common, then T, then A, and so on.  A message that has been changed by a substitution cipher will have different common letters, but this gives a hint about the rule.  The most common letters in the changed message are likely to be the most common letters in English. Breaking cryptograms (messages hidden with a substitution cipher) is a common puzzle often found in newspapers.

[[Ken Spreitzer]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Computer scientists

Kenneth J. Spreitzer wrote the original PC program called "UnInstaller". It was first licensed to MicroHelp and now (Feb 1998) sold by CyberMedia.  After writing the program, Mr. Spreitzer went on to found Maximized Software.

Mr. Spreitzer is a graduate of the University of California, Irvine in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. He was also the radio personality "Captain Sensible" as heard on KUCI.

[[Brandy & Mr. Whiskers]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 television series debuts, 2006 television series endings, Animated television series, Television shows about rabbits and hares, Television series by Disney, Television series by Buena Vista Television

Brandy and Mr. Whiskers is an American animated television series from Disney Channel. It is about a female dog named Brandy and a rabbit named Mr. Whiskers. They both get stuck in the Amazon Rainforest together and have to work together to survive.

[[Dwyane Wade]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American basketball players, American Olympic gold medalists, Miami Heat players, Sportspeople from Chicago

Dwyane Tyrone Wade Jr. (born January 17, 1982) is an American basketball player. He was born in Chicago, Illinois. His parents divorced a short time after he was born. He attended college at Marquette University on a scholarship. He was on scholarship for basketball but he did not play his first year because of academic problems. The next year he started on Marquette and led them to a good season. The year after that he led the Marquette Golden Eagles to the Final Four in the NCAA tournament.

Wade went on to the NBA and was selected as the 5th pick overall in the NBA draft by the Miami Heat. He had a good rookie season in the NBA, averaging 15 points per game and 6 assists per game. He soon became a superstar and led the Heat to an NBA championship in 2006. Wade was named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the 2006 NBA Finals, in which the Heat beat the Dallas Mavericks.

[[Himalayan wolf]]

CATEGORIES: Wolves, Mammals of Pakistan, Plants and animals of Kashmir

The Himalayan wolf is a proposed clade within the Tibetan wolf (Canis lupus filchneri) subspecies. Its mitochondrial DNA is basal to all other wolves including other Tibetan wolves. The taxonomic status of this wolf clade was disputed: the separate species Canis himalayensis was proposed, based on two limited DNA studies.

[[Angelroda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Thuringia, Villages in Germany

Angelroda is a former municipality of the district Ilm-Kreis Rural District, in Thuringia, Germany. On 31 December 2019, it became part of the municipality Martinroda.

[[Elgersburg]]

Elgersburg is a municipality in the Ilm-Kreis Rural District, in Thuringia, Germany.

[[Hull, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Florida

Hull, Florida is an unincorporated community in Southwest DeSoto County, Florida. About 150 people live there.

Hull had a creosote tie treating plant for the Charlotte Harbor and Northern Railroad. The railroad was bought by the Seaboard Air Line Railroad in the 1920s.  The Seaboard Railroad kept using the creosote plant through the 1950s.  In the late 1920s, Hull became the junction of a new line of the SAL to Fort Myers and Naples.  Passenger service was done on the branch.  This line was stopped in 1953.

[[Seii]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and queens, 1326 births, 1354 deaths, People from Okinawa Prefecture

Seii (西威; c. 1326 – c. 1354) was the 2nd king of the Okinawan kingdom of Chūzan. He ruled after his father, Tamagusuku, in 1336, when he was only ten years old.

[[Cecil Rhodes]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 births, 1902 deaths, South African businesspeople

Cecil Rhodes (5 July 1853 - 26 March 1902) was an English-born South African businessman and politician. He was the son of an Anglican vicar. He graduated from an English grammar school and at the age of 16 was sent to the British colony of Natal in South Africa due to poor health. There he became involved in diamond mining and founded the world-renowned De Beers diamond company. He later returned to England briefly to study at Oriel College, Oxford. He was the starter of Rhodesia. He founded the British South Africa Company, a corporation which he led to expand British territory to the north and form the colony of Rhodesia. He became Prime Minister of Cape Colony from 1890 to 1896. He was supported by the Afrikaner Bond in the Cape Colony until he betrayed them by supporting a rebellion against their relatives, the Boers of the South African Republic. He orchestrated the Jameson Raid, led  by his close friend Leander Starr Jameson in 1895, after which the Bond forced him to resign. He supported the Liberal Party and the Irish Parliamentary Party in domestic politics, in the UK. Rhodes, founded the Rhodes scholarships from his estate,  permitting citizens of British colonies, the United States and Germany to study at Oxford on a scholarship if they demonstrated certain academic and character qualities. He was a Freemason. It is believed from many scholars that he was a white supremacist. In his last years he was pursued by the Princess Catherine Radziwill, a Polish adventuress.

[[Kaioo]]

CATEGORIES: Web 2.0, Non-profit organizations, Social networking

kaioo used to be a social networking website where people can communicate using messages, video and photo uploads, blogs, social groups, and music. 

Users can also create their own networks that are within the kaioo-network. This means they get a network where the user can change the style and their own domain (such as myschool.kaioo.com or myschool-network.com).

kaioo is a non-profit organisation. There is no advertisement in the networks. Only in the geographical networks like Language, country, city there will be advertisement. kaioo gives all money they earn with these advertisements to poor people.

[[Akira Toriyama]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese manga artists, 1955 births, Living people, People from Aichi Prefecture

Akira Toriyama (born April 5, 1955, in Kiyosu, Aichi Prefecture, Japan) is the creator of many popular anime and manga series, most notably the Dragon Ball franchise. It has many media adaptions, and is now one of the most popular series of all time.

[[I. M. Pei]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2019 deaths, American architects, American centenarians, Chinese people, Pritzker Prize winners, Guangzhou

Ieoh Ming Pei  (26 April 1917 – 16 May 2019) was a Chinese American architect. Pei was an important name in his field, with his buildings built all over the world. When he was a child, he learned basic knowledge about architecture from his father. 

[[Isaac Bashevis Singer]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1991 deaths, American Nobel Prize winners, American novelists, American short story writers, Jewish American writers, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Polish Jews, Polish Nobel Prize winners

Isaac Bashevis Singer (November 21, 1902 – July 24, 1991) was a leading writer in Yiddish literature. He was a Jewish American who was born in Poland. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature.

[[John von Neumann]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1957 deaths, American mathematicians, American physicists, Cancer deaths in the United States, Disease-related deaths in Washington, D.C., Hungarian scientists, People from Budapest, Systems scientists

John von Neumann (December 28. 1903 – February 8. 1957) was a Hungarian-American mathematician and physicist who contributed to many fields including:

He is generally regarded as a prodigy, polymath and one of the most important mathematicians of the 20th century.

He was a member of a group called the 'Martians'. They were Hungarian immigrants to the US of extraordinary intellect. Others people in this group were Edward Teller, Paul Erdős, Leó Szilárd and Eugene Wigner.

[[Iwan Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Welsh footballers

Iwan Wyn Roberts (born 26 June, 1968 in Bangor, Wales) is a Welsh football player. He played for the Welsh national team and several English teams, including Norwich City F.C. and Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C..

At Norwich, Roberts twice won the player of the year trophy.

As a player, Roberts was a striker.

[[Ballpoint pen]]

CATEGORIES: Writing tools

A ballpoint pen or biro is pronounced "BY-roe" in British English after its inventor László Bíró. It is a modern kind of pen for writing. It uses oil-based ink of high viscosity. The ink is inside a long, thin tube inside the pen. When a person writes with it, the ink comes onto the small, ball-shaped tip of the unit. The ink dries almost as soon as it is on the paper. 

Ballpoint pens may be cheap or expensive:

Before the ballpoint pen was invented people usually wrote with pens which were dipped into ink, or fountain pens which were filled with ink. When the ballpoint pen was invented, many people thought they were inferior to use because the user's handwriting was not as good. Children in school continued to use the old dip pens. However, ballpoint pens are cheaper and simpler to use than pens that need to be dipped in ink. The old kind are still used in calligraphy.

The ink in a ballpoint is different from the ink used in a dip or fountain pen. It is a paste. It has 25 to 40 per cent dye suspended in a solvent of "oil". The most common oils are benzyl alcohol or phenoxyethanol, which mix with the dyes to create a smooth paste that dries quickly. Common dyes in blue (and black) ink are Prussian blue, Victoria blue, methyl violet, crystal violet and phthalocyanine blue. The dye eosin is commonly used for red ink. 

Biros have the advantage of being very cheap, and easily portable. As a gel or paste, the dye does not run and is stable. For the same reason, the dye needs harder pressure to write than a fountain pen does, sometimes very hard pressure. This is not true of rollerball pens, which are ballpoints that use water-based ink of low viscosity. And it is not true of pencils, which are still very commonly used.

[[Bando kickboxing]]

CATEGORIES: Kickboxing

Bando kickboxing is the modern, sport form of lethwei, nicknamed in Europe "Burmese boxing of four arms". It has been born in North America in the beginning of the years 1960, this type of fencing with feet and with gloved fists in a ring has given life, in the USA of the years 1970, to several forms of full contact and of kickboxing.

There exist, in competition, two forms of fight: "controlled bando kickboxing" (light contact) where the blows only touch the opponent in order to not hurt him, and the "Bando kickboxing of full contact" where the blows with full power are acceptable, destined to the adults who are more expert. According to the age and to the technical level, the rules and the conditions of competition are variable: particularly, there change the authorized and forbidden techniques, the time of fight, the type of surface of fight (carpet or ring) and the wearing of certain protections (helmet, plastron (protector of chest and abdomen), protectors of shins, slippers, etc.).

[[Spratly Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Islands  of Asia

The Spratly Islands  are 100 small uninhabited islands in the South China Sea.  A lot of fish are found around them so countries like Brunei Darussalam, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam are interested in them. These countries share control of the islands but each of them want to take control of all or most of the islands.

The islands are named after the British whaling captain Richard Spratly who saw Spratly Island in 1843.

The islands have less than 2 km2 (490 acres) of land area.

[[Sumba]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Indonesia, Lesser Sunda Islands

Sumba is an island in Indonesia, and is one of the Lesser Sunda Islands. It has an area of 11,153 km², and the population was at about 611,422 people as of the year 2005. There is a dry season from May to November and a rainy season from December to April. Historically, this island exported sandalwood.

[[Gili Trawangan]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Indonesia, Lesser Sunda Islands, Lombok

Gili Trawangan is the largest of Lombok's Gili Islands. It is the only one to rise notably above sea level. It is 3 long and 2 wide. The island has a population of about 1000 people. Of the Gilis, Trawangan has the most tourist facilities. The pub Tîr na Nôg says that Trawangan is the smallest island in the world with an Irish pub. The most crowded part of Trawangan is on the eastern side.

On Gili Trawangan (as well as the other two Gilis), there are no motorized vehicles. The main means of transportation are bicycles (rented by the people who live on the island to tourists) and cidomo (a small horse pulled carriage). For traveling to and from each of the Gilis, motorized boats and speedboats are used.

Some of the first people to live on Gili Trawangan were from Sulawesi. They were fishermen and farmers. Before they came to Gili Trawangan, the island was covered in forest and deer lived there.

The economy of Gili Trawangan centres on tourism. The island is too small to support large amounts of agriculture. It is also too far away from other places to be useful for either industry or commerce. 

[[Gili Meno]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Indonesia, Lesser Sunda Islands, Lombok

Gili Meno is an island in Indonesia. It is the middle of Lombok's three Gilis. It has population of about 300, mainly concentrated  on the center of the island. The main income of the population comes from tourism, coconut plantation, and fishing. On the west side of the island there is a small shallow lake that produces salt in the dry season. Until a few years ago there was also a small production of seaweed on the reef at the north end of the island. It has swimming beaches all around the island, as well as an impressive bird sanctuary.

[[Gili Air]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Indonesia, Lesser Sunda Islands, Lombok

Gili Air is the smallest of the Gilis and it is closest to the Lombok mainland, making it popular with honeymoon couples and travelers seeking a quiet retreat. It has population of about 1,000 and administratively lies in the West Nusa Tenggara province. The island offers excellent snorkeling and SCUBA diving off its east coast, and turtles can be seen along the coral reef. 

[[Gili Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Indonesia, Lesser Sunda Islands, Lombok

The Gili Islands (Indonesian:Tiga Gili Gilis, Kepulauan Gili Islands) are a group of three small islands (or archipelago) – Gili Trawangan, Gili Meno and Gili Air — very close to the northwest coast of Lombok, Indonesia.

The islands are a popular destination for Western tourists.  Each island has several small resorts, usually consisting of a small collection of huts for tourists, and a restaurant.  Most local inhabitants live in the hilly interior of the islands.  Automobiles and motorized traffic are not allowed on the islands by local law. Bicycles or the horse-drawn carriages called a cidomo are common transportation on the islands. Scuba diving in and around the Gilis is also popular. The name Gili simply means "small island" in the local Sasak language.

[[Cidomo]]

CATEGORIES: Animal-powered vehicles, Horses, Transport in Indonesia

A Cidomo is a small horse-drawn carriage used on Indonesia's Gili Islands used instead of motorized transport which is not allowed.

[[Grease (musical)]]

CATEGORIES: Broadway musicals, West End musicals, 1970s musicals

Grease is a 1971 musical by Jim Jacobs and Warren Casey. It takes its name from the 1950s United States working-class culture known as the greasers. It is set in 1959 in a made-up school called Rydell High in Chicago and is about the romance between high schoolers Danny Zuko and Sandy Dumbrowski.

[[Ryan Giggs]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, 2012 Summer Olympics, British Olympians, Manchester United F.C. players, Sportspeople from Cardiff, Welsh football managers, Welsh footballers

Ryan Joseph Giggs (born 29 November 1973) is a Welsh former footballer and manager. 

Giggs was born in Canton, Cardiff, and grew up in Ely, Cardiff. He has Sierra Leonean and Dutch ancestry. 

As well as the Wales national team, he also played for the Great Britain squad at the 2012 Summer Olympics and Manchester United, where he has spent his whole career until now. His playing position was as a left winger. Giggs also loves rugby league and follows the Warrington Wolves and Melbourne Storm as his father Danny Wilson is a former rugby league player. 

[[Ian Rush]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Liverpool F.C. players, Welsh footballers, Welsh football managers

Ian Rush (born 20 October 1961) is a former Welsh international football player, who notably played for Liverpool and Juventus.

He was a very successful striker, who set many goal-scoring records for Liverpool in particular.

When he retired from playing, he returned to his first club and managed Chester City before going on to work on television.

[[Ogoh-ogoh]]

CATEGORIES: Bali, Hinduism, Mythology

An Ogoh-ogoh, a papier-mâché and wood puppet built on Bali for the New Year Holiday Nyepi. They are primarily constructed by young Balinese men and frequently depict caricatures of the many tourists. On the evening before Nyepi they are paraded about and then burnt. Nyepi is known as the day of silence.

[[Padangbai]]

CATEGORIES: Bali, Towns in Indonesia

Padangbai is a small town in eastern Bali, Indonesia. It serves as a ferry port for travel to Lombok, The Gilis and other of the Lesser Sunda Islands. It is also a lovely beach town that is popular with those who prefer a small town atmosphere over the large scale beach party that is Kuta.

Besides the beach near the ferry terminal there is a beach just to the north known locally as the Blue Lagoon and the especially nice Secret Beach just to the south of town. These pleasant beaches have clusters of small family owned warungs that will be glad to prepare a meal and serve beer.

[[Tokugawa shogunate]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, Samurai, 1603 establishments, 17th century establishments in Japan, 1600s establishments in Asia

The Tokugawa shogunate, also known as the Tokugawa bakufu, and the Edo bakufu, was a feudal Japanese military government.  The heads of government were the shoguns. Each was a member of the Tokugawa clan.

These years are known as the Edo period. The period takes its name from the city where the Tokugawa shoguns lived.  This time is also called the Tokugawa period or pre-modern (Kinsei).

[[Liberal Democrats (UK)]]

CATEGORIES: Liberal Democrats (UK), 1988 establishments in the United Kingdom, Liberal parties

The Liberal Democrats, often shortened to Lib Dems, is a centrist political party in the United Kingdom that promotes liberal policies. It was started on 2 March 1988 by joining the Liberal Party, which had been a powerful political party in Britain in the 19th and early 20th centuries, and the Social Democratic Party, which had been formed from the Labour Party in 1981. The two parties had already been working together for seven years. 

The Liberal Democrats are strong supporters of the European Union, as well as environmentalism and they are in favour of creating a new British House of Commons which is elected using proportional representation. They also disagree with Britain being apart of conflicts like the Iraq War.

The party has 18 out of 650 seats in the House of Commons, 105 out of 793 seats in the House of Lords, 16 out of 73 British seats in the European Parliament, 5 out of 129 seats in the Scottish Parliament and 1 out of 60 seats in the Welsh Assembly. The party was in a coalition government with the Conservative Party and the former party leader Nick Clegg was the Deputy Prime Minister until the May 2015 general election.

In elections, the party usually gets the most votes in places like northern Scotland, south-west London, south-west England and mid-Wales. Members of the party are mostly more middle-class people that went to university.

[[Houten]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Utrecht (province), Municipalities of Utrecht (province)

Houten(Nl-Houten.ogg)  is a town in Utrecht province in the Netherlands. The population of the town in 2007 was about 45,000.

Houten lies on the railway line from Utrecht to Tiel and 's Hertogenbosch. In 2004, the railway line needed fixing, but the old station building was in the way. What was done is pretty unique: the old station building was lifted off its foundations, and moved a few hundred metres to new foundations.

Many people living in Houten have jobs in Utrecht. According to plans of the government, the city should grow to about 50.000 people by 2010.

People have lived in the area since Roman times.

[[Northampton]]

CATEGORIES: County towns in England, Northampton

Northampton (en-uk-Northampton.ogg) is a big market town and a local government district of the East Midlands part of the United Kingdom.  The district has a population of 200,100 people.

Northampton has a major entertainment centre called the Derngate.

[[West Slavs]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic peoples

West Slavs are part of the Slavic peoples. Czechs, Kashubians, Poles, Slovaks, and Sorbs are West Slavs. The most of them are in three countries: in Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. West Slavs' national languages are languages from West Slavic languages group.

[[WWE Judgment Day]]

CATEGORIES: WWE Judgment Day

Judgment Day is a yearly professional wrestling pay-per-view event made World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).

[[Tokugawa Ieyasu]]

CATEGORIES: Shoguns, 1543 births, 1616 deaths, People from Aichi Prefecture

Tokugawa Ieyasu was a Japanese shogun of the Edo period. His ruled started in 1603 and ended in 1605. He is one of the most famous military commanders in Japan.

[[Billy Graham Center]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations, 1981 establishments in the United States

The Billy Graham Center was founded and opened in 1981 on the campus of Wheaton College. Named after Billy Graham, the center is the main place for many of Wheaton College's bible and theology classes. There are eleven areas of work focused on "Stimulating Global Evangelism" with 25-40 staff, carrying out the work.

[[Revival meeting]]

CATEGORIES: Christian behavior and experience, Christian worship and liturgy

A Revival meeting is an event organised by Christian missionaries. The purpose of the meeting is to inspire people to convert to Christianity or to raise funds for the church. The name means to bring revival (meaning to reawaken) to a group or area. It is most common in American Protestant churches.

[[Revival]]

Revival could mean:

[[Death Note]]

Death Note is a supernatural thriller fantasy manga written by Tsugumi Ōba and illustrated by Takeshi Obata. The work was adapted into an anime series directed by Tetsurō Araki. It is about a Japanese teenage high school student boy named Light Yagami, who finds a supernatural notebook. The notebook, dropped on earth by a bored shinigami named Ryuk, is called a "Death Note". When a person's name is written in the notebook, that person dies. If the cause of death is not specified, they die of a heart attack. Light, aiming to create a crime-free utopia, uses the notebook to kill criminals, anonymously gaining world fame as "Kira" ("キラ" in Japanese - based on the English word "killer") - some people see him as justice, while others see him as a murderer.

The best detective in the world, an eccentric genius named "L", works with the Japanese police, as well as Light's own father, to find out Kira's identity and catch him. He suspects all along that it's Light, who, as a part of the police department, works alongside L in the investigation. It becomes a contest of wit and intelligence between L and Light, both of whom are very clever. At one point, Light temporarily gives up the Death Note, along his memories of it, as an ally continue writing the names of criminals. This "proves" to the police that he is not Kira. However, he later gets the Death Note back and kills L with it.

After L dies, his successors, two orphans named "Mello" and "Near", take over the Kira investigation. Near is a child prodigy who clearly mirrors L, and Mello is an impulsive, antisocial teen obsessed with one-upping Near. Mello refuses to work with Near and leaves the orphanage, joining the American Mafia; Near forms a task force to catch Kira.  In the end, Near proves that Light is Kira, leading to Light's death.

Besides the manga and anime, Death Note was also made into a light novel, various video games, two animated films, a live-action television drama, a musical, and several live-action films.

[[Bob Jones, Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 births, 1968 deaths, American Methodists, Christian religious leaders, Evangelists, People from Greenville, South Carolina

Bob Jones, Sr (October 30, 1883—January 16, 1968)  was an American, Christian, Fundamentalist, evangelist, broadcaster, and founder of Bob Jones University. He was born the eleventh of twelve children to William and Georgia Jones.

In 1905, Jones married Bernice Sheffield, who got tuberculosis and died within ten months of their marriage. On June 17, 1908, he married Mary Gaston Stollenwerck, whom he had met as a choir member. Their only child, Bob Jones, Jr. was born October 19, 1911 in Montgomery.

[[Auditorium]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures, Rooms

An Auditorium (plural auditoriums, or less commonly auditoria) is the room in a theatre, cinema, concert hall, or other place where the audience is located to hear or watch the show. Auditoriums are made with great sound. The sound is easily heard by everyone in the auditorium.

[[Pulpit]]

CATEGORIES: Church architecture

A pulpit (from Latin pulpitum "scaffold", "platform", "stage") is a small lifted platform where a member of the clergy stands to read a Gospel lesson, or give a sermon. In some Protestant churches, the pulpit is thought to be the most important piece of furniture in the sanctuary.

[[Level crossing]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport, Traffic signs

A level crossing (also called a grade crossing, a railway crossing, or a railroad crossing)  is a place where a railway line and a road meet each other on the same level. This means that the grades (the road and the track) are not separated by using a bridge or a tunnel. Usually, there are signs indicating the crossing. There may also be barriers/gates that go down before a train passes. 

Depending on how much traffic there is, there are different measures to make the crossing more secure:

Since level crossings are dangerous (there are many accidents), they are usually grade separated once there is more traffic, or high speed trains.

[[Macaulay Culkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Musicians from New York City, Singers from New York City

Macaulay Carson Culkin (born on August 26, 1980) is an American actor, voice actor and musician. He is perhaps most notable and best notable for his prominent kiddie roles in the first 2 Home Alone movies as Kevin McCallister. These blockbuster movies still continue to be very popular with many American audiences to this day onwards much to a cult following. His parents are Patricia Brentrup and Christopher 'Kit' Culkin.

[[Tencent QQ]]

CATEGORIES: Instant messaging software

Tencent QQ, also known as QQ, is a popular instant messaging software in mainland China. It was created by Tencent Inc. in 1999. 

source codes were taken in 1999. from AOL/ICQ. AOL was Founded by Steve Case. is an American entrepreneur, investor, and businessman best known as the former chief executive officer and chairman of America Online (AOL).  Case joined AOL's predecessor company, Quantum Computer Services, as a marketing vice-president and became CEO of the company (renamed AOL) in 1991.

QQ source Code:

much of it was using earlier codes from ICQ at the Time.

[[Princess Jasmine]]

CATEGORIES: Aladdin (Disney) characters, Fictional Arabs, Fictional characters introduced in 1992, Fictional princesses, Kingdom Hearts characters

Princess Jasmine is a fictional character of in the movie Aladdin.

[[Fürstenfeldbruck (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Rural Districts in Upper Bavaria

Fürstenfeldbruck (German: Landkreis Fürstenfeldbruck, Bavarian: Landkroas Fiarstnfoidbruck) is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

[[José Zorrilla y Moral]]

CATEGORIES: 1817 births, 1893 deaths, Spanish poets

José Zorrilla y Moral (February 21, 1817 - January 23, 1893), was a Spanish Romantic poet and dramatist.

[[Ottobrunn]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Ottobrunn is a municipality in the Munich Rural District. It was started in 1955 and the German headquarters of the EADS are there.

[[Ja'far]]

Ja'far may mean:

In fictional characters

In historical persons

In people

[[Aying]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Aying is a municipality  in the Munich Rural District in Bavaria, Germany. The Ayinger Brewery is there.

[[Höhenkirchen-Siegertsbrunn]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Höhenkirchen-Siegertsbrunn (Central Bavarian: Hähakircha-Siegertsbrunn) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. It lies south of Munich. It is the municipality with the longest name in Germany.

[[Habitation at Port-Royal]]

CATEGORIES: History of Canada

The Habitation at Port-Royal was an early French colonial settlement. Today it is a National Historic Site in Port Royal in the Canadian province of Nova Scotia.

[[Mi'kmaq]]

CATEGORIES: Native American, Canadian people

The Mi'kmaq (miːgmaɣ; (also spelled Míkmaq, Mi'gmaq, Mi'qmac, or formerly Micmac) are a First Nations or Native American in the United States people, indigenous to northeastern New England, Canada's Atlantic Provinces, and the Gaspé Peninsula of Quebec.  The word Míkmaw is an adjectival form of the plural noun for the people, Míkmaq.

The nation has a population of about 40,000 of whom approximately one-third still speak the Algonquian language L'nuí'simk which was once written in Míkmaq hieroglyphic writing and is now written using most letters of the standard Latin alphabet.

In the Canadian provinces of Nova Scotia and Newfoundland and Labrador, October is celebrated as Mi'kmaq History Month and the entire Nation celebrates Treaty Day annually on October 1.

[[Wang Xiaobo]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 1997 deaths, Chinese writers

Wang Xiaobo (王小波; pinyin: Wáng Xiǎobō; May 13, 1952 – April 11, 1997) was a famous writer in mainland China. His most famous and successful Literary works is Golden Time.

Xiaobo was born in Beijing, China. In 1972, he became a teacher in the Shandong province. In 1978, he started studying at the Renmin University of China. Xiaobo's most famous novel was published in 1994. It was named "Golden Time".

[[Chengdu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Chengdu (also called The Hibiscus City), is the fourth largest city in the  People's Republic of China. It is the capital of Sichuan province and is on top of the Chengdu Plain. The city is home to the Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding. The city has a famous food culture, so much so that UNESCO awarded the city as a City of Gastronomy. Chengdu is known for hot pot and teahouses and for adding chili peppers in much of their food.

[[Hohenbrunn]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Hohenbrunn (Central Bavarian: Hohabrunn) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

[[Albert Schweitzer]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 births, 1965 deaths, 19th century philosophers, 20th century philosophers, Christian ministers, French Christians, French Nobel Prize winners, French organists, French philosophers, French scientists, French theologians, German academics, German doctors, German Lutherans, German Nobel Prize winners, German organists, German philosophers, German theologians, Humanitarians, Lutherans, Order of Merit, People from Grand Est

Ludwig Philipp Albert Schweitzer, MD, OM, (14 January 1875 – 4 September 1965) was a French-German theologian, musician, philosopher and physician. He was born in Kaysersberg (Alsace), at the time a part of the German Empire.

He wrote books about music and religion. He started a famous hospital in Lambarene, Africa. He received the 1952 Nobel Peace Prize.

[[Coweta, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Coweta is a city in Wagoner County, Oklahoma and is a suburb of Tulsa. The population was 8,352 at the 2005 census estimate.

[[Tularemia]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria

Tularemia (also called  "Goblin Fever", "deer-fly fever", "Ohara fever" and "Francis disease") is a disease. Usually rodents get it.  It is caused by a bacterium, Francisella tularensis. There have been cases where the disease spread to humans. The disease can be treated with antibiotics.

[[Neubiberg]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Neubiberg (Central Bavarian: Neibiberg) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. The university of the Bundeswehr is there.

[[Brunnthal]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Brunnthal (Central Bavarian: Brunntoi) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

[[Putzbrunn]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Putzbrunn (Central Bavarian: Butzbrunn) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

[[Unterföhring]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Unterföhring (Central Bavarian: Untafering) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. Many media companies are in Unterföhring, for example ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG and Sky Deutschland.

[[Fur trade]]

CATEGORIES: Commerce, Trade routes

The fur trade is a worldwide industry dealing in the gain and sale of animal fur.

Before the colonization of the Americas, Russia was a major fur supplier of Western Europe and parts of Asia. 

The North American fur trade was a central part of the early history of contact in The New World (North America) between European-Americans and Native Americans in the United States and First Nations in Canada. 

The North American fur trade flourished for 250 years. This long time can be roughly divided into three sections:  

One of the earliest companies in the fur trade business was the Hudson's Bay Company, which was created by an English royal charter in 1670. The company still exists today, but now works in the retail business and operates a number of department stores in Canada, the United States and all around the world.

[[Argyle, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wisconsin, Lafayette County, Wisconsin

Argyle is a village in Lafayette County, Wisconsin, United States. There were 823 people living in Argyle as of the year 2000. The village can be found inside the Town of Argyle.  The United States Census Bureau says that the village has an area of 0.6 square miles (1.6 km²).

[[Miyuki Komatsu]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese movie actors, 1971 births, Living people, People from Fukushima Prefecture

Miyuki Komatsu is a Japanese actress.

She has acted in:

[[Aschheim]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Aschheim (Central Bavarian: Oscham, Aschhoam) is a municipality in the district of the Munich Rural District.

[[NetSolve]]

CATEGORIES: American technology companies

NetSolve is an information technology company in the United States.  Cisco Systems took it over on September 9, 2004.

[[Third-person shooter]]

CATEGORIES: Shooter video games, Types of video games, Video game genres

Third-person shooter is a genre of video games in which the players character is seen from a distance. A first-person shooter is where the player plays as if they are the character. In a third person shooter the player controls the character. Some examples of a third-person shooter are the Grand Theft Auto series and Mafia. 

For PSP can also have Socom Fireteam Bravo Also with the Syphon Filter series with first person scope aim.

[[Klaus Ebner]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Austrian writers, Austrian poets

Klaus Ebner (born August 8, 1964) is an Austrian writer of short stories, essays and poetry, and a translator. Born and raised in Vienna, he began writing at an early age. He started sending in stories to magazines in the 1980s, and also published articles and books about computer software after 1989. Ebner's poetry is written in German and Catalan. He is a member of several Austrian writers associations, including the Grazer Autorenversammlung.

His works include cultural essays on Catalan topics, and stories about Jewish traditions. His first book of short stories was printed in 2007. In 2008, Ebner published the short novel Hominide. He has gotten several literary prizes, among them the Viennese Wiener Werkstattpreis in 2007. Austrian critics, such as Wolfgang Ratz, have praised Ebner's prose-style. The writer lives in Vienna with his family.

[[Wagoner County, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Oklahoma counties, 1907 establishments in Oklahoma

Wagoner County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.  As of 2000, 57,491 people lived there.  Its county seat is Wagoner.

[[Tulsa County, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Oklahoma counties, 1907 establishments in Oklahoma

Tulsa County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.  As of 2000, 563,299 people lived there. The county seat is Tulsa. It has more people than any other county in Oklahoma.

[[National Register of Historic Places]]

CATEGORIES: National Register of Historic Places, 1966 establishments in the United States

The National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) is the United States government's official list of districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects (all called "properties") worthy of preservation. The list is kept by the National Park Service.  The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (NHPA) created the National Register and the method for adding properties to it. There are more than one million properties on the National Register, 80,000 are listed by themselves.  The rest of the properties are smaller "contributing properties" that are part of historic districts. Each year around 30,000 properties are added to the National Register as part of districts or through individual listings. A few are National Historic Landmarks.

[[Wagoner, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Oklahoma, Cities in Oklahoma

Wagoner is a city in Wagoner County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 7,669 at the 2000 census. It is the county seat of Wagoner County.

[[Muskogee County, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Oklahoma counties, 1907 establishments in Oklahoma

Muskogee County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.  As of 2000, 69,451 people lived there.  Its county seat is Muskogee.

[[Polans]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic peoples, Polish people

The Polans were a West Slavic tribe that lived in Greater Poland. Polans united other Polish tribes and created Poland. The first Catholic ruler of the Polans was Mieszko I. Here is an extract of Helmold's Chronica Slavorum:

"Slavorum igitur populi multi sunt habitantes in litore Balthici maris. Sinus huius maris ab occidentali occeano orientem versus porrigitur. Appellatur ideo Balthicus (...) idemque mare barbarum seu pelagus Schiticum vocatur a gentibus, quas alluit, barbaris. Hoc mare multae circumsedent naciones. Dani siquidem ac Sueones, quos Northmannos vocamus, septentrionale litus et omnes in eo continent insulas. At litus australe Slavorum incolunt nationes, quorum ab oriente primi sunt Ruci, deinde Polani, habentes a septentrione Pruzos, ab austro Boemos et eos qui dicuntur Marahi sive Karinthi atque Sorabi."

in English, it means:

"There are a lot of Slavic tribes, that live on the coast of the Baltic Sea. The bay of this sea is directed from the west ocean to east. It's called Baltic (...) This sea is also called barbarian or Scythian from the barbarian tribes, that is failing. There are a lot of tribes that live around this sea; namely Danes and Swedes, which we call Normans, they live on the northern coast and all of the isles. Southern coast inhabit Glavic tribes, the first of them are Rus'; there are also Polans, that border in the north with Prussians, on the south with Czechs, and these, that are calling themselves Moravians or Carynthians and Sorbians."

[[Cherokee County, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Oklahoma counties, 1907 establishments in Oklahoma

Cherokee County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.  As of 2000, the population was 42,521.  Its capital city is Tahlequah.

[[Mao]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dominican Republic, 1875 establishments in North America, 19th-century establishments in the Spanish West Indies

The Dominican city of Santa Cruz de Mao, or simply Mao. It is the head municipality of the Valverde province, on the northwest of the country. It is the largest city of the Dominican northwest and the centre of the region.

[[Mayes County, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Oklahoma counties, 1907 establishments in Oklahoma

Mayes County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.  As of 2000, 38,369 people lived there.  Its county seat is Pryor, also known as Pryor Creek.

[[Rogers County, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Oklahoma counties, 1907 establishments in Oklahoma

Rogers County is a county in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.  As of 2000, 70,641 people lived there.  Its county seat is Claremore.

[[Koweta Mission Site]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations

Koweta Mission Site is a NRHP site added in 1973.

The Koweta Mission was founded in 1843 when white missionaries arrived in Coweta to teach Native American children. Reverend  Robert Loughridge and his wife, Olivia, bought an empty cabin for ten dollars and began teaching. He named the mission "Koweta".

[[Sean Hannity]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Television talk show hosts, American conservatives, Writers from New York City

Sean Hannity (born December 30, 1961) is an American radio talk show host and best-selling author. He first was noticed as the co-host for the Fox News program Hannity & Colmes, a political television program co-hosted by Alan Colmes. He is the second highest rated talk-radio show in the United States, April 2009 for his work with his show called The Sean Hannity Show. He is also the host of Hannity's America, on the TV station Fox News Channel.

[[Brett Favre]]

CATEGORIES: Atlanta Falcons players, Green Bay Packers players, Minnesota Vikings players, New York Jets players, Sportspeople from Mississippi, American football quarterbacks, 1969 births, Living people

Brett Lorenzo Favre (born October 10, 1969, in Gulfport, Mississippi, United States) is a former American football quarterback in the National Football League. He played college football for the Southern Miss Golden Eagles. Favre was known for his controversy as well, especially his retirement saga and sexual abuse scandal with New York and failure to cooperate in the investigation, for which he was fined $50 thousand. Favre is also well known for his love of the outdoors and his "iron man" reputation earned for his toughness, which helped him in cold Wisconsin and Minnesota. He was a color anylst for one 2011 college game.

[[Headline]]

CATEGORIES: Newspaper publishing

A headline is text at the top of a article, telling the reader the nature of the article below. Newspapers almost always have headlines in their papers.

[[Transistor–transistor logic]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics

Transistor–Transistor Logic (TTL) is a class of digital circuits built from transistors and resistors. It is called transistor–transistor logic because the logic function (e.g., AND) and amplification is performed by transistors. Many integrated circuits have TTL technology. They are used in applications such as computers, industrial controls, test equipment and instrumentation, synthesizers, etc.

TTL gates define a voltage below 0.5V as 0, and a voltage of 4–5V as 1.

[[Northwest Ordinance]]

CATEGORIES: United States federal legislation, 1787 in the United States

The Northwest Ordinance of 1787 said that the land north of the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River would eventually become part of the United States. It encouraged people to move to the west. The Ordinance established policies for governing the territory and included laws eventually adopted in the Constitution. Included in the Ordinance were laws protecting freedom of religion (Article I), rights of the accused (Article II), public education and Indian land rights (Article III), admission of new states (Article V), and prohibition of slavery in the territory (Article VI). The territory included the future states of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan, and part of Minnesota. This was a very important part in the American history.

[[Protactinium]]

CATEGORIES: Actinides, Chemical elements

Protactinium is a very radioactive chemical element with the symbol Pa and atomic number 91. The density of this element is 231.04

[[Troy Aikman]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Dallas Cowboys players, American football quarterbacks, Football players from California

Troy Kenneth Aikman (born November 21, 1966 in West Covina, California) is a former American football quarterback for the Dallas Cowboys of the National Football League, and is now a television sportscaster for the Fox television network.  He is also a shared owner of the NASCAR Nextel Cup racing team, Hall of Fame Racing, along with fellow former Cowboys quarterback, Roger Staubach. He was chosen for the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2006.

[[Johnny Unitas]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2002 deaths, Pittsburgh Steelers players, San Diego Chargers players, Sportspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, American football quarterbacks

John Constantine "Johnny" Unitas (May 7, 1933 – September 11, 2002, often called "Johnny U."), was a professional American football player in the 1950s through the 1970s. He was a record-setting quarterback and the National Football League's most valuable player in 1959, 1964 and 1967. His record of throwing a touchdown pass in 47 consecutive games (between 1956-1960) is unrivaled. Unitas is commonly considered the greatest quarterback of all-time. He spent his first and last seasons each with the Pittsburgh Steelers and San Diego Chargers. He is most famous for his time with the Baltimore Colts. He was part of what some considered "The Greatest Game ever Played,"  in 1959. Unitas handed a ball to Alan Ameche, who scored against the New York Giants. The Colts eventually moved from Baltimore to Indianapolis in 1984. Unitas supported the Baltimore Ravens and is part of their Ring of Honor (Inducted 2002).

[[Dick Butkus]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American football linebackers, Chicago Bears players, Sportspeople from Chicago

Richard Marvin "Dick" Butkus (born December 9, 1942) is an American former football player. He is commonly considered as the greatest linebacker of his time. He was raised in Roseland, Chicago, Illinois.

In college, Butkus played for the University of Illinois. He played professional football in the National Football League for the Chicago Bears. He became a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1979.

[[Mike Ditka]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, American football tight ends, Chicago Bears players, Dallas Cowboys players, New Orleans Saints players, Philadelphia Eagles players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania, Sportspeople from Chicago, National Football League coaches

Michael Keller Ditka, Jr. (born October 18, 1939, in Carnegie, Pennsylvania), is a former NFL player, television commentator, and coach. Ditka coached the Chicago Bears for 11 years and New Orleans Saints for 3 years. Ditka and Tom Flores are the only two people to win Super Bowls as a player, an assistant coach and a head coach. Ditka was the only person to take part in the last two Chicago Bears' championships, as a player in 1963 and as head coach in 1985.

On November 23, 2018, Ditka was hospitalized in Naples, Florida after suffering a heart attack while playing golf.

[[The Sean Hannity Show]]

CATEGORIES: Radio programs

The Sean Hannity Show is an American radio show with conservative talk show host Sean Hannity. It is a political talk show, but many times will cover things other than the mainstream media. The Hannity program is the second highest rated program, behind only The Rush Limbaugh Show.April 2009 On the show, Sean and the people who call in often say to each other "you're a great American!" 

[[John Elway]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American football quarterbacks, Denver Broncos players, Sportspeople from Washington

John Albert Elway, Jr. (born June 28, 1960 in Port Angeles, Washington) is a retired Hall of Fame American football quarterback. He played his college football at Stanford and his whole professional career for the Denver Broncos football team of the National Football League (NFL). He was the NFL Most Valuable Player (MVP) in 1987. Elway won Super Bowls with the Broncos in 1998 and 1999, and was the MVP of Super Bowl XXXIII in 1999, throwing for one touchdown and rushing for another as the Broncos beat the Atlanta Falcons, 34-19. That ended up being his final game (other than the 1999 Pro Bowl), as he retired after that season.

[[Detroit Lions]]

CATEGORIES: Detroit Lions

The Detroit Lions are a team in the National Football League and National Football Conference. They are based in Detroit, Michigan.

They originally played in Tiger Stadium, the first home of the Detroit Tigers baseball club. The Lions were named after the Tigers. Both big cats are considered fierce and dangerous.

[[Michael Irvin]]

CATEGORIES: American football wide receivers, Dallas Cowboys players, Sportspeople from Florida, People from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 1966 births, Living people

Michael Jerome Irvin (born March 5, 1966) is a former American football player for the Dallas Cowboys. He is also a former broadcaster for ESPN's NFL Countdown. He is commonly known as one of the most successful wide receivers in the history of the National Football League.

[[Howie Long]]

CATEGORIES: American football defensive ends, National Football League players, Oakland Raiders players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts, 1960 births, Living people

Howard Michael Moses Long (born January 6, 1960 in Somerville, Massachusetts) is a former American football player who played as a defensive end, and was chosen for the Hall of Fame in 2000. He won the Super Bowl XVIII with the Los Angeles Raiders on January 22, 1984. Long currently works as a studio analyst for the Fox Network's NFL coverage.

[[Hoang Hoa Tham]]

CATEGORIES: Vietnamese people, 1858 births, 1913 deaths

Hoàng Hoa Thám (hwaŋ21 hwa33 tʰɐːm35) or Đề Thám (ɗe21 tʰɐːm35); (born Trương Văn Thám (cɨɜŋ33 hwa33 vɐn33) 1858 – February 10, 1913) was leader of the famous Yen The Uprising against the French during Western conquest of Vietnam.

[[Pro Football Hall of Fame]]

CATEGORIES: Pro Football Hall of Fame, Canton, Ohio, 1963 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Ohio

The Pro Football Hall of Fame is the hall of fame of the National Football League (NFL). It opened in Canton, Ohio, United States, on September 7 1963 with 17 original inductees. Through 2008, all but one of the Hall of Fame members have played some part of their professional career in the NFL (the only player who did not is Buffalo Bills guard Billy Shaw, who played his whole career in the American Football League (AFL) before the 1970 AFL-NFL merger). The Chicago Bears have the most Hall of Famers in the league at 26.

[[Cypress]]

CATEGORIES: Cupressaceae

Cypress is a name used for many trees in the conifer family Cupressaceae (cypress family).

[[Míkmaq language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of North America

The Mi'kmaq language (also spelled Míkmaq, Mi'gmaq, Mi'qmac, or priorly Micmac) is an Eastern Algonquian language spoken by nearly 9,000 Míkmaq in Canada, and another 1,200 in United States, out of a total ethnic Míkmaq population of roughly 40,000. The word Míkmaq is a plural word meaning 'my friends' (singular Míkm); the adjectival form is Míkmaw. The language's native name is Míkmawísimk  or Míkmwei (in some dialects).

[[Los Angeles Chargers]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League teams, Sports in Los Angeles

The Los Angeles Chargers are a professional American football team from the Los Angeles metropolitan area. They are currently part of the Western Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The team first played in 1960 as a charter member of the American Football League. The club spent its first season in Los Angeles before moving to San Diego in 1961, becoming the San Diego Chargers and spending 56 seasons in that city before moving back to the Los Angeles area from 2017 to 2019. The team played at Dignity Health Sports Park, a soccer stadium in suburban Carson that serves as home to the LA Galaxy of Major League Soccer. They will join the Los Angeles Rams in 2020 at SoFi Stadium that the Rams are building in another Los Angeles suburb, Inglewood.

From 2007 to 2019, Phillip Rivers was their starting quarterback.  The current quarterback is Justin Herbert. The original team logo was a charging horse. Over time, the logo evolved into a lightning bolt, a play on a different meaning of "charge".  The team wears navy blue jerseys and white pants for most home games, white jerseys and navy pants for road games, and powder blue jerseys with white pants for designated home games.  There is a gold bolt on the jersey that is outlined in both powder blue and navy.

[[Metal leaf]]

CATEGORIES: Metals

Metal leaf is a type of metallic foil used mostly for decoration. Gold leaf, a thin layering of gold foil, is the most common form of metal leaf, and the two words are often mixed up. Only very malleable metals can be made into leaf.  Those metals are easily shaped, but at the same time very hard to break. Metal leaf is seen in various fields other than in decoration, sometimes used in art and gilding, its purposes in some cultures varies. Vark is a type of silver leaf used to decorate Indian cuisine.

[[Foo Fighters]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 establishments in Washington (state), 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, Brit Award winners, Grammy Award winners, Grunge bands, Musical groups established in 1994, Musical groups from Seattle, Washington, Post-grunge bands

Foo Fighters is an American rock band started by musician and former Nirvana drummer Dave Grohl. The band was formed in 1994 after the breakup of Nirvana. The band's name comes from a term used in World War II about strange sky objects (UFOs).

The band, who have achieved a world-wide following, have won many awards for their music, and have released seven studio albums and twenty-eight singles. Foo Fighters have won eleven Grammy Awards. The current members of the band are Dave Grohl (singer), Nate Mendel (bass guitar), Taylor Hawkins (drums) and Pat Smear (guitar).

Before Grohl was a member of Foo Fighters, he was the drummer for the popular grunge band, Nirvana. Nirvana's singer, Kurt Cobain, died the year Foo Fighters were formed.

[[Ronnie O'Sullivan]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Snooker players, Sportspeople from Essex, Sportspeople from West Midlands (county)

Ronnie O'Sullivan (born 5 December 1975) is an English professional snooker player. He was born in Wordsley, West Midlands. He grew up in Chigwell, Essex and still lives there. He was World Champion in 2001, 2004, 2008, 2012, 2013 and 2020.

O'Sullivan made his first century break at age 10.

He has won the UK Championship six times. This was in 1993, 1997, 2001, 2007, 2014 and 2017. He has won the Masters seven times, in 1995, 2005, 2007, 2009, 2014, 2016 and 2017.

[[Rain (entertainer)]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean singers, 1982 births, Living people, K-pop singers

Jung Ji-Hoon (born June 25, 1982), better known by his stage name Rain, is a South Korean singer, recording artist, dancer, actor, model and designer.

In Rain's music career, he produced seven albums (six Korean, one Japanese), 19 singles and many concert tours around the world. His acting career began in 2003. This was when he won the KBS Best New Actor Award for his role in the drama Sang Doo! Let's Go To School. In 2004, Rain won the KBS Excellence in Acting award for his role in the drama Full House. After starring in A Love To Kill, he acted in his first Korean film, I'm a Cyborg, But That's OK (2006), which won the Alfred Bauer Prize at the Berlin International Film Festival. Rain has acted in the American films Speed Racer (2008) and Ninja Assassin (2009). He was the first Korean to win an MTV award.

In 2007, Rain left the management of JYP Entertainment and started his own company, J. Tune Entertainment. However, he still keeps contact with Park Jin-young.

[[Algonquian languages]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of North America

The Algonquian æ or æ;

also Algonkian) (also Algonquin, Algonkian) languages are a subfamily of Native American languages that includes most of the languages in the Algic language family. The term "Algonquin" comes from the Maliseet word elakómkwik (ɛlæˈɡomoɡwik), "they are our relatives/allies". Many Algonquian languages are extremely endangered today, while a number of others have already died out completely.

Speakers of Algonquian languages stretch from the east coast of North America all the way to the Rocky Mountains. The language from which all of the languages of the family come was spoken at least 3,000 years ago.

The Algonquian languages are 'poly-synthetic', which means that you can make entire sentences in one word.

[[Ismaning]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Ismaning (Ancient: Yserrain) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. As of December 31, 2008, it had a population of 15,181.

[[Grünwald, Bavaria]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Grünwald (Central Bavarian: Greawoid) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. The Bavaria Film Studios and a castle are in Grünwald.

[[Kirchheim bei München]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Kirchheim (Central Bavarian: Kirchheim ba Minga) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

[[Haar, Bavaria]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Haar is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

[[Arieş River]]

The name Arieş River can be one of three rivers in Romania:

[[Garching bei München]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Garching (Central Bavarian: Garching bei Minga) is a town in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. There are  other towns in Germany, which are called Garching so this one is often called Garching bei München. This is German for Garching near Munich.

[[Mureş (disambiguation)]]

The name Mureş can mean:

[[Taufkirchen (bei München)]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Taufkirchen (Central Bavarian: Taufkira ba Minga) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

[[Arena Football League]]

CATEGORIES: Arena Football League

The Arena Football League (or AFL) is a defunct American football league in the United States that ran from 1987 to 2008, and 2010 to 2019. After it ended the first time, another league like it started in 2010, called Arena Football 1. Some, but not all, of the AFL teams joined Arena Football 1. The league later changed its name to the Arena Football League. There were 6 teams in 2019 when the league folded due to bankruptcy.

Unlike what people in this league call the outdoor league (the NFL), Arena football is played in an smaller arena. Arena Football is played with only 8 players on a team, not 11 like the NFL.

[[Elmo]]

CATEGORIES: Sesame Street characters, Muppets

Elmo is a fictional character from the TV show Sesame Street. He is a red monster, and has his own part of the show called Elmo's World. His age is 3 years old. He is very famous for his laugh. His best friend is an orange monster named Zoe.

Elmo was originally a nameless extra performed by various puppeteers with no established identity. After that, he became a recurring character on the show. Brian Muehl was the first main performer and gave him a whispery voice. Richard Hunt performed him next and gave him a gruff voice. However, Kevin Clash was given the muppet in 1984 and used a new voice for him. This voice was made using falsetto. The muppet then became very popular. Elmo always talks in third person: for example, Elmo says "Elmo knows where you live!" rather than "I know where you live!" Elmo has a pet fish named Dorothy. He plays the toy piano and likes to ride his tricycle. Elmo is very popular with younger children.

In the 1990s, an Elmo toy called "Tickle Me Elmo" was sold. In a short time, it became one of the most popular Sesame Street toys in stores.

[[San Francisco 49ers]]

CATEGORIES: San Francisco 49ers, 1946 establishments in the United States, 1940s establishments in California

The San Francisco 49ers are a professional American football team. The team plays its home games in Santa Clara, California at Levi's Stadium, as the teams head office and practice areas are located there. The 49ers are at this moment part of the Western Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL).

The team is called the 49ers because of San Francisco's history in the Gold Rush of 1849. The team colors are red, gold, and silver. The color Gold is used because of the gold from the gold rush.

The 49ers lost to the Baltimore Ravens in the 2013 Super Bowl, 34-31 after nearly coming back after the power outage. The 49ers also appeared in Super Bowl LIV, but lost 20-31 against the Kansas City Chiefs.

[[Tennessee Titans]]

CATEGORIES: Nashville, Tennessee, National Football League teams, 1960 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Tennessee

The Tennessee Titans are a professional American football team in Nashville, Tennessee. They are currently part of the South Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). They used to be known as the Houston Oilers, and played in Houston, Texas. The  team was started in 1960 as a charter member of the American Football League (AFL). The Oilers won two AFL championships before joining the NFL as part of the AFL-NFL Merger.

The team moved to the state of Tennessee in 1997. They played in Memphis for one season before moving to Nashville. For two seasons, the team was known as the Tennessee Oilers. They changed their name to the Titans in 1999.

[[Mumps]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by viruses

Mumps is a viral disease. Only humans get it. Some of the most commons symptoms are fever, headaches, swelling of the parotoid glands, sore throat, and orchitis (which means swelling of the testicles). 

Mumps can be diagnosed by the increase in alpha amylase isoenzymes in blood plasma.

The MMR vaccine stops measles, mumps and rubella.

hence we can say that mumps can be prevented by MMR vaccination

[[Civilian Conservation Corps]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in the United States, Franklin D. Roosevelt, New Deal, Great Depression

The Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) was started by Franklin D. Roosevelt during the Great Depression. The CCC gave young men jobs such as fighting forest fires, digging ditches, and planting trees. The CCC paid these men about thirty dollars a month. At first, it was planned to get men out of the cities, but more men came from small towns and rural areas.

[[Killer app]]

CATEGORIES: Video games

A killer app is a term used for a video game which makes people want to buy the console it is played on. People will get the console just so they can play that game.

[[Chiang Mai]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Thailand

Chiang Mai (ᝑᝒᝀᝈᝄᝋᝁ) is the biggest city in northern Thailand. The city's name is Thai for "new city" because it replaced Chiang Rai, meaning "old city", as the capital of the Lan Na Kingdom. It is the capital of Chiang Mai Province, the second-biggest province of Thailand. Neighboring provinces are (from northeast to northwest) Chiang Rai, Lampang, Lamphun, Tak, and Mae Hong Son. In the north it is next to Shan State of Myanmar.

[[Hyōgo Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Hyōgo Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Hyōgo Prefecture is a prefecture in the Kansai region of Japan on the island of Honshu. The capital city is Kobe. 

[[Adelaide Zoo]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Australia, Adelaide, Zoos in Australia

Adelaide Zoo is Australia's second oldest zoo. It is in Adelaide, South Australia. The zoo has over 1800 animals from 300 different species. 

In 2009, the zoo will be get two Giant Pandas, from China.

[[Ruth Harkness]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1947 deaths, American fashion designers, American socialites

Ruth Elizabeth Harkness (21 September 1900 – 20 July 1947) was an American fashion designer and socialite. She traveled to China in 1936 and brought back the first live giant panda to the United States. Her story was told in a book by Vicki Constantine Croke, The Lady and the Panda, published by Random House in 2005. Ruth was found dead in a hotel on July 20th 1947.

[[Brookfield Zoo]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Chicago, Illinois, Zoos in Illinois

The Brookfield Zoo is a large zoo near Chicago, Illinois. The zoo is about  216 acres (874,124 m²), and has around 450 species of animals.

[[Shirahama, Wakayama]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan, Settlements in Wakayama Prefecture

Shirahama is a town in Nishimuro District, Wakayama, Japan.

[[Wakayama Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Wakayama Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Wakayama Prefecture is a prefecture in the Kansai region of Japan on the island of Honshū. The capital is the city of Wakayama. Wakayama Prefecture is surrounded by Osaka Prefecture, Nara Prefecture, Mie Prefecture, Hyogo Prefecture and Tokushima Prefecture.

[[Webcast]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

A webcast is a type of media file used on the Internet. It is distributed using streaming media technology to many people at the same time. It is basically the same as broadcasting over the internet.

Many radio and TV stations, as well as stations that are only on the internet, have webcasts. Businesses may have webcasts to give presentations or to teach people. Some people broadcast weddings or funerals through webcasts.

[[Kansas City Chiefs]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas City Chiefs, 1960 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Missouri

The Kansas City Chiefs are a professional American football team in Kansas City, Missouri. The team is a part of the Western Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). Their starting quarterback is Patrick Mahomes.

Originally called the Dallas Texans, the club was founded by Lamar Hunt in 1960 as a charter member of the American Football League. The team moved to Kansas City and became the Chiefs in 1963 after then-Kansas City mayor H. Roe Bartle promised the team they would have more ticket sales. The Chiefs then joined the NFL as part of the AFL-NFL Merger. The Chiefs hold the distinction of being the second AFL team (after the New York Jets) to beat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game when they beat the Minnesota Vikings in Super Bowl IV.

The Chiefs won Super Bowl LIV by defeating the San Francisco 49ers 31-20. This was the team’s first Super Bowl win since 1969.

The term "chief" is sometimes considered to be insulting to Native Americans. There has been no serious effort to change the team's nickname.February 2020 They have used an arrowhead as their symbol for a long time. They also named their home field Arrowhead Stadium.

[[Jacksonville Jaguars]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League teams, Jacksonville, Florida, 1995 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Florida

The Jacksonville Jaguars are a professional American football team in Jacksonville, Florida. They are currently members of the Southern Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Jaguars, and the Carolina Panthers, became part of the NFL as expansion teams in 1995.

[[Houston Texans]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League teams, Sports in Houston, Texas

The Houston Texans are a professional American National Football League team in Houston, Texas. Their current quarterback is Deshaun Watson. They are part of the American Football Conference (AFC). The Texans joined the NFL in 2002 as an expansion team. 

The team is, of course, named for their home state. There was another "Texans" team in the early 1960s, the Dallas Texas. That team move and became the Kansas City Chiefs. The first NFL team in Houston was the "Oilers". The Oilers moved to Tennessee and were renamed the "Titans". The Texans were created in order to replace the Oilers in Houston.

[[Cleveland Browns]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League teams, Sports in Cleveland, Ohio

The Cleveland Browns are a professional American football team in Cleveland, Ohio. The team plays in the AFC North division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Cleveland Browns started playing in 1946 as a charter member of the All-America Football Conference and joined the NFL in 1950 after the AAFC folded. After the 1995 season, the Browns moved to Baltimore, Maryland and changed its name to the Baltimore Ravens. However, the Browns' team history stayed behind in Cleveland. A new Cleveland Browns team began playing in the 1999 NFL season, inheriting the history of the first Browns team.

The team has also won four NFL Championships. It is one of two teams in Ohio, the other team is the Cincinnati Bengals.

They are one of two NFL teams to finish the season with 0 wins, going 0-16 in the 2017 NFL season. They share this achievement with Detroit Lions.

[[Cincinnati Bengals]]

CATEGORIES: Cincinnati Bengals, Sports in Cincinnati, Ohio, 1968 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Ohio

The Cincinnati Bengals are a professional American football team in Cincinnati, Ohio. They are currently members of the North Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). Their first season, 1968, was as an American Football League franchise, but they joined the NFL as part of the 1970 AFL-NFL Merger. Their current quarterback is Andy Dalton.

The Bengals' stadium is Paul Brown Stadium, in Cincinnati.  Their uniforms are an orange, black, or white jersey with tiger stripes and black or white pants.

The team chose its name for the fierce and dangerous big cat called the Bengal tiger.

[[Commentary]]

CATEGORIES: Television, Radio

A commentary often means some sort of voice that will explain what is going on while a program is playing. Commentary is most often used in sports. Some famous commentators are Jim Ross, Larry Merchant, Jesse Ventura, Navjot Singh Sidhu and Gorilla Monsoon.

A commentary can mean comments, spoken or written, which help people understand a book, play or work of art.

[[Kelvedon]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex

Kelvedon is a village and town in Essex, England.

[[Baltimore Ravens]]

CATEGORIES: Baltimore Ravens, 1996 establishments in Maryland

The Baltimore Ravens are a professional American football team in Baltimore, Maryland, USA. They play in the AFC North Division of the National Football League (NFL). The team is named after the poem, The Raven by Edgar Allen Poe. The Ravens are rivals with the Cleveland Browns, Pittsburgh Steelers and Washington Redskins. The Ravens have won twice Super Bowl title, Super Bowl XXXV, in the 2000 NFL season against the New York Giants and Super Bowl XLVII in the 2012 NFL season against the San Francisco 49ers. As of 2018, the Ravens' quarterback is Lamar Jackson. They play at M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore, MD.

[[Buffalo Bills]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 establishments in the United States, Buffalo Bills, 1950s establishments in New York (state)

The Buffalo Bills are a professional American football team in Buffalo, New York. They are members of the Eastern Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Bills started playing in 1960 as an original member of the American Football League and joined the NFL as part of the AFL-NFL merger.

The Bills won two American Football League titles in 1964 and 1965, but the team has not won a league championship since the merger. Buffalo is also the only team to win four consecutive AFC Championships (1990-93), though they did not win any of the four following Super Bowls.

Ralph Wilson, the longtime owner who had established the Bills in 1959, died on March 25, 2014. On September 9, 2014, Wilson's family announced that it had sold the team to Terry Pegula and his wife, Kim. The Pegulas also own the Buffalo Sabres of the NHL.

The Bills team name is based on the famous "wild west show" star known as Buffalo Bill. The American bison is the team symbol. The term "buffalo" is often, though incorrectly, used as a synonym for "bison".

[[Washington Football Team]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League teams

The Washington Football Team is a professional American football team based in the Washington, D.C. area.  The team plays at FedExField in Landover, Maryland. The team's head office and training area are at Redskin Park in Ashburn, Virginia. They are part of the Eastern Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL).

The team began in Boston. They were first named for the Boston Braves baseball team. They were soon renamed the "Redskins". They kept that nickname after moving to Washington. Some consider it offensive to name a team after a race or ethnic group, resulting in protests and legal challenges, but the team owners have refused to think about changing the name. 

On June 18, 2014, the United States Patent Office decided that they were going to cancel the Redskins trademarks and called the name "disparaging to Native Americans".

In 2020, the team announced that there would be a review of the name. On July 13, 2020, the team officially retired the "Redskins" name, although they have not chosen a new team name.

[[Super Princess Peach]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, Mario platform games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games

Super Princess Peach (スーパープリンセスピーチ in Japanese) is a 2005 platform video game. It was developed by TOSE and published by Nintendo. In 2009, this game was re-released as a Nintendo Selects title. It was released for the Nintendo DS.

Unlike most Mario video games, Bowser has decided to kidnap Mario. The player takes control of Peach who must go out and save Mario.

[[Minnesota Vikings]]

CATEGORIES: Sports in Minneapolis, Minnesota, National Football League teams, 1961 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Minnesota

The Minnesota Vikings are a professional American football team in Minneapolis, Minnesota.  The Vikings play in the National Football Conference of the National Football League (NFL). They are in the NFC North division. The Vikings have won their division 16 times, which is the third most among teams that are playing in the NFL now. They appeared in four Super Bowls during the 1970s, and lost all four of them.

The team is called the Vikings because the state of Minnesota was settled by a great many people of Scandinavian ancestry. The historical Vikings originated in Scandinavia.

[[Reno, Nevada]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nevada, County seats in Nevada

Reno is a city in the American state of Nevada. It is the county seat of Washoe County. As of 2000, there were 180,480 people living in Reno. Charles Fuller built the first log cabin in 1859 and was named Lakes Crossing in 1861.

[[Wolong National Nature Reserve]]

CATEGORIES: People's Republic of China, Biosphere reserves

Wolong National Nature Reserve  is a national park in Sichuan Province, People's Republic of China. It was established in 1963. The reserve has an area of about 200,000 hectares. There are over 4,000 different species recorded in the reserve. Wolong National Nature Reserve houses more than 150 highly endangered giant pandas.

In June 1980, the China Research and Conservation Center for the Giant Panda was established. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Chinese government cooperated to establish the center. Researchers have made trials on how to breed the giant pandas. They have successfully bred 66 panda cubs.

A mountain stream runs through the Wolong Valley (where the Reserve is); the stream is heavily armoured with boulders and smaller rounded stones. Stream waters are rather alkaline with pH levels in the range of 8.91. (Hogan, 2007) Water quality turbidity is quite high due to extensive sand and gravel mining in stream.

According to a 2001 research by Dr. Jianguo Liu of Michigan State University, the rate of destruction is higher after the reserve's creation than before its creation. Using NASA's satellite images and records of the number of people there, Liu's research team concluded that due to tourism and the increase in the number of people, the reserve is facing an unprecedented threat. "Tourists do not think they have an impact on panda habitat, but indirectly each visitor has some impact," Liu said. "We do not see ourselves as a destructive force, but we are."

[[Charles Spurgeon]]

CATEGORIES: 1834 births, 1892 deaths, Charles Spurgeon, Baptists, Christian ministers, Christian religious leaders, Christian theologians, Christian writers, English autobiographers, English Protestants, English theologians, Evangelists, Writers from Suffolk

Charles Haddon (C.H.) Spurgeon (19 June 1834 – 31 January 1892) was a English Baptist preacher. People still know him as the "Prince of Preachers". In his lifetime, Spurgeon preached to about 10 million people.  Spurgeon would often preach 10 times a week at different places.  His sermons have been translated into many languages. Today, there are more writings and books by Spurgeon than by any other Christian writer.

Spurgeon was the pastor of the Metropolitan Tabernacle in London for 38 years.  Under the previous pastor, Dr John Rippon, it became the largest Baptist congregation in Great Britain. He was part of several controversies with the Baptist Union of Great Britain, and later had to leave that denomination. Throughout his life, Spurgeon suffered from depression and other mental illnesses. In 1857, he started a charity organisation called Spurgeon's which works all over the world.

[[George Müller]]

CATEGORIES: 1805 births, 1898 deaths, Autobiographers, British Protestants, Evangelicals, Evangelists, German Protestants, Missionaries, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, People from Saxony-Anhalt

George Fredrick Müller (German: Georg Friedrich Müller) (September 27, 1805 – March 10, 1898), was an Christian evangelist and worker of orphanages in Bristol, England. He cared for about 10,000 orphans in his life. He was well known for giving an education to the children under his care, so much that sometimes he was accused of giving the poor more than they should be given.

[[Spectacled bear]]

CATEGORIES: Ursidaes

The spectacled bear (Tremarctos ornatus), also known as the Andean bear is the last of the lineage of short-faced bears. Locally, it is also called ukuku, jukumari or ukumari. The other short-faced bears are now extinct. They lived during middle to late Pleistocene age.

The spectacled bear is a relatively small species of bear native to South America. It has black fur with a distinctive beige-coloured marking across its face and upper chest. Males are 33% larger than females. Males can weigh 130 – 200 kilograms (286 – 440 lb), and females 35 – 60 kilograms (77 – 132 lb). They are found in several areas of northern and western South America, including western Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, western Bolivia, northwestern Argentina, and eastern Panama. Spectacled bears are the only surviving types of bear native to South America, and the only surviving member of the subfamily Tremarctinae. Their survival has depended mostly on their ability to climb even the highest trees of the Andes.

[[Convergent evolution]]

CATEGORIES: Evolution

Convergent evolution is a process in biology. It occurs when two species from unrelated lines develop the same traits or features. This happens because they live in similar habitats, and have to develop solutions to the same kind of problems.

Similarity in traits can occur in two ways. Both species might have acquired the trait by descent from a common ancestor. In this case the structures are homologous. An example is the tetrapod limb, which has been inherited from early tetrapods in the late Devonian/early Carboniferous, about 360 million years ago. On the other hand, both might be independent adaptations to similar conditions in their habitat. In this case the structures are analogous. Convergent evolution leads to analogous features.

[[Michelangelo Antonioni]]

CATEGORIES: Italian movie directors, Italian screenwriters, People from Ferrara, 1912 births, 2007 deaths

Michelangelo Antonioni (29 September 1912 – 30 July 2007) was an Italian movie director of Italian neorealism and screenwriter. His best known movie is Blowup made in 1966. He died at the same day as Ingmar Bergman, another famous director. He was born in Ferrara and died in Rome.

[[Salvador de Madariaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1978 deaths, Spanish writers, Spanish historians, People from A Coruña

Salvador de Madariaga y Rojo (July 23, 1886 A Coruña, Spain - December 14, 1978 Locarno, Switzerland) was a Spanish diplomat, writer, historian and pacifist. He was the father of Nieves Mathews and professor/historian Dr. Isabel de Madariaga.  He was the grandfather of Javier Solana. 

[[Bislama]]

CATEGORIES: Languages, Vanuatu

Bislama is one of the three national languages of Vanuatu. It is a new language, made during the last two or three hundred years by mixing English with some French and some local words. The way the words are put together is like people have talked in Vanuatu for a long time -- not like English or French words are put together.

Bislama is like this:

[[Tariq Ramadan]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Muslims, Theologians, Swiss people, People from Geneva

Tariq Said Ramadan (born 26 September 1962 in Geneva, Switzerland) is a Swiss Muslim academic and theologian. He thinks Islamic texts should be studied. He also thinks that Islamic society today is different from what it was when  the Koran was written. He therefore says that Muslims living in Europe need to adapt and change Islam, so they can contribute its values to a European society.

This position is often referred to as Euroislam.

In November 2017, multiple women accused Ramadan of rape. On 31 January 2018, Ramadan was taken into custody by French police. After two days of questioning, he was formally charged with two counts of rape and ordered to remain in custody.

[[Unterschleißheim]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Unterschleißheim (Central Bavarian: Untaschleißheim) is a town in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

[[Baierbrunn]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Baierbrunn (Central Bavarian: Baiabrunn) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

[[Fitna]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, Multilingual movies

Fitna is a short movie by Dutch politician Geert Wilders. The movie shows the motivation of Islam in relation to terrorism and Islam in the Netherlands.

On March 27, 2008, the movie was released on the Internet, at a video sharing site named liveleak (similar to YouTube). The next day the movie was removed by liveleak as the staff received threats.

[[Geert Wilders]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Dutch councillors, Dutch party chairs, Islamophobia, Independent politicians in the Netherlands, Leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Nationalists, Party for Freedom politicians, People from The Hague, People from Utrecht (city), People from Venlo, People's Party for Freedom and Democracy politicians, Politicians from Limburg (Netherlands), Writers from Limburg (Netherlands)

Geert Wilders  (born 6 September 1963) is a Dutch right-wing populist and nationalist  politician, born in Venlo. He is a member of the Dutch Parliament. He joined the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy first, and in 2006 created and has become the leader for the Party for Freedom.

[[Cessna 182]]

CATEGORIES: Civil aircraft, Cessna aircraft

The Cessna 182, marketed under the name Skylane, is a four-seat, single-engine, light airplane. It has the option of adding two child seats, installed in the baggage area.

Introduced in 1956, the 182 has been produced in a number of variants, including a version with retractable landing gear, and is the second most popular Cessna model, after the 172.

[[Asparagus]]

CATEGORIES: Vegetables, Asparagales

Asparagus is a large genus of flowering plants with over 300 different species. Some of the plants are grown as ornamental plants. One of these is the "asparagus fern", Asparagus setaceus, which is not a real fern. The best known plant in this group is Asparagus officinalis, which is grown as a vegetable, and is usually eaten in spring.

Asparagus was one of the plants which Carl von Linné showed in his work Species Plantarum. A. officinalis is used as its type species.

Some species of asparagus are used in cooking. They are known to make urine smellier.

[[Armand David]]

CATEGORIES: 1826 births, 1900 deaths, French botanists, French Roman Catholics, Missionaries, French zoologists

Father Armand David (September 27, 1826 near Bayonne –November 10, 1900 in Paris) was a Lazarist missionary Catholic priest as well as a zoologist and a botanist. He discovered many new species in China. The best-known of the animals he discovered are the Giant Panda and the Père David's Deer.

[[Père David's deer]]

CATEGORIES: Deer, Mammals of Asia

Père David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus) is a species of deer. It is also known as Milu (麋鹿) in Chinese. In the past it went extinct in the wild and existed only in captivity. However, it has been reintroduced to the wild in some areas. It likes marshland, and is believed to be native to the subtropics. It eats a mixture of grass and water plants.

[[Finite element method]]

CATEGORIES: Differential equations, Engineering

The finite element method (FEM) is a numerical method of solving systems of differential equations. They are used extensively in many fields of engineering because they require very little knowledge of mathematics beyond basic algebra to use. It belongs to the Methods of Weighted residuals in that the problem is formulated such that some conditions are satisfied exactly, while others are satisfied only approximately or numerically (i.e., the "residual" being the difference between the exact solution and the approximate solution is weighted and minimized to get the best approximation).

While the ease of setting up a problem using finite elements and getting a solution is the reason for its popularity, it is also the cause of its frequent misuse and distrust of the answers obtained. Usually you have to check your results with an experiment before your model is acceptable for use. It is the author's observation that the use of finite elements in structural analysis is in particular poorly managed. Engineers typically begin working with FEM having very little knowledge of numerical methods or knowledge of finite element behavior. There are no standards and guidelines for modeling and few managers who understand well enough to regulate modeling. It has led to mistrust of the method, its arrested development, and some very bad analysis being performed that is copied by others. Much aircraft structural design is analyzed using FEM.  

[[Sipoo]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Uusimaa

Sipoo (ˈsipoː, Sibbo) is a municipality in Uusimaa, Finland. Sipoo had over 19,000 residents in the end of 2014. Neighbouring municipalities are Helsinki, Vantaa, Kerava, Tuusula, Järvenpää, Porvoo, Pornainen and Mäntsälä. The area of Sipoo is 364. The tax level of Sipoo is 18.75%. The leader of the municipality is Mikael Grannas.

[[Slow]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

[[Collar]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Clothing

In clothing, a collar is the part of a shirt, dress, coat or blouse that goes around or frames the neck. A collar may also be a separate or detachable item around the neck.

[[Frame]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

A frame is a flat container to hold something. It can also be an outer part of the structures.

Frame could also mean:

[[Parcel]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Parcel can mean several things:

[[Land hemisphere]]

CATEGORIES: Hemispheres

The land hemisphere is the hemisphere on the Earth with the highest possible area of land. It is centered on 47 (near the city of Nantes, France). The other half of the Earth is the water hemisphere.

The land hemisphere has seven eighths of the land on the Earth. This would be four fifths of the land area if Antarctica were included in the land area of the World. Europe, Africa, North America, most of Asia and most of South America are in the land hemisphere. Europe is at the center of the land hemisphere. Because the area of the oceans of the land hemisphere is bigger than its land area, the land hemisphere means the hemisphere where most land is.

[[Water hemisphere]]

CATEGORIES: Hemispheres, Oceans, Geography

The water hemisphere is the hemisphere on the Earth with the highest area of water. It is centered on 47, near New Zealand. The other half of the Earth is the land hemisphere.

Not including Antartica, the water hemisphere has only one-eighth of the world's land,. Australia, New Zealand, a small part of Southeast Asia and the southern part of South America are in the water hemisphere.

Antarctica is included in the hemisphere, and most of it is certainly land. If it were included in the total land area of Earth, the water hemisphere would have one-fifth of the world's land. Most of the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean are on the water hemisphere. The area of the oceans of the water hemisphere is much higher than its land area, but the area of the oceans of the land hemisphere is still higher than its land area.

[[Pasadena, California]]

CATEGORIES: Pasadena, California, 1874 establishments in California

Pasadena is a city in California. It is northeast of Los Angeles on Interstate 210 and the Metro Gold Line. As of 2008, it had a population of 133,936.

Every year, Pasadena has the Tournament of Roses Parade. The Rose Bowl Game is played after the parade.

Pasadena was settled by Tongva Indians and Mexican ranchers before California became a state.  In the 1880s, it became a city (making it the oldest city in the area after Los Angeles).  Pasadena was one of the hubs of the Pacific Electric Railroad. During the early 20th century, it was the eighth-largest city in California.

There are many historic buildings in Pasadena. They include the Gamble House, the Blacker House, and the historic homes in Bungalow Heaven.  There are also several colleges, including the California Institute of Technology.  Pasadena has an arts scene, with many famous people acting at the Pasadena Civic Auditorium or Pasadena Playhouse or putting paintings in the Norton Simon Museum.

[[202 BC]]

CATEGORIES: 200s BC

[[Surprise]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Surprise can mean many things:

[[Red fox]]

CATEGORIES: Foxes, Mammals of North America, Mammals of Europe, Mammals of Asia, Mammals of Australia

The red fox (Vulpes vulpes) is a mammal of the order Carnivora. It is the biggest and most well-known species of fox. Red foxes are sometimes hunted for sport, or killed as pests or carriers of rabies.

[[Royal Surrey Gardens]]

CATEGORIES: Botanical gardens in the United Kingdom, Buildings and structures in London, Charles Spurgeon

The Royal Surrey Gardens (Surrey Music Hall) were gardens in Kennington, London, during the Victorian period.

[[Iron Man (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 science fiction movies, 2000s superhero movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Iron Man movies, Movies directed by Jon Favreau, Movies set in Afghanistan, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Marvel Cinematic Universe movies

Iron Man is an American science fiction superhero movie based on the Marvel Comics character Iron Man. It is the first movie in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). It was released in different countries on dates between April 30, 2008 and May 2, 2008. The movie follows a billionaire industrialist (Robert Downey Jr.) having a heart transplant. The movie was positively welcomed from both audience and film critics. It was the number one movie in the United States in the opening weekend.

[[Molar]]

CATEGORIES: Teeth

Molars are special teeth found in mammals, and also the most complex sort of teeth. They are used for grinding food. Humans have 12 molars in total, in four groups of three at the back of the mouth. The molar which is the farthest back in each group is called a wisdom tooth. The wisdom teeth are the last teeth to appear, usually at around the age of eighteen.

Molars are the biggest teeth in your mouth.Biology-stub

[[Qinling Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of China

The Qinling Mountains (Traditional Chinese: 秦嶺, Simplified Chinese: 秦岭) are a major mountain range. Most of them are in the Eastern province of Shaanxi, in China. The mountains provide a natural boundary between the North and South of the country. They support a large variety of plants and wildlife, some of which is found nowhere else on Earth.

[[Love in This Club Part II]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Usher songs, Beyoncé songs

"Love In This Club Part II" is an R&B-Pop song written by Amber Rives and Usher, and recorded by Usher for his album Here I Stand. The song features Beyoncé and Lil Wayne, and it is a remix of the original song, but the structure and lyrics of the song are completely different from the original: "Love in This Club", so the song's name was changed to "Love in This Club Part II".

[[Lower Silesian Voivodeship]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in Europe, Voivodeships of Poland

Lower Silesian Voivodeship is one of the 16 Voivodeships of Poland. It can be found in the south-west Poland and in west Silesia (called Lower Silesia). The capital city is Wrocław. 

The voivodeship was created on 1 January 1999 out of the former Wrocław, Legnica, Wałbrzych and Jelenia Góra Voivodeships.

Karkonosze National Park and Stołowe Mountains National Park are both in Lower Silesian Voivodeship.

[[Unterhaching]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

 Unterhaching (Central Bavarian: Untahaching or simply Haching) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

[[Air France-KLM]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Europe, Airlines of France

Air France-KLM is a French airline company that made a megafusion in 2004 with the Dutch airline company, KLM. They, both, when together, past to cost US$ 20 billions.

[[Oberschleißheim]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Oberschleißheim (Central Bavarian: Obaschleißheim) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. The Schleissheim Palace is in Oberschleißheim.

[[Gräfelfing]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Gräfelfing (Central Bavarian: Grefefing) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. 

[[Neuried, Bavaria]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Neuried (Central Bavarian: Neiriad ba Minga) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria in Germany.

[[Oberhaching]]

CATEGORIES: Munich Rural District

Oberhaching (Central Bavarian: Obahaching) is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

[[Upper Bavaria]]

CATEGORIES: Upper Bavaria

Upper Bavaria (Oberbayern, ˈoːbɐbaɪ̯ɐn; Obabayern, Owabayern) is one of seven government regions in Bavaria, Germany.

[[Rosenheim]]

Rosenheim (ʁo:zənhaɪ̯m; Rousnam) is a city in Upper Bavaria, Germany. It does not belong to a rural district, but it is an urban district itself. The rivers of the Inn and the Mangfall come together in Rosenheim.

[[Ansbach]]

CATEGORIES: Ansbach (district), Towns in Bavaria

Ansbach (ˈ; ˈansbax; East Franconian: Anschba) is a city in Middle Franconia, Germany.

[[Passau]]

Passau (ˈpasaʊ; West Central Bavarian) is a city in Lower Bavaria, Germany. It is also called the Three River City because there are three rivers in the city.

[[Kempten]]

CATEGORIES: Swabia, Bavaria

Kempten (Central Bavarian: Kempten im Allgai, Swabian: Kempte im Allgai) is a town in Swabia, Germany.

[[Landshut]]

Landshut (ˈlant͡shuːt; Landshuad) is a city in Lower Bavaria, Germany.

[[Weiden in der Oberpfalz]]

Weiden in der Oberpfalz (German pronunciation:   ɪn   de:ɐ̯   o:bɐp͡falt͡s; official name: Weiden i.d.OPf.; Northern Bavarian: Weidn in da Owapfalz or d Wein)  is a city in the Upper Palatinate in Bavaria, Germany.

[[Straubing]]

Straubing (Bavarian: Strauwing) is a city in Lower Bavaria, Germany.

[[Memmingen]]

Memmingen (Swabian: Memmenge) is a city in Swabia in Bavaria, Germany. It is on the border to Baden-Württemberg.

[[Kaufbeuren]]

Kaufbeuren (Bavarian: Kaufbeiren, Swabian: Kaufbeire) is a city in Swabia in Bavaria, Germany.

[[USA Today]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in the United States, 1982 establishments in the United States, English-language television programs

USA Today is a daily newspaper founded by Al Neuharth. It has the most readers of any daily newspaper in the United States. About 2.25 million copies are sold on a weekday. It comes second worldwide. The Times of India sells about 2.6 million copies on a weekday.

The paper was founded in 1982. It has a much more colorful markup than other national newspapers, like The New York Times or Wall Street Journal. Its use of graphics makes its content rather like a tabloid. It is a middle-ground, middle-class paper.

The paper became known for taking national polls before elections. It is connected, through its owners Gannet Company, to the tv show USA Today. It also has a significant news website.

[[Cologne Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in North Rhine-Westphalia, Cathedrals in Germany, Cologne, Roman Catholic Cathedrals, World Heritage Sites in Germany, 1248 establishments, 1240s establishments in Europe, 13th-century establishments in Germany

Cologne Cathedral (German: Hohe Domkirche St. Petrus or commonly Kölner Dom) is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Cologne, Germany. It is the cathedral church for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Cologne.

The cathedral has a height of 157.25 metres. This makes it the second-highest in Germany and the third-highest in the world. The cathedral in Ulm, the Ulm Minster at 161 metres is the highest in the world. The Basilica of Our Lady of Peace of Yamoussoukro is also higher, at 158 metres, but it only has the status of a minor basilica, it is not a cathedral.

The cathedral is also the third-biggest church, built in Gothic architecture. The Seville Cathedral in Seville, Spain, and the Milan Cathedral in Milan, Italy are bigger. 

The Cologne Cathedral was built in Gothic style from 15 August 1248. It was planned to make the cathedral like the one in Amiens. The choir was consecrated in 1322. The first bell could be hung in one of the towers shortly after 1410. Around 1510, the construction was stopped, because people had lost interest. The last payment for its construction was made in 1560.

For 300 years, Cologne had an unfinished cathedral. The cathedral was finished in 1880, still following the original plans.

The cathedral became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1996. 

The cathedral is one of the most popular sights in Germany. In 2001, there were five million visitors, in 2004, there were six million visitors. Pope Benedict XVI visited the cathedral in 2005.

[[T.N.T. (album)]]

CATEGORIES: AC/DC albums, 1975 albums, Hard rock albums, Rock and roll albums, Blues rock albums

T.N.T. is the second studio album by Australian hard rock band AC/DC, released in Australia December 1975.

[[Taxi (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 establishments in the United States, 1978 television series debuts, 1983 disestablishments in the United States, 1970s American sitcoms, 1970s American workplace television series, 1970s workplace comedy television series, 1980s American sitcoms, 1980s American workplace television series, 1980s workplace comedy television series, American workplace comedy television series, NBC network shows, Television series about friendship, Television series set in New York City, English-language television programs

Taxi is an American sitcom. It originally aired from 1978 to 1982 on ABC, and from 1982 to 1983 on NBC. The show is about the employees of a taxi company in Manhattan, New York City.

[[Amiens Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in France, Amiens, World Heritage Sites in France

Cathedral Basilica of Our Lady of Amiens is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Amiens, France. It is most commonly called Amiens Cathedral. The cathedral was built between 1220 and 1270. 

Amiens Cathedral was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1981. It is known for the quality and quantity of early 13th-century Gothic sculpture. 

With the cathedrals of Chartres and Reims it is considered one of the classical French cathedrals of the Middle Ages.

[[Auburn University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Alabama, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Southeastern Conference, 1856 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Alabama

Auburn University is a university in the U.S. state of Alabama. Auburn University is in the city of Auburn, Alabama. People can usually just say Auburn for short when they are talking about the University. There are about 24,000 students in school at Auburn.

Auburn opened February 1, 1856 but was named the East Alabama Male College. The university changed the name many times until 1960 when it was named Auburn University. Auburn is one of three large universities in Alabama. The University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama has the same number of students and the University of Alabama at Birmingham in Birmingham, Alabama is the third largest. Auburn University has 12 colleges on campus, including agriculture, architecture, business, education, engineering, forestry, human sciences, liberal arts, nursing, pharmacy, mathematics, and medicine.

The Auburn University sports teams are named the Auburn Tigers and the mascot is a tiger named Aubie.

[[Baltimore Orioles]]

CATEGORIES: Baltimore Orioles, 1900s establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Maryland

The Baltimore Orioles are a Major League Baseball team from Baltimore, Maryland. They compete in the American League's AL East division. They began play in the early 1900s as the St. Louis Browns, a rival to the St. Louis Cardinals. They moved to Baltimore in 1954 and became the Orioles.

The "Baltimore Oriole" is an orange-and-black bird which is often seen in Maryland. "Orioles" has been a traditional nickname for Baltimore baseball teams. There was a Baltimore Orioles (19th century) in the major leagues. There was also a minor league baseball team called the Orioles which played from the early 1900s until the Browns moved to Baltimore.

The Browns were not a very successful team. They only won one league championship, in 1944. The Orioles have won several league championships and also won the World Series in 1966, 1970 and 1983.

[[Arizona Diamondbacks]]

CATEGORIES: Arizona Diamondbacks, Sports in Phoenix, Arizona, 1998 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Arizona

The Arizona Diamondbacks are a Major League Baseball team based in Phoenix, Arizona. They were started in 1998. They play their home games at Chase Field. In 2001, they beat the New York Yankees to win their first (and only, so far) World Series, becoming the fastest new team to do this.

The team is also called the "D-Backs". They are named for the Diamondback Rattlesnake.

[[Atlanta Braves]]

CATEGORIES: Atlanta Braves, Sports in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 1871 establishments in the United States

The Atlanta Braves are a Major League baseball team based in Atlanta, Georgia. The Braves currently play just outside the city limits in the Cobb County community of Cumberland at Truist Park, which opened as SunTrust Park in 2017 and was renamed in 2020. From 1991 to 2005 the Braves, with the exception of 1994 because of a strike, won their division. They won the World Series in 1995 against the Cleveland Indians. One famous player that was on the Braves was Hank Aaron, from 1954 to 1976.

The Braves are the oldest team in major league baseball. They began in 1871 in Boston, Massachusetts. They were originally called the "Boston Red Stockings". Later they were known as the "Boston Beaneaters". In 1912 they were renamed as the "Boston Braves". They moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin in 1953, where they were known as the "Milwaukee Braves". They moved to Atlanta in 1966.

[[Colorado Rockies]]

CATEGORIES: Colorado Rockies

The Colorado Rockies are a Major League Baseball team in Denver, Colorado. They are named for the Rocky Mountains, which are often called "The Rockies". Denver itself is within the Rocky Mountains, a mile above sea level.

The team began play in 1993.  In 1995, they moved into their current ballpark, Coors Field.  They made the playoffs five times, each time as a wild card.  In 2007, the Rockies played in the World Series for the first (and so far, only) time.  They were swept by the Boston Red Sox.

[[Miami Marlins]]

CATEGORIES: Miami Marlins, 1993 establishments in Florida

The Miami Marlins are a Major League Baseball team in Miami, Florida. The team began play in 1993. They were called the Florida Marlins through the 2011 baseball season. In November 2011, after the end of the season, they were renamed the Miami Marlins.

The marlin is a large sport fish that lives in warm parts of the ocean. There was once a minor league baseball team called the Miami Marlins. The major league team was named the "Marlins" in honor of the minor league team.

The Marlins' first home was Sun Life Stadium. They opened a new stadium in 2012 called Marlins Park.

The Marlins won two World Series in 1997 and 2003.

[[Houston Astros]]

CATEGORIES: Houston Astros, 1962 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Texas

The Houston Astros are the professional baseball team based in Houston, Texas. They compete in Major League Baseball (MLB). They began to play in 1962. They were originally called the "Houston Colt .45s" or the "Houston Colts". They changed their name to "Astros" in 1965. The Astros left the National League and joined the American League in 2013. They are the first team in a long time to do this. The Astros play their home games at Minute Maid Park in Houston.

With the move to the American League in 2013, the Astros are the first team in Major League Baseball to win the pennant for both leagues. The Astros are generally considered one of the most dominant teams in baseball over the recent years.

In 2005, the Astros played in the World Series for the first time, where they were swept by the Chicago White Sox. They returned to the World Series in 2017, and this time, they defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers in seven games to capture their first World Series title in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. They returned to the World Series once again in 2019, but lost to Washington Nationals in seven games.

[[Dizzy Gillespie]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1993 deaths, American jazz musicians, Bahá'ís, Cancer deaths in New Jersey, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Musicians from South Carolina, Trumpeters

John Birks "Dizzy" Gillespie (October 21, 1917 – January 6, 1993) was an American jazz trumpeter, bandleader, singer and composer.

As an instrumentalist, bandleader, singer, and composer, Gillespie was the youngest of nine children. His father was a local bandleader, so instruments were made available to him at an early age. He started to play the piano at the age of 9. 

Nicknamed Dizzy because of how he acts during performances, Gillespie set new standards for trumpet players with his innovative rhythmic and harmonic explorations. This definitive change moved American jazz from swing to 'bebop'. Together with Charlie Parker, he was a major figure in the development of modern jazz.

Gillespie died on January 6, 1993 at age 75 from pancreatic cancer. At the time of his death Gillespie had two funerals. One was a Bahá´í funeral at his request, at which his closest friends and colleagues attended. The second was at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City open to the public where everyone can attend.

[[Ganz (toy company)]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Canada, 1950 establishments in North America, 1950s establishments in Canada

Ganz is a Canadian company. It is a private company with headquarters just north of Toronto in Woodbridge, Ontario. It has many subsidiaries and offices. It is now best known for distributing plush animals and collectables. Most recently it is known as the manufacturer of Webkinz, the toy with an Internet site. 

Ganz was founded in Toronto in 1950 by Holocaust survivors Samuel Ganz and his sons Jack Ganz and Sam Ganz. Then it was called Ganz Bros. Toys Limited. It is now run by the founder's grandson, Hoard Ganz.

[[John Dowland]]

CATEGORIES: 1563 births, 1626 deaths, English composers, Lutenists, Renaissance composers

John Dowland (born 1563; buried 20 February 1626) was an English composer and lutenist. He is best known for some beautiful songs which express his unhappiness such as "Come, heavy sleep", "Come Again, Sweet Love" and "Flow my tears".  His instrumental music became very popular again in the 20th century.

[[Partsong]]

CATEGORIES: Vocal music

A partsong is a piece of music to be sung by two or more voices without accompaniment.  Many partsongs are written for four voices: normally soprano, alto, tenor and bass.  Such a partsong can be performed just by four people, but it can also be performed by a larger group (a choir) which has divided into these four parts.

The term "partsong" can refer to music such as a glee, madrigal or unaccompanied anthem, but it is usually used in English when talking about short, secular (non-religious) songs without accompaniment.  In other languages there is no word which means quite the same thing.

Partsongs were very popular in the 17th century in England.  They were often fun pieces to be sung at parties or in pubs.  They were often rounds, catches or quodlibets.  In the 19th century the madrigal came into fashion again and so many composers started writing partsongs.  Composers such as Sterndale Bennett, Arthur Sullivan, Parry, Charles Villiers Stanford and Edward Elgar wrote many partsongs, and later Finzi, John Ireland and Moeran.

In Europe many 19th century and early 20th century composers wrote songs which could be described as partsongs: Schubert, Schumann, Mendelssohn, Saint-Saëns, Debussy and Ravel.

[[Nin Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals, Croatia, Buildings and structures in Europe

Nin Catheral is a cathedral in Nin, Croatia. It is probably the smallest cathedral ever built. It was built around 800, and probably was the seat of the local bishop at the time.

The small cathedral was built on the area of a former Roman basilica, destroyed during the barbarian invasions of Dalmatia in the VI century.

[[Neume]]

CATEGORIES: Musical notation

A Neume is a way to write music. Neumes were mainly in the Middle Ages before the modern system of musical notation was developed. Sometimes they are also called neum in English.  Neumes are different from modern notation:

Today, neumes are still used for some chants in Christian Churches, especially Catholic and Eastern Orthodox ones

[[Masovian Voivodeship]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s establishments in Poland, 1999 establishments in Europe, Voivodeships of Poland

Masovian Voivodeship is one of the 16 Voivodeships of Poland. It can be found in the east-central part of Poland. It is mostly in the historical land Masovia. The capital of the Voivodeship is Warsaw.

The province was created on January 1, 1999. Kampinos National Park is in the province.

[[Steelyard]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London

The Steelyard was a place in London for trading. It was commonly used by the Hanseatic League in the Middle Ages. Many of the buildings were damaged during the Great Fire of London in 1666.

It is on the North bank of the River Thames and is now used as a railway station. 

[[Hazard symbol]]

CATEGORIES: Symbols

Hazard symbols are special symbols. They were made to warn people about dangers. Usually they are pictograms. Pictograms are small drawings that show what is happening (or what is going to happen, or what should happen) in a way that is easy to understand.

[[Pictogram]]

CATEGORIES: Symbols

A pictograph  (sometimes also called pictogramme or pictogram) is a small drawing.  Today, pictograms are used very often. Because they are independent of the language, they are often used where there are people who need to understand things, even if they do not read or speak the language. Pictograms are also often used where it is important to understand something fast. Sight is faster than reading. That way, pictograms are often used for signalling in emergency situations, such as showing emergency exits.

Common uses include those for road signs, airports, and train station, and warning signs. 

[[Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship]]

CATEGORIES: Voivodeships of Poland

Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship is one of the 16 voivodeships of Poland. The name of the voivodeship came from local mountains called Świętokrzyskie Mountains. The capital city is Kielce.

[[Commensalism]]

CATEGORIES: Symbiosis

Commensalism is a type of relationship between two organisms. In commensalism, one organism is helped while the other is not affected. In practice, it is difficult to show that the passive organism is not harmed. For example, some birds live in holes in trees. Does this damage the tree? Mites, which cannot fly, often hitch a ride on insects. Does this affect the

insect's fitness? There is no definite answer to such questions.  

Orchids, mosses, and lichens all grow on tropical trees. They need sunlight, and by being higher up they get to the sunlight. All that can be said for sure is that the trees continue to live and reproduce, and so it is assumed that these epiphytes do not affect their host plant.

Pierre-Joseph van Beneden (18091894) introduced the term into evolutionary biology and ecology in the 1870s.

[[820s]]

CATEGORIES: 820s

[[Lindane]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Lindane is an insecticide. It can be used to kill insects. The European Union allows its use as an insecticide since 2008. This is because it takes a very long time to decay. Checks are now getting done to see how bad to humans it really is. It can cause diseases such as Cancer or Parkinson's disease. 

The World Health Organization classifies Lindane as "Moderately Hazardous". International trade with it is restricted and regulated under the Rotterdam Convention on Prior Informed Consent. Over 50 countries have banned it. It might be included in Stockholm Convention on persistent organic pollutants.  This would make it illegal to produce or use it all over the world.

[[Fumaric acid]]

CATEGORIES: Acids, Organic compounds

Fumaric acid is a chemical substance that occurs in various plants. It also occurs as a by-product at various times in the human body. In chemistry it is used for food preservation. It is known as E 297. Usually it replaces citric acid. In medicine, it is used to treat various diseases of the skin, such as Psoriasis. 

Albert Szent-Györgyi was awarded the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1937 because of his work on Fumaric acid.

[[Tinia]]

CATEGORIES: Etruscan gods and goddesses

Tinia (also spelled Tin, Tinh, Tins or Tina) was the supreme deity in Etruscan mythology. He was the god of the sky and lightning, equivalent to the Roman Jupiter and the Greek Zeus. He was the husband of Thalna or Uni and the father of the hero Hercle. The element tin was named after Tinia. 

[[Endospore]]

CATEGORIES: Microbiology, Biochemistry

An endospore is a structure made by bacteria for survival purposes. Bacteria turn to endosporea when they undergo stress, such as an increase in heat or lack of nutrients. This process is known as sporulation. Endospores are small, rounded, resting cells that form inside bacteria when conditions become unbearable. They have a tough coating which makes it resistant to radiation (like X-rays and UV light), chemicals, heat, salt concentration and extreme pH. Endospores have calcium dipicolinate in them, which keeps the DNA stable.  It is not fully understood what causes it to be so resistant.

A bacterial cell will make an endospore when it is low on food so it can survive until there is more food available in the environment. An endospore will actually contain all of the important parts of the bacterial cell, such as its DNA. Only two genera of bacteria can undergo sporulation to form endospores. They are the Bacillus and Clostridium species. Bacteria that can form endospores but are not in the endospore state are known to be in their vegetative state.

Endospores are highly dangerous bio-terrorist weapons. This is because they are smaller than the vegetative state. A bacterium, in itself, is already smaller than a eukaryotic cell. Therefore, considering the small size of endospore, a small volume of it can already contain a large quantity of it. Endospores are hard to eradicate.

The bacteria cell does fission and conjugation. Fission is a form of reproduction. Conjugation is not considered reproduction.

[[WonderSwan Color]]

CATEGORIES: Handheld video games

The WonderSwan Color is a handheld video game system. It was made by Bandai in 2000. It was a little bigger than the old WonderSwan.

[[Gel electrophoresis]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry, Biochemistry, Laboratory techniques

Gel electrophoresis is a technique used to separate mixtures like DNA and proteins. The separation is based on how positively or how negatively charged a molecule is, and its size. Gel electrophoresis uses a gel (like gelatin) and an electric field is put through the gel. 

The word electrophoresis comes from –electro, because an electric field is used, and –phoresis, which means movement.

[[Heinrich Schliemann]]

CATEGORIES: 1822 births, 1890 deaths, German archaeologists, People from Mecklenburg-Vorpommern

Heinrich Schliemann (January 6, 1822, in Neubukowin, Germany - December 26, 1890, in Naples) was a German archaeologist. He is famous for his work in discovering the ancient city of Troy.

[[Cyclone Nargis]]

CATEGORIES: Cyclone Nargis, Tropical cyclones in Asia, Deadly storms, 2008 in weather

Cyclone Nargis was a tropical cyclone. It was the first in the Indian Ocean in 2008. It was categorized as a Category 4 storm. It made landfall (went on land) in Myanmar (Burma) in April and May 2008. It was possibly one of the worst storms to have hit the country.

The United Nations estimated in its report that 1.5 million people were severely affected by this cyclone. Officially at least 78,000 were killed with 58,000 not found (missing); the figures however are still rising, and 80,000 were reported dead in just one town. After the disaster, the Burmese government has called for help in dealing with the situation. Some people say the government is having problems coping with the situation.

More recent reports from the government say that about 80,000 have died. Some non-governmental organizations estimate that the final number will be well over 100,000. Certain aid workers that came into the country estimate that 2 to 3 million are homeless, in the worst disaster in Burma’s history. They say it is comparable with the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. Andrew Kirkwood, country director of a British charity organisation said:"We're looking at 50,000 dead and millions of homeless. I'd characterise it as unprecedented in the history of Burma. has had about the same effect as the tsunami on individual countries. There might well be more dead than the tsunami caused in Sri Lanka." The United Nations says that up to 2.5 million people need help upgentltly. According to the same report, access to the affected regions has been cut off. The Red Cross says there could be up to 128,000 dead.

The storm caused the government to declare the five regions as disaster areas. - Yangon, Ayeyarwady, Bago Divisions, Mon and Kayin States. Thousands of buildings were destroyed; in the town of Labutta, located in the Ayeyarwady Division, state television reported that 75% of buildings had collapsed, and 20% had their roofs ripped off. It is believed that the cyclone is the deadliest tropical cyclone in the world since Hurricane Mitch in 1998, which killed about 18,000 people. At least 10,000 people have been reported to have died in the delta town of Bogale.

A diplomat in the city of Yangon spoke to the Reuters news agency, giving them a description of the scene. He said that the area around him looked like a 'war zone' as a result of the cyclone. Burst sewage mains caused the landscape to flood with waste, ruining the rice crop. An official from the United Nations also talked about the situation, at the time of the event. "It's a bad situation. Almost all the houses are smashed. People are in a terrible situation," he said. Another UN representative also talked about the incident. He reported that "The Irrawaddy delta was hit extremely hard not only because of the wind and rain but because of the storm surge." The Daily Telegraph, a UK newspaper, reported that food prices in Myanmar could be affected by this disaster.

[[Toilet paper]]

CATEGORIES: Waste, Hygiene, Paper

Toilet paper is soft paper, used to wipe urine or feces after using the toilet. It is usually sold in white rolls, made up of square sheets. Modern toilet paper is very absorbent and is designed to break up in the sewage system. The paper is often available in different textures and colours. One square sheet of toilet paper is called a "ply". 4-ply toilet paper has a thickness of 4 square sheets of toilet paper.

[[Fox Interactive]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies, 1982 establishments in California, News Corporation

Fox Interactive was a video game publisher and developer that made games based on 20th Century Fox works, such as The Simpsons. The company was founded in December 1994. It went out of business in 2006.

[[Sauropod]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropods

Sauropoda are an infraorder of saurischian ("lizard-hipped") dinosaurs. They had very long necks, long tails, small heads (in comparison to the rest of their body), and thick, pillar-like legs and peg-like teeth.

They are notable for the enormous size of some species. The group includes the largest animals ever to have lived on land. Well-known genera include Brachiosaurus, Diplodocus, Apatosaurus and Brontosaurus. 

Sauropods first appeared in the Upper Triassic period. Their probable ancestral group was the Prosauropoda.

By the Upper Jurassic (150 million years ago), sauropods had become widespread (especially the diplodocids and brachiosaurids). 

By the Upper Cretaceous, the diplodocids and brachiosaurs been replaced by the titanosaurs, which had a near-global distribution. They were larger relatives of the brachiosaurs. As with all other non-avian dinosaurs, the titanosaurs died out in the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. Fossilised remains of sauropods have been found on every continent, including Antarctica. 

The name Sauropoda was coined by O.C. Marsh in 1878. Sauropods are one of the most recognizable groups of dinosaurs, and have become a fixture in popular culture due to their large sizes. Complete sauropod fossil finds are rare. Many species, especially the largest, are known only from isolated and disarticulated bones. Many near-complete specimens lack heads, tail tips and limbs.

[[Blockade]]

CATEGORIES: War, Law of the sea, Conflicts

A blockade is a physical blockage of a port or other place. Usually used of enemy ships surrounding a port.

By extension, a blockade is any effort to make sure that supplies, troops, information or aid do not reach an opposing force. Blockades are used in nearly all military campaigns and the tool of choice for economic warfare on an opposing nation. The International Criminal Court planned to include blockades against coasts and ports in its list of acts of war in 2009.

[[Bursa]]

CATEGORIES: Bursa, Ottoman Empire

Bursa is a city in northwestern Turkey and the seat of Bursa Province. The population of city is about 2 million. It has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Koeppen climate classification). Bursa is the fourth largest city, and also one of the most industrialized cities in the country. Sometimes the city is called "Yeşil Bursa" which means "Green Bursa" because of the large parks, forests and gardens in the urban area of the city. Bursa is home of Uludağ University. Uludağ is an important ski resort in Turkey. The city has a national park in Uludağ to protect the nature life in the mountainous area.

[[2008 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in the United States, Barack Obama, 2008 elections, United States presidential elections, November 2008 events

The 2008 United States presidential election happened on November 4, 2008. Barack Obama, the Democratic candidate and junior U.S. Senator from Illinois, won the election. He defeated John McCain, the Republican candidate, who was the senior U.S. Senator from Arizona. Obama's victory in this election made him the first African-American president.

Incumbent Republican President George W. Bush was not eligible to serve a third term. McCain secured the Republican nomination by March 2008, defeating former governors Mitt Romney, Mike Huckabee, and other challengers. Obama secured the Democratic nomination in June 2008, after facing strong competition against former First Lady and Senator from New York Hillary Clinton. Clinton's victory in the New Hampshire primary made her the first woman to win a major party's presidential primary.

Obama won a decisive victory over McCain. He won states that had not voted for the Democratic presidential candidate since 1964 (Indiana and Virginia) and 1976 (North Carolina). Obama won nine states that had voted Republican in 2004: Colorado, Florida, Indiana, Iowa, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, and Virginia, as well as Nebraska's 2nd congressional district. He received the largest share of the popular vote won by a Democrat since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964 and was the first Democrat to win an outright majority of the popular vote since Jimmy Carter in 1976. Obama won 69.5 million votes, the most ever won by a presidential candidate; this total would be surpassed in 2020 by both Joe Biden and Donald Trump.

[[2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 elections, 2008 in the United States, United States presidential primary elections, United States Democratic Party

The Democratic Party presidential primaries of 2008 was an American political event. In various states, various Democratic candidates asked people and delegates to vote for them in primaries and caucuses. Candidates won delegates based on a percentage of votes (in primaries). There were 4,233 delegates. A candidate would have to get 2,110 delegates to win the nomination. The two front-runners of the campaign were New York Senator Hillary Clinton and Illinois Senator Barack Obama. Although Clinton led in the beginning, Obama soon gained the lead. Obama went on to become the first African-American presidential candidate in American history.

[[Theodor Schwann]]

CATEGORIES: 1810 births, 1882 deaths, German biologists

Theodor Schwann (7 December 1810 – 11 January 1882) was a German scientist who isolated and named the enzyme pepsin. He also played a key role in promoting the idea of the cell as the foundation of living organisms. His work on the cell has recently been re-assessed, because the idea had been discussed before him.

[[Dubbo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New South Wales

Dubbo is a large town in the central west area of New South Wales, Australia. Dubbo has a campus of the Charles Sturt University. A major tourist attraction in Dubbo is the Western Plains Zoo.

[[Antiwar.com]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, War, Libertarianism, 1995 establishments in the United States

Antiwar.com is an English language website containing news and opinions related to wars. The site was founded in December of 1995, as a response to the Bosnian War.

Justin Raimondo is a founder and editorial director.

[[Barium chloride]]

CATEGORIES: Chlorine compounds, Barium compounds

Barium chloride is a chemical substance. It is among the most important salts of barium. It is soluble in water. It is a poison. When it is heated, it gives a yellow or green color to the flame. It is hygroscopic, meaning that it attracts water from the air. It is mainly used to purify brine but applications include fireworks. 

Barium chloride is toxic. Sodium sulfate may be an antidote.

[[North Atlantic Treaty]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s treaties, NATO, 20th century in Washington, D.C., 1949

The North Atlantic Treaty is the treaty that founded NATO. It was signed in Washington, DC on April 4, 1949.  The original twelve nations that signed it and thus became the founding members of NATO were the following:

Later the following nations joined:

When Germany was reunified in 1990, the country as a whole became a member of NATO.

The key section of the treaty was Article V which says that each member state has to consider an armed attack against one state to be an armed attack against all states.  The treaty was created with an armed attack by the Soviet Union against Western Europe in mind, but the mutual self-defense clause was never used during the Cold War. It was used for the first time in 2001 when the September 11, 2001 attacks against the World Trade Center and The Pentagon had taken place.

In the United States, the treaty was approved by the Senate in a vote of 82 to 13 on July 21, 1949.

==Related pages== 

[[Blockade of Germany]]

CATEGORIES: World War I

The blockade of Germany, during World War I, was a part of the First Battle of the Atlantic between the United Kingdom and Germany. 

The British established a naval blockade of Germany early in the war. As shown later in the Battle of Jutland, the German fleet could not defeat the British fleet to break the blockade. This blockade was unusually restrictive in that even food was stopped as it was said to help the war. The Germans regarded this as an attempt to starve the German people into submission and wanted to fight back. They blockaded Britain and France.

As Germany could not fight with the big British Royal Navy on an even basis, the only possible way Germany could impose a blockade on Britain was through the submarines. The Chancellor of Germany was against this sort of blockade because it meant attacking neutral ships as those of the United States as well. But the military pushed unlimited submarine warfare forward.

On 4 February 1915, Kaiser Wilhelm II of Germany declared the seas around the British Isles a war zone. Effective 18 February, Allied ships in the area would be sunk without warning. British ships hiding behind neutral flags would not be spared, though some effort would be made to avoid sinking clearly neutral vessels.

Up to 750,000 civilians may have died because of starvation caused by this blockade during the War. Many more had to die from starvation after the Armistice in November 1918 as the blockade was continued into 1919, in order to force Germany to sign the Treaty of Versailles in June 1919.

[[LeBron James]]

CATEGORIES: LeBron James, 1984 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, American Olympic bronze medalists, American Olympic gold medalists, Los Angeles Lakers players, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Miami Heat players, American movie actors, Sportspeople from Akron, Ohio, Actors from Akron, Ohio, National Basketball Association high school draftees, American basketball players

LeBron Raymone James Sr.  (born December 30, 1984 in Akron, Ohio) is an American professional basketball player who plays in the National Basketball Association (NBA) on the Los Angeles Lakers.

The Cleveland Cavaliers picked him in the 2003 NBA Draft with the first pick in the draft, not only for his athletics ability but for the revenue he could bring to the team and city. James did not play college basketball, and entered the NBA Draft immediately after high school. He went to high school in Akron, Ohio.

James played with the Cavaliers for his first seven seasons. During that time, he was one of the NBA's top scorers. He was selected as an All-Star several times. In 2007, he led Cleveland to the NBA Finals and swept 0-4. He was the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the NBA for the 2008-09 NBA season and 2009-10 NBA season.  In his MVP years, Cleveland had the best record in the NBA, but did not make it to the NBA Finals.

On July 8, 2010, on a show in ESPN called "The Decision" LeBron said that he would next play for the Miami Heat. On December 2, 2010, James played in Cleveland for the first time since leaving, scoring 38 points for the Heat as they beat the Cavaliers, 118-90. Many fans angry at James for leaving Cleveland booed him throughout the game and held up signs with negative statements against James.

In the 2011 season the Miami Heat came in second place right behind the Chicago Bulls lead by Derick Rose  in the NBA. They made it to the finals of the NBA and lost in six games to the Dallas Mavericks  This caused celebration in Cleveland because they hated Lebron for what he did to him.

In the 2012 Finals, LeBron James won his first championship after the Miami Heat defeated the Oklahoma City Thunder 4-1 games, after battling with the Boston Celtics 4-3 games the previous round. The next year, LeBron James won his second title when the Heat defeated the San Antonio Spurs in seven games. In both years he won the MVP title of finals and of regular season.

In 2014, James competed a very good regular season but he wasn't the MVP. In the 2014 Finals, the Heat's Finals streak ended after being defeated by the San Antonio Spurs in five games (4-1). Shortly after those Finals had ended, LeBron James said he would use an early termination option in his contract, leaving the Miami Heat and becoming a free agent. He said this on June 24, 2014.

Then, on June 25, 2014, in a first-person essay in Sports Illustrated, he said he would return to the Cleveland Cavaliers. On July 12, 2014, James signed a two-year, $42.1 million contract to return to the Cavaliers. The deal also contains an option to become a free agent again after the 2014–15 NBA season. Lebron now plays on the Los Angeles Lakers.

In 2015, he took the Cleveland Cavaliers to the NBA Finals, without Kevin Love but lost to the Golden State Warriors in 6 games after losing Kyrie Irving after he had an ankle injury. The following year he again took the Cavs to the finals against the Warriors and made history when he led the Cleveland Cavaliers to an NBA championship after being down 3-1 games. No team had ever come back from a 3-1 deficit in the Finals before then.  He had a historic moment where he blocked Andre Iguodala on possibly the game winning layup. The Cavaliers went on to lose to the Golden State Warriors the following season.

[[Silesian Voivodeship]]

CATEGORIES: Voivodeships of Poland

Silesian Voivodeship Silesia Province is one of the 16 Voivodeships of Poland. It can be found in the south Poland and in east Silesia (called Upper Silesia). The capital city is Katowice. 

[[First Battle of the Atlantic]]

CATEGORIES: Battles of World War I, 1910s in Europe

The First Battle of the Atlantic (1914–1918) was a naval campaign of World War I, largely fought in the seas around the British Isles and in the Atlantic Ocean. Both the German Empire and United Kingdom relied heavily on imports to feed their population and supply their war industry; thus both aimed to blockade each other. The British had the Royal Navy which was superior in numbers and could operate within the British Empire. The German Navy could not destroy the British Navy, as seen at the Battle of Jutland.

The German fleet mainly used unrestricted submarine warfare. Neutral countries disliked the blockades and the sinking of RMS Lusitania especially angered the United States. The successful blockade of Germany contributed to its military defeat in 1918, and still in effect, enforced also the signing of the Treaty of Versailles in mid-1919.

[[Sukhoi]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet military aircraft, Military aviation

Sukhoi is a company that makes fighter jets for the Russian Air Force, and other countries like China. Sukhoi has made some of the world's most innovative aircraft, such as the Su-37 Super Flanker. Most of Sukhoi's shareholdings belong in other countries than Russia.

The United States has bought aircraft from Sukhoi for aggressive training operations. However, Sukhoi sold aircraft to Iran, and thus the United States banned Sukhoi from ever doing business with them again.

[[Biomedical engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering, Medicine

Biomedical engineering is the study of medical equipment used in an environment of care or training and how this equipment interfaces with the human body.

Biomedical engineers design, test, modify, recommend modification of, and evaluate all medical equipment used to interface or interact with the human body. In addition to these functions, clinical engineers usually supervise the biomedical equipment maintenance function within an environment of care.

The medical devices include man-made hands, arms, and legs to replace lost ones and, also, Dialysis machines which clean the blood of a person with damaged kidneys.

[[This Love (The Veronicas song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Pop songs

This Love is a 2008 song by Australian band The Veronicas.

[[VeggieTales]]

CATEGORIES: Children's television series, Mass media franchises introduced in the 1990s, 1993 television series debuts

VeggieTales is a series of children's CGI-animated games, theatrical films, television series, web series, books, and albums. The show is made up of animated vegetables that give moral lessons that are based on Christianity. It first aired in 1993. There have been video games made based on it. There is also a TV show which doesn't mention religion, two shows on Netflix, two movies, one of which retells the Bible story of Jonah and another which is a parody of pirate movies, and a hand-drawn animated spinoff show which is a parody of Batman.

[[Kroppenstedt]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Saxony-Anhalt

Kroppenstedt is a town in the Börde district, in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. It is southwest of Magdeburg. It is part of the Verwaltungsgemeinschaft ("collective municipality").

[[Righteousness]]

CATEGORIES: Theology

Righteousness is the quality of a person being morally right or justifiable. It is an important concept and theological concept. It is a concept in Islam, Judaism, Christianity, and also in Dharmic traditions. The quality of true righteousness is pleasing to God. It is a concept similar to integrity.

[[I Decided]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Soul songs

"I Decided" is the first single released by Solange Knowles from her album Sol-Angel and the Hadley St. Dreams. The single was released as a digital download to both iTunes and Amazon.com on April 22, 2008.

[[Here I Stand]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Usher albums

Here I Stand is R&B singer Usher 's fifth album, scheduled to be released 27 May 2008.

[[Social equality]]

CATEGORIES: Civil rights

Social equality is a state where people are treated fairly and given equal chances without any discrimination.

[[JavaServer Pages]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages, Sun Microsystems

JavaServer Pages (JSP java) is a programming language used by server applications. It was created by Sun Microsystems. A software server such as Apache is needed to run it.

[[Match]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Tools, Fire

A match is a tool for making fire under controlled circumstances. Most often, it is a small piece of wood, or hardened paper. At one end, the match is coated with a material that will ignite from friction. The lighting end of a match is known as the match "head". It either contains phosphorus or phosphorus sesquisulfide as the active ingredient and gelatin as a binder. Matches are sold in multiples, packaged together either in a box, or in matchbooks. There are two main types of matches: safety matches, which can be struck only against a specially prepared surface; and strike-anywhere matches, for which any suitably frictional surface can be used.

There are also electric matches, which use electricity and not friction to produce a fire.

[[Bill Gothard]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, American Evangelicals, Christian religious leaders, Christian writers, Writers from Chicago

William W. "Bill" Gothard (born November 2, 1934) is an American speaker and writer. At the age of 15, he gave his life to helping teenagers and their parents live their life in Christian principles. Much of his reputation comes from his efforts to finish that goal. He founded the Institute in Basic Life Principles (IBLP) in 1961. He has also spoken at conferences, and has written many books.

[[Institute in Basic Life Principles]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations based in the United States

The Institute in Basic Life Principles (IBLP) is Christian organization in Oak Brook, Illinois. It was founded by Bill Gothard in 1964.

[[Master of Arts]]

CATEGORIES: Academic degrees

A Master of Arts (Latin:Magister Artium) is a postgraduate academic master's degree given by universities in many countries.

[[American Fork River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Utah

The American Fork River, in Utah, leaves the Wasatch Mountains out of American Fork Canyon about 35 miles southeast of Salt Lake City. The river starts on Mount Timpanogos and the river runs down through American Fork Canyon. On the way it goes through the Uinta National Forest and Timpanogos Cave National Monument. Leaving the canyon, the river runs through northern Utah County and empties into Utah Lake on the north shore.

[[Frank O'Connor]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1979 deaths, Actors from Ohio, American movie actors, American painters, Ranchers

Charles Francis O'Connor (1897 - 1979), called Frank O'Connor, was an American actor and painter. He was the husband of writer Ayn Rand.

[[Alma mater]]

CATEGORIES: Educational institutions

Alma mater is the singular form of the Latin word for "nourishing mother". It was used in ancient Rome as a title for the mother goddess, and in Medieval Christianity for the Virgin Mary. In current days, it is most often used to refer to the university or college a person went to. However, it may also refer to the song or hymn of a college or university. 

The term alma mater can be traced back to eleventh-century Europe. The first known use of the term in reference to university was in 1088. The University of Bologna coined their motto “Alma Mater Studiorum,” (translated: “nourishing mother of studies”). 

[[Amplitude modulation]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanical vibrations, Radio technology

Amplitude Modulation, usually shortened to AM, is a simple way to send a radio signal. The signal can travel long distances, and appear in faraway places, because of the earth's ionosphere. 

Amplitude is the height of a wave. A carrier wave is modulated (changed) by adding audio. The combined signal is transmitted over a frequency. AM signals can be received by a crystal-powered radio set, that needs no batteries or electrical power source. Many early radios were homemade, and used earphones.

AM signals are mostly sent out on medium wave and shortwave frequencies. They do not carry high fidelity sound, but the sound is good enough to hear most things. Analog signals can fade in and out, or have interference from power lines and power stations. Sunspot activity can also weaken signals.

In the early years of commercial broadcasting in the 1920s, medium wave AM (from 540 to 1600 kilocycles) was the only kind of radio widely used. Radio programs were much like today's television programs, including news, sports, drama, music, comedy, and other entertainment.

Later Frequency Modulation (FM) radio was developed. It had better fidelity, but the signals could not travel as far, so AM was still important. After television became common in the 1950s, AM became a major format for popular music. As FM became common in the 1970s, AM stations featured more news, and talk shows.

Shortwave radio signals (from 3000 to 30,000 kilocycles) can travel around the world, and are used by countries to send programs to distant places. These programs feature news about the country, examples of their native culture and history, and sometimes foreign language lessons.

[[Biberach (district)]]

Biberach (IPA: 'bi:bərax; Alemannic German: Landchrais Bibra) is a district in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is surrounded by (from the south and clockwise) the districts of Ravensburg, Sigmaringen, Reutlingen and Alb-Donau, and the Bavarian districts Neu-Ulm, Unterallgäu and the district-free city Memmingen. The most important towns in the district of Biberach are Biberach (Riß), Riedlingen, Ochsenhausen and Laupheim.

[[Sam Allardyce]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, England national football team managers, Sportspeople from West Midlands (county)

Samuel Allardyce (born: 19 October 1954) is an English former football player, and was currently the manager of Championship club West Bromwich Albion.

[[Chief Constable]]

CATEGORIES: Law enforcement in the United Kingdom

A Chief Constable is the top police officer in a police force in the United Kingdom. Every police force in the United Kingdom has a Chief Constable except the City of London Police and  the Metropolitan Police.

[[Hugh Orde]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Ireland people

Hugh Stephen Orde OBE was the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland. He became the Chief Constable on 29 May 2002 and was it until 2009. His first police job was in 1977 at the Metropolitan Police Service. He was made a member of the Order of the British Empire in 2001, and was given a knighthood in 2005.

[[Candy Lo]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, C-pop singers, C-rock, Actors from Hong Kong, Singers from Hong Kong

Candy Lo (born October 18, 1974) is a C-rock singer-songwriter and actress from Hong Kong. She has released 9 studio albums, over 40 singles, 2 compilations, 1 live album and 1 EP with Sony Music to date.  On June 11 she released her first EP on her new label WOW Music.

[[Say It Right]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs, Nelly Furtado, R&B songs

"Say It Right" is an R&B song performed by Nelly Furtado. It has background vocals by Timbaland. The song is from Nelly Furtado's album Loose. It was written by Nelly Furtado, Tim Mosley, Nate Hills. It was released on March 5, 2007 as a single and digital download in the United Kingdom. It was very successful worldwide reaching number one in many countries. The song is 3 minutes and 43 seconds long.

[[Greater Poland Voivodeship]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in Europe, Voivodeships of Poland

Greater Poland Voivodeship is one of the 16 Voivodeships of Poland. It can be found in the western part of Poland. It is mostly in the historical land Greater Poland. The capital of the Voivodeship is Poznań.

It was created on 1 January 1999.

[[Northumbria]]

CATEGORIES: Northumberland, History of England, Anglo-Saxons

The Kingdom of Northumbria (Norþhymbra rīce), was a medieval kingdom of the Angles, in what is now northern England and south-east Scotland. It later became an earldom in the Anglo-Saxon Kingdom of England. The name reflects the southern limit to the kingdom's territory, the River Humber.

[[Hanging (death)]]

CATEGORIES: Death

Hanging is caused when a person is held by a rope around the neck. The Oxford English Dictionary says that hanging in this sense is "specifically to put to death by suspension by the neck". Hanging is often used as a form of execution or suicide. 

The first known account of execution by hanging was in Homer's Odyssey (Book XXII). In this meaning of the common word hang, the past and past participle is hanged instead of hung.

[[Moons of Mars]]

CATEGORIES: Moons of Mars

Mars has two little moons, Phobos and Deimos, which are thought to be captured asteroids. They were found by Asaph Hall in 1877.

[[James Horner]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2015 deaths, Academy Award winning composers, Satellite Award winners, Accidental deaths in California, Aviation deaths in the United States, American movie score composers, Golden Globe Award winners, Grammy Award winners, People from Los Angeles, California, Saturn Award winners, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters

James Roy Horner (August 14, 1953 – June 22, 2015) was an American music director. He scored the music for the 1997 movie Titanic. He won two Academy Awards in 1998. Horner was born on August 14, 1953 in Los Angeles, California.

Horner was killed in an airplane crash near Los Padres National Forest, California, aged 61.

[[MP3 player]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics, Audio technology

An MP3 player is a portable audio device people can use to listen to songs saved in the MP3 format.  They can use USB cords or Wi-Fi to connect the device to computers, so that computer files can be transferred to players internal memory.

MP3s are audio files that have been made smaller by removing sounds that the human ear cannot hear. Many newer MP3 players can also be used to view images or movies, or play games, and can also play other formats, such as FLAC and MPEG-4 AAC. The most well-known MP3 player is the iPod. MP3 players can also be built-into a car or home stereo.

[[Wi-Fi Protected Access]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

Wi-Fi Protected Access (also known as WPA and WPA2) is the name for a number of standards to use encryption on a Wireless LAN. They were made because people found many weaknesses in WEP, or Wired Equivalent Privacy (the standard that came before WPA).  

Products that have the label WPA were made to work with most cards, even those that came out before there was WPA. This is not true for access points.

Products with the WPA2 use all of the standard. This started in 2004 and is more secure, but it may not work with some older hardware. 

There are two types of WPA. They are called WPA Personal and WPA Enterprise. WPA Personal is used a lot in casual places like people's homes.  To connect, you enter a password. WPA Enterprise is used for bigger networks like businesses. To connect, you must enter a username and password given to you by the people in charge of the network. 

[[Wired Equivalent Privacy]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

Wired Equivalent Privacy (also known as WEP) is a standard to use encryption in Wireless LANs. It was introduced in 1999. 

In 2001, mathematicians showed that WEP is not very strong. A WEP connection could be decoded, with software that can be easily found, within minutes.  Because of this finding, IEEE created a new 802.11i group to fix the problems. By 2003, the Wi-Fi Alliance announced that Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) would replace WEP, which was a subset of then upcoming 802.11i amendment.  Finally in 2004, they made it official and said that it would go ahead.  It was part of the full 802.11i standard (also known as WPA2), the IEEE declared that both WEP-40 and WEP-104 are not recommended because they are not secure enough. 

Even though it only offers low security, WEP is still widely in use. WEP is often the first security choice presented to users by router configuration tools even. Today, WEP provides a level of security that deters only accidental use.  As a result, people can invade and enter the network.

People sometimes call it Wireless Encryption Protocol, which is wrong.

[[Congress of Vienna]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s treaties, 1810s in Europe, 19th century in Austria, 1814, 1815, Vienna

The Congress of Vienna was a conference of ambassadors of the major powers of Europe. 

It was held in Vienna from November 1, 1814, to June 8, 1815. The chairman was the Austrian statesman Klemens Wenzel von Metternich. 

Its purpose was to decide about the political situation in Europe after the defeat of Napoleon. 

To be precise there was never one "Congress of Vienna". Instead, there were discussions in informal sessions among the Great Powers. 

The Congress was concerned with determining the entire shape of Europe after the Napoleonic wars, with the exception of the terms of peace with France, which had already been decided by the Treaty of Paris, signed a few months earlier, on May 30, 1814.

The four victorious powers (the Concert of Europe) hoped to exclude the French from participation in the negotiations, but Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord managed to get into "her inner councils" in the first weeks of negotiations.

[[Coin collecting]]

CATEGORIES: Money, Collecting, Coins

Coin collecting is the hobby of keeping different coins.  Some people do it just for pleasure, while others collect coins for the history of the coins. People can collect coins that are old, rare, beautiful or just interesting. 

Coin collecting is a very old hobby.  Even Julius Caesar collected coins. Some coins are very expensive, because more people want them than there are copies of the coin. Some coin collectors like to collect one coin of each date, or one coin of each King or Queen of a country.

The condition of a coin is very important in finding the value of the coin for collectors.  Some coins which are worth almost nothing in poor condition can be worth thousands of times as much in new condition. The term "mint condition" means the coin has never been used ("in circulation"), just like it came out of the mint where it was made.  

The largest group of American coin collectors is the American Numismatic Association,  while the Royal Numismatic Society, which was started in 1826, is one of the largest societies outside the US. 

Many catalogs are produced around the world, generally for the coins of the country where the catalog is produced.  In the U.S., one guide, the "Red Book" has been produced annually since 1946.   In the U.K., the coin dealer Seaby produced catalogs on U.K. coins as well as ancient coins.  The catalogs were purchased by Spink's in 1996 and are continuing under the Spink's name. Spink's was founded in 1666.

[[Blood Red Shoes]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands, Indie bands, Brighton, Musical groups established in 2005, 2005 establishments in England

Blood Red Shoes are an indie music band from Brighton, England. Blood Red Shoes's first album was Box of Secrets. There are two members: Laura-Mary Carter and Steven Ansell. They are often compared to "The White Stripes" due to the boy-girl drum-guitar setup, but they dislike this comparison and, indeed, the White Stripes themselves.  Laura-Mary  plays guitar while Steven plays drums.

[[Bret Hart]]

CATEGORIES: Hart family members, 1957 births, Living people, Canadian professional wrestlers, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Calgary, WWE Hall of Fame

Bret Hart (born July 2, 1957) is a semi-retired Canadian professional wrestler, writer, and actor. He is a member of the well-known Hart wrestling family of Calgary, Alberta. His father was wrestling legend Stu Hart. He is considered to be one of the most technically sound wrestlers ever. His athletic ability and in-ring knowledge have also been highly praised.

[[La Grange, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois

La Grange, a suburb of Chicago, is a village in Cook County, in the U.S. state of Illinois. The population was 15,608 at the 2000 census. The name La Grange is French for "the barn."

[[Eurovision Song Contest 2008]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in music, 2008 in Europe, Belgrade, Eurovision Song Contest, History of Serbia

[[All We Know]]

CATEGORIES: Paramore songs, 2006 songs

All We Know is a 2006 song by Paramore, off the album All We Know is Falling. It was the last single released off the album.

[[Misery Business]]

CATEGORIES: Paramore songs, 2007 songs

Misery Business is a 2007 song by the band Paramore. It is from the album RIOT!. The song was released on June 18, 2007. The video features the band playing in a room filled with the graffiti found on the bands album cover, and a person being mean at a school.

At the end of the video, singer Hayley wipes off the other girls makeup and takes something out from under her shirt exposing the girl for what she really is.

This song was controversial. Hayley did regret the use of God in the chorus and said she did not want people to use his name wronglyApril 2009.

[[Wesfarmers]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Australia

Wesfarmers is a Australian company. It is one of the two largest retailers in Australia. The other is Woolworths. It owns Coles Supermarkets, K-Mart, Target Bunnings Warehouse and Bi-Lo Supermarkets.

[[Pressure (Paramore song)]]

CATEGORIES: Paramore songs, 2006 songs

Pressure is the first single from the album All We Know is Falling, by the band Paramore. The song was ranked #62 on the Billboard Hot Digital Songs in 2007.

[[Hazelwood North, Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Victoria (Australia)

Hazelwood North is a town in Victoria, Australia. Most of people who live there live on farms, about 5 acres big.

[[Hasselt]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg, Provincial capitals of Belgium

Hasselt is a city in Belgium. It is the capital of the Belgian province Limburg. It lies about half way between Liège and Antwerp. The city lays at the river demer and the albertchannel. The city has city privileges since 1232. Today, about 79.089 people live there, the people who live there are called Hasselaars.Most of them are native Dutch speakers.

Well-known people from Hasselt include Hendrick van Veldeke, probably one of the first writers who did no longer write in Latin, but rather used the German of the time, 12th century. Willy Claes, who was NATO secretary in 1994 and 1995, and Axelle Red a contemporary singer-songwriter.

It is located at 50° 55 North, 05° 20 East.

[[Focus on the Family]]

CATEGORIES: Focus on the Family, 1977 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Colorado

Focus on the Family (FOTF, or FotF) is an American evangelical group. The non-profit organization was founded in 1977 by James Dobson, and is based in Colorado Springs, Colorado. They have started several ministries, such as Adventures in Odyssey, and Focus on the Family Action.

[[Adventures in Odyssey]]

CATEGORIES: Adventures in Odyssey, 1987 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Colorado

Adventures in Odyssey (also known as AIO or just Odyssey) is an Evangelical Christian-themed radio drama and comedy. It was started by Focus on the Family in 1987.

The series takes place in the fictional town of Odyssey. The show is most  in an ice cream and discovery emporium called "Whit's End." The place is owned by John Avery Whittaker. The show's episodes have many things in them, such as comedic and melodramatic, but also have thematic and Biblical stories. Its characters often talk about Christianity, and sometimes Bible stories are taught.

[[Youth for Christ]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations

Youth for Christ (YFC) is an international Christian ministry that promotes youth evangelism and biblical Christianity. In the early 1940s, during World War II, many young men, mostly ministers and evangelists, were holding large rallies in Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States. In an effort to coordinate these programs Youth for Christ was started in 1944. The organization was co-founded by the Rev. Billy Graham and then-evangelist Charles Templeton.

[[Henry Luce]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1967 deaths, American journalists, writers from Connecticut

Henry Robinson Luce (April 3, 1898 – February 28, 1967) was an important American publisher.

[[Big Bear Lake, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in San Bernardino County, California

Big Bear Lake is a city in San Bernardino County, California. It is along the south shore of Big Bear Lake. At the 2000 census, 5,438 people lived there. It is a popular place in Southern California, partly because of its skiing areas.

[[Memorial]]

CATEGORIES: Monuments and memorials, Architecture

A memorial is an object which serves as a memory of something, usually a person who has died or a famous event. Statues are a popular type of memorial.

A memorial hall is a building which serves to remind people of something, again usually people who have died. Memorial halls in the United Kingdom and United States are usually about World War I or World War II. Memorial halls in Germany and Poland are often about the Holocaust, when Nazi Germany killed many Jewish people. Memorial halls in China are usually about the Japanese part of World War II. An important memorial hall is the Nanjing Massacre Museum.

[[Logging]]

CATEGORIES: Forestry

Logging is cutting down trees. It is done to fix forests or harvest logs. People move the logs out of the forest to use them for timber or paper or fuel or other purposes.

[[Kølig Kaj]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Rap musicians, Danish singers

Kølig Kaj (born 1971) was a Danish rapper who gained national fame in 1997 by winning the Danish Melodi Grand Prix with his song "Stemmen I Mit Liv". His real name is Thomas Lægaard.  

At the Eurovision Song Contest in 1997, he ended up 16th, with only 25 points. Following that, Kølig Kaj slowly went away, and has never really gained much success. "Kølig Kaj" literally means "Cool Kaj" (pronounced Kai, rhymes with "high"). He released an album called Solgt Ud!

[[Forbidden Planet (bookstore)]]

CATEGORIES: Toys

The Forbidden Planet is a popular comic book, toys, and other multimedia objects store.

[[Tobey Maguire]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Vegetarians, Actors from Santa Monica, California, 1975 births, Living people

Tobias Vincent "Tobey" Maguire  (born 27 June 1975) is an American actor. He is best known for playing the role of Spider-Man in all three movies (alongside James Franco).

[[Chaplain]]

CATEGORIES: Religious occupations

A chaplain is typically a priest, pastor, ordained deacon or other member of the clergy. They usually serve a group of people who are not organized as a mission or church, or who are unable to attend church for many reasons, such as poor health, confinement, or military or civil duties.

Chaplains may be members of a Christian church, or followers of Judaism, Islam or humanism. Schools, colleges, prisons, hospitals, and the armed forces commonly provide the services of chaplains.

[[Northwestern College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Minnesota, Council for Christian Colleges and Universities, Saint Paul, Minnesota, 1902 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in Minnesota

Northwestern College is in Saint Paul, Minnesota.  It is a four-year Christian college. The school was founded on October 2, 1902. Billy Graham was the school's president from 1948 to 1952. Athletic teams at the school are known as Eagles.

[[Walker (tool)]]

CATEGORIES: Tools

A walker or walking frame is a tool for disabled people who need help to support and keep balance while walking. The rollator/walker is from Sweden. These are popular items in the mobility aid field.

Generally there are three or four wheel rollators. Most have some type of pouch or basket to carry items. Rollators are often used for long trips or when a person does not want to be slowed down by their mobility equipment. Rollators are often viewed as easier to use than a walker due to their ability to just be pushed instead of lifted.

[[George Beverly Shea]]

CATEGORIES: American centenarians, American singer-songwriters, Canadian centenarians, Canadian singer-songwriters, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from stroke, Musicians from Ontario, Naturalized citizens of the United States, 1909 births, 2013 deaths

George Beverly "Bev" Shea (February 1, 1909 – April 16, 2013) was a Canadian-American singer and songwriter of gospel music, and has written several hymns. He gained American citizenship in 1941. He worked with Billy Graham for a long time.

[[Walker]]

Walker can be any of the following:

In geography:

In modern culture:

In other usage:

[[James Dobson]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, American activists, American conservatives, American Evangelicals, American writers, Anti-LGBT rights activists, Christian religious leaders, Christian writers, Focus on the Family, People from Shreveport, Louisiana, Writers from Louisiana

James Clayton "Jim" Dobson (born April 21, 1936 in Shreveport, Louisiana) is both the starter and chairman of the board of Focus on the Family. He is an Evangelical.

[[QuickTime]]

CATEGORIES: Multimedia software, Graphics software, Apple software, MacOS

QuickTime (also called QT) is a software made by Apple Inc. It can handle different types of digital video, media clips, sound, text, animation, music, and several types of interactive panoramic images.

[[Subspecies]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy

Subspecies is a classification (taxonomy) in biology. It is directly below species. When looking at the Latin name, subspecies are indicated by the third name. Subspecies can mix with each other; animals or plants from different subspecies can have offspring together (This is usually not the case with animals from different species).

When looking at subspecies, they can also be told apart sufficiently by looking at the appearance or DNA of an animal or plant.

Very often, there are populations that are between two subspecies; this is because evolution is a continuous process. Subspecies can often be recognised by subsp or ssp (before the third part of the name) especially in botany.

Examples of subspecies are:

[[Centrifugal force]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics

This is the force that acts on the body in a direction away from the centre, which contributes to making the body try to fly away. When you hold a rope with a heavy object attached to it, and rotate it around, the rope becomes tight and keeps the body from flying away. This is caused by centripetal force.

In physics, centrifugal force (from Latin centrum "center" and fugere "to flee") is a fictitious force that appears when describing physics in a rotating reference frame; it acts on anything with mass considered in such a frame. Centrifugal force is fictitious because although it may feel to a person like a certain force is being exerted on them, someone outside the scene will see something different.

Example: If John is in a car that takes a sharp right turn, he will feel as though he is being pushed to his left. This is an imaginary force, called a centrifugal force, or a "running away from the center" force. John feels it because he is inside the car and is affected by it. However, if John's friend, Andy, is on the side of the road facing the front of John's car and watches John's car take a sharp right turn, Andy will see the car push John to the right with the car as it changes direction. This is a real force called centripetal force (or an "aiming towards the center" force) and acts towards the center of the circle of rotation.

[[Peeter Volkonski]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Rock composers, Estonian singers, Movie actors, Rock musicians, Princes and princesses, Television actors, People from Tallinn

Peeter Volkonski Peeter (also Piotr Andreevich Volkonsky) (born December 9, 1954, in Tallinn, Estonia) is an Estonian actor and rock-musician composer. He is a Prince from the Rurik Dynasty. He is the key art figure in Estonia.

Peeter Volkonski is a descendant of an aristocratic princely family, son of Prince Andrei Volkonsky. HSH Prince Pyotr Mikhailovich Volkonsky is a great-great-great-great-grandfather of Prince Peeter Volkonski.

[[Bobby V]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Singers from Mississippi, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia, American R&B singers, People from Jackson, Mississippi

Robert "Bobby" Wilson (born February 27, 1980), better known by his stage name Bobby V and formerly Bobby Valentino, is an American R&B singer.

[[Anonymous (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs

Anonymous is the second single from Bobby Valentino's second album, Special Occasion. The song features Amber Rives and Timbaland and was produced by Timbaland and King Logan.

The song was written by Ezekiel "Zeke" Lewis, Balewa Muhammad, Candice Nelson, and Patrick Smith of the popular songwriting/production team "The Clutch"... along with Timbaland,Amber Rives and King Logan.The song shares an electronic drum track with Justin Timberlake's "My Love" due to fact that both singles were produced by Timbaland. The song shares a similar vocal and lyric from the Willie Hutch song "Tell Me Why Our Love Turned Cold".

The music video includes supermodel Amber Rives as Bobby's love interest,Timbaland does not appear, although his verse remains in the song.

[[Mixed drink]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink

A mixed drink is a type of drink where two or more diffent drinks are mixed together to create a new drink. Very often, at least one of the ingredients contains alcohol. Usually, spirits like rum or vodka are used in the mixed drinks containing alcohol. 

Examples of mixed drinks are Rum & Coke and Bundy & Rum.

Alcopops are pre-fabricated mixed drinks. They were mainly made for the young. Often they are made so that the alcohol in them cannot be tasted easily.

Mixed drinks without alcohol are often called virgin.

[[Smash Mouth]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Musical groups from California, People from San Jose, California

Smash Mouth is a rock band from San Jose, California, USA.

Formed in 1994, the group is formed by Steve Harwell (lead vocals/Guitar), Greg Camp (guitar), Paul De Lisle (bass), and Kevin Coleman (original drummer). Their most famous song is "Walkin' on the Sun".

[[Mallacoota, Victoria]]

Mallacoota (37) is a small town in East Gippsland, Victoria, Australia. Less than 1000 people live there. It is 25 kilometres off the Princes Highway and 523 kilometres from Melbourne. It is the last town on Victoria's east coast before the border with New South Wales. Mallacoota has a small airport (Mallacoota Airport) YMCO (XMC) for private small planes.

[[Cancuén]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Guatemala, Maya civilization

Cancuén is an archaeological site of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization, It can be found in the Pasión subregion of the central Maya lowlands. It  is located in the present-day Guatemalan Department of El Petén.  The city is famous because it has one of the largest palaces in the Maya world.

[[Rum]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic spirits

Rum is an alcoholic spirit. It is made from molasses and other sugarcane by-products through fermentation and distillation. Rum is mostly made in or around the Caribbean. Rum is also made in other parts of the world, like Fiji or Australia.

[[Pridon Khalvashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2010 deaths, Poets, Writers from Georgia (country)

Pridon Khalvashi (ფრიდონ ხალვაში; born 17 May 1925 – July 8 2010) is one of the famous Georgian writers who contributed Georgian poetry and literature, as well as its political and social life.

[[Western Front (World War I)]]

CATEGORIES: 1910s in Europe, World War I

The Western Front was started by the German Army invading Luxembourg and Belgium at the beginning of World War I in 1914 and gaining military control of many important industrial regions in France. Its quick advance was stopped by the Battle of the Marne. Both sides then dug defensive trenches, which eventually reached from the North Sea to the Swiss border with France.

From 1915 to 1917, many offensives were started from the trenches. Both sides used large numbers of artillery and thousands of infantry in the offensives. However, a combination of entrenchments, machine gun nests, barbed wire, and artillery stopped the advances. No major breakthroughs happened.

New military technology, like poison gas, aircraft, and tanks were developed to try and get through the lines of trenches.

The deadlock was caused mostly by both sides not allowing any piece of land to give some kind of advantage to the enemy, even if there was little advantage. As the war continued, and more blood was lost on both sides, the soldiers grew tired of war and had begun to make large threats to the government.

To keep the war effort going, the governments began to say that they would kill soldiers who did not attack and that the soldiers betrayed the army if they did not fight.

[[Artifact]]

Artifact or artefact can be any of the following:

[[Artifact (archaeology)]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeology

In archaeology, an artifact or artefact is an object made or modified by a human culture.  It is usually found during an archaeological dig.  Some artifacts are stone tools, pottery wheels, jewelry, and clothing.  The study of artifacts is very important in archaeology.

[[Coba]]

CATEGORIES: Cobá, Cities in Mexico, Maya civilization, Archaeological sites in Mexico, Quintana Roo

Coba (Cobá) is a big ruined city of the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization. It is in the state of Quintana Roo, Mexico. It is about 90 km east of the Maya site of Chichen Itza, about 40 km west of the Caribbean Sea, and 44 km northwest of the site of Tulum.  Coba was thought to have had around 50,000 people living in it.

[[Tectonics]]

CATEGORIES: Plate tectonics

Tectonics is the study of the earth's structural features, especially the folding and faulting (cracking) of the Earth's crust.

Tectonics (from Latin, meaning "building") is a field within geology. It includes structures in the lithosphere of the Earth and the forces and movements that have operated to create these structures.

Tectonics is concerned with orogenies (mountain building) and major land features. This includes the earthquake and volcanic regions which affect certain parts of the world. This is discussed further in plate tectonics.

Tectonic studies are also important for understanding erosion patterns in geomorphology and as guides for the economic geologist searching for petroleum and metallic ores.

[[Tajal Chan Ahk]]

CATEGORIES: South American people, Maya civilization, 8th century births, 8th century deaths

Tajal Chan Ahk, also T'ah 'ak' Cha'an,  ruled the Maya city Cancuén from 757 to ca. 799.

[[Buzău (disambiguation)]]

Buzău can be any of these places in Romania:

[[Elsa Einstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1876 births, 1936 deaths, Disease-related deaths in the United States, German people

Elsa Einstein, (18 January 1876 - 20 December 1936), was the second wife of the German phyicist, Albert Einstein. The couple were first cousins and second cousins. This is because their mothers were sisters and their fathers were first cousins. She was born in Hechingen, Germany.

[[Prahova]]

The word Prahova can be any of these places in Romania:

[[Creation Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in the United States, Christian organizations based in the United States, Buildings and structures in Kentucky

The Creation Museum is a 75,000 square foot museum near Petersburg, Kentucky, United States. It was made to tell the story of Young Earth creationism. The museum shows its view of the theory of the start of the universe, life, mankind, and man's early history. It is based on the book of Genesis in the Bible. This book is the story of how God made the Earth, and all of its life forms in just six days. This is said to have happened about 6000 years ago. The museum rejects evolution, and points to alternative explanations to answer evolutionist's objections. 

The museum has a zoo, botanical gardens, planetarium, theater, bookshop, cafe, and zip-line.

"The state-of-the-art 75,000-square-foot museum brings the pages of the Bible to life, casting its characters and animals in dynamic form and

placing them in familiar settings. Adam and Eve live in the Garden of Eden. Children play and dinosaurs roam near Eden’s Rivers. The serpent coils cunningly in the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. Majestic murals, great masterpieces brimming with pulsating colors and details, provide a backdrop for many of the settings." - The Creation Museum website

The Creation Museum is run by Answers in Genesis.

[[George Whitefield]]

CATEGORIES: 1714 births, 1770 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American Calvinists, American Evangelicals, American Methodists, Anglican priests, Christian religious leaders, English Anglicans, English priests, Evangelists, Gloucester, Missionaries, People from Gloucestershire

George Whitefield (16 December 1714 – 30 September 1770), was a preacher in the Church of England. He was one of the leaders of the Methodist movement. Colonists loved to hear him preach of love and forgiveness as he had a different style of preaching compared to Old World priests. This led to new missionary work in the Americas in converting Indians to Christianity. He helped establish the Evangelical movement, which was based on the idea that salvation could be achieved through believing in Jesus  and following God’s word in the Bible.

[[Timiş River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Serbia, Tributaries of the Danube, Rivers of Romania

The Timiş or Tamiš (Romanian: Timiş; Serbian: Тамиш or Tamiš; German: Temesch; Hungarian: Temes) is a 359 kilometer long river coming up from the Semenic Mountains, the southern part Carpathian Mountains,  in Caraş-Severin County, Romania. It flows through the Banat region and into the Danube near Pančevo, in the northern part of Serbia.

[[Timiş]]

The name Timiş can be any of the following:

These names are close to Timiş:

[[Nera]]

Nera mcan be any one of the following:

[[Communes of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Romania, Romania-related lists

A commune (comună in Romanian) is the second lowest level of division in Romania. There are 2,686 communes in Romania.  There is no set limit to population in the communes, but once they exceed a population of 10,000 people, the commune gets the status of a city. The first lowest level of division in Romania is called "sat". "Satele" (pl.) are for the "comuna" just like the counties for the state.

[[Municipalities of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Romania

A municipality (municipiu in Romanian, from Latin municipium) is a kind of subdivision in Romania.

The following is a complete list of the municipalities of Romania, by county:

[[The Way of the Master]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations

The Way of the Master (WOTM) is a Christianity based evangelism ministry that is against LGBTQ+ rights and women's rights. It was started in 2002. The show is hosted by American actor Kirk Cameron, and New Zealand-born evangelist Ray Comfort. The organization has a TV show, many books, and an online school.

[[Don't Stop the Music]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs, Rihanna songs, Dance songs

Don't Stop the Music (also known as Please Don't Stop the Music) is a song reocrded by Barbadian recording artist Rihanna. It was released September 7, 2007 from her third studio album Good Girl Gone Bad. Don'y Stop the Music was written by Tawanna Dabney and Michael Jackson with producers StarGate. The song also samples "Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'" by Michael Jackson.

[[Nick Carter]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Singers from New York

Nickolas Gene Carter (born January 28, 1980) is an American actor, musician, and pop singer. He is a member of the music group Backstreet Boys. In 2002, he released his first solo album called Now or Never, the album reached #17 on Billboard 200 and was certified gold.

[[Howie Dorough]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, singers from Florida

Howard Dwaine Dorough (born August 22, 1973), also known as Howie D, is an American singer.  He was a member of the boy band Backstreet Boys. As one of the five singers of the Backstreet Boys, Dorough is notable for his high falsetto. As a Backstreet Boy, he has sold over 130 million albums.

On August 16, 2007, Dorough announced his engagement to long-time girlfriend, Leigh Boniello. He asked her to marry him on New Year's Day of that year. The two were married on December 8, 2007. They have one son, James, born in 2009.

[[A. J. McLean]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Florida, 1978 births, Living people

Alexander James McLean (born January 9, 1978) is an American musician and member of the singing group Backstreet Boys.

In December 2003, McLean and his mother appeared on the Oprah Winfrey Show to talk about his recovery from clinical depression, alcoholism, and drug use.

In 2008, McLean performed two solo shows at the Anaheim House of Blues and The Roxy in Los Angeles. The show consisted of his solo material and a solo version of the Backstreet Boys hit, "Incomplete".

[[Brian Littrell]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Kentucky, 1975 births, Living people

Brian Thomas Littrell (born February 20, 1975) is an American singer. He is best known as a member of the Backstreet Boys. He is also a contemporary Christian recording artist, and released a solo album, Welcome Home (You), in 2006.

In the summer of 2005, Littrell solo single "In Christ Alone" went to #1 on the Christian Charts on July 4th. Littrell was the winner of the 2006 GMA Music Award for Inspirational Recorded Song of the Year, "In Christ Alone," which won both the 1993 award in this category (when recorded by Michael English) and the 1994 Song of the Year at the GMA Music Awards. Brian's first solo album, Welcome Home (You) was released on May 2, 2006. As with the Backstreet Boys albums, is a Sony BMG release.

Littrell and his wife Leighanne Littrell have one son together, Baylee Thomas Wylee Littrell, who was born in November 26, 2002.

[[Kevin Richardson]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Kentucky, 1971 births, Living people

Kevin Scott Richardson (born October 3, 1971) is an American singer. He is a member of the Backstreet Boys. In 2002, he played the role of "Billy Flynn" in the Broadway production of Chicago. He also performed this role in London's West End and in Toronto from November 2006 – December 2006.

In June 2006, Richardson left the Backstreet Boys. He wanted to "move on with the next chapter of his life."In the next chapter of his life he spent the summer drawing fodder beet. He also drew home a few loads of turf in a little car trailer to have for the winter. Kevin and wife Kristin (née Willits) had a son named Mason on July 3, 2007.

In April 2012, Richardson officially rejoined the group.

[[Spanish conquest of Yucatán]]

CATEGORIES: History of Mesoamerica, 1546

The Spanish Conquest of Yucatán was the campaign undertaken by the Spanish conquistadores against the Late Postclassic Maya states. This part of the conquest and colonization of the Americas began in the early 16th century, but it took more time than the similar campaigns against the Aztec and Inca Empires. It was about 170 years later before the last Maya stronghold fell, that of the Itza capital of Tayasal on Lake Petén Itzá, in 1697. But except for the Petén region and the Guatemalan highlands, the Spanish had control over Yucatán itself already by 1546. 

Unlike the campaigns against the Aztec and Inca states, the Maya had no single political center. Therefore the Spanish had to fight city by city to break resistance by the indigenous peoples. 

In the beginning the conquistadores were mainly interested to get as much gold and silver as possible. Because the Maya lands were poor in this respect, they were not very interesting for the Spanish at that stage. But when land workers became important for the colonies, the Spanish turned to the Maya region. That was around the 1520s.

[[Becquerel]]

CATEGORIES: Units of measurement

The becquerel (symbol Bq) is the SI derived unit of radioactivity, defined as the activity of a quantity of radioactive material in which one nucleus decays per second.

The unit is named in honor of Henri Becquerel. 

[[Popol Vuh]]

CATEGORIES: Religious texts, Maya civilization, Creation myths

The Popol Vuh (K'iche for "Council Book" or "Book of the Community";  ''Popol Wu'uj''  in modern spelling) is a book written in the Classical Quiché language. It contains mythological stories and a genealogy of the rulers of the Post-Classic Quiché Maya kingdom of highland Guatemala.

The book contains a creation myth followed by mythological stories of two Hero Twins: Hunahpu (Modern K'iche': Junajpu) and Xbalanque (Modern K'iche': Xb‘alanke). The second part of the book deals with details of the foundation and history of the Quiché kingdom.

The book is written in the Latin alphabet, but it is thought to have been based on an original Maya codex. The original manuscript which was written around 1550 has been lost, but a copy of another handwritten copy in the early 18th century exists today in Chicago.

The significance of the book is enormous since it is one of a small number of early Mesoamerican mythological texts — it is often considered the single most important piece of Mesoamerican literature.

[[Popol Vuh (disambiguation)]]

Popol Vuh (Quiché for "Council Book" or "Book of the Community"; Popol Wuj in modern spelling) is the book of scripture of the Quiché, a kingdom of the post classic Maya civilization in highland Guatemala.

Popol Vuh may also refer to:

Music

[[North Berwick]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Scotland

North Berwick is a town in East Lothian, Scotland. It is known for its beaches, harbour and golf courses.

The town is close to Edinburgh, the capital city of Scotland.

[[Jean-Luc Picard]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: The Next Generation characters

Jean-Luc Picard is a Star Trek: The Next Generation character. Patrick Stewart played him. He was the captain of the USS Enterprise-D, and later of the USS Enterprise-E. He was born in la Barre, France, on Earth. He had a brother, named Robert Picard. Jean-Luc was proud of being French.

As a character, Picard is very similar to James T. Kirk, albeit slightly older. While Picard is understood to be French, Kirk is of Irish heritage.

Both require equal discipline of their crews, but are also fair toward them. Both are ready to sacrifice themselves for their crews when need be. Their encounter in the movie Star Trek – Generations gave the surviving Picard a great deal of newfound strength to carry on his demanding mission.

Picard was also known as Locutus of the Borg in the episodes "Best of Both Worlds" 1 and 2.

[[McCune-Reischauer]]

CATEGORIES: Romanization

McCune-Reischauer romanization (Maek'yun-Raisyawŏ P'yogipŏp) is one of the two most widely used Korean language romanization systems, along with the Revised Romanization of Korean, which replaced (a modified) McCune-Reischauer as the official romanization system in South Korea in 2000. Another variant of McCune-Reischauer is used as the official system in North Korea.

[[Revised Romanization of Korean]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems, Romanization, ISO standards

The Revised Romanization of Korean is what South Korea uses to turn their writing system into the Roman alphabet. It is meant to replace the McCune-Reischauer system.

[[Lake Annecy]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Lake Annecy (Lac d'Annecy in French) is a lake in the Haute-Savoie area of France. It is the second biggest lake in France.

[[Haute-Savoie]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Haute-Savoie is a département in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region of southeastern France, bordering Switzerland and Italy.

[[Chartres Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in France, Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Centre-Val de Loire, World Heritage Sites in France

Chartres Cathedral (Notre-Dame de Chartres, Our Lady of Chartres) is a cathedral. It is in Chartres, about 80 km south of Paris. It is built in the Gothic style. Together with Amiens Cathedral and Reims Cathedral it is considered to be one of the finest examples of Gothic architecture (for churches) in France.

A church was inaugurated at the spot by Charles the Bald in the year 864. The cathedral as it stands now was built from 1194 to 1260. It was made a basilica minor in 1908. In 1964 it was made an World Heritage Site by UNESCO.

[[Lough Neagh]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland

Lough Neagh is a lake in Northern Ireland, United Kingdom. It is the biggest lake in Ireland and it is also the biggest lake in the United Kingdom. It is the only lake on the islands that a person cannot see the other side.

[[Intel Core 2]]

CATEGORIES: Computer processors

Intel Core 2 is a group of microprocessors created to replace Intel's previous Core brand. The group includes the single-core "Core 2 Solo", dual-core (2 cores) "Core 2 Duo", and quad-core (4 cores) "Core 2 Quad" microprocessors. Microprocessors with the name "Extreme" following the brand name, such as Core 2 Extreme, are higher in cost, and perform better than the others. The Extreme versions also come in dual-core and quad-core versions.

[[Deanna Troi]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: The Next Generation characters

No footnotes

Deanna Troi is a Star Trek: The Next Generation character. Actress Marina Sirtis played the character on the television series and several movies. 

Troi served as the ship's counselor. She is half-human and half-Betazoid. She can sense how others feel. 

She was born on March 29, 2336 on the planet Betazed. She had an older sister, called Kestra. She attended Starfleet Academy between 2355 to 2359. 

She also attended the University on Betazed were she studied psychology.

[[Soulcalibur]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 video games, Arcade games, Dreamcast games, Xbox 360 Live Arcade games, Soulcalibur series

Soulcalibur, known in Japan as (ソウルキャリバー Sourukyaribā), is a fighting video game made by Namco for the Arcades and the Dreamcast video game console.

[[Disney's Aladdin Junior]]

CATEGORIES: Broadway musicals, Musicals based on fairy tales, Musicals based on movies, Musicals by Tim Rice

Disney's Aladdin Junior (Aladdin Jr.) is a musical. It is based on the 1992 Disney animated movie, Aladdin. The music was written by Alan Menken. The lyrics were written by Howard Ashman and Tim Rice. The musical is written to be performed by child actors. It is one of the musicals in the Broadway Junior series by Music Theatre International.

[[Polynomial]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Algebra

In mathematics, a polynomial is a kind of mathematical expression. It is a sum of several mathematical terms called monomials. That is, a number, a variable, or a product of a number and several variables.  When an algebraic expression contains letters mixed with numbers and arithmetic, like 7x⁴-3x³+19x²-8x+197, there is a good chance that it is a polynomial. Polynomials are taught in algebra, which is a gateway course to all technical subjects. Mathematicians, scientists and engineers all use polynomials to solve problems.

In algebra, when letters, numbers, and arithmetic symbols occur together, the understanding is that the letters stand for variables, which are either symbols of their own, numbers not yet known, or numbers that change during the course of the problem (such as time). A polynomial is an algebraic expression in which the only arithmetic is addition, subtraction, multiplication and whole number exponentiation. If harder operations are used, such as division or square roots, then this algebraic expression is not a polynomial. Polynomials are often easier to use than other algebraic expressions.

Polynomials are often used to form polynomial equations, such as the equation 7x⁴-3x³+19x²-8x+197 = 0, or polynomial functions, such as f(x) = 7x⁴-3x³+19x²-8x+197.

[[Unknown (math)]]

CATEGORIES: Algebra, Science

[[Agnieszka Włodarczyk]]

CATEGORIES: Polish movie actors, Polish singers, Polish television actors, Pop musicians, 1980 births, Living people

Agnieszka Włodarczyk (born 13 December 1980 in Sławno) is a Polish actress and singer, who won the Polish version of "Soapstar Superstar" ("Jak oni śpiewają") in 2007. She first rose to fame for her role as Agnieszka in the Polish sitcom "13 Posterunek", which was directed by Maciej Slesicki. In addition to series, she has also appeared in a number of other famous Polish sitcoms and movies, including "Świat według Kiepskich", "Nastroje" and in Waldemar Dziki's movie "Pierwszy Milion" (2000r.). In the TV series "Zostac Miss", she plays a student of philosophy, and in "Plebania" she plays Wiki, the sister of a vicar. In 2002, she had a role in Olaf Lubaszenko's comedy "E=MC2". Since 2003, she has had a role in the series “Czego sie boją faceci, czyli seks w mniejszym miescie”. In 2004, she took part in "Nigdy w Życiu!" as Jola. She also performed in the series "Dziki" (2004r.) and in its sequel "Dziki 2. Pojedynek" (2005r.). She has recently signed a contract with the Polish publishing-house My Music.

[[The Last of the Clan McDuck]]

CATEGORIES: DuckTales

The Last of the Clan McDuck is a comic about Scrooge McDuck. It is the first chapter of The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck. The story is set from 1877 to 1880 when Scrooge is a child. At his 10th birthday, Scrooge goes with his father, Fergus, to visit the McDuck family castle. Fergus tells him the history of Clan McDuck.

[[The Master of the Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: DuckTales

"The Master of the Mississippi" is the second chapter of The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck.

[[The Richest Duck in the World]]

CATEGORIES: DuckTales

"The Richest Duck in the World" is the last chapter of The life and times of Scrooge McDuck.

[[Online pharmacy]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine, Drugs

An online pharmacy is a pharmacy that operates on the Internet to sell medications to consumers.  There are online pharmacies in many countries of the world—from India, the U.S., Germany, the UK—and many other nations that sell to consumers in their own countries and often to consumers worldwide.

Depending on its location and local regulations, an online pharmacy may or may not require prescriptions to purchase prescription medications.

Prices at a given online pharmacy can vary from one city or country to another.  Typically, drug prices at online pharmacies located in countries with drug price controls in place (i.e., India, UK, Germany, South Africa) will have more affordable costs.  In contrast, costs at pharmacies in countries where there are no drug price controls (i.e., U.S.) will usually be much higher.  Especially for consumers seeking low-priced medications, it can be very worthwhile to compare prices at various online pharmacies.  Prices can vary as much as 80 percent or more for one medication from one country to another.

[[Juan Egenau]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1987 deaths, Chilean sculptors, People from Santiago

Juan Egenau Moore (24 February 1927 – 22 April 1987) was a Chilean sculptor.

Egenau first worked in enamel and in engraving on metal.

While studying casting on a Fulbright scholarship in 1968 at the Rhode Island School of Design in Providence, Rhode Island, he developed a way of modelling for sand-casting in aluminium.

[[Foramen magnum]]

CATEGORIES: Head (body part)

The foramen magnum is one of several holes in the base of the skull. Normally the spinal cord is attached to it.

The Foramen Magnum is the largest aperture in the primate body. This hole is located in the base of the human skull as part of the occipital bone, back of the monkey skull and in between those locations for apes. It is directly correlated with locomotion ( Humans are bipedal, monkeys quadrupedal and apes are knuckle walkers. )

[[Bipedalism]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology, Anatomy

Bipedalism is a form of movement on the ground. Some tetrapods have evolved the ability to move on two limbs. Those that do, use their rear limbs. Some animals move on two limbs all the time, they are called habitual bipeds. Optional bipeds can move on two or four legs.

Early quadruped animals used all four limbs for locomotion but many later ones are bipedal. The earliest dinosaurs were bipedal but millions of years later some reverted and became quadrupeds. Birds are descendants of bipedal dinosaurs, and are bipeds themselves. Their forelimbs have become wings. 

Some optional bipeds stand on two legs to drive away competitors and predators, to see farther, or as body language. Their locomotion is on four limbs. 

[[Taung Child]]

CATEGORIES: Hominins, Fossils, Prehistoric Africa

The Taung Child is a fossil of a skull. The skull also has an imprint of the brain. It belongs to an Australopithecus africanus. It was discovered in 1924 by a quarryman working for the Northern Lime Company in Taung, South Africa. Raymond Dart, an anatomist at the University of Witwatersrand, looked at the fossil, and saw its importance. Dart published his account in the journal Nature in 1925, describing it as a new species. 

British anthropologists at the time believed in the Piltdown Man. This hoax had a large brain and ape-like teeth – the exact opposite of the Taung Child – so Dart's finding was not appreciated for decades.

[[Dennis Rodman]]

CATEGORIES: African-American basketball players, Chicago Bulls players, Dallas Mavericks players, Detroit Pistons players, Los Angeles Lakers players, San Antonio Spurs players, Sportspeople from New Jersey, 1961 births, Living people, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

Dennis Keith Rodman (born May 13, 1961) played basketball in the National Basketball Association (NBA) from 1986 to 2000. He won two championships with the Detroit Pistons and three more with the Chicago Bulls. Even though he was only 6'7" tall, many people think he was the best rebounder in NBA history. He led the NBA in rebounding for a record seven straight seasons.  Only Wilt Chamberlain led the NBA in rebounding for more total seasons in a career.  Rodman has the highest rebound rate since the statistic began in 1970-71.  Although Rodman began his career as a bench player, he holds the highest rebounds per game average since offensive and defensive rebounds began in 1973-74.  When he became a full-time starter, Rodman often got more rebounds than the other team's starting players got combined.  He could predict where missed shots would go and knew how to tip the ball to himself for a rebound.  Rodman watched film of player's shots to become a better rebounder.  Rodman is also known as one of the greatest defensive players of all time, and not just for his defensive rebounds, but his hustle defense.  During his time with the Detroit Pistons, Rodman was considered by many to be the best defensive basketball player in the world (Hakeem Olajuwon was the other main contender for the title), as highlighted by his back-to-back NBA Defensive Player of the Year Awards in 1990 and 1991.

Rodman was famous for dyeing his hair different colors and having many tattoos and body piercings, which he began to have after being traded by the Detroit Pistons. He has been in a few movies and television programs.

His nicknames are Worm (later called The Worm), Dennis the Menace, D-Rod, Rodzilla (which he named himself towards the end of the Bulls championship dynasty), Demolition Man, and El Loco (given to him by Spanish-language announcers, which translates as "The Madman").

[[Coconut water]]

CATEGORIES: Drinks, Coconuts

Coconut water is the liquid inside young coconuts. Coconut water is a popular drink in tropical islands especially in tropical Asia, Pacific Islands, and the Caribbean. It is packaged and sold. It is sometimes sold as a sports drink, but not everyone agrees that it should be called a sports drink. Coconuts hold the most water when they are young and green. Coconuts in different parts of the world do not taste the same. Pakistani Coconuts are salty, and Brazilian Coconuts have sweeter water. The water inside dark brown rotted coconuts is bitter.

[[Ralph Ellison]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Oklahoma, 1913 births, 1994 deaths

Ralph Waldo Ellison (March 1, 1913–April 16, 1994) was an African-American writer. He was born in Oklahoma and studied at the Tuskegee Institute. 

Ellison is most famous for writing Invisible Man, a novel about racism and African American identity. The narrator of the book calls himself an invisible man because people refuse to see him for who he really is. Invisible Man won a National Book Award and is still read today by many students and scholars. 

Besides Invisible Man, Ellison wrote many essays. He was very interested in music, especially jazz. He started a second novel, called Juneteenth, but never finished it. 

[[Federal government of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Government of the United States

The federal government of the United States has three branches of government: the legislature, executive, and judiciary, as established in the United States Constitution.  

When the Founding Fathers wrote the Constitution, they wanted to make sure that their new government would not have any of the problems that the colonial British government did.  For example, they did not want there to be any person in the government who had complete power and could do whatever he wanted, like a king.  They also did not want any part of the government to get so powerful that nobody could control it.  Because of this, they split the government's power into three different branches.  Each branch has ways of balancing out the power of another branch if it gets too powerful.  This is called the system of checks and balances.

[[Draco Malfoy]]

CATEGORIES: Harry Potter characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1997

Draco Lucius Malfoy is a fictional character from the Harry Potter series written by J. K. Rowling. Malfoy is an antagonist, a Slytherin student in Harry Potter's year and Harry's main rival in school. In the Harry Potter movies, he is played by Tom Felton.  

[[PCLinuxOS]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Live CD

PCLinuxOS is a Linux operating system. It is a free operating system for personal computers. It was made to be easy to use.

[[Nutrition]]

CATEGORIES: Nutrition, Healthy lifestyle, Physiques

Nutrition provides the cells of an organism with food, in a form they can use. Organisms need food to be able to keep their bodies working properly. They also need food to be able to do certain things. Malnutrition can happen when a person does not eat the right amount of nutrients. They can get better by changing their diet to have the right amount of the various nutrients.

Different organisms have different food requirements, and they eat different things in order to meet those requirements. Animals that do not eat meat, for example, will have to get certain nutrients like protein from other foods.

A nutrition expert is called a dietician. Nutritionists are different because they do not need the government to recognize them as experts. Anyone can call themselves a nutritionist.

The six main types of nutrient are carbohydrates, fats, minerals, protein, vitamins, and water. A macronutrient is a nutrient that needs to be eaten a lot. A micronutrient, such as a vitamin, is needed in smaller amounts, but it is still important. Carbohydrates are not needed by the body but most people eat a lot of them. Complex carbohydrates are more nutritious than simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates are found in vegetables while simple carbohydrates are found in processed foods. They take longer to digest because they have more fiber. Because they stay in the stomach for longer they leave the person who has eaten them feeling fuller for longer. Protein is needed for building cells. It is found in milk, meat, fish, beans, eggs and other foods like quinoa. Protein is made of amino acids.

Fat is found naturally in some foods. People often eat it in processed foods such as cakes and chocolate. It is  high in energy. Omega 3 and omega 6 fats are needed by the body. There are saturated fats and unsaturated fats. It is recommended that people avoid the saturated type. It has been linked with heart disease. Trans fats is also a fat people should avoid. A lot of people think that fat is bad in general, but it is still controversial. People are also advised not to eat too much sugar or salt.

Most people eat three meals a day. Eating every few hours keeps blood sugar stable. Some foods are good for us and some foods are bad.

[[Lei (Hawaii)]]

CATEGORIES: Culture of Hawaii, Flowers

A lei is a flower necklace from Hawaii. The flower used most is the hibiscus or the orchid. May First is called "Lei Day" in Hawaii.

[[Orchid]]

CATEGORIES: Orchids

The orchids are a large family of flowering plants, the Orchidaceae. They are herbaceous monocots.

There are between 22,000 and 26,000 species in 880 genera. They make up between 6–11% of all seed plants. Orchids can be found in almost every country in the world except for Antarctica.

People have grown orchids for a 5 number of years. They grow orchids for show, for science, or for food (for example, vanilla).

Some orchids have very special ways of pollination. For example, the Lady's Slipper can trap insects and make them pollinate the flower. Another instance is the Austrian orchid, which grows underground and is pollinated by ants.

Many orchids are myco-heterotrophs: their roots need fungi to break down organic material for them to absorb.

[[Lei]]

Lei could mean:

LEI could mean:

[[Steve Buscemi]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Actors from Brooklyn, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American voice actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Movie directors from New York City, Movie producers from New York City, Screenwriters from New York City

Steven Vincent Buscemi (born December 13, 1957) is an American actor, director, producer, writer and former firefighter. He was born in Brooklyn, New York. He is probably best known for his roles as Mr. Pink in Reservoir Dogs, Carl Showalter in Fargo, and Seymour in Ghost World. With a long career, he has worked in several independent movies and commercial movies, just as TV series like The Sopranos and The Simpsons. Buscemi has directed four feature movies. Busemi was married to Jo Andres from 1987 until her death in 2019. They have a son, Lucian Buscemi.

[[Survey]]

Survey could mean:

[[Closet]]

CATEGORIES: Furniture

A closet is a small room in which people put their clothes. It is usually not bigger than a garage or a basement. It is not a wardrobe, it is a room. Some people put things inside it other than clothes.

[[FreeDOS]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

FreeDOS is a free and open source operating system. It is made to work just like MS-DOS. Almost all programs that will run on MS-DOS will run on FreeDOS too. It was created because Microsoft did not want to make MS-DOS anymore. FreeDOS can be installed with a floppy or with a CD.

[[List of The Buzz on Maggie Episodes]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of animated television series episodes

This article contains information on every episode in Disney's The Buzz on Maggie.

[[Coahoma County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Mississippi counties, 1836 establishments in Mississippi

Coahoma County is a county in the northwestern part of Mississippi. There are about 30,622 people living there. It's capital is Clarksdale. It was started on February 9, 1836. "Coahoma" is a Choctaw word that means "red panther."

[[Province of Trento]]

CATEGORIES: Autonomous areas, Tyrol, Provinces of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol

[[King Power Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England

The King Power Stadium is a football stadium in Leicester, England, where Leicester City Football Club play their home football matches. Built to replace the aging filbert street ground, it can have up to 32,500 people inside it, more than 10,000 more than the ground it replaced. Originally called  the Walkers Stadium, it was renamed to the King Power Stadium in 2011 following the end of the sponsorship deal, and re-branded the King Power Stadium following a take over by the current club owners and consultation with fans.

[[Botoșani]]

CATEGORIES: County capitals of Romania

Botoşani (pronunciation in Romanian: /bo.to'ʃanʲ/ is the capital city of Botoşani County, in the northern part of Moldavia, Romania.  It has a population of 115,609 people as of the year 2002

Today, it is best known as the birthplace of many celebrated Romanians, including Mihai Eminescu and Nicolae Iorga.

[[Little Ice Age]]

CATEGORIES: Climate change

The Little Ice Age (LIA) was a period of cooling after the so-called Medieval Warm Period.

Climatologists (people who study climate) and historians find it difficult to agree on either the start or end dates of this period. Some say the Little Ice Age started about the 16th century and continued to the mid 19th century.  It is generally agreed that there were three minima, one beginning about 1650, one about 1770, the last one about 1850. Each time was separated by slight warming intervals.

At first, it was believed that the LIA was all over the world. Now it is not clear if this is true.

[[Michael Morgan]]

Michael Morgan is the name of several people:

[[Trade route]]

CATEGORIES: Business

A trade route is a series of paths or roads that is used for the commercial transport of cargo.

Historically, the period from 1500 BC–1 AD saw the Western Asian, Mediterranean, Chinese and Indian societies develop major networks for trade, such as the silk road. Europe's early trading routes included the amber road, which served as a network for long distance trade. Maritime trade along the spice route became prominent during the Middle Ages; nations tried to control this influential route. During the Middle Ages organizations such as the Hanseatic League, aimed at protecting interests of the merchants and trade, also became increasingly important.

In modern times, commercial activity shifted from the major trade routes of the Old World to newer routes between modern nation states. This activity was sometimes carried out without traditional protection of trade and under international free trade agreements, which allowed commercial goods to cross borders with relaxed restrictions. Innovative transportation of the modern times includes pipeline transport, and the relatively well known trade using rail routes, automobiles and cargo airlines.

[[Zircon]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones, Minerals

Zircon is a silicate mineral. It is found in many different places in almost all kinds of rock. The chemical it is made up of is called  zirconium silicate:  ZrSiO4. Clear zircon may look like diamond and has been used as a cheaper replacement for diamond.  It is not the same as cubic zirconia, which is man-made zirconium dioxide.  In the United States, zircon is considered to be the birth stone for the month of December.

[[Labradorite]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones, Minerals

Labradorite is one kind of feldspar. It is a silicate mineral, and is special because it is often pretty enough to be used in jewelry. Some kinds of labradorite are called moonstone or sunstone.

[[Beryl]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones, Minerals

Beryl is a cyclosilicate, and is the second main ore of beryllium metal. It is sometimes found as very, very large crystals, as much as 18 m. (59 ft.) long. Colored clear beryl is often used for jewelry, including emerald (green), aquamarine (bluegreen), bixbite (red), morganite (pink), and heliodor (golden).

[[Hallstatt]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Upper Austria

Hallstatt is a village in Upper Austria. Currently, a little over 900 people live there. It is in the Salzkammergut, a mountain regionin Austria. It lies on a lake. 

Because of its position, Hallstatt could only be reached by boat (or by using narrow, difficult mountain trails) for a long time. At the end of the 19th century a road was built. Despite this, even in the Neolithic people might have lived there. This is because there is a lot of natural salt there. In 1846, Johann Georg Ramsauer (a salt miner) found a cemetery from the neolithic age just above the village. A cultural epoch in Europe is named after this. It is called Hallstatt culture. Other finds in the region include a Shoe-last celt (a special kind of wedge, probably used to treat wood). A blacksmith site has also been excavatzed. 

Today, the village lives mainly on tourism. There is a copy of the village in China.

[[Mayflower Compact]]

CATEGORIES: Official documents of the United States, 1620, 1620s in the Thirteen Colonies, November events

The Mayflower Compact was the first governing document of Plymouth Colony. It was drafted by the Pilgrims who crossed the Atlantic on the Mayflower, looking for the freedom to belive in Christianity according to their own beliefs in God. It was signed on 11 November 1620 (OS) by 41 of the ship's more than one hundred passengers, where they first landed.  According to the customs of the time, the signers were all male. Of the 41 men who signed the Compact, 21 died during the first year in United States of America.

[[John Piper]]

John Piper could mean:

[[John Piper (theologian)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American Baptists, American Calvinists, Christian writers, People from Chattanooga, Tennessee, Writers from South Carolina, Writers from Tennessee

John Stephen Piper (born January 11, 1946, Chattanooga, Tennessee) is a Reformed Baptist theologian, preacher, and author. He is the pastor for preaching of Bethlehem Baptist Church in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and has written many books. He started the evangelical ministry named Desiring God, after his book Desiring God: Meditations of a Christian Hedonist.

[[Bill Gates]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, American agnostics, American billionaires, American chief executives, American philanthropists, Bill Gates, Harvard University alumni, Microsoft people, Writers from Seattle, Washington, Businesspeople from Seattle, Washington, Recipients of the Order of the Aztec Eagle, Recipients of the Order of the Rising Sun, Time People of the Year, American company founders, Honorary Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire

William Henry Gates III GBR (born October 28, 1955), is an American businessman and the co-founder and chairman of Microsoft. He is the third-richest person in the world behind Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk in net worth as of January 2021.

[[Fibula (brooch)]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeology, Jewelry

A Fibula is an ancient brooch.  (Plural: fibulae).  Technically, the latin term fibulae meant Roman brooches, but the term is widely used for brooches from the entire ancient and early medieval world.  Unlike modern brooches, fibulae were not only decorative, they originally served a practical function: to fasten clothes, including cloaks.  Fibulae replaced straight pins that were used to fasten clothing in the Neolithic period and Bronze Age.  In turn, fibulae were replaced as clothing fasteners in the Middle Ages by buttons.  Their descendent, the modern safety-pin, remains in use today.

There are hundreds of different types and variations of fibulae.  They are usually divided into families or groups based on historical period, geography and/or cultural grouping.  Fibulae are also divided into classes based on their general forms.

[[United States Supreme Court building]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C.

The Supreme Court building is home of the Supreme Court of the United States. It is in Washington, D.C. It was designed by an architect named Cass Gilbert.

[[Bethlehem Baptist Church]]

Bethlehem Baptist Church can mean:

[[Bethlehem Baptist Church (Minneapolis)]]

CATEGORIES: Baptist churches, Churches in the United States, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 1871 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Minnesota

[[Megachurch]]

CATEGORIES: Churches

A megachurch is a large church. It usually has around 2,000 or more people come every week. About 1,300 Protestant churches are megachurches.

[[Medieval Warm Period]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Ages, Climate

The Medieval Warm Period (MWP) or Medieval Climate Optimum was a time of unusually warm climate in the North Atlantic region. It was not a planet-wide phenomena. It lasted from about the tenth century to about the fourteenth century. In discussions of global warming this period is often mentioned. 

Some refer to the event as the Medieval Climatic Anomaly because this term emphasizes that effects other than temperature were important.

[[Motor sports]]

CATEGORIES: Motor sports

Motor sports are sports where the people taking part use a motor vehicle. The usual vehicles are a car, motorcycle or boat. Some motor sports use aircraft or snowmobiles.

Motor sports can be based either on speed (the first one to reach the finish line wins) or on skill (the one with the least amount of penalty points wins). Speed-based motor sports are often called races. Motor sports based on skill are often called trials.

Well known motor sports are rally, Formula 1 and Nascar.

[[Niagara IceDogs]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in Ontario, Ontario Hockey League, 1998 establishments in Canada

The Niagara IceDogs are a Canadian ice hockey team. They began playing in 1998. The team currentlywhen plays in the Ontario Hockey League (OHL). They play their home games in St. Catharines, Ontario at the Meridian Centre.

[[Haan]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Rhine-Westphalia, Mettmann Rural District

Haan is a town of the district of Mettmann in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia in Germany. Since 1975, Gruiten belongs to Haan.

[[Gas chamber]]

CATEGORIES: Torture, Capital punishment

A gas chamber is an airtight room used for killing people or animals with poison gas.  The people or animals are put into the gas chamber, the door is sealed airtight from the outside, and a gas, such as carbon monoxide or hydrogen cyanide, is put into the chamber. The victims die from inhaling the poisonous gas.

[[Impact Wrestling]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 establishments in the United States, Impact Wrestling

Impact Wrestling is a professional wrestling company founded in 2002 shortly after World Championship Wrestling closed down. They are the main rivals for World Wrestling Entertainment.  They made a video game called TNA iMPACT! and a sequel to it called TNA Impact! 2011 after it's weekly program which was of the same name before it was renamed Impact Wrestling.

Jeff Jarrett left the company in December 2013 and announced that he was starting his own professional wrestling promotion called Global Force Wrestling. It was later clarified that he still remains an "investor" of TNA.

On November 19, 2014, it was announced that TNA would be ending their relationship with Spike, and that they would instead partner with Discovery Communications to distribute their shows beginning in January 2015. In the United States, TNA programs, which include Impact Wrestling, will move to Destination America. Discovery will also hold rights in selected international markets. Spike's outreach at the time was estimated to be more than 97 million homes while Destination America was only estimated to reach 59 million households.

[[Battle of the Bulge]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 in Europe, 1945 in Europe, European battles of World War II, 20th century in Belgium, History of Luxembourg, Wallonia, Liège (province), Luxembourg (Belgium), Namur (province)

The Battle of the Bulge (16 December 1944 – 25 January 1945) was a major German attack near the end of World War II, in Belgium, France and Luxembourg. The attack surprised Allied forces.                  It became the worst battle in terms of casualties for the United States. It also used up huge amounts of Germany's war-making resources. 

The press made up "Battle of the Bulge" to describe the way the Allied front line bulged inward on wartime news maps and became the best known name for the battle.

The German attack was supported by several other operations. Germany's goal was to split the British and American Allied line in half, capture Antwerp, and then encircle and destroy four Allied armies. They hoped this would force the Allies to negotiate a peace treaty. Then Hitler could focus on the eastern front of the war.

The attack was planned in secret. Germany moved troops and equipment in the dark. The U.S. intelligence staff predicted a major German attack, but this still surprised them. The Allied forces were overconfident and too focused on their own attack plans, and they also didn't have good aerial reconnaissance.

The Germans attacked a weakly defended section of the Allied line. They took advantage of the overcast weather conditions, which made the Allies' air forces unable to fly. Violent resistance blocked German access to key roads. The thick forests helped the defenders.This slowed down the German advance and allowed the Allies to add new troops. Improved weather conditions permitted air attacks on German forces, which led to the failure of the attack.

After the defeat, many experienced German units lacked men and equipment. The battle involved about 610,000 American men, of whom some 89,000 were casualties, including 19,000 killed.   It was the largest and most deadly battle fought by the United States in World War II.

[[Nothing]]

CATEGORIES: Matter

Nothing is a concept of being without any form of matter.

[[Moon]]

CATEGORIES: Moon, Basic English 850 words

The Moon is Earth's largest natural satellite. We usually see it in the night sky. Some other planets also have moons or natural satellites.

Our moon is about a quarter the size of the Earth. Because it is far away it looks small, about half a degree wide. The gravity on the moon is one-sixth of the Earth's gravity. It means that something will be one-sixth as heavy on the Moon than on Earth. The Moon is a rocky and dusty place. The Moon moves slowly away from the earth at a rate of 3.8 cm per year, due to the effect of tidal dissipation.

