[[Participant observation]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology, Research methods, Anthropology, Ethnography

Participant observation is a way of getting information about a group of people. A person doing participant observation will live with a group of people in their normal environment. They do this so they can learn about that groups way of life. One of the uses of participant observation is to understand the world from the point of view of a person from that group. This is done by watching the things they do every day. The product of participant observation is normally a piece of writing about what the researcher has seen. It is called ethnography.  Participant observers can live with the group for months or many years. The longer the researcher is with the group, the better the information they learn will be.

In the first half of the 20th century, anthropologists Bronislaw Malinowski, Margaret Mead and Edward Evans-Prichard started using participant observation. It is now the main way research is  done by cultural anthropologists.

[[Ethnocentrism]]

CATEGORIES: Cultural geography, Sociology, Ethnocentrism

Ethnocentrism is when a person tries to judge the culture of other people from the point of view of their own culture.  Ethnocentrism can look at things like language, custom, religion and behavior.

An ethnocentric person will use their own culture as the basis for judging other cultures. They see their own culture as the best and believe other cultures should change to be more like theirs.

The term was first used by sociologist William G Sumner. He defined it as “the technical name for the view of things in which one's own group is the center of everything, and all others are scaled and rated with reference to it”. (PS this is more exclusive word for "racist")

[[Matrilineality]]

CATEGORIES: Genealogy, Cultural anthropology

Matrilineality is a way of identifying kinship ancestry through the mother or female line. A matriline is essentially a mother's line, which traces the descent from a female ancestor to an individual.  Patrilineality is a way identifying ancestry through the father or male line.  A patriline is essentially a father's line, which traces the descent from a male ancestor to an individual. 

The use of these systems often involves inheritance of names and of possessions and a way of identifying kin. The system of patrilineal descent is usually more common than matrilineal descent.

[[Roddy Doyle]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Atheists, BAFTA Award winners, Irish novelists, Irish movie producers, Irish screenwriters, Television writers, Writers from Dublin

Roddy Doyle (born 8 May 1958) is an Irish novelist, dramatist and screenwriter. He was born in Dalkey and grew up in Killbarack. He writes about working class Dublin. Some of his books have been made into movies, the best-known of which is The Commitments, which is the first of The Barrytown Trilogy. He, Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais adapted the book into a movie, The Commitments; the three men won the BAFTA Award for Best Adapted Screenplay.  

Doyle is an atheist.

[[Podarcis muralis]]

CATEGORIES: Lizards

Podarcis muralis  (also known as the common wall lizard, the European wall lizard, and the wall lizard) is a fairly common species of lizard, living in Europe, on rocks or wall cracks.

Its small scales have very differenct colours and patterns. Its coloration is generally brownish or greyish.  Sometimes it has a little bit of green.  The tail is brown, grey or rust in colour. The belly has 6 rows of larger rectangular scales that are generally reddish, pink, or orangish. Common wall lizards may also have dark markings on the throat.

[[Neurosis]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses

Neurosis is a class of mental disorders involving distress but not delusions or hallucinations. The person's behavior is not outside socially acceptable norms. It is also known as psychoneurosis or neurotic disorder, and those suffering from it are said to be neurotic. The term neurosis was coined by Scottish doctor William Cullen in 1769. 

The American Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) has eliminated the category of "neurosis". The editors decided to provide descriptions of behavior instead. According to The American Heritage Medical Dictionary, it is "no longer used in psychiatric diagnosis". Instead, the disorders once classified as neuroses are now considered anxiety disorders. These changes are controversial.

Neurosis may involve:

[[Evergreen clematis]]

CATEGORIES: Ranunculales

Clematis armandii (also called Armand Clematis or Evergreen Clematis) is a flowering vine of the genus Clematis. 

C. armandii has good smelling 2.5-inch white flowers in spring. Its dark green leaves droop and it serves well as a screen. Its leaf tips may burn badly if grown in salty soil or water. It is native to China. 

[[Adam Clayton (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Manchester, Premier League players

Adam Stephen Clayton (born 14 January 1989)  is an English professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football player.  He played for the English National Team.

[[Distress (medicine)]]

CATEGORIES: Health

In medicine, distress is a situation when a person is unable to completely adapt to stress. As a result, the person shows a set of behaviours which are not adapted to the situation. Very often, the person is aware of the situation, and feels bad about not being able to fully adapt. 

People often find ways of dealing with distress, in both negative and positive ways. Examples of positive ways are listening to music, calming exercises, sports and similar healthy distractions. Negative ways can include but are not limited to use of drugs including alcohol, and expression of anger, which are likely to lead to complicated social interactions, thus causing increased distress.

[[Rupert Murdoch]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, American billionaires, Businesspeople from New York City, Australian businesspeople, Chief executives, Fox Broadcasting Company, News Corporation, Order of Australia, People from Adelaide, People from Melbourne, Publishers

Rupert Keith Murdoch (born March 11, 1931) is an Australian-American media mogul. He became managing director for Australia-based network News Limited after his father Keith died. He is founder, Chairman and chief executive officer of global media network News Corporation (the world's second largest media group). His mother Elisabeth Murdoch died on December 5, 2012.

[[Académie internationale Mohammed VI de l'aviation civile]]

CATEGORIES: Aerospace engineering, Aviation, 2000 establishments, Technical colleges and universities, Casablanca, 2000s establishments in France, 20th-century establishments in Morocco

The Académie internationale Mohammed VI de l'aviation civile (AIMAC, in English International Academy Mohammed VI of Civil Aviation) is a public aviation university created in 2000 by the King Mohammed VI of Morocco for aerospace education in this country, like Air Traffic Safety Electronics Personnel training.

[[The Call of the Wild]]

CATEGORIES: Books about dogs, 1900s books, 20th century American novels, English-language novels, 1903, Gold rushes

The Call of the Wild is a story about a dog. The book was written by Jack London. It was first published in 1903 as a serial in The Saturday Evening Post. It was published in book form by Macmillan the same year. The story is London's most popular work and is considered one of his greatest works. 

The story is about a pet dog named Buck. The dog is stolen from his California home. He is sold as a sled dog during the Klondike Gold Rush. Men, other animals, and nature itself treats Buck with cruelty. He survives by adapting to the ways of his wolf ancestors. At the end of the book, he breaks from all human contact and returns to the wild. 

Today, the book is often viewed as a children's story because it is about a dog. However, the book's themes of survival of the fittest, fate versus free will, and civilization versus nature have interest for all ages.  The story has been made into movies and television shows. Most have failed to focus on Buck's story. Instead, the focus is on the human characters. 

[[Beautiful Joe]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction books, Books about dogs, 1893 books

Beautiful Joe is a story about a mongrel dog named Joe. It was written by Margaret Marshall Saunders under the name Marshall Saunders, and published in 1893. It won a Humane Society competition. The book was a bestseller and directed public interest to animal cruelty. Joe was a real dog, brutally abused by his owner. He was rescued and his story told as an autobiography. Saunders wrote a sequel called Beautiful Joe's Paradise.

In 1934, Saunders was given Canada's highest civilian award at the time, Commander of the British Empire or C.B.E. In 1963, the official Beautiful Joe Park was named in Meaford, Ontario, next to the house where Beautiful Joe was rehabilitated. A Beautiful Joe Heritage Society was formed in 1994 to preserve Joe's legacy and establish a museum.

[[Lassie Come-Home]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction books, Books about dogs, 1940 books

Lassie Come-Home is a story about a dog and a boy. It was written by Eric Knight. It was first published as a short story in The Saturday Evening Post on December 17, 1938. The story was well liked. It was made into a book. The book was published by The John C. Winston Company in 1940. The story is about a collie named Lassie who travels hundreds of miles to get to the boy she loves. 

In 1943, MGM made the story into a movie called Lassie Come Home. It starred Roddy McDowall and the dog actor Pal. The Lassie character became very famous. She was the main character in other movies during the 1940s. In the middle 1950s, she became the main character in the television series Lassie. 

[[Uncle Tupelo]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 establishments in Illinois, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 1994 disestablishments in the United States, American rock bands, Country bands, Musical groups disestablished in 1994, Musical groups established in 1987, Musical groups from Illinois, 1990s disestablishments in Illinois

Uncle Tupelo was an alternative country music group from Belleville, Illinois. The group was active between 1987 and 1994. Jay Farrar, Jeff Tweedy, and Mike Heidorn formed the band. Uncle Tupelo split on May 1, 1994. Farrar then formed Son Volt with Heidorn.  The remaining members became Wilco.

[[Lassie (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 television series debuts, 1973 television series endings, 1950s American television series, 1960s American television series, 1970s American television series, American children's television series, American drama television series, Black and white television series, CBS network shows, Emmy Award winning programs, English-language television programs

Lassie is a dramatic children's television series. It was televised on CBS from September 12, 1954 to March 24, 1973. The series is about the adventures of a collie and her human and animal friends.

The show was the brainchild of television producer Robert Maxwell and animal trainer Rudd Weatherwax. They created a story about a struggling midwestern farm family and its dog. Weatherwax's dog actor Pal was chosen to play the title character. Pal had played Lassie in the seven MGM movies about the dog character. Pal made the two pilots for the television series, and then retired. The television Lassies that followed were all descendants of Pal, all were male, and all were trained by Weatherwax.

In 1957, oil millionaire Jack Wrather took over the show as producer. He guided it through its greatest years with his wife Bonita Granville Wrather. The first ten years of the series are set on a farm in the American midwest. These years focus on the relationship between Lassie and a young farm boy. The next seven years are about the dog and her Forest Ranger friends. In the last two years, Lassie lives at a home for troubled children. The show was famous for its "Whistle Theme" by Muzzy Marcellino. The Campbell's Soup Company sponsored the show's entire 19-year run. Spin-off merchandise was produced for children such as comic books, play sets, and clothing. The show won two Emmy Awards in its early years.

The show had a large cast over the years. Tommy Rettig played the farm boy for the first three years. Jon Provost became the farm boy in 1957 when Rettig left the show.  Jan Clayton played Rettig's mother and June Lockhart played Provost's. Hugh Reilly played Provost's father. Both actresses were nominated for Emmys. The show had its best ratings during the Provost years of the early 1960s. Some episodes from these years were put together to make a color adventure movie for theatres.

Provost left the show in 1964. A new story was developed that took Lassie off the farm. She became the friend of three Forest Rangers. They all had adventures in America's most beautiful natural areas such as Monument Valley and Alaska. In the early 1970s, new rulings about prime time were handed down by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). These rulings meant that Lassie would be moved to the 8 pm time slot. Lassie had been shown for nineteen years in the 7 pm time slot. Producers felt that this move would not work for the show's child audience. The show was cancelled. Since the cancellation, Lassie has played in reruns and has never been off the air.

[[Hiro Arikawa]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese writers, 1972 births, Living people, People from Kōchi Prefecture

Hiro Arikawa is a Japanese writer. She is from Kōchi Prefecture. She is known for Library War. Library War won the Seiun Award in 2008. She is good at writing science fiction and love stories.

[[Exile (disambiguation)]]

Exile is to be away from one's home and not allowed to return.

Exile, exiled, or exiles may also refer to:

[[Mina Salman]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bahrain

Mina Salman is a seaport in Manama, Bahrain. Mina Salman was a natural harbour before the establishment in 1962.  It covers 80 hectares. It is the primary cargo port and customs point of Bahrain. The port has 15 container berths.  This lets it handle 2.5 million tonnes a year.

The port is named after Salman ibn Isa al-Khalifa, the grandfather of the current King.

[[Connie Chung]]

CATEGORIES: American television news anchors, American journalists, 1946 births, Living people

Constance Yu-Hwa "Connie" Chung (born August 20, 1946) is an American journalist.  She was an anchor and reporter for American television networks NBC, MSNBC, CBS and CNN. Chung is married to talk show host Maury Povich. They have an adopted son.

[[Ann Curry]]

CATEGORIES: American journalists, American television personalities, People from Guam, 1956 births, Living people

Ann Curry (born November 19, 1956 ) is an American television journalist and personality. She co-hosted the Today Show on NBC from 1997 until 2012. She also anchored at Dateline NBC from 2005 to 2011. 

Curry was born on the island of Guam.  Her father is American and her mother is Japanese. They met while her father was serving in the United States Navy during the US occupation of Japan after World War II.

[[Meredith Vieira]]

CATEGORIES: People from Providence, Rhode Island, American journalists, American game show hosts, American television personalities, 1953 births, Living people, Television talk show hosts

Meredith Vieira (born December 30, 1953) is an American journalist, television personality and a game show host. She hosted the syndicated version of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire. She hosted the show from 2002 to 2013. She was a co-host on the ABC talk show The View from 1997 to 2006. She left Millionaire in 2013 due to other commitments and projects.

[[Querétaro dusky rattlesnake]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

The Querètaro Dusky Rattlesnake (Crotalus Aquilus) also known as the "Vibora de cascabel", is a species of venomous Pit viper found usually on highlands of central Mexico. The scientific name "Aquilus" is a Latin word meaning "eagle", referring to the highlands on which it lives on. They are not a very well known species of rattlesnake, but the people in Mexico know much about them.

[[Macbeth (1971 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 movies, Columbia Pictures movies, Movies based on plays by William Shakespeare, Movies directed by Roman Polanski

Macbeth was a movie directed in 1971 by Polish-French movie maker Roman Polanski. Jon Finch and Francesca Annis played the main characters. Polanski adopted Shakespeare's original play into a somewhat changed screenplay with the help of British theater critic and Shakespeare expert Kenneth Tynan. Hugh Hefner and Playboy Productions funded the movie.  It was screened in New York and opened in Playboy Theater. Hefner was also executive producer of the movie and it was listed as a Playboy production.

[[Joël Courtois]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, French people, Computer scientists, Living people

Joël Courtois, born 7 May 1960, is a French computer scientist and university head. He is the current head of the École pour l'informatique et les techniques avancées.

He graduated from Pierre and Marie Curie University in 1983.  He had a career as a teacher in higher education. In 1995, he was nominated head of training of the Institut supérieur des techniques électroniques de Paris. In 1997, he became head of the École pour l'informatique et les techniques avancées.

During his free time he enjoys nature's pleasures by feeding wild birds in the wild Cour Pasteur.

[[Pacific League]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball in Japan, Organisations based in Japan, 1949 establishments in Asia, 1940s establishments in Japan

The Pacific League or Pa League is one of the two professional baseball leagues constituting Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) in Japan.  There are six teams in the league.

[[Tom Hiddleston]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, People educated at Eton College, People from Westminster

Thomas William "Tom" Hiddleston (born 9 February 1981) is an English actor. His most famous roles include 'Thor: Ragnarok' (2017), Jonathan Pine in 'The Night Manager' (2016), Loki in 'Thor' (2011),  Scott Fitzgerald, Midnight in Paris (2011), 'The Avengers(2012), and 'Thor: The Dark World' (2013). He also stars in 'Kong: Skull Island' (2017) as Captain James Conrad. 

[[Jon Lord]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2012 deaths, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, English composers, English pianists, English rock musicians, Keyboardists, Musicians from Leicestershire, People from Leicester

Jonathan Douglas Lord (9 June 1941 – 16 July 2012) was a British rock musician. He was born and raised in Leicester. He moved to London in his late teens. He was a member of rock bands Deep Purple and Whitesnake. In 2011, he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. He died of a pulmonary embolism at the London Clinic, Westminster, London.

[[Benedict Cumberbatch]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Actors from London, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Benedict Timothy Carlton Cumberbatch CBE (born 19 July 1976) is an English actor. His most famous roles include Sherlock Holmes in Sherlock (2010), Peter Guillam in the spy thriller Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy (2011), Stephen Hawking in Hawking (2004), William Pitt in Amazing Grace (2006), and his Academy Award-nominated role as Alan Turing in The Imitation Game.

He also played Stephen Ezard in The Last Enemy (2008), Paul Marshall in Atonement (2007), Bernard in Small Island (2009), as Khan in Star Trek Into Darkness, 

He voiced the character Smaug, and the Necromancer in The Hobbit (2012). Cumberbatch played Julian Assange in the 2013 movie The Fifth Estate. He ranked #1 in Empire Magazine's "100 Sexiest Movie Stars" in 2013. He was named one of the most influential people in the world by TIME magazine in 2014.

[[Sadaharu Oh]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Japanese baseball players, Sportspeople from Tokyo

Sadaharu Oh, also known as Wang Chenchih (王貞治,), is a Japanese-Taiwanese professional athlete. He is best known as a baseball player and manager.

[[Stanley Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2005 deaths, African-American people, American murderers, American robbers, American thieves, Executed American people, People executed by lethal injection, People from Los Angeles, California, People from New Orleans, Louisiana

Stanley "Tookie" Williams III (December 29, 1953 – December 13, 2005) was an American murderer and co-founder of a street gang, the Crips. He was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. In 1959, he moved to Los Angeles, California, where in 1970 he stole a car, for which he was convicted and sent to juvenile hall. He and Raymond Washington (1953–1979) founded street gang the Crips in 1971 in Los Angeles. Williams shot four people dead in Los Angeles in 1979 during robberies he committed. The events were caught on film by surveillance cameras. Later that year he was convicted of four counts of first degree murder and two counts of robbery. He was sentenced to death and was executed by lethal injection at San Quentin State Prison, California.

[[Ballet flat]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet, Footwear

Ballet flats are derived from soft ballet slippers, having very thin heels or the appearances of no heel at all. The style often features a ribbon-style binding around these flats' low top areas. Some ballet flats are open toed. The essence of the ballet flat has been on since at least the 15th or 16th century. They're worn primarily by women, although men may wear them too. They went out of fashion during the 18th and 19th century, but took off again after Audrey Hepburn wore the shoes in 1957's Funny Face.

[[Host (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Biology, Parasitism

A host is an organism which provides shelter for parasites. Parasites will live on the animal and may lay their eggs on them.

[[George Shaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1751 births, 1813 deaths, English botanists, Fellows of the Royal Society, People from Buckinghamshire

George Shaw (10 December 1751 – 22 July 1813) was an English botanist and zoologist. Shaw published one of the first English descriptions of several common Australian animals. His book was called Zoology of New Holland which was released in 1794. He was the first scientist to examine a platypus. He released a description about the animal on his book The Naturalist's Miscellany in 1799. He became the first to do so. In herpetology he described a lot of new species of reptiles and amphibians.

[[Common name]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy, Names

A common name of a taxon or organism is a name that is generally given by people. A common name is not the organism's scientific name. Common names are used by people to describe something. Some common names are not always used by some people. A common name are also known as a vernacular name, English name, colloquial name, trivial name, trivial epithet, country name, popular name, or farmer's name.

Sometimes common names are created by authorities. They do this so the general public would not have to remember or pronounce the Latin name of an animal. 

[[Mark Catesby]]

CATEGORIES: 1683 births, 1749 deaths, English botanists, Fellows of the Royal Society, English naturalists

Mark Catesby (24 March 1682/83 - 23 December 1749) was an English naturalist. Between 1729 and 1747 Catesby published his book Natural History of Carolina, Florida and the Bahama Islands. The book was the first publication to describe flora and fauna of North America. The book described 220 birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish, insects, mammals and plants.

Catesby studied natural history in London. Catesby collected seeds in Virginia from 1714 to 1719.

[[Webbed feet]]

CATEGORIES: Feet

Webbed toes is the common name for syndactyly. Webbed feet happens when two or more toes grow together instead of separately. This is common in many birds such as ducks. It is also common in amphibians such as frogs and mammals such as kangaroos. In humans, it is not normal. It only happens to 3-10 in 10,000 live births.

[[Outbreak]]

CATEGORIES: Epidemiology

An outbreak is an event that sometimes cannot be controlled for several months or years. The word "outbreak" is a term used in epidemiology. It describes what happens when a disease becomes widespread that first thought. An outbreak can affect a small group or affect thousands of people across the world. An outbreak can be epidemic.

[[Water beetle]]

CATEGORIES: Beetles

Water beetles are beetles who live in water. Water beetles are black, brown, or greenish. They are 0.08 to 1.57 inches long. There are 2,000 species of water beetles. These include whirligig beetles (Gyrinidae), Haliplidae, Noteridae, Amphizoidae, Dytiscidae, and Hydroscaphidae.

[[Santa Cruz, California]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in California, Cities in California, 1791 establishments in the United States, 18th-century establishments in California, Santa Cruz County, California

Santa Cruz, California is a city north of Monterey Bay. Santa Cruz is about 100 miles (60 km) south of San Francisco. Santa Cruz was first settled by Ohlone Indians, Native American hunter-gatherers. Santa Cruz was colonized in the mid-1700s by the Spanish. They created a mission, (Mission Santa Cruz). The Spanish forced the Ohlones in the mission. Their populations began to decline because of diseases and overworking.

Americans first arrived in Santa Cruz in the 19th century. They were immigrants from Italy, China and Portugal. Around the same time, forestry and commercial fishing were the first industries. There were also diary farming and leather production. Santa Cruz is most famous for their university. The University of California, Santa Cruz was built in the 1960s. The 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake had a major effect in Santa Cruz. It killed five people.

The industries that are present in Santa Cruz are agriculture, tourism and high technology. The climate in Santa Cruz is Mediterranean. This means that they have mild summers because of fog. Winters are usually rainy; however, the city has dealt with many droughts.

[[California red-legged frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The California red-legged frog (Rana draytonii) is a semi-aquatic frog. It is part of the Ranidae frogs or "true frogs". The California red-legged frog are endemic to California and Baja California, Mexico. The frog is a near threatened species. It is protected by law.

[[Cope's gray treefrog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Cope's grey treefrog (Hyla chrysoscelis) is a species of tree frogs. They live in the United States. It is believed that the Cope's Grey Tree Frog evolved after the last major ice age. Cope's Grey Tree Frog can live in temperatures as low as -8 °C. Females can lay up to 10–40 eggs. The eggs hatch in four days. When the eggs hatch, they are called "tadpoles". Tadpoles will become a young frog in 45–65 days. The species name chrysoscelis is from the Greek word chrysos, which means "gold". The Greek word scelis means "leg".

[[Reptiles (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines, Reptiles, Monthly magazines, Science and technology magazines, Irvine, California, 1993 establishments in California

Reptiles is a monthly magazine. It is published in Irvine, California. Reptiles magazine is a reptile and amphibian magazine. It talks about keeping and breeding many of their species. The magazine's publisher is BowTie Inc. The first issue of the magazine was in October 1993.

Spadafori, Gina (23 October 1993). Reptiles slither into the animal magazine kingdomSeptember 2021, The Baltimore Sun

/ref It was a bimonthly magazine for one year. It became a monthly magazine starting with its December 1994 issue. The columns such as "Herptological Queries" and "Veterinarian Q&A" have been in the magazine since it was first released. 

Many reptiles and amphibian species have been talked about in the magazine. Popular pets such as the bearded dragon, red-eared slider, leopard geckos, and ball pythons often appear in the magazine. They consider themselves "The World's Leading Reptile Magazine". Their June 2012 issue celebrated their 20th anniversary. 

[[Nazi songs]]

CATEGORIES: Nazism, Songs

Nazi songs were songs made for the Nazi Party (NSDAP) of Germany.

Some songs used by the Nazis are very old, and so these songs are often thought of as to be a Nazi song. An example would be Deutschlandlied, which was written in 1841. The Nazis used the Deutschlandlied with the Horst-Wessel-Lied. Same with the song Die Wacht am Rhein, which at that time was almost 100 years old.

[[Fiordland penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Penguins

The Fiordland penguin (Eudyptes pachyrhynchus) is a crested penguin. They have white stripes on their belly and cheeks, and they have a black back. They have bright yellow eyebrows and when they get older they turn darker. They also have an orange beak; big feet and they have small black tails. They weigh 8 pounds and are 17-24 inches tall.

They eat fish, squid and krill (small shrimps) and they like to drink extra cold water. The Fiordland penguin’s main predator (animal which hunts animals) is seals.

Most Fiordland penguins live in the woodland on the coast of south New Zealand but some also live in Tasmania. They live up to 15 to 20 years in the wild. They swim very fast in the water near New Zealand.

[[Humboldt penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Penguins

The Humboldt penguin (Spheniscus humboldti) has a plain white belly. It can have a few pure black spots on its belly and have orange with an hint of green. There are less than 10,000 Humboldt penguins in the wild. They are found in Chile and Peru. 

They drink sea water and their favourite food is small fish. A female Humboldt penguin can weigh up to 4.5kg and the male can weigh up to 6kg. Their bodies are adapted to life in water and most Humboldt penguins can live up to 20 years. They get their name from a famous Prussian explorer, Alexander von Humboldt.

They have well dug burrows underground. In the past 100 years their droppings have been used as garden fertiliser. This dung is called “guano”.

[[Magellanic penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Penguins

The magellanic penguin (Spheniscus magellanicus) is the most numerous of the Spheniscus family. There are about 3,600,000 magellanic penguins in the world. They breed once a year and lay two eggs of a similar size.  They are 70 centimetres tall and weigh 9 pounds or 4 kilograms. 

They are found in the Falkland Islands, South America, Chile and Argentina and migrate Brazil. They are warm weathered penguins and during the warm weather they lose feathers around their eyes. When it gets colder they grow these feathers back around their eyes. They were first seen in 1519 on a voyage (trip) to South America. They hunt for food on their own when they are 60-70 days old. 

[[Yellow-eyed penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Penguins

The yellow-eyed penguin (Megadyptes antipodes), also known as the hoiho or tarakara, is an endangered species of penguin, and the third largest penguin in the world. The penguin gets its name from the yellow stripes on its head. They live and breed on the sea shore of New Zealand and some also in the Antarctic islands in the south. They have a high pitched call which can be heard very clearly.

Yellow-eyed penguins eat small to medium sized fish, red cod and squid. 

They make their nests out of twigs, grass and leaves, carefully formed into a bowl shape. The chicks take 39 to 51 days to hatch and both parents share keeping the eggs warm.

[[Mononymous person]]

CATEGORIES: Names

A mononymous person is a person who is known and addressed by a single name. Such names are called mononyms. In some cases, the person was known by a composed name (polynym) before, and selected a single name. Today, this is often the case with artists, who select a stage name.

In many cultures, people only had one name. This is the case of Ancient Greece. Composed names were only used to avoid confusion. Both Zeno of Elea and Zeno of Citium were called Zeno, but the origin was added to avoid confusing the two. In Ancient Rome, people had a composed name which included a clan name and a family name, which did not change. While we refer to Cicero as Cicero, his real name was Marcus Tullius Cicero. Sometimes he is called Tully in English. Other people called Tullius include Manius Tullius Longus, a Roman consul, about 500 BC, and Quintus Tullius Cicero, one of Caesars generals. Nero was known as Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus. 

After the Romans, composed names started to be more commonplace in the Middle Ages. In the Americas, mononyms survived until the early 20th century. Examples include Pocahontas (1595-1617) and Geronimo (1829-1909). Pocahontas married and English settler, and took the name Rebecca Rolfe after her marriage.

Royals usually adopt a single name. Sometimes, a numeral is added. That way, Elizabeth I (1533-1603) and Elizabeth II (born 1926) both have a surname, but it is not used.

Similarly, popes select a single name, when they are elected. The current pope is called Jorge Mario Bergoglio, but since his becoming pope, everyone has called him Pope Francis.

[[Sweet Grass, Montana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Montana

Sweet Grass (also Sweetgrass) is an unincorporated community in Toole County, Montana, United States.  It is on the Canada-United States border. It is the northern end of Interstate 15.  Interstate 15 is an important route connecting western Canada, the western United States, and Mexico.

In 2004, a joint border facility opened at the Sweetgrass port of entry and Coutts, Alberta.  It has both Canadian and American federal authorities.

[[Crotalus viridis]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Crotalus viridis (commonly known as the prairie rattlesnake) is a species of venomous Pit vipers. There is currently only one subspecies recognized, not including the nominate subspecies.

[[Anput]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Anput is the goddess of the seventeenth Nome (or district) of Upper Egypt. She is the goddess of the desert and protection. She was the mother of Kebechet.

[[Harry Judd]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Chelmsford, English pop musicians, English rock drummers, Musicians from Essex, Strictly Come Dancing participants

Harry Judd  (born 23 December 1985, Chelmsford, Essex) is an English pop/rock musician. He is best known as being the drummer in the band McFly. Judd has made a guest appearance in the Busted video for "Crashed the Wedding" as the drummer. In 2011, he won Strictly Come Dancing. In 2012, he got engaged to his long term girlfriend Izzy Johnston. and is now married to her.

[[DeJuan Blair]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, African-American basketball players, Dallas Mavericks players, Living people, San Antonio Spurs players, Sportspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Washington Wizards players, American basketball players

DeJuan Lamont Blair (born April 22, 1989) is an American basketball player. He plays for the Washington Wizards of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He graduated from Pittsburgh University. He also played for the San Antonio Spurs from 2009–2013 and the Dallas Mavericks from 2013–2014.

[[Trade creation]]

CATEGORIES: Trade

Trade creation is an economic term related to international economics in which trade flows are redirected due to the formation of a free trade area or a customs union. The issue was firstly brought into discussion by Jacob Viner (1950), together with the trade diversion effect.

[[Common coquí]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The common coquí or coquí (Eleutherodactylus coqui) is a species of frog. They live in Puerto Rico. The coquí is an important symbol of Puerto Rico. They are known for their loud calls they make at night. They belong to the genus Eleutherodactylus.

[[Mudpuppy]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

A mudpuppy or waterdog is an aquatic salamander. They belong to the family Proteidae. Mudpuppies make a dog-like barking sound, which is why they are called mudpuppies. Mudpuppies belong to the genus Necturus. They live in Canada and Midwestern United States.

[[Tyler Posey]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1991 births, American television actors

Tyler Posey (born October 18, 1991) is an actor. He is most famous for his lead role on MTV's Teen Wolf series. Posey plays Scott McCall, a teenager whose life was changed by a bite he received in the woods.

[[Bufo apolobambicus]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Bufo apolobambicus is a species of toad. They belong to the family Bufonidae. They live in Bolivia and Peru. Their habitat is subtropical or tropical forest. Their population is dying because of habitat loss.

[[Herveo Plump Toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The Herveo plump toad (Orsornophryne percrassa) is a species of toad. They belong to the family Bufonidae. They live in Colombia. Their habitat is subtropical or tropical forests. They like to live on high-altitude grasslands. Their population is dying because of habitat loss.

[[Amargosa toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The Amargosa toad (Bufo nelsoni) is a species of toad. They belong to the family Bufonidae. They were once considered a subspecies of the Western toad.

[[Western toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The Western toad (Anaxyrus boreas) is a species of toads. They are among the largest toads. They can grow up to 5.6 and 13 cm long. They live in western North America.

[[Great Plains Narrowmouth Toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The Great Plains Narrowmouth Toad (Gastrophryne olivacea) is a species of toads. They belong to the family Microhylidae. They live in south central United States. They can be found in Nebraska, Texas and northern Mexico. They are not "true toads". They are territorial.

[[Blush (color)]]

Blush is a medium bright tone of red-violet. 

The first written use of blush as a color name in English was in 1590. 

[[Plains Spadefoot Toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The plains spadefoot toad (Spea bombifrons) is a species of spadefoot toad. They live in southwestern Canada, the Great Plains of the United States and northern Mexico. Like many spadefood toads, they get their name for having spade-like legs. This allows them to dig into sand and soil.

[[American toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The American toad (Bufo americanus) is a species of toad. They live in eastern United States and Canada. There are three subspecies: the eastern American toad, the dwarf American toad, and the rare Hudson Bay toad.

[[Gymnopis syntrema]]

CATEGORIES: Caecilians

Gymnopis syntrema is a species of Caecilians. They belong to the family Caeciliidae. They live in Belize, Guatemala and Honduras. Their habitat is subtropical or tropical forests. Their populations are dying because of habitat loss.

[[Dermophis gracilior]]

CATEGORIES: Caecilians

Dermophis gracilior is a species of Caecilians. They belong to the family Caeciliidae. They are found in Costa Rica and Panama. Their habitat are subtropical or tropical forests. They like to live in lowland forests and rural places. 

[[Microcaecilia supernumeraria]]

CATEGORIES: Caecilians

The Microcaecilia supernumeraria is a species of Caecilians. They belong to the family Caeciliidae. They live in Brazil. Their habitats are subtropical or tropical forests. They like to live in lowland forests and rural places.

[[Siphonops leucoderus]]

CATEGORIES: Caecilians

Siphonops leucoderus, also known as the Salvador caecilian, is a species of Caecilians. They belong to the family Caeciliidae. They live in Brazil. Their habitat are subtropical or tropical forests. They like to live in lowland forests and rural areas.

[[Boulengerula taitana]]

CATEGORIES: Caecilians

Boulengerula taitana (also known as the Taita African caecilian, Taita Hills caecilian or Taita Mountains caecilian) is a species of caecilians. They belong to the family Caeciliidae. They live in Africa in countries like Kenya. Their habitat is subtropical or tropical forests. Many people mistake them for worms. They lay their eggs in foam nest in water.

[[Sylvacaecilia]]

CATEGORIES: Caecilians

Sylvacaecilia grandisonae (commonly known as the Aleku caecilian or Ethiopian caecilian) is a species of caecilians. They belong to the family Indotyphlidae. They live in Ethiopia. Their habitats are subtropical or tropical dry forests. They also live near rivers and springs.

[[California newt]]

CATEGORIES: Newts

The California newt (Taricha torosa) is a species of newts. They are also called the orange bellied newt. They can grow to 8 inches (20 cm) in length. They have toxic skin. Because of this, the only predator of the California newt are garter snakes. California newts lives in California.

[[Sierra newt]]

CATEGORIES: Newts

The Sierra newt is a subspecies of the California newt. They live in the Sierra Nevada.

[[Coastal Range newt]]

CATEGORIES: Newts

The Costal Range newt (Taricha torosa torosa) is a subspecies of the California newt. They live in California Coast Ranges and San Diego, California.

[[Atelopus ignescens]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The Atelopus ignescens is a species of toad. It is often known as the Jambato toad or the Quito stubfoot toad. They belong to the family Bufonidae. They live in Ecuador. They were thought to be extinct until some were discovered in 2016.  Their habitat is subtropical or tropical high-altitude. It was believed to be the closest relative of the Carrikeri Harlequin Frog.

[[Yunnan lake newt]]

CATEGORIES: Newts

The Yunnan lake newt (Cynops wolterstorffi) was a species of newts. It was part of the family Salamandridae. It was also known as Wolterstorff's newt. It used to live in China.

[[William Shakespeare]]

CATEGORIES: 1564 births, 1616 deaths, English playwrights, English poets, Literature since 1500, William Shakespeare, Writers from Warwickshire

William Shakespeare (bapt. 26 April 1564 – 23 April 1616) was an English playwright, poet, and actor. He wrote 39 plays (with about half of them considered comedies) and two long poems in his lifetime. He lived in Stratford-upon-Avon, in Warwickshire, England. His plays are still performed today. He is often quoted in modern writing.

By 1594 he was an actor in The Chamberlain's Men acting company.

His plays are of different kinds, or genres. There are histories, tragedies and comedies. These plays are among the best known in English literature and are studied in schools around the world. Shakespeare wrote his works between about 1590 and 1613. He is considered the first writer who wrote a tragicomedy. (A tragicomedy is a play that mixes comedy and tragedy, with a happy ending.)

Shakespeare's plays are written in poetic language. Many of the plays are set in strange, distant places and times. They are still popular today. The stories are often exciting, very funny (in the comedies), or very sad (in the tragedies) and make people want to know what happens to his characters. He says much about things that are still important today, like love, sadness, hope, pride, hatred, jealousy, and foolishness.

Shakespeare added new words and phrases to the English language. He also made some words more popular. He created over 1,700 English words.

[[Palaestra]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek wrestling, Sports buildings in Greece

A palaestra was a building in ancient Greece. It is the place where wrestling was taught and practiced. It consisted of a large square or rectangular courtyard. This courtyard was open to the sky. It was surrounded by colonnades. Off these colonnades were dressing rooms, lecture rooms, bath rooms, and rooms for storing equipment. Wrestlers practiced under the colonnades in all weathers.  

Palaestras were often near gymnasiums. They were sometimes a part of gymnasium complexes. Most cities in the Greek world had a palaestra. Large cities may have had several. Some palaestras were privately owned. Most were built with taxes. The palaestra was very much a part of the everyday lives of Greek men and boys. Some men felt as much affection for the palaestra they grew up in as modern men feel for their alma mater. Some men were buried in their favorite palaestra.

[[Black-tailed rattlesnake]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

The Black-tailed rattlesnake (Crotalus Molossus) is a species of venomous Pit vipers, found in southwestern United States of America and Mexico. There are currently three subspecies recognized.

[[YMCA]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations, Youth organizations, 1844 establishments, Organisations based in the United Kingdom

Young Men's Christian Association (or the YMCA or the Y) is an organization headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland. It was originally meant to put Christian principles into practice. It was founded in 1844 in London, England, United Kingdom. At first, the organization provided beds and shelter to young men leaving the countryside for work in the cities. It promotes Muscular Christianity.

Basketball was invented in an American YMCA. 

The similar Young Women's Christian Association or YWCA was founded in 1870.

[[Antisocial personality disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Antisocial personality disorder

Antisocial personality disorder (ASPD) is a personality disorder. A person with ASPD fails to conform with socially accepted behavior. People with this disorder often disregard social norms or the rights of other people. 

The ASPD pattern begin in childhood or adolescence and continues into adulthood.  People with ASPD have no conscience or sense of morality, although the large majority know right from wrong. Those with ASPD  often commit crimes. They can also be impulsive, aggressive, reckless, and destructive. About three percent of men and one percent of women have ASPD. 

[[Causinae]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

The Causinae, commonly known as the "night adders", are a subfamily of venomous vipers found in sub-Saharan Africa. The family is monotypic, since it only has the genus Causus. There are six species.

The night adders can grow to around 60 to 90 centimeters (24 to 36 in) long. They are usually dark gray, light gray, light brown, or black in color with gray or black blotches.

Even though they are called the night adders, they are usually active at day, but some are active at night. When they are attacked or disturbed, they usually coil up and start hissing at their enemy to scare it off. Some may raise their head and neck off the ground, and with their tongue sticking out, move froward like a the Cobra does. 

They eat mainly toads and frogs, but there are reports of some night adders eating almost everything they can find until they are completely unable to swallow any more food.

[[Common night adder]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

The common night adder is a species of venomous vipers found in sub-Saharan Africa. 

[[Polystyrene]]

CATEGORIES: Polymers

Polystyrene is a form of chemical compound that is mainly used for a wide variety of packaging. It is an aromatic polymer made from the monomer styrene, a liquid hydrocarbon that is  manufactured from petroleum by the chemical industry. Polystyrene is one of the most widely used plastics, the scale being several billion kilograms per year.

Polystyrene can be in either a thermoset or a thermoplastic form.

[[Allometry]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy, Zoology

Allometry is the study of the relationship of body size to shape. In particular, it refers to the rate of growth of one part of the body compared to other parts. In most cases, the relative size of body parts changes as the body grows. Most allometric relationships are adaptive. For example, organs which depend on their surface area (such as the intestine) grow faster as the body weight increases.

Also, there are changes in allometry as a clade evolves. Allometry is an important way to describe changes in gross morphology (body shape) during evolution. Changes in time of development in an evolutionary series or clade are very common. The trend is known as heterochrony.

Allometry was first outlined by Otto Snell in 1892, D'Arcy Thompson in 1917, and Julian Huxley in 1932.  The relationship between two measured quantities is often expressed as a power law:

[[Keiko Ikeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, 1956 Summer Olympics, 1960 Summer Olympics, Japanese gymnasts, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1964 Summer Olympics, People from Hiroshima Prefecture

Keiko Ikeda, also known by her married name as Keiko Tanaka-Ikeda,  is a Japanese amateur athlete, coach, university professor and sports administrator.  She is best known as a gymnast who competed in the 1956 Summer Olympics, in the 1960 Summer Olympics, and in the 1964 Summer Olympics.

She won a gold medal on the balance beam at the 1954 World Gymnastics Championships.  She is the only Japanese woman to win a gold medal in this international competition.

[[Abhinav Bindra]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Indian sportspeople, Olympic gold medalists, Punjabi people, Sport shooters

Abhinav Bindra (born September 28, 1982, in Dehradun) is an Indian amateur athlete and businessman.  He is best known as the current World and Olympic champion in the 10 m Air Rifle event.

At the Beijing Olympic Games, he became the first Indian to win an individual Olympic gold medal.

[[Lake Mackay]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of the Northern Territory, Geography of Western Australia

Lake Mackay (Pintupi: Wilkinkarra) is a large salt lake in central Australia. It stretches across the border between Western Australia and the Northern Territory. All around it is desert. The Great Sandy Desert is to the northwest, the Tanami Desert is to the northeast, and the Gibson Desert is to the south. There are hundreds of salt lakes along this border area, and Lake Mackay is the largest. It has a surface area of 3494, and is about 100 long from east to west and north to south. It is the second-largest lake in Australia.

The lake was named after the first European to visit it, Donald George Mackay. The lake is most often dry, because of quick evaporation. Salt and other minerals float on the surface.

Lake Mackay is a central place in dreamtime stories for several Aboriginal groups, especially the Pintupi. The lake forms the centre of the Pintupi ancestral lands. Many sacred paths and tracks come together at the shores of the lake. According to mythology, the lake was formed after a fierce bushfire that ruined the land around it.

[[Papunya, Northern Territory]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the Northern Territory, Indigenous Australian communities, Pintupi, 1950s establishments in Australia

Papunya is a small community in central Australia. It is about 240 northwest of Alice Springs in the Northern Territory. The people who live there are Aboriginal people who were forced off their traditional country during the 1930s and 1940s. They are mainly from Pintupi- and Luritja-speaking groups. In the 2006 census, Papunya had a population of 299. The town is now on private Aboriginal land. People visiting or travelling through need a permit.

During the late 1950s, a Lutheran mission was set up at Papunya. In the 1970s, many of the people living here moved back to their homelands as part of the outstation movement. The Pintupi moved back west, closer to their homeland around Lake Mackay. They set up the town of Kintore in 1981, about 250 west of Papunya. During this time, local painters were slowly forming a new style of art. By the mid-1980s, it became internationally known as Papunya Tula.

[[William Thomas Stead]]

CATEGORIES: British journalists, 1849 births, 1912 deaths, Victims of the RMS Titanic

William Thomas Stead (5 July 1849 – 15 April 1912) was a British writer and journalist. He was a pioneer of investigative journalism, and one of the most controversial figures in British journalism during the Victorian era.

His death occurred during the sinking of RMS Titanic.

[[Kintore, Northern Territory]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 establishments in Australia, Towns in the Northern Territory, Indigenous Australian communities, Pintupi

Kintore (Pintupi: Waḻungurru; ˈwɐɭʊŋʊɾʊ) is a remote town in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is about 530 west of Alice Springs and close to the border with Western Australia. Almost all the people who live there are Aboriginal, and most are Pintupi.

Kintore was founded in 1981. Many Pintupi people who lived in the community of Papunya (to the east) decided to move back to their own country. They had been forced to leave these lands decades before because of weapons testing at Woomera in South Australia. Kintore is a major centre for the Western Desert art movement, which began at Papunya during the 1970s. The paintings made here are visual descriptions of dreamtime stories. They have gained fame around the world. A number of members of the Aboriginal art school Papunya Tula live at Kintore.

[[Tim Conway]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from brain disease, American stand-up comedians, American voice actors, American comedians, American movie actors, American television actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, People from Willoughby, Ohio, Comedians from Ohio, Actors from Ohio, Emmy Award winning actors

Thomas Daniel "Tim" Conway (December 15, 1933 – May 14, 2019) was an American stand-up comedian, actor, director, writer, singer, voice artist, and comedian. He has worked in sitcoms, comedy sketches, and in movies. Conway is best known for McHale's Navy as Ensign Charles Parker. To younger viewers, Conway is known for Barnacle Boy in SpongeBob SquarePants.

[[List of settlements in Bulgaria]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bulgaria, Lists of settlements in Europe

This is a complete list of all cities and towns in Bulgaria sorted by population. Province capitals are shown in bold.

[[List of settlements in Burkina Faso]]

CATEGORIES: Burkina Faso, Lists of settlements in Africa

This is a list of cities and towns in Burkina Faso.

[[List of cities in Cambodia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Asia, Settlements in Cambodia, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Cambodia.

[[Cillian Murphy]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Drama Desk Award winners, Irish movie actors, Irish stage actors, Irish television actors, Irish voice actors, People from County Cork, Vegetarians

Cillian Murphy (born 25 May 1976) is an Irish movie and theatre actor. Murphy is known for his multiple roles and his blue eyes.

[[Hurricane Charlie (1951)]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in Mexico, 1951 in North America, 1950s in Mexico, 20th century in Jamaica

Hurricane Charlie was the deadliest storm in 1951. It was the second hurricane of the year in the Atlantic hurricane season. This hurricane hit Jamaica with winds around Category 3 levels, strengthened to Category 4 at 135 miles an hour and then struck Mexican Yucatán Peninsula. The storm made its last landfall in the Tampico area of Mexico. Over 250 people died, half of whom near the Tampico region. This hurricane was Tampico's worst tropical cyclone since 1936.

[[Tom Hardy]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Actors from London, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Living people, People from Hammersmith, Screenwriters from London

Edward Thomas "Tom" Hardy, CBE, (born 15 September 1977) is an English movie, television, stage, voice actor and screenwriter. He is known for his roles in Star Trek: Nemesis, RocknRolla, Bronson, Inception, Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, This Means War, and the television series Stuart: A Life Backwards.

For his work in that series, he earned a nomination for a BAFTA Award for Best Actor. He also played Freddie Jackson in Martina Cole's The Take. That was a television movie based on Cole's novel of the same name. He played Bane in Christopher Nolan's 2012 movie The Dark Knight Rises. Hardy also played Max Rockatansky in Mad Max: Fury Road and as Venom in the 2018 movie Venom.

Hardy appeared as Farrier in the 2017 Nolan movie Dunkirk.

Hardy was born on September 15, 1977 in Hammersmith, London, England. He is an only child. His parents were Anne (née Barrett) and Edward "Chips" Hardy. He was raised in East Sheen, London. Hardy went to Reed's School, Tower House School, and the Drama Centre London.

Hardy married Sarah Ward in 1999. They divorced in 2004. He has a son with ex-girlfriend Rachael Speed, Louis Thomas Hardy (born 8 April 2008). Hardy proposed to actress Charlotte Riley, after a year of dating. They were married in 2014.

He was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2018 Birthday Honours for services to drama.

[[Ebers papyrus]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Egypt, History of medicine

The Ebers Papyrus (c. 1550 BC) is an ancient Egyptian medical treatise.  It covers both practical and magical advice.  There are over 700 different drugs described in the papyrus. Some are useful such as opium for pain.  Other things in the papyrus can seem ridiculous. An example of that is tapping a person on the head with a fish if they have a migraine.  Aside from covering a large number of treatments, the papyrus also has information on a broad range of ailments from intestinal complaints and eye problems to depression or other mental disorders.

[[Marion Cotillard]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Paris, Satellite Award winners, BAFTA Award winning actors, French movie actors, French singers, French television actors, Musicians from Paris, French stage actors, French voice actors

Marion Cotillard (born September 30, 1975) is a French stage and movie actress, and singer. 

[[Matthew Modine]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Living people, Actors from San Bernardino, California

Matthew Avery Modine (born March 22, 1959) is an American movie, television, stage, and voice actor. His movie roles include Private Joker in Stanley Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket, the title character in Alan Parker's Birdy, high school wrestler Louden Swain in Vision Quest, football star turned spy Alec McCall in Funcky Monkey and the oversexed Sullivan Groff in Weeds. He appeared in Christopher Nolan's The Dark Knight Rises as Officer Peter Foley.

[[Omar Suleiman]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2012 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Diplomats, Egyptian military people, Egyptian Muslims, Generals, Vice-Presidents of Egypt

Omar Suleiman (عمر سليمان, 2 July 1936-19 July 2012) was an Egyptian general, diplomat, and politician. He was the spy intelligence chief from 1993 to 2011 while Hosni Mubarak was President of Egypt. In January 2011 Suleiman was appointed vice-president by Mubarak. He served until they left in early February 2011. In 2012, Suleiman wanted to be president but was disqualified from running. He was not seen in public since Mubarak's regime ended. On 19 July 2012, Suleiman died in Cleveland, Ohio, U.S. from heart attack while undergoing medical trials.

[[Dacquoise]]

CATEGORIES: Cakes

A dacquoise is a dessert cake. It is made with layers of almond and hazelnut meringue and whipped cream or buttercream. The name comes from the French word dacquois, meaning "of Dax". (Dax is a town in southwestern France.) It is usually served chilled with fruit. One form of dacquoise is marjolaine. Marjolaine is long and rectangular and combines almond and hazelnut meringue layers with chocolate buttercream.

A classic dacquoise is made of two layers of a meringue filled with an egg-yolk-based buttercream. Often, the layers are of a meringue japonais. (Meringue japonais means there are ground nuts added.) The nuts can be blanched almonds or hazelnuts. While this dacquoise is based on layers of meringue japonais, it is held together with a mix of sour cream and milk and dark chocolates.

[[Stapleton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Stapleton is a village and civil parish in City of Carlisle, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 221 people living in Stapleton. It has a church called St Mary.

[[Parton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Parton is a village and civil parish in Copeland, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 924 people living in Parton.

[[Bewcastle]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Bewcastle is a village and civil parish in City of Carlisle, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 411 people living in Bewcastle.

[[Burtholme]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Burtholme is a village and civil parish in City of Carlisle, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 184 people living in Burtholme.

[[Castle Carrock]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Castle Carrock is a village and civil parish in City of Carlisle, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 303 people living in Castle Carrock.

[[Cumrew]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Cumrew is a village and civil parish in City of Carlisle, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 85 people living in Cumrew. It has a church called St Mary.

[[Cumwhitton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Cumwhitton is a village and civil parish in City of Carlisle, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 293 people living in Cumwhitton.

[[Farlam]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Farlam is a village and civil parish in City of Carlisle, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 590 people living in Farlam.

[[Irthington]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Irthington is a village and civil parish in City of Carlisle, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 712 people living in Irthington.

[[Midgeholme]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Midgeholme is a village and civil parish in City of Carlisle, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 67 people living in Midgeholme. There is also Midgeholme Colliery in Midgeholme.

[[Upper Denton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Upper Denton is a village and civil parish in City of Carlisle, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 92 people living in Upper Denton. It has a church.

[[Westlinton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Westlinton is a village and civil parish in City of Carlisle, Cumbria, England. In 2001, there were 359 people living in Westlinton.

[[Rika Komazawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Japanese sportspeople, People from Osaka

Rika Komazawa is a Japanese athlete.  She is best known as a women's field hockey player who competed in the 2004 Summer Olympics and in three Summer Olympic Games.  

[[Arjuna Award]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in India, 1961 establishments in Asia, Sports trophies and awards, 1960s establishments in India

The Arjuna Awards were established by the government of India in 1961. The honour recognizes "outstanding achievement in sports and games". The award includes a cash prize. The Arjuna Awards recognise the achievements of the country’s sportsmen.

The symbol of the award is a small bronze statue of Arjuna with his bow.

[[Renault 12 Toros]]

CATEGORIES: Renault automobiles

Renault 12 Toros is a modernized version of Renault 12 in Turkey. It was designed in 1989, and released in the second half of the year. The name "Toros" comes from the Taurus mountains in Turkey. Renault 12 Toros had high traction so it used for many years. It was used as the official vehicle for many years by the Turkish National Police and Turkish Gendarmerie. Its production stopped in 2000 because its emissions polluted too much for the European Union's Emission Norms.

[[Karnam Malleswari]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Indian Olympic bronze medalists

Karnam Malleswari (born June 1, 1975) is an Indian athlete.  She is best known as a  weightlifter who won a bronze medal in the 2000 Summer Olympics at Sydney. She became the first Indian woman to stand on an Olympic victor's podium, and she was the only Indian to win a medal in the 2000 olympic  games.

In 1992, Malleswari was the first Indian woman to win a world title in any sport.

[[Onuk Sazan]]

CATEGORIES: Sports cars, Renault automobiles

Onuk Sazan was the first Supercar and second sports car made in Turkey. It was developed by Onuk Company (a military and civilian speedboat producer in Turkey) and Renault. Onuk Sazan was designed by Demir Sümer, Gökhan Akış, Eralp Noyan and Jan Nahum. Its name was inspired by the Dr. Ekber Onuk's deceased son's nickname, Sazan (Carp). Only 5 of these cars are made each year. Its price is €200000.

[[Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Indian sportspeople, Commonwealth Games medallists, Olympic silver medalists

Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore (born January 29, 1970) Jaisalmer, Rajasthan is an Indian athlete.  He is best known for shooting in the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens.

In the 2004 games, Rathore finished second in the men's double-trap shooting event. He was the first Indian to win an individual silver medal.

[[Bradley Wiggins]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, British cyclists, British Olympic bronze medalists, British Olympic gold medalists, British Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, People from Ghent, People from the City of Westminster, Sportspeople from London, Tour de France winners

Sir Bradley Marc Wiggins, CBE (born 28 April 1980) is a British cyclist. He was born in Ghent, Belgium. He grew up in Kilburn and Maida Vale, London. His mother Linda is English; his father was Australian cyclist Gary Wiggins (1952-2008). 

Wiggins won a bronze medal at the 2000 Summer Olympics, a gold medal, silver medal and bronze medal at the 2004 Summer Olympics, two gold medals at the 2008 Summer Olympics and a gold medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics. He won the 2012 Tour de France.

[[David Kelly (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from lung cancer, Disease-related deaths in the Republic of Ireland, Irish movie actors, Irish television actors, Irish voice actors, Irish stage actors, Irish radio actors, Actors from Dublin

David William Kelly (July 11, 1929 – February 12, 2012) was an Irish actor. He acted in several movies and television shows from the 1950s until his death in 2012. Kelly is known in Ireland as Rashers Tierney in Strumpet City.

In Britain, he is known as Cousin Edna in Me Mammy and as the builder Mr. O'Reilly in Fawlty Towers. In the United States, Kelly is known as Grandpa Joe in Tim Burton's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. He is also known as Michael O'Sullivan in Waking Ned.

Kelly was born on July 11, 1929 in Dublin, Ireland. He went to The Abbey School of Acting. Kelly was married to Laurie Morton from 1961 until his death in 2012. They had two children; David Kelly, Jr. and Miriam Kelly. Kelly died on February 12, 2012, his cause of death was pneumonia complicated by lung cancer in Dublin, Ireland. He was 82 years old. Kelly was buried at the Mount Jerome Cemetery & Crematorium.

[[Jonathan Frid]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2012 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Actors from Hamilton, Actors from London, Actors from New York City, Canadian movie actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Ontario, Infectious disease deaths in Canada

Jonathan Frid (John Herbert Frid; December 2, 1924 – April 14, 2012) was a Canadian stage, radio, voice, television, and movie actor. He was best known for playing the role of vampire Barnabas Collins on the Gothic American television show Dark Shadows. 

Frid was born on December 2, 1924 in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. He had Scottish, English, German, and Danish ancestry. He learned how to become an actor in Ontario, New York City, and London. Frid was not married.  

Frid died in the early hours of April 14, 2012 at the Juravinski Hospital in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. He died from complications of pneumonia due to a fall he had several days before, he was 87 years old. Frid had a nephew David Howitt, who confirmed his death.

[[Hiroshi Hoketsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Tokyo, 2012 Summer Olympics, Equestrians

Hiroshi Hoketsu is a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as an equestrian rider who participated in three Summer Olympic Games.

Hoketsu is the oldest Olympian to compete for Japan. He is the second oldest Olympian after Oscar Swahn who was a 72-year-old Swedish shooter who won bronze medal at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp.

==International competitions== 

[[Michael Gough]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from prostate cancer, Actors from London, BAFTA Award winning actors, Cancer deaths in England, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Tony Award winning actors

Francis Michael Gough (23 November 1916 – 17 March 2011) was an English character actor who as appeared in over 150 movies. He is perhaps best known world wide for his roles in the Hammer Horror Films from 1958, and for his work as Batman's loyal butler Alfred Pennyworth in Batman, Batman Returns, Batman Forever, and Batman & Robin. Gough and actor Pat Hingle are the only two actors to appear in all 4 Batman movies directed by Tim Burton or Joel Schumacher. Gough has also been in some other Tim Burton movies, Sleepy Hollow, Tim Burton's Corpse Bride, and Alice in Wonderland.

[[2012 Aurora shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 crimes in the United States, 2010s mass shootings in the United States, 2010s murders in the United States, Attacks on buildings and structures in 2012, Attacks on buildings and structures in the United States, Aurora, Colorado, History of Colorado, July events, Mass murder in 2012, Massacres in the United States, Murder in Colorado

The 2012 Aurora shooting took place in Aurora, Colorado, United States, on 20 July 2012. Gunman James Eagan Holmes shot dead 12 people and wounded 58 others at The Dark Knight Rises premiere at a movie theater. He was arrested a few minutes later. 

Holmes was convicted in 2015 of twenty-four counts of first-degree murder, 140 counts of attempted first-degree murder, one count of possessing explosives and a sentence enhancement of a crime of violence. He was sentenced to life in prison without possibility of parole.

[[Pat Hingle]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2009 deaths, Deaths from myelodysplastic syndrome, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, Actors from Miami, Florida, Actors from Houston, Texas

Martin Patterson "Pat" Hingle (July 19, 1924  January 3, 2009) was an American actor. He played Commissioner James Gordon in the Tim Burton/Joel Schumacher Batman films: Batman, Batman Returns, Batman Forever, and Batman & Robin. Hingle and Michael Gough are the only two actors to appear in all 4 Batman movies. Hingle worked from 1954 through 2006.

[[Bernard Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Actors from Manchester, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Bernard Hill (born 17 December 1944) is a British movie, theatre, and television actor since 1975. His career has lasted more than 30 years.

Hill is known for playing Yosser Hughes in the British television drama Boys from the Blackstuff. He is also known for the roles in movie blockbusters films such as Captain Edward Smith in Titanic, King Theoden in The Lord of the Rings movie series, and as the Warden of the San Quentin Prison in Clint Eastwood's True Crime.

Hill was born in Blackley, Manchester, England in 17 December 1944. He attended at Xaverian College although back then it was called The Xaverian School, and then to the Manchester Polytechnic School of Drama at the same time as Richard Griffiths. He graduated with a diploma in theatre in 1970.

He is married to Marianne Hill and has a son named Gabriel Hill.

In his commentary on The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002) Extended Edition DVD, he admits that during the course of shooting he first broke his sternum, then had his ear slashed open by a sword.

[[Optic nerve]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the nervous system, Eye anatomy, Optometry

The optic nerve, also known as cranial nerve II or simply as CN II, is one of twelve cranial nerves but is also considered to be part of the central nervous system. It sends information from the retina (the outermost part of the eye) to the brain. The brain forms a picture using the information so that you can see things.

The retina sees the image upside-down and the optic nerve sends it to the brain so it turns it back into normal.

[[Aaron Eckhart]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, 1968 births, Actors from Santa Clara County, California, Living people, Actors from Beverly Hills, California, Cupertino, California

Aaron Edward Eckhart (born March 22, 1968) is an American movie, television, stage, and voice actor.

Eckhart became known world-wide in such films as in Erin Brockovich (2000), and gained a Golden Globe Award nomination for Best Actor for his role in Thank You for Smoking (2006). He is also known for his role as Two-Face in the 2008 summer blockbuster The Dark Kinght (2008). Eckhart alongside Nicole Kidman worked in a movie called Rabbit Hole (2010)

Eckhart was born in Cupertino, California on March 22, 1968. He was raised in Los Angeles, California. Eckhart studied at the American Community School and at the American International School of Sydney. He was once engaged to actress Emily Cline. They separated in 1998. Eckhart now lives in Beverly Hills, California.

[[Tom Wilkinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Actors from Yorkshire, BAFTA Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Thomas Geoffrey "Tom" Wilkinson Jr. (born 5 February 1948) is an English movie, television, stage, and voice actor. He has been nominated for an Academy Award, for his roles in In the Bedroom and Michael Clayton. In 2009, he won Golden Globe and a Primetime Emmy Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Miniseries or Film for his role in John Adams. Wilkinson is also known for his works in 2005 blockbuster Batman Begins and as Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr. (the father of President John F. Kennedy). in 2011 miniseries The Kennedys.

Wilkinson was born on 5 February 1948 in Wharfedale, West Riding of Yorkshire, England to Thomas Wilkinson Sr. a farmer. Wilkinson was trained at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts and University of Kent. Wilkinson is married to Diana Hardcastle since 1998 and have two daughters, Alice and Mollie. Both Wilkinson and Hardcastle both played the real life couple Joe and Rose Kennedy in the 2011 miniseries The Kennedys.

[[Rutger Hauer]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2019 deaths, Dutch movie actors, Dutch stage actors, Dutch television actors, Dutch voice actors, Golden Globe Award winners, People from Utrecht (province)

Rutger Oelsen Hauer (January 23, 1944 – July 19, 2019) was a Dutch stage, television, and movie actor.

[[Naoko Takahashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic gold medalists

Naoko Takahashi is a Japanese athlete.  She is best known as a long-distance runner competing mainly in the marathon. 

In 2008, she retired from racing.

[[James Whitmore]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2009 deaths, Actors from New York, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from lung cancer, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Grammy Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, Yale University alumni

James Allen Whitmore, Jr. (October 1, 1921  February 6, 2009) was an American stage and movie actor.

[[Rohullah Nikpai]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Hazara people, Olympic bronze medalists, Martial artists, 2008 Summer Olympics, People from Kabul

Rohullah Nikpai (born June 15, 1987) is an athlete from Afghanistan.  He won an Olympic bronze medal for taekwondo.

Nikpai started his training in Kabul, Afghanistan, at the age of 10.  At the 2006 Asian Games in Doha, Qatar Nikpai was in the flyweight division. He lost to silver medalist Nattapong Tewawetchapong of Thailand in round 16. 

Nikpai was in Taekwondo at the 2008 Summer Olympics.  He defeated two-time world champion Juan Antonio Ramos of Spain.  Winning the bronze medal made him Afghanistan's first Olympic medalist in any event. Afghanistan president Hamid Karzai immediately called to congratulate Nikpai. He also gave him a house paid by the government. "I hope this will send a message of peace to my country after 30 years of war," Nikpai said.

[[Mustapha Moussa]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Algerian boxers, Algerian Olympic bronze medalists

Mustapha Moussa (born February 2, 1962 in Oran) is a boxer from Algeria.

Moussa won the bronze medal in the Light Heavyweight division (75–81 kg) at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. He was the first Algerian to win an Olympic medal.

Moussa became a professional boxer in 1988.  He was not very successful. He lost his first fight toMauro Galvano. He fought once in 1992 and 2004, losing both fights. 

[[Crotalus enyo]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Crotalus enyo, also known as the "Lower California Rattlesnake", is a species of venomous Pit viper. There are currently two subspecies found.

[[Mohamed Zaoui]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Algerian boxers, Algerian Olympic bronze medalists

Mohamed Zaoui (born May 14, 1960) is a boxer from Algeria.  Zaoui won the bronze medal in the Middleweight division (71–75 kg) at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.

[[Hal Holbrook]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, Actors from Massachusetts, American Christians, American historians, American movie actors, American musical theatre actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Stage names, Drama Desk Award winners, Emmy Award winning actors, Independent (United States), Television personalities from Ohio, Tony Award winning actors

Harold Rowe "Hal" Holbrook (February 17, 1925 – January 23, 2021) was an American movie, television, stage and voice actor. Holbrook was known to the general audience for playing famous author Mark Twain in plays or on biographical shows.

Holbrook was born in Cleveland, Ohio. He began acting in 1954. He began his Mark Twain routine, so that he can earn money.

Holbrook soon began appearing on plays. He then called his Twain show Mark Twain Tonight. He is also known for his fictional-political shows and as "Deep Throat" in All the President's Men. He also played Abraham Lincoln in several biographical television movies.

Holbrook was nominated for many awards during his career. He is the oldest actor to have nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.

[[Hassiba Boulmerka]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Algerian Olympic gold medalists

Hassiba Boulmerka (born 10 July 1968 in Constantine, Algeria) is a former Algerian middle distance athlete.

Boulmerka started running seriously at the age of ten. She focused on the 800 and 1500 metres. She was successful in national and regional races. Her first major international tournament was the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul.  She was eliminated in the preliminary heat of both the 800 and 1500 m.

The first major race she won was the 800 m. at the Golden Gala race in Rome, Italy. A month later, she was at the World Championships. She won the 1500 m.

Muslim groups in Algeria did not like her.  They thought she showed too much of her body when racing. Boulmerka received death threats. She had to move to Europe to train. She won the 1500 m gold medal at the 1992 Barcelona Olympics. It was Algeria's first gold medal at the Olympic Games.

She won a bronze medal at the 1993 World Championships in Stuttgart. In 1995, she did not win a single race until the World Championships in Gothenburg.  She was at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, but sprained her ankle in the semi-finals. She stopped racing after 1997.

Boulmerka was later elected to the Athletes' Commission of the International Olympic Committee.

Boulmerka has returned to Algeria and is now a businesswoman.

[[Hocine Soltani]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2002 deaths, Algerian boxers, Algerian Olympic gold medalists, Algerian Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1992 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics

Hocine Soltani (December 27, 1972 in Thenia – March 1, 2002 in Marseille) was a boxer from Algeria.  He won two Olympic medals. In 1992 he was third in the featherweight division (54–57 kg).  At the 1996 Summer Olympics he won a gold medal in lightweight.

Hocine became a professional boxer in 1998.  He only fought four times, winning each time.  He quit boxing in 2000. Soltani disappeared in March 2002. His body was found near Marseille, France in September 2004. 

[[Hendrik Verwoerd]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1966 deaths, Afrikaner people, People associated with Apartheid, Murders by blade weapons, Politicians from Amsterdam, Prime Ministers of South Africa

Hendrik Frensch Verwoerd (September 8, 1901 - September 6, 1966) was Prime Minister of South Africa from 1958 to 1966. He was the person chiefly responsible for apartheid. 

He was born in the Netherlands. His parents emigrated to southern Africa when he was two years old. In 1950, Verwoerd became Minister of Native Affairs (native meant the black Africans in the country). He was Prime Minister from 1958 to 1966, when he was murdered. Verwoerd was associated with the National Party.

Verwoerd is often called the "Architect of Apartheid" for his role in apartheid policy when he was Minister of Native Affairs and then Prime Minister. Verwoerd once described apartheid as a "policy of good neighbourliness".

On 9 April 1960 a white farmer named David Pratt attempted to murder Verwoerd by shooting him, but Verwoerd survived the attack.

In 1960, Verwoerd announced that he planned to hold a referendum in South Africa on whether to remain a Commonwealth realm under the British monarch's rule or become a republic.  The South African Parliament (a kind of legislature) voted to present the referendum to the people, and it was held in October. Voters were asked if they wanted to remain under the British monarch's rule, or become a republic. 52% voted to change to a republic. South Africa became a republic on May 31, 1961.

The National Party government under Verowoerd continued to develop the military, and it successfully made new developments in arms production including aircraft, small arms, armed vehicles, and even nuclear weapons.

Three days before his death, Verwoerd held talks with the Prime Minister of the Lesotho, one of the native tribes in South Africa, Chief Leabua Jonathan, at the Union Buildings in Pretoria.  Following the meeting, a joint statement was issued by the two governments with special emphasis on "co-operation without interference in each others' internal affairs".

On 6 September 1966, Verwoerd was murdered in Cape Town, shortly after entering the House of Assembly at 2:15 pm. A parliamentary messenger named Dimitri Tsafendas stabbed Verwoerd in the neck and chest four times before other Assembly members restrained him. Members who were also trained as medical practitioners rushed to aid Verwoerd and started giving cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Verwoerd was rushed to Groote Schuur Hospital, but was declared dead upon arrival.

[[Dick Van Dyke]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, Living people, Actors from Missouri, Actors from Illinois, American movie actors, American movie producers, American musical theatre actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American television actors, American television producers, American voice actors, Comedians from Illinois, Emmy Award winning actors, Grammy Award winners, Kennedy Center honorees, Movie producers from Illinois, People from Danville, Illinois, People from Malibu, California, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Singers from Illinois, Singers from Missouri, Television personalities from Illinois, Tony Award winning actors, Writers from Illinois, Writers from Missouri

Richard Wayne "Dick" Van Dyke (born December 13, 1925) is an American actor, comedian, dancer, producer, singer and writer with his career that has lasted 60 years. He is the older brother of Jerry Van Dyke and father of Barry Van Dyke.

Van Dyke starred in many movies; Bye Bye Birdie, Mary Poppins, Night at the Museum, and Chitty Chitty Bang Bang and in television series The Dick Van Dyke Show and in Diagnosis: Murder. He has a star in the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Van Dyke was once offered the role as Ambassador Thorn in the 1976 movie The Omen, but turned it down because of the movie's violent gory content.

[[Eli Wallach]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, Academy Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, BAFTA Award winners, Deaths from natural causes, 1915 births, 2014 deaths

Eli Herschel Wallach (December 7, 1915 – June 24, 2014) was an American movie, television, voice, and stage actor who gained fame during the late 1950s. For his performance as Silva Vacarro in Baby Doll, he won a BAFTA Award for Best Newcomer, an Honorary Academy Award, an Emmy Award, a Tony Award, and a Golden Globe Award nomination.

[[Outstation movement]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian politics, Indigenous Australian history, Indigenous land rights

In Australia, the outstation movement is the movement of Australian Aboriginal people from large towns to much smaller communities, called outstations. It is mostly seen in the Northern Territory and amongst the people of the Western Desert.

Before the 20th century, most Aboriginal families lived by themselves or in groups of 20–30 people. They were nomadic (moving from place to place), hunting and foraging across the deserts. As Euro-Australians started to build roads, towns and farms on Aboriginal lands, the native people were forced out. They had to move off their lands into towns or missions. There, the government would give them food, water and clothes.

This way of life did not suit them. In the towns, there were many conflicts between different ethnic groups, people became addicted to alcohol, and many of them died from foreign diseases. Many groups were also far away from their traditional homelands, which were important to them and their spirituality. From the 1970s, many families started to move away from the towns. They returned to the places they grew up, and set up smaller communities.

One of the main reasons behind the movement is for Aboriginal people to get back autonomy and self-sufficiency. The communities manage themselves, as nomadic groups (or "tribe") did many years before. Hunting and foraging – getting their own food, and food for everybody – is still important.

[[Santa Catalina rattlesnake]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

The Santa Catalina Rattlesnake (Crotalus catalinensis), also known as the "Santa Catalina Island Rattlesnake", is a species of venomous Pit viper found on Santa Catalina Island. There are currently no subspecies recognized.

==Description== 

The Santa Catalina Rattlesnake is a small and slender species of rattlesnake. It can grow up to the length of 73.1 centimeters (28.8 in), and is known for being one of the few rattlesnakes which don't have a rattle on the end of their tail. Some Santa Catalina Rattlesnakes are light cream in color with reddish-brown blotches down their back, while some are ash gray with dark gray blotches on them.

[[Claire McCaskill]]

CATEGORIES: US Democratic Party politicians, United States senators from Missouri, 1953 births, Living people, State legislators of the United States

Claire Conner McCaskill (born July 24, 1953) is an American politician. She was the United States Senator from Missouri from 2007 to 2019. She is a member of the U.S. Democratic Party. She was the first female elected to the Senate of United States in her own right. Before being elected to United States Senate McCaskill was the Missouri State Auditor from 1999 to 2007. She is a native of Rolla and a graduate of the University of Missouri.

McCaskill lost to Josh Hawley by nearly 9% in her re-election bid in 2018.

[[Arlene Dahl]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Minneapolis, Minnesota, American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, 1925 births, Living people

Arlene Carol Dahl (born August 11, 1925) is an American actress. She is a former MGM contract star. Dahl became famous in the 1950s. She was born in Minneapolis and starred in many movies. She is the mother of actor Lorenzo Lamas.

[[Didache]]

CATEGORIES: Christian texts, Ancient Christianity

The Didache (pronounced "did ah kay") or The Teaching of the Twelve Apostles is an early Christian hand book. It was written in the first or early second century AD.

It gives information about Christian ethics, rituals such as baptism and Eucharist, and Church organization.

[[Youth Riding a Rooster (Epiktetos)]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek paintings, Ancient Greek pottery, Paintings and pottery by Epiktetos

Youth Riding a Rooster is a red-figure plate painted by Epiktetos about 520–510 BC. Its diameter measures 7 3/8 in. (18.7 cm). The plate is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. It shows a boy riding a rooster. It was a rare subject among ancient artists. It probably references homosexual relations between older men and youths. It also references the practice among Greek males of giving a rooster as a love gift.

The vase scholar Sir John Beazley wrote in 1918 in Attic Red-Figured Vases in American Museums (p. 18): "The best of Epiktetos is in his plates. You cannot draw better, you can only draw differently. Epiktetos' people are all lightness and fairy grace, as if they belonged to a world where passion and pain were unknown, to those 'woods of Athens' where Oberon reigned in the days before 'the middle summer's spring'".

The plate was discovered in Vulci in 1828. Twenty years later it became the possession of the second marquess of Northampton. On July 2, 1980, his great-great-grandson, the seventh marquess, sold it with other pottery at Christie's in London.

[[Footrace on a Panathenaic Amphora]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek paintings, Ancient Greek pottery

Footrace on a Panathenaic Amphora is a depiction of an ancient Greek footrace on a terracotta amphora dated about 530 BC. It is said to be by the Euphiletos Painter. The height of the amphora is 24 1/2 in. (62.23 cm). 

The amphora would have been filled with olive oil from the sacred groves at Athens then given as a prize to the winner of a footrace in the Panathenaic Games at Athens. These games were held every four years. The amphora is held in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. 

These prize amphores were made to a standardized shape, held about 42 quarts, and were decorated in the black-figure technique. An armed Athena was depicted on the front of the amphora and a picture of the sport on the back. This amphora depicts five men and a youth. 

The museum writes, "Notice the wealth of incised lines depicting musculature, a preoccupation of Greek artists for centuries to come ... An inscription on the front of the amphora gives not only the official designation of the vase as a prize, but also the signature of the potter, Nikias, a rare occurrence on pots of this shape."

[[Greg Louganis]]

CATEGORIES: American adoptees, American autobiographers, LGBT people from California, American Olympic gold medalists, American Olympic silver medalists, Divers, Gay men, LGBT Olympians, Medalists at the 1976 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1984 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1988 Summer Olympics, People with HIV/AIDS, Sportspeople from California, Writers from California, 1960 births, Living people

Greg Louganis (born January 29, 1960) is an American Olympic diver and author. He was born in El Cajon, California. He is of Samoan and Swedish descent and was adopted by a Greek-American couple. He received a James E. Sullivan Award from the Amateur Athletic Union. He won a silver medal at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal. 

[[Vicki Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Inglewood, California, Singers from Los Angeles County, California, 1949 births, Living people

Vicki Ann Axelrad (also called Vicki Lawrence; born March 26 1949) is an American comedienne, actress and a singer. She is best known for her acting on the Carol Burnett Show and as Thelma Harper on Mama's Family. She was often on game shows in the 1970s and 1980s.

[[Georges Pompidou]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer deaths in France, Deaths from lymphoma, French military people, French people of World War II, Prime Ministers of France, Presidents of France, 1911 births, 1974 deaths

Georges Jean Raymond Pompidou (5 July 1911 - 2 April 1974) was a French politician. He was the President of the French Republic from 20 June 1969 until 2 April 1974. He was born in Cantal. He fought in World War II. 

He also was Prime Minister of France from 14 April 1962 until 10 July 1968. In 1968, he was elected president. He died of lymphoma in Paris. He is the only French president of the French Fifth Republic to die in office. 

[[John Ratzenberger]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, American television actors, American movie actors, Republicans (United States), Actors from Bridgeport, Connecticut, Pixar, Living people, American voice actors

John Deszo Ratzenberger (born April 6, 1947 in Bridgeport, Connecticut) is an American actor, voice actor, and entrepreneur. 

[[Shaivism]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism

Shaivism is a form of Hinduism, which sees Shiva as the most important deity. In practice, there are different branches of Shaivism.  Shaivism is common in  India, Nepal and Sri Lanka. It can also be found in  Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia.

Shaivism are routed from southern part of India, mainly from present day Tamil Nadu, The oldest shiva temples in the state are living proof for that..Major Kings ruled Southern India also considered Lord Siva as their God

[[Christopher Plummer]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Satellite Award winners, Actors from Toronto, BAFTA Award winning actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian radio actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Drama Desk Award winners, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States

Arthur Christopher Orme Plummer CAN (December 13, 1929 – February 5, 2021) was a Canadian actor. His career began in 1946 and had his first Broadway role in 1954. He first main stage roles were as Cyrano de Bergerac in Cyrano (1974) and Iago in Othello. He also appeared in Hamlet at Elsinore, Macbeth, King Lear, and Barrymore. 

After appearing on stage, he made his first movie appearances in Stage Struck (1958) and had his first main role that same year in Wind Across the Everglades. He became well known for playing Captain Georg von Trapp in the musical movie The Sound of Music (1965). Plummer played many historical people in movies, such as Commodus in The Fall of the Roman Empire (1964), Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington in Waterloo (1970), Rudyard Kipling in The Man Who Would Be King (1975), Mike Wallace in The Insider (1999), Leo Tolstoy in The Last Station (2009), Kaiser Wilhelm II in The Exception (2016), and J. Paul Getty in All the Money in the World (2017).

Plummer also narrated the animated series Madeline and voiced Charles Muntz in the Disney Pixar movie Up (2009). His final roles were as Harlan Thrombey in Knives Out (2019), Frank Pitsenbarger in The Last Full Measure (2020) and as Howard Lawson in the television drama Departure. 

Plummer won many awards for his work. He won an Academy Award, two Primetime Emmy Awards, two Tony Awards, a Golden Globe Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a British Academy Film Award. He was one of the few actors to have won the Triple Crown of Acting, and the only Canadian. He won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, at aged 82, for Beginners (2010). At the time, he became the oldest person to win an acting Oscar. He was nominated again for an Academy Award, at aged 88, for All the Money in the World. This made him the oldest person to be nominated for an acting Oscar.

[[Jeffrey Tambor]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, 1944 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from San Francisco

Jeffrey Michael Tambor (born July 8, 1944 in San Francisco, California) is an American actor and voice actor who is known for his role as Hank Knigsley on The Larry Sanders Show, King Atlantis in SpongeBob SquarePants, and as George Bluth, Sr. and Oscar Bluth on Arrested Development. He won a Golden Globe Award and an Emmy Award in 2015.

Tambor was married to Kathryn Mitchell from 1991 until they divorced in 1999. He is currently married to Kasia Ostlun since 2001 and have 4 children together.

[[Bill Cobbs]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, American movie actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Living people, Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, African American actors, American television actors

Wilbert "Bill" Cobbs (born June 16, 1934) is an American movie and television actor. He has starred in over 120 movies and television programs.

[[World line]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

A world line is the unique path that an object has as it travels through both space and time, usually called spacetime. As we learn from special relativity, the faster an object goes, the more time slows down for that object.  As you can see in the illustration to the right, the slower object has a quicker passage of time than the very fast object, the one which time passes much more slowly for. When an object reaches the speed of light, it will be zero on the t axis, meaning that it will have made no progress in the time direction. Basically, the world lines show that when the speed of light is reached, time stops for the observer. World lines are very often used in theoretical physics and special relativity, as well as general relativity.

[[Vase in the Form of a Phallus]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek paintings, Ancient Greek pottery

Vase in the Form of a Phallus is an ancient Greek terracotta vase in the form of a flaccid, uncircumcised, penis. The scrotum and pubic hair are depicted. Its overall measurements are 4 ½ in. x 4 in. x 3 ½ in. (11.4 cm. x 10.2 cm. x 8.9 cm.). It dates back to the Archaic period, about  550 BC to 500 BC. Phallic vases are rare in Archaic Greek pottery, and this vase is thought to have held a perfumed oil, used for erotic or medicinal purposes. It is also believed to have been made in Rhodes. The museum writes that the vase displays a playfulness typical of Greek art.

[[Noureddine Morceli]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, 1992 Summer Olympics, 1996 Summer Olympics, 2000 Summer Olympics, Algerian Olympic gold medalists, Male athletes

Noureddine Morceli (born February 28, 1970 in Ténès, Chlef Province) is a retired Algerian athlete.  He won the 1500 m run at the 1996 Summer Olympics. He won the silver medal in the 1500 m at the World Junior Championships in 1988. Morceli went to college in Riverside, California.

Morceli was coached by his brother Abderrahmane.  His brother ran for Algeria in the Moscow Olympics of 1980 and in Los Angeles in 1984.

[[Mohamed Bahari]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Algerian boxers, Algerian Olympic bronze medalists

Mohamed Bahari (born June 29, 1976 in Sidi Bel Abbes, Algeria) is a boxer from Algeria.

Bahari won the bronze medal in the middleweight division (71–75 kg) at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. Bahari became a professional boxer in 2003. His last fight was in 2004.  He retired with a record of 3-2-2.

[[George Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: American criminals, Governors of Illinois, Politicians from Iowa, Lieutenant Governors of Illinois, US Republican Party politicians, 1934 births, Living people, Pharmacists

George Homer Ryan, Sr. (born February 24 1934) is an American politician. He is a Republican. He was the former Governor of Illinois. He is a member for the United States Republican Party. His political career was tarnished due to scandals and corruption: Ryan was found guilty on almost all charges and sent to prison. He was released in 2013. Ryan was Illinois' Governor beginning 1999 until 2003. He is listed as Federal Inmate Number 16627-424, and was scheduled July 4, 2013. He was released in June 2013.

[[Nouria Mérah-Benida]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Algerian Olympic gold medalists, Female athletes, People from Algiers

Nouria Mérah-Benida (born October 19, 1970 in Algiers) is an Algerian middle distance runner.

At the 1999 All-Africa Games in Johannesburg Mérah-Benida won silver medals in both 800 metres and 1500 metres. At the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney she won the gold medal. In 2000 she also won an 800 m silver medal and a 1500 m gold medal at the African Championships.

[[Ali Saïdi-Sief]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Algerian Olympic medalists, Olympic silver medalists

Ali Saidi-Sief (born March 15, 1978 in Constantine) is an Algerian Olympic runner.  His speciality is the 1500 m race.  He won a silver medal in the 2000 Summer Olympics for the 5000 m.

Saidi-Sief received a two-year suspension from the International Association of Athletics Federations.  He failed a urine test at the 2001 World Championships in Athletics in Edmonton, Canada.  He tested positive for nandrolone, a banned performance-enhancing steroid.

[[Djabir Saïd-Guerni]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Algerian Olympic bronze medalists, People from Algiers

Djabir Saïd-Guerni (born March 29, 1977 in Algiers) is an Algerian retired athlete. He ran in the 800 metres. He won a bronze medal in the 2000 Summer Olympics.

He announced his retirement on 6 May 2007, following injury problems. His personal best time was 1:43.09 minutes.  He got this in September 1999 in Brussels.

[[Abderrahmane Hammad]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Algerian Olympic bronze medalists

Abderrahmane Hammad Zaheer (born May 27, 1977 in Dellys) is a former Algerian track and field athlete.  He was in the high jump. He won the bronze medal in the 2000 Summer Olympics.  He was also in the 2004 Athens Olympics. His personal best of 2.34 m is the Algerian record for the event. He retired from the sport in 2010.

Hammad began his international career as a junior in 1994.  He won the high jump silver medals at the African Junior Athletics Championships and Pan Arab Junior Championships. He went on to win the African Junior gold medal the following year.  Then he won the Arab Junior title in 1996. He was at the 1996 World Junior Championships in Athletics but did not make it into the final round.

Hammad had his first international success at senior level in 1997.  He won the silver at both the Pan Arab Championships and the 1997 Pan Arab Games.

The 2000 season was the top of his career.  He kept his title at the 2000 African Championships in Athletics in Algiers.  He made his areer best jump of 2.34 m. He then was in his first Olympicss at the 2000 Sydney Games. He won the bronze medal. He won the high jump at the 2001 Mediterranean Games.  He was ninth at the 2001 World Championships in Athletics. He won his third high jump title in a row at the 2002 African Championships in Athletics.  He took bronze at the 2002 IAAF Grand Prix Final.  He placed fourth for Africa at the 2002 IAAF World Cup.

He represented Algeria for a second time at the Olympics at the 2004 Games in Athens.  He failed to reach the final. He was at the 2004 Pan Arab Games and took the high jump title.

[[Mohamed Allalou]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Algerian boxers, Living people, Algerian Olympic bronze medalists

Mohamed Allalou (born September 28, 1973) is an Algerian boxer. He was in the Men's Light Welterweight division at the 2000 Summer Olympics.  He won the bronze medal. He was also in the 1996 Summer Olympics.

[[Epiktetos]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek painters, Ancient Greek potters

Epiktetos was an ancient Greek potter and vase painter. His name means "newly acquired". He may have been a slave, as were most potters and painters in ancient Greece. He worked mostly with cups and plates between 520 and 490 BC in the red-figure style. He signed more than half his works. He was an expert with the tondothe circular picture at the bottom of a cup. He painted mostly everyday scenes rather than mythological ones. His end is unknown.

[[Soraya Haddad]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Algerian Olympic bronze medalists, Judoka, 2008 Summer Olympics

Soraya Haddad (born September 30, 1984 in El-Kseur) is an Algerian judoka. She won the bronze medal in the Women's 52 kg weight class at the 2008 Summer Olympics. She was African champion four times: 2004, 2005, 2008 and 2011.  She also won the bronze medal in the 48 kg category in the 2005 World Championships in Egypt. 

[[Amar Benikhlef]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Judoka, Algerian Olympic medalists, Olympic silver medalists

Amar Benikhlef (born 11 January 1982) is an Algerian judoka.  He won the silver medal in the 90 kg group of Judo in 2008.

[[Kalos inscription]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek pottery

A kalos inscription is a marking on ancient Greek pottery. They were prevalent during the Classical period (550 to 450 BC). Kalos (καλός) means "beautiful", and in these inscriptions it had an erotic meaning. The word kalos was followed by the beloved's nameusually a youth, but sometimes a girl or woman working as a prostitute. These inscriptions are usually found on the drinking cups used during a drinking party. They were probably declarations of love. They are sometimes found as graffiti on walls.

[[Koji Murofushi]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic gold medalists, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, People from Shizuoka Prefecture

Koji Alexander Murofushi is a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as a hammer thrower who took part in four Summer Olympic Games. 

[[Lachesis (genus)]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Lachesis, also known as the "bushmasters", is a genus of venomous Pit vipers found in forests of Central and South America. The name "Lachesis" is also the name of one of the Three Fates in Greek mythology. There are currently three species found.

[[Leonid Yengibarov]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 1972 deaths, Actors from Moscow, Armenian actors, Clowns, Russian movie actors, Soviet movie actors

Leonid Georgievich Yengibarov (Լեոնիդ Ենգիբարյան; Леонид Георгиевич Енгибаров; March 15, 1935 – July 25, 1972) was a Soviet clown and actor.

Yengibarov was born in Moscow. His father was Armenian. His mother was Russian. He started his career as a boxer. In 1955 he joined the State School of Circus Art. After graduation in 1959 he moved to Yerevan and joined the Armenian state circus.

He was one of the first Soviet clowns to create the poetic, intellectual clownery. He was invited to work in cinema. His first film was A Path to the Arena.

In 1960s he was known as one of the best clowns in the USSR and Eastern bloc.July 2012 He created a pantomime troupe, and managed to stage only a single piece, "Star Rain" before his death in 1972.

[[Great Sandy Desert]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts of Australia, Geography of Western Australia

The Great Sandy Desert is a desert in the northwest of Australia, mostly in Western Australia. It is the second-largest desert in Australia (after the Great Victoria Desert). It covers about 284993. South of the Great Sandy Desert is the Gibson Desert, and to the east is the Tanami Desert.

There are not many people living in the Great Sandy Desert. Most of them  are Aboriginal communities and mining towns. The Aboriginal people of the desert fall into two main groups: the Martu in the west and the Pintupi in the east. They both speak Western Desert languages.

The area does not get much rain, but even in the driest parts rainfalls rarely drop below 250. The rate of evaporation (how quickly the water dries up) is very high. Most of the rain comes from thunderstorms. Many drought years end with a monsoon or tropical cyclone. On average for most of the area, there are about 20-30 days where thunderstorms form.

Most of the plants growing across the Great Sandy Desert are spinifex grasses. Animals living in the desert include  dingos, red kangaroo, monitor lizards, bilbies, marsupial mole, thorny devils, bearded dragons and many other species of lizard.

The first European to cross the desert was Peter Warburton. He made the journey from Alice Springs leaving in April 1873 and arriving at De Grey Station in January 1874. When Warburton arrived, he was starving and blind in one eye. He thanked his survival on his Aboriginal companion Charley. 

[[The Disrobing of Christ (painting)]]

CATEGORIES: Paintings with Christian themes, Spanish paintings, Paintings by El Greco, 16th century paintings

The Disrobing of Christ is an oil painting by El Greco. It was completed in the spring of 1579 for the High Altar of the sacristy of the Cathedral of Toledo, where it still hangs. It measures 285 x 173cm. Harold Wethey says that the painting is a "masterpiece of extraordinary originality". The power of the picture depends upon El Greco's original and forceful use of color.

[[Azemiopinae]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Azemiopinae, commonly known as the "Fea's vipers", is a monotypic subfamily made for a monotypic genus, Azemiops, which contains the venomous viper, Azemiops Feae. It is found on the mountains of Southeast Asia.

[[Parable of the Prodigal Son]]

CATEGORIES: Parables of Jesus

The Parable of the Prodigal Son is one of the parables of Jesus. It is found only in the Gospel of Luke at 15:11-32.  The parable is about a son who wastes his share of his father's estate. He loses all his money and gets work feeding pigs—one of the lowest jobs a person can do according to the Jewish religion.  He repents and returns to his father's house. He is welcomed and a feast is held.  His older, dutiful brother who has worked without reward for his father resents the fuss made over the prodigal son. His father reminds him that all he has is his. He says they should still celebrate the return of the younger boy because he has come back to them. In the Western Catholic church, this parable is usually read on the third Sunday of Lent. In the Eastern Orthodox Church it is read on the Sunday of the Prodigal Son. The parable is the subject of much art, music, literature, and stage works.

This is the last of three parables about loss and redemption. It follows the Parable of the Lost Sheep and the Parable of the Lost Coin. Jesus tells this parable after the Pharisees and religious leaders accuse him of welcoming and eating with "sinners." The father's joy described in the parable reflects divine love, the "boundless mercy of God," and "God's refusal to limit the measure of his grace."

[[Parable of the Mustard Seed]]

CATEGORIES: Parables of Jesus

The Parable of the Mustard Seed is one of the parables of Jesus.  It is found in three of the Gospels of the New Testament: Gospel of Matthew (13:31–32), Gospel of Mark (4:30–32), and Gospel of Luke (13:18–19). The differences among the three tellings are minor.  

In Matthew and Luke, this parable is followed by the Parable of the Leaven. The Parable of the Leaven also has a theme about the Kingdom of Heaven growing from small beginnings. A version of the parable also occurs in the non-canonical Gospel of Thomas 20.

The parable from Matthew reads: "The Kingdom of Heaven is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field; which indeed is smaller than all seeds. But when it is grown, it is greater than the herbs, and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in its branches." The parables from Mark and Luke are similar.

[[Parable of the Lost Sheep]]

CATEGORIES: Parables of Jesus

The Parable of the Lost Sheep is one of the parables of Jesus. It is found in the Gospel of Matthew at 18:12–14 and the Gospel of Luke at 15:3–7. It also appears in the non-canonical Gospel of Thomas. The parable is one of three that tell of loss and redemption. The others are The Lost Coin and The Prodigal Son. The Lost Sheep tells of a shepherd who leaves his 99 sheep to search for one sheep that is lost. Joel B. Green writes that "these parables are ... about God, ... their aim is to lay bare the nature of the divine response to the recovery of the lost." The parable has been depicted often in art.

[[Brandenburg Gate (Potsdam)]]

CATEGORIES: Potsdam, Buildings and structures in Germany, 1770s establishments in Europe, 18th century establishments in Germany

The Brandenburg Gate (Brandenburger Tor) on the Luisenplatz in Potsdam, should not be confused with the gate of the same name on Berlin's Pariser Platz, it was built in 1770/71 by Carl von Gontard and Georg Christian Unger by order of Frederick II of Prussia. It stands at the western end of Brandenburger Straße, which runs in a straight line up to the Church of St. Peter and St. Paul.

Previously, from 1733, there was another, simpler gate on the same spot, which resembled a castle gateway. Together with the city wall, a form of toll barrier, and the other gates it was intended to prevent desertion and smuggling.

Towards the end of the Seven Years' War, Frederick the Great had the old gate demolished and built, in its stead, this new Brandenburg Gate, as a symbol of his victory.

Since the city wall was demolished around 1900 the Brandenburg Gate has been a free-standing structure.

[[List of amphibians]]

CATEGORIES: Amphibians, Lists of animals

This is a list of amphibians by family

[[Frogs as pets]]

CATEGORIES: Pets, Frogs

Frogs have become a popular exotic pet. They can be kept in basic conditions, compared to reptiles. They are not expensive and their food is easily purchased. Common pet frogs includes ranids, hylids, bufonids, leptodactylids, and dendrobatids.

Pet frogs can be fed a lot of different live foods. These include crickets, rodents and fish. Small pet frogs will only eat crickets, fruit flies, springtails and other small arthropods. Medium-sized pet frogs can be fed larger crickets, mealworms, butterworms, silkworms, grasshoppers and small fish. Large pet frogs like Ceratophrys frogs, can be fed small fish, other frogs, reptiles, and small mammals such as mice or rats.

Amphibians of all sizes would need different terrariums. Tree frogs like to climb and can escape if a pet owner does not add a top cover for their tanks. Semi-aquatic amphibians need both land and water divided in the tank. Tropical frogs would need mist and high humidity in their terrariums. All amphibians water must be treated with dechlorination. The chlorine can kill amphibians, and are found in tap water. Many amphibians are a popular exotic pet and are found in pet stores that sell reptiles.

[[Bombinatoridae]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Bombinatoridae or fire-bellied toads is a family of toads. It includes two genus Barbourula and Bombina. They have bright colors which means that they are toxic.

[[Debbie Allen]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Houston, Texas, American movie actors, American choreographers, 1950 births, Living people, Drama Desk Award winners

Deborrah Kaye "Debbie" Allen (born January 16 1950, Houston ) is an American dancer, actress and television producer. She also taught choreography and acted in Broadway plays.

[[Ascaphidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Ascaphidae is a family of frogs. They are called tailed frogs because they have an organ that looks like a tail. The tail helps them to live in fast-moving streams. They live in North America.

[[Pipidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Pipidae is a family of frogs. They do not have tongues. There are over 30 species of Pipidae frogs. They are found in tropical places in South America and Africa.

[[African bullfrog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The African bullfrog (Pyxicephalus adspersus) is a species of frog. They are in the Ranidae family. They are commonly named pixie frog because of their Latin name. They are found in Angola, Botswana, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Eswatini, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe, and possibly Democratic Republic of the Congo. They live in dry savannas, subtropical or tropical habitats. Males are bigger and longer than females.

[[Twyla Tharp]]

CATEGORIES: People from New York City, American stage actors, 1941 births, Living people, Emmy Award winners, Tony Award winners, Kennedy Center honorees, American writers, Drama Desk Award winners

Twyla Tharp (born July 1 1941) is an American dancer and choreographer.  She lives and works in New York City.  

Her work often uses classical music, jazz, and contemporary pop music.  In 1973, Tharp choreographed the ballet Deuce Coupe to the music of The Beach Boys.  It is considered to be the first crossover ballet.  Later she choreographed Push Comes to Shove.  That ballet featured Mikhail Baryshnikov and is now thought to be the best example of the crossover ballet.

Tharp has choreographed dances for many important ballet companies around the world.  She also has had success on Broadway.  In 1985, her staging of Singin' in the Rain, played at the Gershwin for 367 performances.  Her dance musical Movin' Out ran for 1,331 performances on Broadway. The musical is set to the music and lyrics of Billy Joel. It received 10 Tony Award nominations and Tharp was named Best Choreographer.  

[[Chytridiomycosis]]

CATEGORIES: Animal diseases, Fungal diseases

Chytridiomycosis is an infectious disease of amphibians. They are caused by the chytrid Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis. Chytridiomycosis is believed to be one of the many reasons why amphibian population is declining. They have also made many species extinct. The fungus is capable of causing deaths in some amphibian populations and 100% mortality in others. There is no cure. The fungus has decreased the amphibian population by 30% worldwide.

[[Temnospondyl]]

CATEGORIES: Temnospondyls

Temnospondyls are an order of small to giant batrachomorph tetrapods. They lived worldwide from the Carboniferous to the Triassic. A few species continued into the Lower Cretaceous.

The Temnospondyls are similar or identical to the Labyrinthodonts minus the Lepospondyls. It is probably an evolutionary grade, not monophyletic. It is convenient to use, because all these early amphibia were so different from present-day amphibia.p169 Many in the early Permian looked more like reptiles because they were adapted to life in a drier climate. Nevertheless, they were amphibians, and many larval stages have been found.

They are a large group of some 40 families and 160 genera.p322 Fossils have been found on every continent. Their evolutionary history spans 210 million years. During this time, they adapted to a wide range of habitats including fresh water, terrestrial, and even coastal marine environments.

Fossils are known from the larval stage, metamorphosis, and maturity.p184 Most temnospondyls were semiaquatic, although some were almost fully terrestrial, returning to the water only to breed. These temnospondyls were some of the first vertebrates fully adapted to life on land. Although temnospondyls are considered amphibians, many had characteristics such as scales, claws, and armour-like bony plates which modern amphibians do not have.

The youngest known temnospondyl is the Australian Koolasuchus that lived about 120 million years ago during the Early Cretaceous.

[[Lepospondyl]]

CATEGORIES: Amphibians

The Lepospondyli are a large group of batrachomorph tetrapods from the Palaeozoic era. They are sometimes included in the Labyrinthodonts. 

They lived during the Carboniferous to the early Permian. There are six different groups. The Acherontiscidae, Adelospondyli, Aïstopoda, Lysorophia, Microsauria and Nectridea. The included species which looked somewhat like newts, eels, snakes and lizards. Some of them were aquatic, semi-aquatic, and terrestrial animals. None of them were big animals.

[[Peltobatrachus]]

CATEGORIES: Temnospondyls

Peltobatrachus (from Greek pelte, meaning shield and batrakhos, meaning frog) is an extinct genus of temnospondyl amphibians from the late Permian period of Tanzania. They were large and slow-moving animals. They reached 70 centimeters (2.3 ft) in length. They were terrestrial amphibians. They only went back to the water to lay their eggs. They eat insects, worms and snails.

[[Terrestrial animal]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology

A terrestrial animal is an animal that lives on land such as dog, cat, an ant or an emu. It can also be used for some species of amphibians that only go back to the water to lay their eggs. It is usually a term to describe the difference between animals that live in water, (such as lobsters and fish), from animals that live on land.

[[Sister group]]

CATEGORIES: Cladistics

A sister group or sister taxon is a term used to describe the closest relatives of an organism (or other taxon) in a phylogenetic tree. It is a term in cladistics.

The sister group of organism A is B. The sister group of the clade B+A, is C.

[[Reptiliomorpha]]

CATEGORIES: Amphibians, Reptiles

Reptiliomorpha is a clade of the amniotes and those tetrapods that share a more recent common ancestor with amniotes than with living amphibians (lissamphibians).

Unfortunately, different experts have used the term in several different ways. It has even been used for fossils of early amphibians. It is best used for animals which lay cleidoic eggs, but are not synapsids. Otherwise precursors of reptiles (sauropsids) get lumped together with precursors of mammals (synapsids).

Its only justification is that it may not always be possible to decide which group a fossil is from. But gradually, as with Seymouria, it is possible to separate fossils into more specific grouups.

[[Youth Riding a Hippalektryon (Epiktetos)]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek paintings, Ancient Greek pottery, Paintings and pottery by Epiktetos

Youth Riding a Hippalektryon is a circular painting (tondo) in the bottom of the bowl of an ancient Greek terracotta drinking cup. It was painted by Epiktetos. It is dated to the Archaic period of Greek art (ca. 530–520 BC). The cup stands about 5 1/8 in. (13 cm) tall. A hippalektryon is a mythical creature, part horse and part rooster. The cup is held in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. The museum writes, "Late sixth-century vases connected with drinking occasionally have subjects that go beyond the familiar gorgons, griffins, or sphinxes. The hippalektryon belongs to this category. It is interesting to compare this piece to the fine early red-figure plate by Epiktetos showing a youth riding a rooster."

[[Spy-fi]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction, Genres

The genre known as Spy-fi is a cross-over between the genres of spy fiction and science fiction. The story usually involves a spy with advanced technological weapons or gadgets, and sometimes the villain is a mad scientist or evil genius with robots or advanced technological weapons and gadgets. The film and novel series James Bond was a popularizer of the genre, as well as such TV shows as The Man from UNCLE, Mission: Impossible, and I Spy.

[[Amanda Marshall]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Toronto, 1972 births, Living people

Amanda Marshall (born August 29, 1972) is a Canadian pop-rock singer. Her self-titled first record was in 1995. It was a major success in Canada. Her most successful single was "Birmingham". Marshall has released many singles. She has not had a studio album since around 2001.

[[Singing Reveler (Epiktetos)]]

CATEGORIES: Paintings and pottery by Epiktetos, Ancient Greek paintings, Ancient Greek pottery

Singing Reveler is the tondo (circular painting) in a terracotta drinking cup said to have been painted by Epiktetos. It is dated about 520510 BC.  The cup measures 3 1/16 x 9 15/16 x 7 1/16 to 7 3/16 in. The cup is in the collections of The J. Paul Getty Museum.

The tondo depicts an older, balding man reclining on a couch and singing. The setting is probably a drinking party (symposium). These cups were meant to be used at such parties and were often decorated with party scenes. 

The tondo presented problems to painters. It was difficult to present upright figures in a circle. Epiktetos solved this problem by using the couch as a line. The man's mantle slipping from the couch creates depth and space. The museum writes, "Epiktetos also used the circular frame of the tondo as part of the composition: it supports the man's pillow, and he props his foot on it."

[[Pentathletes (Carpenter Painter)]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek paintings, Ancient Greek pottery

Pentathletes is a painting on an ancient Greek terracotta drinking cup from Athens. It is said to be the work of the Carpenter Painter. It is dated about 510500 BC.  The cup measures 4 5/16 x 15 x 13 3/16 in. In the circular painting (tondo) at the bottom of the bowl of the cup, a youth pulls an older man to him for a kiss. The outside of the cup depicts bearded men and youths exercising with discus and javelin. A youth in a long robe plays music. The pictures reflect the interests of the aristocrats who would have used such a cup at a drinking party.

[[Salt pan]]

CATEGORIES: Plains, Landforms

A salt plain (also known as a salt pan or salt flat) is a flat area of ground covered with salt and other minerals. They are usually purely white. They are found in desert areas. In areas where salt plains form, the rate of evaporation (how quickly water dries up) is faster than the rate of precipitation (how often rain falls). A salt plain is formed where a lake or pond would otherwise be found. When the water dries up, the minerals stay left behind on the suface of the ground. Over thousands of years, the minerals (usually salts) build up on the surface.

Large salt plains are common in the Sahara Desert, the Kalahari Desert, the Rann of Kutch, the western United States and the central deserts of Australia. The Altiplano in Bolivia has the world's largest salt plan, the Salar de Uyuni.

[[Witchetty grub]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian culture, Moths

A witchetty grub (also spelled witchety grub or witjuti grub) is the large, white larva of a moth. It is a name used in Australia. Normally, it refers to the larvae of the cossid moth Endoxyla leucomochla, found in central Australia. These moths eat the roots of the witchetty bush (a plant named after the grubs). It is also sometimes used to refer to the larvae of other cossid moths, as well as those of ghost moths (Hepialidae). It is used mainly when the larvae are being thought of as food. Because it contains a lot of protein, the grub is the most important insect food of the desert. It was a staple in the diets of nomadic Aboriginal people living in the outback.

The name witchetty (or witjuti) comes from the Adnyamathanha language. The name comes from the words wityu (meaning "hooked stick") and vartu (meaning "grub").

[[Carpenter Painter]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek painters, Ancient Greek potters

The Carpenter Painter was a red-figure vase painter. He worked in Athens. He was active between 515 and 500 BC.  He chiefly painted cups. His real name is unknown. "Carpenter Painter" is taken from his depiction of a carpenter at work on a cup in the British Museum. Few of his works are known. The way he painted nipples, pectorals, hands, garments, and other details identify his work.

[[John Astin]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Actors from Baltimore, Maryland

John Allen Astin (born March 30, 1930) is an American movie, television, stage, voice, and radio actor. He has acted in many movies and television shows. He is best known for his role as Gomez Addams in The Addams Family, his role in Evil Roy Slade, and other comedic characters.

Astin was born on March 30, 1930 in Baltimore, Maryland. He studied at Washington & Jefferson College and at Johns Hopkins University.

Astin was married to Suzanne Hahn from 1956 until they divorced in 1972. He was married to Patty Duke from 1972 to 1985. He married Valeri Ann Sandobal in 1989. Astin had five sons; three by Hahn (David, Allen, and Tom), one by Duke (Mackenzie) and one adopted by Astin and Duke (Sean). Astin lives in Baltimore, Maryland.

[[Peter O'Toole]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2013 deaths, Academy Award Honorary Award winners, BAFTA Award winning actors, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from stomach cancer, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Irish movie actors, Irish radio actors, Irish stage actors, Irish television actors, Irish voice actors

Peter Seamus Lorcan O'Toole (2 August 1932 – 14 December 2013) was an Irish movie and stage actor. He was known for his stage plays that were mostly based on that of William Shakespeare.

O'Toole was born on 2 August 1932 in Connemara, County Galway, Irish Free State.

O'Toole's career lasted almost 60 years. He became famous for his role as T. E. Lawrence in Lawrence of Arabia (1962). He received his first Academy Award nomination for that role. He received seven more Academy Award nominations – for Becket (1964), The Lion in Winter (1968), Goodbye, Mr. Chips (1969), The Ruling Class (1972), The Stunt Man (1980), My Favorite Year (1982), and Venus (2006). O'Toole holds the record for the most Academy Award nominations by an actor without a win.

O'Toole won four Golden Globes, a BAFTA Award, and an Emmy Award. He also received an honorary Academy Award in 2003. 

O'Toole died on 14 December 2013 in London, England from stomach cancer. He was 81 years old. 

[[Cerastes]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Cerastes is a genus of small venomous vipers growing up to the length of around 50 cm. There are currently three species found. They are usually known as the "Horned Vipers", the "North African Desert Vipers", or the "Cerastes Vipers".

[[Las Vegas culture]]

CATEGORIES: History of Ecuador, Cultural anthropology

Las Vegas culture is the name for a number of setltements on the coast of present-day Ecuador. These settlements were created between roughly 8000 and 4600 BCE. In total, there are 31 settlements. The people who lived there were hunter-gatherers. They had also started agriculture. Bone points and a spatula have been discovered. They may have been used for making nets or textiles, along with various tools and containers shaped of shell; wood, bamboo, reeds, and bark are also believed to have been used in the tool industry.

No mummies have been found on the coast of Ecuador. The Las Vegas people had similarities with the people whose remains are preserved as the Chinchorro mummies of the north coast of Chile.They also lived at the same time. 

[[Yu Kil-chun]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1914 deaths, Korean activists, Korean educators, Anti-Communists, Korean politicians, Murder victims, Autobiographers

Yu Kil-chun (유길준 兪吉濬, 1856-1914) was a Korean politician, philosopher, thinker, reform activist and independence activist during the Joseon Dynasty. His nickname was Gudang, Chunmin, Guyil.

[[Plot]]

Plot may mean:

[[Katherine Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: African-American people, Jackson family, People from Alabama, 1930 births, Living people

Katherine Esther Jackson (born May 4, 1930 as Kattie B. Screws) is the matriarch of the Jackson family of musicians and singers, including Michael Jackson, La Toya and Janet Jackson. She is the widow of Joe Jackson. 

Jackson had 10 children. Several of the children became famous.  In 1985 Essence honored her as "Mother of the Year".

In 1990, Jackson released her autobiography, My Family.  The book told about her early years and her relationship with her husband and their children.

On June 25, 2009, Michael Jackson died. Katherine was granted temporary guardianship of Michael's three children. In 2012 her guardianship was suspended for a short time.  The guardianship resumed with TJ Jackson, Michael's nephew, added as a co-guardian. 

[[Fax]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications

Fax (short for facsimile),  or telecopying, is the transmission of scanned printed material (both text and images), to a telephone number connected to a printer or other output device. 

The original document is scanned with a fax machine (or a telecopier), which turns the contents (text or images)  into a bitmap, Then the bitmap is sent through the telephone system. The receiving fax machine reconverts the coded image, printing a paper copy. 

Businesses usually have some kind of fax system, but the technology has faced increasing competition from Internet-based methods. Fax machines still retain some advantages, particularly in the transmission of sensitive material which, if sent over the internet, may be intercepted. However, encryption (a secret coding system) can make internet messages secure.

In some countries, because electronic signatures on contracts are not recognized by law while faxed contracts with copies of signatures are, fax machines enjoy continuing support in business.

In many businesses, standalone fax machines have been replaced by fax servers which receive and store incoming faxes electronically. The servers route them to users on paper or via a secure email. Such systems reduce costs by eliminating unnecessary printouts and reducing the number of inbound phone lines needed by an office.

[[Audrey Meadows]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American musical theatre actors, American television actors, Deaths from lung cancer, 1922 births, 1996 deaths

Audrey Meadows (born February 8 1922; died February 3 1996) was an American actress. She was best known for her role as Alice Kramden on the 1950s American television comedy The Honeymooners. She was born in New York City by the name Audrey Cotter. Meadows died as a result of lung cancer.

[[Carl von Gontard]]

CATEGORIES: 1731 births, 1791 deaths, German architects, People from Mannheim

Carl von Gontard (January 13, 1731 in Mannheim – September 23, 1791 in Breslau) was a German architect; he worked primarily in Berlin, Potsdam, and Bayreuth.

He modified the original Deutscher Dom and Französischer Dom cathedrals in Berlin and added the domed towers.

[[Cloris Leachman]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, 1926 births, 2021 deaths, Actors from Des Moines, Iowa, Academy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Writers from Des Moines, Iowa, American autobiographers, Deaths from stroke, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States

Cloris Leachman (April 30, 1926 – January 27, 2021) was an American actress. She was in many stage plays, movies, and television programs. She won eight Primetime Emmy Awards and one Daytime Emmy Award. She was a vegetarian. Leachman was born in Des Moines, Iowa.

Leachman won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 1971 for her role as Ruth Popper The Last Picture Show.

Leachman died on January 27, 2021, at her home in Encinitas, California at the age of 94. The cause of death was a stroke caused by COVID-19.

[[Neue Kirche, Berlin]]

CATEGORIES: Protestant churches in Germany, Buildings and structures in Berlin

The Deutscher Dom (German Church) is in Berlin.  It is on the Gendarmenmarkt across from the French Church. The Lutheran and Calvinist congregants used German as their native language.  This is different than the French-speaking Calvinist congregation who owned the French Church on the opposite side of Gendarmenmarkt. The congregants' native language combined with the domed tower gave the church its colloquial naming.

[[Mantellinae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Mantellinae is a subfamily of frogs. They are part of the family Mantellidae. These frogs lives in Madagascar and Mayotte. These frogs looks similar to poison dart frogs. Most Mantellinae frogs are toxic. They have a lot of warning colors. There are over 100 species in this family.

[[Pacific tree frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Pacific tree frog (Pseudacris regilla) is a species of tree frog. They live on the West Coast of North America. This includes California, Oregon and Washington in the United States, and British Columbia in Canada. They live on the ground, but some have been found living in places 10,000 feet above sea level. They are the only frogs to make a "rabbit" sound. They are either green or brown. They can also change their colors.

[[Edible frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animal hybrids

The edible frog (Pelophylax kl. esculentus) is a species of frogs. It lives in Europe. It is also known as water frog or green frog. However, green frog is usually given to the North American frog Lithobates clamitans. The Edible frog is used as a food source to people in France.

[[Texas toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The Texas toad (Bufo speciosus) is a species of toads. They are very small only reaching three inches. They live in the United States in the state of Texas. But they are also found in Oklahoma, New Mexico and Mexico.

[[French Cathedral, Berlin]]

CATEGORIES: Calvinism, Protestant churches in Germany, Cathedrals in Germany, Buildings and structures in Berlin

Französischer Dom (German for: French Cathedral) is the colloquial naming for the French Church of Friedrichstadt (Temple de la Friedrichstadt, Französische Friedrichstadtkirche) in Berlin on the Gendarmenmarkt across from the Deutscher Dom (German Cathedral), formerly a church of German-speaking congregants.

The first parts of the actual French Church were built from 1701 to 1705 for the Huguenot (Calvinist) community. At that time, Huguenots made up about 25% of Berlin's population. The French Church was modelled after the destroyed Huguenot temple in Charenton-Saint-Maurice, France.

In 1785 Carl von Gontard modified the church and built - wall to wall next to it - the domed tower, which - together with the French-speaking congregants - earned the church its naming. The domed tower is technically no part of the church, there is no access between church and tower, because both buildings have different owners. The tower, similar to that of Deutscher Dom, was simply built to give the Gendarmenmarkt a symmetric design. 

The church is not a cathedral in the strict sense of the word because it has never been the seat of a bishop.

The domed tower, which is a viewing platform open to visitors, provides a panoramic view of Berlin. A restaurant is located in the basement underneath the prayer hall. The tower also contains the Huguenot museum of Berlin.

[[Cane toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The cane toad (Bufo marinus) is a species of toad. They are also known as the giant neotropical toad and the marine toad.

Cane toads are terrestrial amphibians. This means that they only go back to the water to lay their eggs. They live in Central America and South America. However, they have been introduced to Oceania and the Caribbean.

[[Parotoid gland]]

CATEGORIES: Amphibians, Animal anatomy

The parotoid gland is a skin gland on the back, neck and shoulder of toads and some frogs and salamanders. It's secretes has a substance that predators can smell. This smell will tell them that they are toxic animals. The substance, bufotoxin, acts as a nuerotoxin.

Parotoid glands looks like warts on an amphibian skin. However, warts are grown by viral infections. Parotoid glands are normal and healthy parts of the animals that have them. Many people believe that touching a toad may cause warts. However, this is not true.

[[Mole salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

The mole salamander is a member of the genus Ambystoma. There are a group of animals that live in North America. The only family in this genus is the Ambystomatidae. The Axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum) is a popular exotic pet. They are also used in research. The Tiger Salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) is an official amphibian of many US states. They are also sold as pets.

[[Rib]]

CATEGORIES: Bones

A rib is a bone that forms a structure around the thorax of vertebrates. This is known as the rib cage. Humans have 24 ribs, 12 on each side. 

It is a common urban legend that male humans have one fewer pair of ribs than female humans. However, this is not true. This came from the Christian bible explaining the creation of Eve from the rib of Adam.

[[Taricha]]

CATEGORIES: Newts

Taricha is a genus of newts. There are only three species and four subspecies. They are called western newts and Pacific newts. All newts are part of the family Salamandridae. The three species in this genus are California newt, the rough-skinned newt and the red bellied newt. They are all found on the west coast of the United States.

[[Lungless salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

The Plethodontidae is a family of lungless salamanders. They are the largest groups of salamanders. They probably evolved in North America, where there are 14 genera and about 150 species. Only one species is in Europe: it is  Speleomantes, the cave salamander.

Most of them are terrestrial and are active in daytime. Lungless salamanders may communicate with their nose.p168 Slender salamanders are found in the Pacific Coast. They are sometimes called "worm salamanders". This is because they have slimmer (skinny) bodies than most salamanders.p182 If touched, slender salamanders will bounce on the ground and then run away.

[[Irritation]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology

Irritation in biology is a state of inflammation or painful reaction to allergy or cell damage. The skin and the eyes may turn red.

[[Slender salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

Slender salamander is a common name given to lungless salamanders of the genus Batrachoseps. They are different from other lungless salamanders. They have four toes on each foot. They live in Oregon, California and Baja California in Mexico.

[[Pacific coast]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific Ocean

A Pacific coast is when a country is next to the Pacific Ocean.

[[Chinese fire belly newt]]

CATEGORIES: Newts

The Chinese fire belly newt (Cynops orientalis) is a species of newts. They are small and will reach up to 2.2-4 inches (6-10 cm). They are black and have bright orange colors on their front side. They are commonly found in pet stores. They are sometimes confused with the Japanese fire belly newt. This is because of their small size and colors. However, the Chinese fire belly newt has smoother skin and a rounder tail than the Japanese Fire Belly Newt.

[[Quarter (U.S. coin)]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of the United States, 1796 establishments in the United States, Coins

A quarter dollar or quarter, is a coin worth ¼ of a United States dollar. They are worth 25 cents. The quarter has been produced since 1796.

[[Ichthyophis beddomei]]

CATEGORIES: Caecilians

Ichthyophis beddomei is a species of caecilians. They are sometimes called Beddome's caecilian. They are part of the family Inchthyophiidae. They have a dark violet-brown body. They have yellow stripes from their head to their tail. Their upper lip and lower jaw are yellow. They live in Western Ghats.

[[Agalychnis callidryas]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Agalychnis callidryas, known as the red-eyed treefrog is a species of tree frogs.

Red-eyed tree frogs spend most of their time on large tropical leaves. They are not poisonous, and rely on camouflage to protect themselves. During the day, they stay still, cover their blue sides with their back legs, tuck their bright feet under their stomachs, and shut their red eyes. So they look almost completely green, and are well hidden amongst the leaves. The large red eyes are a defensive adaptation called deimatic behaviour. When a red-eyed tree frog detects a predator, it abruptly opens its eyes and stares at the predator. The sudden appearance of the red eyes may startle the predator, giving the frog a chance to flee.

They are active at night. They like to eat small insects.

During mating, the female carries the male on her back for several hours during the process. The female chooses a leaf above a pond or large puddle on which to lay her clutch of eggs. The male puts out his sperm onto the eggs as they are released.

Tree frogs lay jelly-like eggs. The mothers will stay near them and help them fight any hungry animals that want to eat them. They become a tadpole in one or two weeks. They drop from the leaf and into the lake which is below the leaf.

If predators are close enough to produce vibration, the embryos sense this. After a few seconds, they vigorously hatch out into tadpoles and spread out to escape.

[[Common frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Common frog (Rana temporaria) is a species of frog. They are also known as the European Common Frog or the European Common Brown Frog. They live in Europe, the Arctic Circle, Scandinavia, Urals, Iberia, Italy, Balkans and Ireland. They are an introduced species in most countries.

[[Quantum theory]]

Quantum theory may mean:

[[Bronzed frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The bronzed frog or Günther's golden-backed frog (Hylarana temporalis) is a species of frog. They are found in forests of Western Ghats, India and Sri Lanka. They are an important prey for many snakes include the Malabar Pit Viper and the Vine Snake.

[[Jefferson salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

The Jefferson salamander (Ambystoma jeffersonianum) is a mole salamander. They live in northeastern United States, southern Ontario and southwestern Quebec. It was named after Jefferson College in Pennsylvania.

It is usually dark gray, brown or black. Others can have silver or blue spots on their sides. These salamanders are very skinny with a wide nose and long toes. They can reach up to 11 to 18 cm.

Like other mole salamanders, the Jefferson salamander burrows. They have lungs that helps them to dig. They are only active at night. They are only active in the day when its mating season. They will breed in early spring after snow has melted in their area.

[[California giant salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

The California giant salamander (Dicamptodon ensatus) is a species of salamanders. They are part of the family Dicamptodontidae. They live in California and western United States. They are related to the Idaho giant salamander, Pacific giant salamander and the Coastal giant salamander. 

[[Tatsuya Fuji]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese movie actors, Japanese voice actors, 1941 births, Living people, People from Beijing

Tatsuya Fuji, also known as Tatsuya Itou, is a Japanese actor. 

==Early life == 

He was born in Beijing, China and grew up in Yokohama, Kanagawa. When He was a student of Nihon University College of Art, he was spotted and recruited as a fresh actor by Nikkatsu.   

[[Bolitoglossa]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

Bolitoglossa is a genus of salamanders. They are also called tropical climbing salamanders and web-footed salamanders. They are part of the Plethodontidae family. They live in Central America and South America. They are terrestrial amphibians.

[[Green toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Green toad  (Anaxyrus debilis) is a species of toads. They live in southwestern United States in states like Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, Kansas and Texas. They can also be found in northern Mexico in states like Tamaulipas, San Luis Potosí, Durango and Zacatecas.

Green toads are green or yellow with black spots. They are not a large toad. They grow up to 2 inches. They are only active at night. They will breed in spring, summer and autumn. Males will call a female to lay her eggs in his territory.

[[Smooth newt]]

CATEGORIES: Newts

The Smooth Newt is a species of newts. They are also known as the Common Newt. It is the most common newt species of the Lissotriton genus of amphibians. They live in Europe, southern France and the Iberian peninsula.

==References== 

[[Midwife toad]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Midwife toad (Alytes) is a genus of frogs. They part of the Discoglossidae family. They live in most of Europe and northwestern Africa. They look like toads because of their hard skin. They get their name because they take care of their young on their backs. They help them from not being eaten from hungry animals. When they hatch the frog will go back to the water and allow them to swim away. 

[[Van Dyke's salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

Van Dyke's salamander (Plethodon vandykei) is a species of salamanders. They are part of the family Plethodontidae. These salamanders have been used in research studies. 

[[Potamogeton]]

CATEGORIES: Alismatales, Aquatic plants

Potamogeton is a genus of aquatic plants. They live in freshwater such as ponds and lakes. They part of the family Potamogentonaceae. Their common name is pondweed. The genus name means "river neighbor". They are also a food source for many fish and algae eaters.

[[Filter feeder]]

CATEGORIES: Animals, Ecology

Filter feeders are animals that feed on matter and food particles from water. Some animals that do this are clams, krill, sponges, baleen whales and many fish such as sharks. Some birds such as flamingos are also filter feeders. Filter feeders can help clear water.

[[Surinam horned toad]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Ceratophrys is a genus of frogs. They are part of the family Leptodactylidae. They are also part of the subfamily Ceratophryinae. They are also known as South American horned frogs as well as Pacman frogs. This is because they look like the video game character Pac-Man.

[[Woomera Test Range]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Australia, South Australia

The RAAF Woomera Test Range is a weapons testing facility in South Australia. It is run by the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). It covers and area of 127000, and is the world's largest weapons test facility on land. The range is a restricted area, called the Woomera Prohibited Area. The airspace above it is also restricted, and is called the Woomera Restricted Airspace.

The range was originally set up as a place for the British to test missiles during World War II. The British asked to do weapons testing here (in the centre of Australia), because not many people lived there. A Commonwealth weapons design and test project, called the Australian-Anglo Joint Project, was signed in 1946. The range originally had an area of 270000.

Between 1955 and 1963, the British ran a series of seven nuclear-weapon tests at Maralinga, then inside the range. The Joint Project ran until 1980, when the British withdrew from the program. The range is still used as a testing site by the Australian Defence Force. Access is leased to foreign militaries and private companies for their own testing of weapons.

It is named after the Dharuk word for a spear-thrower.

[[Balgo, Western Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Western Australia, Indigenous Australian communities

Balgo is a small community in Western Australia. It is surrounded by the Great Sandy Desert and the Tanami Desert. It is an Aboriginal community; the area is traditionally Kukatja country. There are also some Pintupi families living there, who were displaced in the 1950s and 1960s. Many of them came to live here from Papunya, including some of the original artists of the Papunya Tula movement. Many of them later left Balgo when Kintore and Kiwirrkurra were set up in the 1980s. In 2006, Balgo had about 460 people living there.

[[Komatsu, Ishikawa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Ishikawa Prefecture

Komatsu is a city in Ishikawa Prefecture, Japan.

It is in the southern part of the prefecture, near the Sea of Japan.

[[Charles Perkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2000 deaths, Indigenous Australian politics, Indigenous Australian activists, Australian footballers, Order of Australia, Australian politicians, Arrernte, University of Sydney alumni, People from Alice Springs, Indigenous Australian sportspeople

Charles Nelson Perkins, AO, (16 June 1936 – 19 October 2000) was an Australian activist and Aboriginal leader. He was also a professional football player.

Perkins grew up in Alice Springs. His mother was Arrernte, and his father was Kalkadoon. He later moved to Sydney, and graduated from the University of Sydney in 1965. He was the first indigenous Australian to graduate from a university.

Perkins campaigned for Aboriginal land rights. In 1965, he was an important person in the Freedom Ride campaign, which aimed to raise public awareness of the standards of living, literacy and health conditions among the Aboriginal population. The group was famous for publicising acts of discrimination.

Perkins was also important in the campaign for the referendum in 1967, which allowed Aboriginal people to be counted in censuses, and parliament to make special laws specifically for Aboriginal people. From 1969, Perkins worked as a public servant in the Ministry of Aboriginal Affairs. He was made permanent secretary of this department in 1981, which made him the first Aboriginal to become the permanent head of a federal government department. He served as secretary until 1988.

Perkins died in October 2000 of kidney failure.

[[Kottabos (Kleophrades Painter)]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek pottery, Ancient Greek paintings

Kottabos Player is an Attic red-figure terracotta kylix said to have been painted by someone close to the Kleophrades Painter. It dates to the Greek Archaic period, about 500 BC. The kylix's height with handles is 3 3/16 in. (8.1 cm) and its width with handles is 10 1/16 in. (25.5 cm). 

The diameter of the bowl is 7 5/8 in. (19.3 cm).  The kylix is in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. The figure is a symposiast playing a party game called kottabos. He is about to fling the last of the wine in his cup at a lamp stand in an attempt to knock the lamp stand's finial off. The winner was he who did so.

[[Kleophrades Painter]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek painters

The Kleophrades Painter was a red-figure Athenian vase painter. His real name is unknown. His name is taken from a potter's signature on a vase. He was active from about 510470 BC. His work is considered some of the finest of the red figure style. He was probably the pupil of Euthymides, one of the red-figure Pioneers. His work is identified by its stylistic traits. He was very productive. More than 100 vases of his work have survived. He worked in both black- and red- figure styles and techniques. He was conservative, often using old-fashioned techniques. His subjects were traditional but with a emphasis on the Trojan War. He preferred painting large vessels such as amphores.

[[Clyde Holding]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2011 deaths, Politicians from Melbourne, Australian Labor Party politicians, Government ministers of Australia

Allan Clyde Holding (27 April 1931 – 31 July 2011) was an Australian politician. He was Leader of the Opposition in Victoria for ten years, and was later a federal minister. He was a member of the Australian Labor Party.

Holding was elected to the Victorian Legislative Assembly for the seat of Richmond in 1962. He was a strong supporter of indigenous Australian rights (including land rights) and national aid for schools. In 1977, he was elected to the House of Representatives as member for Melbourne Ports. When Bob Hawke became Prime Minister in 1983, he put Holding in charge of Aboriginal Affairs. During his term, Holding tried to make federal laws for Aboriginal land rights. But Brian Burke, the Labor Premier of Western Australia, did not want this, because it would have upset the mining and agricultural industries, which were very important to his state. Holding was forced by Hawke to drop the proposal. In 1987, he was moved to the Ministry of Employment Services and Youth Affairs. The next year, he was made Minister for Transport, and then later Minister for Immigration.

[[Kottabos]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Games

Kottabos (κότταβος) was a party game played at symposia in Ancient Greece. It was popular in the 5th and 4th centuries BC. It was also popular with the Etruscans. The game is played by flinging a bit of wine from one's cup at targets. The player would utter the name of his lover. The game was probably of Sicilian origin but spread throughout the Greek world. Many Greek poets mention the game in their works. By the time of the Roman Empire and the Age of Alexander the Great, the game had died out. It is not mentioned in Latin literature.  

[[Charlie McMahon]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Musicians from New South Wales, Didgeridoo players

Charlie McMahon (born in the Blue Mountains, New South Wales in 1951) is an Australian didgeridoo player. He was one of the first non-Aboriginal musicians to become a famous player of the instrument. He is probably one of the most famous players of the instrument around the world.

The band in which he became famous was called Gondwanaland. He has toured across Australia, often visiting remote communities in the outback, and also in Europe and the United States. He often played gigs with Midnight Oil. McMahon's style became an influence for many well-known didgeridoo players. He is also the inventor of the "didjeribone", a sliding didgeridoo made of plastic, played in a similar way to the trombone.

[[Symposium]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Social events

A symposium (plural: symposia) was a drinking party in Ancient Greece. Guests were males. Well bred women did not attend. Boys or slave girls served the food and drink, danced, juggled, played music, or otherwise entertained the assembly. These servers were usually nude. The symposium was an aristocratic institution often held to celebrate a young man's entry into adult society, an athletic victory, or a poetic achievement. It was an occasion for male conversation and debate. Party-goers reclined on couches and pillows. Guests played a game called kottabos, wrestled, and held song contests. A symposium is described in Plato's The Symposium. The party is attended by Socrates and the young, drunken, and nearly nude Alcibiades.

[[Foster Brooks]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2001 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Comedians from Kentucky, American television personalities, American radio personalities, Actors from Louisville, Kentucky, Singers from Kentucky

Foster Brooks (May 11, 1912 – December 20, 2001) was an American movie, television, radio, stage actor, singer, entertainer, television personality and comedian. He was known for playing a lovable drunken man in nightclubs and television shows. Brooks is also known for appearing in The Dean Martin celebrity roasts. 

Brooks was born in Louisville, Kentucky. Brooks was married twice. First to Loretta Brooks from 1933 until they divorced in 1950. And to Teri Brooks from 1950 until his death in 2001. Brooks died on December 20, 2001 from heart failure in his Encino, Los Angeles, California home, aged 89. 

[[Bob Knight]]

CATEGORIES: Sportspeople from Ohio, College basketball coaches, 1940 births, Living people, Controversies, Basketball players

Robert Montgomery "Bob" Knight (born October 25 1940) is a retired American basketball sports coach. He won over 900 NCAA Division I men's college basketball games. Knight is well known as the head coach of the Indiana Hoosiers from 1971–2000. He also coached for the Texas Tech from 2001–2008.

Knight was born in Massillon, Ohio. He studied at Ohio State University.

He has been praised for having a clean program. None of his teams was ever sanctioned by the NCAA for any recruitment violations. He has, however, attracted some controversy for throwing a chair across the courts during a game. He was once arrested for assault. He was fired from Indiana in mid September 2000.

In April 2015, it was announced that ESPN would not sign Knight's contract for another season.

[[James Michael Tyler]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Actors from Mississippi, People from Winona, Mississippi, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, People with cancer

James Michael Tyler (born May 28, 1962) is an American actor. He is best known for playing Gunther in the sitcom series Friends. Tyler was born in Winona, Mississippi.

[[Choi Chang-ik]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1957 deaths, North Korean politicians

Choi Chang-ik (hangul:최창익, hanja:崔昌益, 1896-1957), also known as Choe Chang Ik, was a North Korean soldier and politician.

[[Kim Tu-bong]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1958 deaths, North Korean politicians

Kim Tu-bong (March 16, 1886 – 1958) was a Korean linguist, politician, and the first North Korean head of state.

[[Echis]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Echis is a genus of venomous vipers found in dry regions of Africa, Middle East, Pakistan, India, and Sri Lanka. The name "Echis" is a Greek word which means "viper". Echis is also known as the "Saw-scaled Vipers", or the "Carpet Vipers". They are responsible for most of the snakebites and deaths in the world. There is currently eight species found. 

[[Atheris]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Atheris is a genus of venomous vipers found only in rain forest areas of Sub-Saharan Africa. There are currently eight species found. Atheris are commonly known as "Bush Vipers". They are all arboreal (meaning they live in trees), but they can sometimes be seen on the ground.

[[Maristes Valldemia]]

CATEGORIES: Schools, Catalonia

The Maristes Valldemia school (aka: Col·legi Maristes Valldemia, Col·legi Valldemia or Valldemia), is in Mataró, Province of Barcelona - Catalonia (Spain). It is a Catholic school run by Marist Brothers. It is dedicated to Our Lady the Virgin of the Candle. Fundació Champagnat, Fundació Privada owns the school.

The school was founded in 1855 by three Piarists related persons: the priest Ermengol Coll de Valldemia, Pelegrí Ferrer and Ramon Cuspinera. Its first name was  «Colegio de Cataluña», and it was on the land of a traditional Catalan manor named Can Miralpeix. The school's aim was to provide a modern and Christian education. After 1858, the school was known as «Col·legi de Valldemia» (in Catalan) or «Colegio de Valldemia» (in Spanish). In 1888 the school was given to the Marist Brothers to run. 

The main building was designed by the architect Jeroni Boada, and later improved in 1911 by Josep Goday i Casals (who used to be an student at the school, and founder member of the Alumni Association).

The school received its first international recognition at the Paris Exposition of 1900, a Gold Medal in recognition of quality education. During the convulsive years that marked the Spanish Civil War, Valldemia was converted into a hospital and blood bank.

Today, the school has 1200 students from ages 3 to 18, who are taught by a staff of 90 teachers.

[[Phil Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1995 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Indiana, Comedians from Indiana, Actors from Nashville, Tennessee

Phil Harris (June 24, 1904 - August 11, 1995) was an American actor. He was known for being the voice of Thomas O'Malley the Alley Cat in The Aristocats in 1970 and Cri-Kee in Mulan (1998). He died in 1995 from a heart attack in Rancho Mirage, California, aged 91.

[[Pierce the Veil]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 establishments in the United States, American rock bands, Progressive rock bands, Post-hardcore bands, Musical groups from San Diego, California, Alternative rock bands, Pop rock bands

Pierce the Veil is an post hardcore group formed in San Diego, California in 2007. The band consists of frontman Vic Fuentes, percussionist Mike Fuentes, bassist Jaime Preciado, and guitarist Tony Perry. They released their debut studio album A Flair for the Dramatic on June 26, 2007 and released the singles "Yeah Boy and Doll Face" and "Chemical Kids and Mechanical Brides." They released their second full-length album Selfish Machines on June 21, 2010 and released the single "Caraphernelia." The band started joining Vans Warped Tour and playing on side stages to promote their music alongside other post-hardcore bands. In 2012, the band prepped their third album Collide with the Sky, which was released on July 17, 2012, and released the singles "King for a Day" and "Bulls in the Bronx." They started performing live on the main stage at Warped Tour throughout the summer of 2012. 

The two leading members of the band were known to be in a band called Before Today before Pierce the Veil was formed with the addition of Tony Perry and Jaime Preciado. Side projects included Mike and Vic Fuentes being in the alternative rock group Isles & Glaciers, which split up in 2010. They released one EP album titled The Hearts of Lonely People on March 9, 2010. 

The band will be going on a headlining tour with Crown the Empire this fall in the United Kingdom.

[[Collide with the Sky]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums

Collide with the Sky is the third album by San Diego experimental rock group Pierce the Veil. It was released on July 27, 2012 under Fearless Records in the United States. The album's lead single "King for A Day" was released on June 5, 2012 for digital download and contemporary radio. The single features Sleeping With Sirens singer Kellin Quinn. The second single titled "Bulls in the Bronx" was released on June 25, 2012 for digital download. The band supported the album throughout the 2012 Van's Warped Tour in the summer.

[[Pedro Armendáriz Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from eye neoplasm, Deaths from lung cancer, Actors from Mexico City, Cancer deaths in the United States, Mexican movie actors, Mexican stage actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors

Pedro Armendáriz, Jr. (April 6, 1940 – December 26, 2011) was a Mexican actor and television actor.

[[Phyllis Diller]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Ohio, American movie actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American stand-up comedians, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, Comedians from Ohio, 1917 births, 2012 deaths, People from Lima, Ohio

Phyllis Ada Driver (July 17, 1917 – August 20, 2012) was an American voice, movie and stage actress and comedian who makes self deprecating jokes about her age and her terrible cooking. She has performed in many movies and television programs. 

[[Sherman Hemsley]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, African American actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Musicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Comedians from Pennsylvania

Sherman Alexander Hemsley (February 1, 1938 – July 24, 2012) was an American actor.

[[Gangster Squad]]

CATEGORIES: American thriller movies, 2013 movies, English-language movies, Warner Bros. movies

Gangster Squad is a 2013 movie about the Mafia. It stars Emma Stone and Nick Nolte. This crime picture was to have been released in September, 2012.  After the 2012 Aurora shooting certain scenes had to be removed and this caused a delay. The movie has been released January 11, 2013 by Warner Bros.

[[Frontiers of the Roman Empire]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Ancient Rome, World Heritage Sites in Europe, Walls

Frontiers of the Roman Empire is a World Heritage Site. The site includes three walls in different parts of Europe. They were part of the frontiers of the Roman Empire.

[[Frank Ocean]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, African American musicians, American R&B singers, Brit Award winners, LGBT African Americans, LGBT people from California, LGBT people from Louisiana, LGBT singers, LGBT songwriters, Singers from New Orleans, Louisiana, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana, People from Long Beach, California, Singers from Los Angeles County, California, American bloggers

Frank Ocean (born October 28, 1987) is an American singer-songwriter, record producer and photographer. He was born in Long Beach, California and moved to New Orleans, Louisiana when he was five. Ocean made an early career as a ghostwriter for artists such as Brandy, Justin Bieber, and John Legend. In 2010, he became a member of OFWGKTA.  His first mixtape, Nostalgia, Ultra, was released in 2011.  Critics liked the album.

In 2012, BBC said that Ocean finished second place in its Sound of 2012 poll. Ocean appeared at Coachella.  He was scheduled for Lollapalooza at the end of his 2012 summer tour. His first studio album, channel ORANGE, was a digital download only on iTunes for one week.  Then it was a full release on July 17, 2012. It was nominated for six Grammy Awards.

Ocean won the 2013 Brit Award for International Male Solo Artist.

In October 2013 Ocean said on his Tumblr that he would release new music in summer 2014.

He is also considered to be a global gay icon.

[[Tom Bosley]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from staphylococcal infection, DePaul University alumni, American television actors, American voice actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Tony Award winning actors, Actors from Chicago, People from Palm Springs, California

Thomas Edward "Tom" Bosley (October 1, 1927  October 19, 2010) was an American actor. Bosley is known for his role as Howard Cunningham in Happy Days. He also starred in roles in Murder, She Wrote and Father Dowling Mysteries. He starred in the Broadway musical Fiorello! that earned him a Tony Award.

[[Dabry's sturgeon]]

CATEGORIES: Ray-finned fish

Dabry's sturgeon, also known as the Yangtze sturgeon (Acipenser dabryanus), is a member of the family Acipenseridae and the order Acipenseriformes.

The fish is thought to have lived at the same time as dinosaurs.  It may have lived as long as 140 million years ago. Because of that, it is sometimes called a living fossil. It is an animal carefully protected by the Chinese government.  It is named a "national treasure" much like the Giant Panda.

The fish can be between 200 in body length.  It can weigh 200 on average. A grown-up sturgeon measures up to 4 long, and weighs over 450.  This makes it the third biggest only to the White sturgeon and Atlantic sturgeon. 

Sturgeon are anadromous.  This means they spawn in fresh water and migrate to salt water to mature. 

It lives on the main streams of the Yangtze River and coastal regions of Qiantang River, Minjiang River and Pearl River. 

[[Chad Everett]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from South Bend, Indiana, Actors from Michigan, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Deaths from lung cancer, People from Dearborn, Michigan

Raymon Lee Cramton or Chad Everett (June 11, 1937 – July 24, 2012) was an American actor. He was known for his role as Dr. Joe Gannon in the television drama Medical Center.

[[Luca Signorelli]]

CATEGORIES: 15th century Italian painters, 1440s births, 1523 deaths, 16th century Italian painters

Luca Signorelli (probably born in 1441 or 1445, died 16 October 1523 in Corona, Italy) was an Italian painter. He was also called Luca d'Egidio di Ventura and Luca da Cortona. He is one of the most important painters of the Renaissance in Italy. He was good at painting perspective. One of the techniques he used is called foreshortening - with it a distance appears shorter than it actually is, because the object painted is shown at an angle. From 1499 to 1503, he painted a series of frescoes in Orvieto Cathedral, called the Last Judgement. This is what he is remembered for most. 

[[CGI]]

CGI is an abbreciation, that can stand for:

[[Bitis]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Bitis is a genus of venomous vipers found in Africa and the southern Arabian Peninsula. This group contains the largest and smallest vipers in the world. There are currently 14 species found. Bitis are commonly known as the "African Adders", or the "African Viper".

[[Computer-generated imagery]]

CATEGORIES: Computer graphics, Movie industry

Computer-generated imagery (CGI) is using computer graphics, especially in movies. These images are used for special effects, simulation, and commercials, amongst others. Sometimes the technology is used to produce a static background, which is then merged into the image; at other times it is used to produce animations in 2D or 3D. In its broadest sense, a computer- generated image (CGI) can be defined as any image that is created with the use of a computer- based processor or program. Because computers are widely used, both in image generating and in image processing, these images are pervasive- from billboard advertisements to film productions and photography. 

[[Benjamin Morrell]]

CATEGORIES: 1795 births, 1839 deaths, People from New York, American explorers

 Benjamin Morrell, (July 5, 1795 – 1839) was an American sea captain, navigator and explorer.

Between 1821 and 1823, he made four important trips, especially in the Southern Ocean, the Pacific Islands and the eastern shores of the Americas.

He wrote a memoir about his travels titled "A Narrative of Four Voyages" and, following the information provided, earned a bad reputation as a liar, because it contained inaccuracies and also contained a somewhat fanciful way of exposing their experiences.

[[Donna Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: Welsh singers, 1973 births, Living people

Donna Lewis (born August 6th 1973) is a singer and songwriter who is best known for her hit single I Love You Always Forever. She released her first two albums under Atlantic Records although she now has an independent label. Lewis was born in Wales.

[[Brain Stew/Jaded]]

CATEGORIES: Green Day songs, 1995 songs

Brain Stew, A.K.A. Jaded is a song by the punk rock band Green Day. The song was on their fourth studio album Insomniac in the year 1995.

[[Paula Cole]]

CATEGORIES: American singer-songwriters, American rock singers, Grammy Award winners, American pianists, American keyboard players, Singers from Massachusetts, Musicians from Massachusetts, 1968 births, Living people

Paula Cole (born April 5, 1968) is an American singer and songwriter. Her songs include Where Have all the Cowboys Gone?. Cole was born in the Boston area. She received a Grammy Award for "Best New Artist" in 1998 and released more albums over the years.

[[Eristicophis]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Eristicophis is a monotypic genus made for the venomous viper species "E. macmahonii". It is found in the desert areas near the borders of Iran, Pakistan, and Afghanistan. There are currently no subspecies recognized. The E. macmahonii is also known as the "McMahon's Viper", the "Asian Sand Viper", the "Leaf-nosed Viper", and the "Whiskered Viper". 

[[Macrovipera]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Macrovipera is a genus of venomous vipers, found in semi-deserts of North Africa, Middle East, and Milos Archipelago in the Aegean Sea. Macrovipera are commonly known as the "Large Palearctic Vipers". The Large Palearctic Viper is responsible for many bites in Africa and western Asia each year. There are four species currently found. 

[[LGBT rights in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT rights by country, LGBT in the United States, Politics of the United States

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender rights in the United States have changed over time, and different states have different rules about them. Sexual acts between adults (depending on the age of consent in each state. This varies from age 16 to 21), and adolescents of an age close to an adult, of the same sex have been legal in the U.S. since 2003. 

Family, marriage, and anti-discrimination laws are different in every state. On June 26, 2015, the Supreme Court said that states could not have laws against same-sex marriage. This decision is called Obergefell v. Hodges. Before Obergefell v. Hodges, same-sex marriage was legal in 36 states and in Washington, D.C.

Twenty-one states plus Washington, D.C. have made discrimination because of sexual orientation illegal. Sixteen states plus Washington, D.C. have made discrimination because of gender identity or expression illegal. Hate crimes because of sexual orientation or gender identity can also be punished under Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009. 

Human Rights Campaign is the biggest LGBT-rights group in the U.S.

[[Atropoides]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Atropoides is a genus of venomous Pit vipers found in Mexico and Central America. There is currently three species found. Atropoides are also known as the "Jumping Pit vipers" or the "Jumping Vipers".

[[Shawn Colvin]]

CATEGORIES: American singer-songwriters, American pop musicians, Singers from South Dakota, Musicians from South Dakota, Writers from South Dakota, 1956 births, Living people

Shawn Colvin (born January 10, 1956 in Vermillion, South Dakota) is a singer-songwriter and a musician. She began her career in the 1980s, though it was not until 1997 that she became mainstream: her song "Sunny Came Home" (from her album A Few Small Repairs) was number one on the Billboard Adult Pop Songs chart in August 1997. Colvin released more records during the late 1990s, 2000s and 2010s.

[[TRS-80]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

The TRS-80 is a computer made by Tandy Corporation sold by Radio Shack.

[[Cheryl Ladd]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American writers, American television actors, Actors from South Dakota, 1951 births, Living people

Cheryl Ladd (born Cheryl Jean Stoppelmoor, July 12, 1951 in Huron, South Dakota) is an American actress. Ladd is known for many television series and many movies. She is best known for her role as Kris Munroe in Charlie's Angels. She was with the show until 1981.

[[Andrea True]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from Tennessee, American pornographic actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from heart failure, Singers from Nashville, Tennessee

Andrea True (born Andrea Marie Truden, July 26, 1943 - November 7, 2011) was an American porn star and a singer from the disco era of the 1970s. She is best known for her single "More, More, More". It was released in 1976. It peaked at #4 on the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Chicago Board of Trade Building]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in Chicago, Art Deco buildings, Landmarks in Chicago, 20th century architecture, 1930 establishments in the United States, 1930s establishments in Illinois

The Chicago Board of Trade Building is a skyscraper in Chicago, Illinois, United States. The Chicago Board of Trade Building is currently the 37th tallest building in Chicago. It stands 184 meters, 605 feet, and has 44 floors. The building has a faceless statue of Ceres (goddess of agriculture) as a reference to the exchange's heritage as a commodity market.

[[Torrent salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

The torrent salamander is a species of salamanders. They are also known as Cascade salamanders. They are part of the family Rhyacotritonidae. They live in the Pacific Northwest.

The genus is divided into four species

[[Wood frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The wood frog (Rana sylvatica) is a species of frog. It is part of the family Ranidae. It lives in North America and is the state amphibian of New York. The wood frog hibernates during winter. 

[[Desert froglet]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The desert froglet (Crinia deserticola) is a species of frog. They are part of the Myobatrachidae family. They live in Australia. They live in savannas and deserts.

[[Moor frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Moor Frog (Rana arvalis) is a species of frog. They are part of the family Ranidae. They are skinny, reddish-brown and semi-aquatic amphibians.

[[California tree frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The California tree frog (Pseudacris cadaverina) is a species of tree frogs. They often look like stones because of their skin which helps them to camouflage. They have webbed feet and their skin is rough and looks like warts. They can reach up to 2.9 to 5 cm long.

[[Ensatina]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

Ensatina is a genus of lungless salamanders. They are a complex of subspecies of Ensatina  eschscholtzii, found in forests in British Columbia, Washington, Oregon, California and Baja California,  Mexico.

[[Foothill yellow-legged frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Foothill yellow-legged frog (Rana boylii) is a species of frogs. They are part of the Rana genus in the Ranidae family. They are small frogs only reaching 3.72-8.2 cm long. They are found in northern Oregon, California and Baja California in Mexico. 

[[Rana]]

Rana:

[[Centroleninae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Centroleninae is a subfamily of frogs. There are nine genera.

[[Dendrobatoidea]]

CATEGORIES: Poison dart frogs

Dendrobatoidea is a superfamily of frogs. There are two family of frogs.

[[Nahomi Kawasumi]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, INAC Kobe Leonessa players, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2018 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2014 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2014 Asian Games

Nahomi Kawasumi is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome (PANS)]]

CATEGORIES: Psychiatry, Neurology

Pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome (PANS) is the name of a disease that normally begins in childhood. It causes Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and/or tics. The symptoms begin very suddenly. If it is not treated at the beginning the disease can be there also in adults. The reason for PANS can be a bacteria called "Group A streptococcus" (PANDAS type) or an immunologic reaction to other pathogens like certain bacteria or viruses. (PITANDS type). 

[[Cattaro (Italian province)]]

CATEGORIES: Montenegro, 1940s in Italy, 1941 in Europe, 1942 in Europe, 1943 in Europe

The Cattaro (Italian province), called in Italian Provincia italiana di Cattaro was an administrative section of the Governorate of Dalmatia, created during World War II by the Kingdom of Italy with Regio Decreto Legge of May 18, 1941.

[[A.N.T. Farm]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, 2010s American television series, 2011 American television series debuts, 2014 American television series endings, Disney Channel shows, Television series by Disney, English-language television programs

A.N.T. Farm is an American sitcom. The first episode played on television on May 6, 2011. It continued as a regular series starting on June 17, 2011. The pilot episode, "TransplANTed" aired after the last episode of The Suite Life on Deck. The show was created by Dan Signer. He was a screenwriter and co-executive producer of The Suite Life on Deck. He also made the YTV series Mr. Young. Disney Channel approved the show in mid-November 2010. Production began in early 2011. The first promo was released during the premiere of Lemonade Mouth.

The show takes place in San Francisco, California. The show stars China Anne McClain, Sierra McCormick and Jake Short. They are middle school students in a gifted education program called the "Advanced Natural Talent" (or "A.N.T.") program. On November 30, 2011, A.N.T. Farm was accepted for a second season. It started on June 1, 2012. The last show aired on March 21, 2014.

[[Williams syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Neurology, Syndromes

Williams syndrome (WS) is a rare development problem. It is characterized by a distinct "elfin" facial appearance, strong language skills and cardiovascular troubles. There is a degree of low intelligence tied to Williams syndrome. There are also language and motor skills delays.

[[Aya Miyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Nippon TV Tokyo Verdy Beleza players, Okayama Yunogo Belle players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2003 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2003 AFC Women's Championship players, 2006 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2014 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2014 Asian Games

Aya Miyama is a former Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Henry Winkler]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Actors from Manhattan, American children's writers, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, Jewish American actors, Jewish American comedians, Jewish American writers, Jewish businesspeople, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Movie directors from New York City, Movie producers from New York City, Television personalities from New York City, Writers from Manhattan, Yale University alumni

Henry Franklin Winkler OBE (born October 30, 1945) is an American movie, television, stage, voice actor, director, producer, and writer. Winkler won two Golden Globe Awards, in 1976 and in 1977, for his role as Fonzie or The Fonz in Happy Days.

[[Naomi Judd]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, Singers from Kentucky, Writers from Kentucky, 1946 births, Living people

Naomi Judd (born January 11, 1946) is an American country music singer, songwriter, and activist.

Naomi is the mother of Christina Ciminella (aka Wynonna Judd) and Ashley. Ashley is an American movie and stage actress. Naomi and daughter Wynonna formed a successful country singing duo called The Judds. That group ended after Naomi was diagnosed with hepatitis C in 1990. Judd is also a writer.

[[Etsuko Inada]]

CATEGORIES: People from Osaka, 1924 births, 2003 deaths, Japanese figure skaters

Etsuko Inada was a Japanese athlete.  She was best known as a figure skater. 

Inada won the Japan Figure Skating Championships seven times. 

Inada was a member of the Japan national team at the 1936 Winter Olympics.  At age 12, She was the youngest Japanese competitor in all Olympic games.

[[Farnaz Ghazizadeh]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, BBC television presenters, Iranian entertainers, Iranian journalists, People from Tehran, BBC newsreaders and journalists

Farnaz Ghazizadeh (فرناز قاضی‌زاده; born December 3, 1974 in Tehran, Iran) is an Iranian journalist, blogger, and BBC Persian Television presenter. She has been involved in BBC Persian Television.

[[Spear-thrower]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons, Indigenous Australian culture

A spear thrower is a wooden tool used for throwing spears. It gives the human arm more leverage to build up the spear's velocity. This gives the spear more force and makes it go faster. Spear throwers were used in many civilisations. It was used by the Aztecs, who called it an atlatl. It is also used by Aboriginals in Australia, where it has become most widely known as a woomera (the Dharuk name for it).

[[Featherfoot]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian culture, Australian mythology

A featherfoot is a sorcerer in Australian Aboriginal spirituality. A featherfoot is usually a bad spirit who kills people. In most traditional Aboriginal beliefs, there is no such thing as a natural death. Every death is caused by evil spirits or spells. It is usually because of an enemy, who wants revenge for something.

A featherfoot is so named because they are believed to have supernatural powers, including the ability to fly. He wears special shoes made of feathers (usually emu) and hair, stuck together with human blood. Scholars say that the shoes leave no tracks (footprints).

South-West of Western Australia, which includes the Noongar people, have a local scary story to tell at night. When the featherfoot is hunting you, it waits till you’re alone or in a small group, at night walking to a destination. The person or the group will start to get a sense of foreboding, followed by a strong sense they are being followed. The featherfoot is close behind, following. Its steps are silent and leave not tracks. The only way to survive a feathfoot attack is to never look behind you until you get back to a light source. Keep walking and don’t look back, it’s when the person looks behind them, is when it attacks. Often the reason the spirit will follow and attack someone is because they have committed a crime, or something as heinous or evil.

All that is left behind after an attack, is a single large unknown bird feather and a small amount of the victims blood.

[[Marla Maples]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), American movie actors, Trump family

Marla Maples (born October 27, 1963 near Dalton, Georgia) is an American movie actress and television personality. She is best known for her marriage to the businessman and President Donald Trump. She is a distant cousin of the actress Heather Locklear. She was born in Cohutta, Georgia.

[[Mikantji]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the Northern Territory, Indigenous Australian culture, Waterholes of Australia

Mikantji is a waterhole in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is an important sacred site for Warlpiri-speaking Aborigines. The site features in their Dreaming stories. Fire- and rain-making rituals are performed here by the Warlpiri.

Mikantji is located about 50 northwest of Yuendumu, on the road coming north from Papunya.

[[Richard Simmons]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American television presenters, Actors from New Orleans, Louisiana

Milton Teagle Simmons (born July 12, 1948), better known as Richard Simmons, is a fitness guru and actor. He promotes programs aimed towards weight loss. He is known for his eccentric, outgoing, and flamboyant personality.

While growing up, Simmons had asthma. He was obese when he was a teenager. By the time he graduated from high school, he weighed 268 pounds (122 kg).  He had tried many failed diets for losing weight.

In the 1980s he had his own fitness show, The Richard Simmons Show. It lasted four years. The show was a hit. It taught people how to lose weight. It also taught healthy cooking and exercise.

Simmons was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. He later moved to Los Angeles.

[[Gérard Desbois]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1958 births, Alumni of the École nationale de l'aviation civile, Aviation in France, French writers

Gérard Desbois, born in 1958 at Longué-Jumelles is a French flight test engineer and writer. He was member of the crew for the first flight of the Airbus A380 the 27th of April 2005. He is the youngest flight test engineer graduates (29 years old) since the beginnings of aviation.

[[Park Jung-yang]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1959 deaths, Korean activists, South Korean politicians, Anti-Communists, Autobiographers

Park Jung-yang (박중양, hanja: 朴重陽, May 3, 1872 - April 23, 1959) was a Korean bureaucrat, politician and scholar, popular rights activist and liberalism activist. He lived during the Joseon Dynasty and Japanese rule of Korea. He was an active pro-Japanese collaborator. His pen name was Haeahk (해악, 海岳)·Ilso(일소, 一笑). Another name was Wongeun(원근, 源根).

[[Gabrielle Carteris]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Arizona, American television actors, 1961 births, Living people, People from Scottsdale, Arizona

Gabrielle Anne Carteris (born January 2, 1961 in Scottsdale, Arizona ) is an American actress. She has performed on television. She may be best known for playing Andrea Zuckerman on the television series Beverly Hills, 90210.

On April 9, 2016, Carteris was elected SAG-AFTRA president.

[[Calcium hypophosphite]]

CATEGORIES: Phosphorus compounds, Calcium compounds

Calcium hypophosphite is used in the poultry industry. It helps when birds don't have enough calcium and phosphorous. Not having enough of those can cause thin-shelled eggs, lameness, weak bones, etc.

[[Chiharu Igaya]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, 1960 Winter Olympics, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Japanese skiers, People from Hokkaido

Chiharu Igaya is a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as an skier who competed in three Winter Olympic Games.

[[Ivanka Trump]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Businesspeople from New York, Children of Presidents of the United States, Converts to Judaism, Jewish businesspeople, Models from Manhattan, Trump family

Ivana Marie "Ivanka" Trump (ɪ), also known as Yael Kushner (ibex; born October 30, 1981), is an American businesswoman, writer, heiress, and former model. Trump was Assistant to the President from March 29, 2017 to January 20, 2021. She is the daughter of former U.S President Donald Trump and Czech model Ivana Trump. She works at The Trump Organization with the company's real estate and hotel management. She also has several other business deals.

On October 25, 2009, Trump married Jewish American businessman Jared Kushner after converting to Judaism earlier that year in July.

[[Indira (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 movies, Indian movies, Tamil-language movies

Indira is a 1996 Tamil movie. It was written by Mani Ratnam. It was directed by his wife and national award winning actress Suhasini. Indira dealt with the caste issues in a typical Tamil Nadu village through the eyes of an upright young dalit girl.

[[Tsunekazu Takeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, 1972 Summer Olympics, 1976 Summer Olympics, Olympians, Sportspeople from Tokyo, Equestrians

Tsunekazu Takeda is a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as an Equestrian who competed in two Summer Olympic Games.  He is the current President of the Japanese Olympic Committee.

[[Yukio Kasaya]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic gold medalists, Japanese skiers

Yukio Kasaya is a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as a ski jumper and as the winner of an Olympic gold medal.

In the 1972 Winter Olympics in Sapporo, Kasaya earned Japan's first Olympic Winter Games gold medal in the 70m ski jump.

[[Shallow Grave]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 crime movies, 1994 thriller movies, 1990s crime thriller movies, BAFTA Award winning movies, British crime movies, British thriller movies, Edinburgh, English-language movies, Movies set in Scotland

Shallow Grave is a 1994 British crime thriller movie set in Edinburgh. It was written by John Hodge, produced by Andrew Macdonald and directed by Danny Boyle. It stars Ewan McGregor as journalist Alex, Kerry Fox as doctor Juliet and Christopher Eccleston as accountant David. The three are friends who share a flat. They interview people who want to become their fourth flatmate and choose Hugo (played by Keith Allen). Alex, Juliet and David find him dead in his room and a suitcase full of money in the room. They decide to keep his death secret, cut up and dispose of the dead body in a shallow grave and keep the money.

[[Yuki Otsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Kashiwa Reysol players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, Júbilo Iwata players, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics

Yuki Otsu is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[...Baby One More Time (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Britney Spears songs, 1998 songs

"...Baby One More Time" is the first single for Britney Spears released off her first album as its first single. It went to number one on the Billboard Hot 100. The video was memorable for Spears being dressed in a schoolgirl uniform.

The song was mostly written by Max Martin. It was originally pitched to the R&B group TLC but they turned it down.

[[Womanizer]]

CATEGORIES: Britney Spears songs, 2008 songs

"Womanizer" is a 2008 song. It is the first song on Britney Spears' sixth album Circus. It was the first single released off that album. It went to number one on the Billboard Hot 100. It is an electropop song referring to a womanizing man.

[[If U Seek Amy]]

CATEGORIES: Britney Spears songs, 2009 songs, Obscenity controversies

"If U Seek Amy" is a song on Britney Spears' sixth album Circus. It was the third single released off that album in early 2009. It hit the top 40 on the Billboard Hot 100. Because of the double entendre in the song, radio stations played an edited version titled "If U See Amy".

[[Everytime]]

CATEGORIES: Britney Spears songs, 2004 songs, 2000s ballads, Pop ballads

"Everytime" is the third single released off of Britney Spears' fourth album In the Zone. It was released in early 2004. It was co-written by Spears herself. It hit the top 40 of the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Oops!... I Did It Again (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Britney Spears songs, 2000 songs

"Oops!... I Did It Again" is the title track of Britney Spears' second album. It was the first single released off that album. The song was released in early 2000. It reached the top 40 of the Billboard Hot 100.

[[I'm a Slave 4 U]]

CATEGORIES: Britney Spears songs, 2001 songs

"I'm a Slave 4 U" is a song from Britney Spears' third album, Britney. It was the first single off that album. It was released in late 2001. It was the only song from the album to hit the top 40 on the Billboard Hot 100.

The song created controversy. That was partly because of the words, which could be seen as sexual. It was also partly because of her performance of the song on the MTV Video Music Awards.

[[Gimme More]]

CATEGORIES: Britney Spears songs, 2007 songs, Songs about sexuality

"Gimme More" is a song from Britney Spears' album Blackout. The song was released in late 2007. It was her comeback single after a few years out of the music business because of her personal problems. It hit the top 10 on the Billboard Hot 100. It is a dance-pop and electropop song with elements of disco music. Its lyrics are apparently about dancing and having sex although they're actually about the media fascination for Spears' private life as noted in lyrics such as "Cameras are flashing my way darty dancin' they keep watching, feels like the crowd was saying: gimme more"

The song was first performed at the 2007 VMA awards; a performance heavily criticized by the media comparing it to Spears' standards in previous ceremonies. It was also performed during the Femme Fatale tour in an Egypt-style remix in 2011 as well as in Britney: Piece Of Me Vegas Residency in 2013.

The song was an international success reaching the top 10 in more than 15 countries including the US, UK and Australia among others

[[Morrisons]]

CATEGORIES: Supermarkets of the United Kingdom, 1899 establishments in the United Kingdom

Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc (Morrisons) (MRW) is the fourth biggest supermarket in the United Kingdom. Its main offices are in Bradford, West Yorkshire, England. The company is usually called Morrisons. In 2008, Sir Ken Morrison left the company.

Dalton Philips is the current head. The old CEO was Marc Bolland, who left to become CEO of Marks & Spencer.

As of September 2009, Morrisons has 455 shops in the United Kingdom.

On 15 March 2007,  Morrisons said that it would stop its old branding and go for a more modern brand image. Their lower price brand, Bettabuy, was also changed to a more modern brand called the Morrisons Value. This brand was then changed again in 2012 as Morrisons started their low price option brand called M Savers.

In 2005 Morrisons bought part of the old Rathbones Bakeries for £15.5 million which make Rathbones and Morrisons bread.

In 2011, Morrisons opened a new 767,500 square/foot centre in Bridgwater for a £11 million redevelopment project. This project also made 200 new jobs.

[[Dermal bone]]

CATEGORIES: Bones

A dermal bone (membrane bone) is a bony structure that is part of the intramembranous ossification (the bone that helps fetus development in mammals). It is part of the vertebrate skeleton. These include the skull, jaws, gills, fins and exoskeleton.

[[Orange-thighed frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The orange-thighed frog, northern orange-eyed frog or lime tree frog (Litoria xanthomera) is a species of tree frogs. They live in tropical places in Queensland, Australia. They are green with orange eyes. They also look like the red-eyed tree frog. The orange-thighed frog is a medium-sized tree frog. They can reach up to 5.5 centimeters in length. It is a skinny frog with a thin body, flat head and large orange eyes.

This frog lives in rainforests where the trees are close together.  It spends almost all its time high in the trees.  It only comes down from the tree to look for mates and lay eggs. Male orange-thighed frogs gather in groups in ponds. They call for a mate from branches or on the edge of the water. Their call is a long aaa-rk. They mate with females after a heavy rainfall. Their eggs are brown and the female can lay from 800 to 1600 eggs. The orange-thighed frog's tadpole are similar to the red-eyed tree frogs.

This frog was in danger because human beings would cut down its forests to take the wood to build things.  Now, people visiting their forests for fun is a larger problem.

[[Discoglossidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Discoglossidae is a family of frogs. They are commonly known as the Disc-Tongued Frogs. They live in Europe but some species have been found in Northeastern Africa. An extinct species of the Discoglossidae family used to live in Israel.

The family has two genus. They include the Alytes and Discoglossus. The Discoglossus frogs looks very alike to toads and can be found on land. The Alytes are more smoother and look more like frogs. They are seen in the water. All of the species of the Discoglossidae will lay their eggs in ponds and will turn into tadpoles.

[[Enneabatrachus hechti]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Enneabatrachus hechti is an extinct species of an extinct genus of prehistoric frogs. They lived during the late Jurassic period. There has been many fossils found of them. There was one found in Como Bluff, Wyoming. They are part of the family Discoglossidae. The specimen found in Wyoming was only a few millimeters long.

[[Bufonidae]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Bufonidae is a family of the "true toads". The family has 35 genus. The Bufonidae toads are found almost everywhere and are well known. True toads can be found on every continent except Australia and Antarctica. They can be found in rain forest. They lay their eggs in strings. They will hatch and become tadpoles. However, the genus Nectophrynoides, their young will not develop from a tadpole stage.

True toads do not have any tooth. Their skin looks like warts. They have a pair of parotoid glands on the back of their heads. These glands has alkaloid poison. They get this type of poison from stress. They have also other toxins such as Bufotoxin. Male toads has a Bidder's organ. The organ will become an active ovary if conditions are right. They will then become a female.

[[Sirenidae]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

Sirenidae or sirens is a family of aquatic salamanders. They have very small front legs and do not have back legs. They have gills for breathing. Sirens are found only in the southeastern United States and northern Mexico.

[[Lumbriculus variegatus]]

CATEGORIES: Annelids

Lumbricus terrestris (also known as the California blackworm or bloodworm) is a species of worm. These worms live in shallow water such as marshes, ponds and swamps. They feed on microorganisms. Adult blackworms can lay 150 to 250 eggs.

[[Fathead minnow]]

CATEGORIES: Ray-finned fish, Freshwater fish

The fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas), also know as the rosy red minnow, is a species of freshwater fish. They are in the Pimephales genus of the cyprinid family. They live in North America and central Canada. This minnow has been introduced to many areas by people. They are golden. They are a feeder fish and are sold in pet stores.

[[Ed, Edd n Eddy]]

CATEGORIES: Cartoon Network series, 1999 television series debuts, 2009 television series endings, Animated television series, English-language television programs

Ed, Edd n Eddy is a Canadian-American children's animated television series created by Danny Antonucci. It was produced by the studio a.k.a Cartoon and Cartoon Network Studios. It started on. The show is about three boys called "the Eds" who live in a cul-de-sac. They also create scams (tricks) in their neighborhood. These tricks could be items that the other kids might want to buy. They do this so the other kids will give them money to buy jawbreakers. Most of the times, their plans end in a bad way.

Before Cartoon Network started writing the show, Antonucci tried to sell it to Nickelodeon. However, the channel wanted to control what he does with the show. Antonucci did not agree to that and went with Cartoon Network. Four specials, and two books were made. The characters of the show were also in many comic books and video games. The series ended with the TV movie Ed, Edd n Eddy's Big Picture Show on November 8, 2009.

The show got mostly good reviews and many awards and nominations. Kids and adults from 31 million households in 30 different countries watched the show. The show became Cartoon Network's longest-airing show.

[[Alex Borstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Actors from San Francisco, Writers from San Francisco, Actors from Chicago, Writers from Chicago, Comedians from Chicago, People from Highland Park, Illinois, American television actors, American movie actors, American voice actors

Alexandrea "Alex" Borstein (born February 15, 1973) is an American actress, voice actress, writer, and comedian. Borstein is known for her long running role as Lois Griffin in the animated television series Family Guy, and a cast member on the sketch comedy series MADtv.

Born in Highland Park, Illinois and studied San Francisco State University. Borstein was trained in comedy at the ACME Comedy Theatre, near Hollywood, California, and was selected to join MADtv after being searched by talent agents who noticed her comedy work at the theatre. Borstein was a writer and voice actress for several shows like; Casper, Pinky and the Brain and Power Rangers: Zeo, Powerpuff Girls, before joining the cast of MADtv as a featured player, and as a theatre player in 1997. 

Borstein is married to Jackson Douglas since 1999 and have a child Barnaby Douglas, and Henrietta Douglas.

[[Mike Henry]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Actors from Michigan, Living people, Singers from Michigan, Writers from Michigan, People from Pontiac, Michigan, American television actors, American voice actors

Michael Robert "Mike" Henry (born November 7, 1965 in Pontiac, Michigan) is an American voice actor, writer, producer, singer, and comedian. He is best known for his work on Family Guy where he is a writer, producer, and voice actor. 

He does the voice for many characters, such as Cleveland Brown, Herbert, Bruce, and Greased Up Deaf Guy, and Consuela. Starting with the show's fifth season, Henry had received billing as a main cast member. In 2009, Henry, Seth MacFarlane, and Richard Appel created a spin-off of Family Guy called The Cleveland Show to focus on Cleveland and his new family.

Henry is currently married to Sara Henry and have two children.

[[Joseph-Michel Montgolfier]]

CATEGORIES: 1740 births, 1810 deaths

[[Jacques-Étienne Montgolfier]]

CATEGORIES: 1745 births, 1799 deaths

[[Connie Sellecca]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, 1955 births, Living people, American bloggers

Connie Sellecca (born May 25 1955 in Bronx, New York) is an American actress and former model who has starred in many television programs and many movies. She was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Television Series Drama in 1987.

[[Mikio Oda]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1998 deaths, Japanese Olympic gold medalists, People from Hiroshima

Mikio Oda was a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as a track and field) competitor in three Summer Olympic Games.

He was the first Japanese Olympic gold medalist. He was the first Asian Olympic champion in an individual event.

[[Autism spectrum]]

CATEGORIES: Autism

The autism spectrum or autistic spectrum is a range of disorders called pervasive developmental disorders. These disorders include autism, Asperger syndrome, Rett syndrome and more. 

[[Jodie Sweetin]]

CATEGORIES: People from Los Angeles, California, American television actors, 1982 births, Living people

Jodie Lee Ann Sweetin (born January 19, 1982 near Los Angeles) is an American actress and television personality. She is well known for her role as Stephanie Tanner in the sitcom Full House from 1987 to 1995. She has also performed in other television programs.

[[Peter Wyngarde]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2018 deaths, Actors from Marseille, English LGBT people, English movie actors, English singers, English television actors, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT singers, Musicians from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur

Peter Paul Wyngarde (Cyril Goldbert; 23 August 1927 – 15 January 2018) was an English singer, television and movie actor best known for his role as Jason King, a bestselling novelist turned sleuth, in two British television series in the late 1960s and early 1970s: Department S (1969 - 1970), and Jason King (1971 - 1972). 

Wyngarde was born in Marseille, France to a French mother and English father. Wyngarde was married to Dorinda Stevens from 1951 until 1956 and they had no children. Wyngarde died on 15 January 2018 at a London hospital at the age of 90.

[[Freddy West Tjakamarra]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s births, 1994 deaths, Indigenous Australian artists, Australian painters, Artists from Western Australia, Artists from the Northern Territory, Pintupi

Freddy West Tjakamarra (previously Tjukurti Tjakamarra; born around 1932 – died 1994) was an Australian Aboriginal artist. He was a leader of the Pintupi people during their return to traditional lands in the 1980s. He was one of the founders of the Kiwirrkurra settlement in 1983. As a painter, West was part of the Western Desert movement, and was one of the very first painters of the Papunya Tula school. 

[[Pinta Pinta Tjapanangka]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian artists, Australian painters, 1920s births, 1999 deaths, Artists from Western Australia, Artists from the Northern Territory, Pintupi

Pinta Pinta Tjapanangka (late 1920s – 1999) was an Australian Aboriginal artist. He was one of the very first members of the Papunya Tula art movement. He is a well-known painter of Western Desert art. He belonged to the Pintupi community, and painted stories from the Pintupi Dreaming (Tingari). He painted mythological events that happened around his homeland, including around Winparrku, Lake MacDonald and Lake Mackay.

Pinta Pinta was from Western Australia. He was born at Yumari, a place in the Great Sandy Desert. He was probably born sometime in the late 1920s (around 1927 or 1928). Before contact with White society, he lived a nomadic way of life in the desert. In the 1950s, he walked with his family to stay at Haasts Bluff, a government rations outpost. This was his first contact with modern Australian civilisation. His was one of the last groups in the country to come out of the desert.

Pinta Pinta began painting in the mid-1970s, at Papunya. He moved to Kintore after it was founded in 1981. In 1984, Pinta Pinta and his family set up an outstation at Winparrku (Mount Webb), between Kintore and Kiwirrkurra. The family moved here shortly after. In 1988, he had a small part in the move Evil Angels.

His paintings mostly stick to black, white and ochre in colour. The most obvious motif seen in them is the circles and lines, which depict dreaming tracks. Some of his works are in the Australian Museum, the National Gallery of Victoria and the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory.

He had two sons, Matthew (born early 1960s) and Nyilyari (born about 1965). Nyilyari also became a famous artist.

[[House centipede]]

CATEGORIES: Myriapods

The house centipede (Scutigera coleoptrata) is a yellowish grey centipede having up to 15 pairs of legs. 

The species are found all across the world and live in human apartments or houses. The house centipede is an insectivore; it kills and eats arachnids and insects. They were first discovered around 1758. These centipedes are harmless to humans, although humans may be startled by them. It is a nocturnal animal.

House centipedes live from three to seven years, depending on the environment. They can start breeding in their third year. 

They are among the fastest artropods: they can reach speeds of up to 420mm/s, which is about 1.5km/h.  

[[Dom DeLuise]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2009 deaths, Actors from New York City, Actors from Santa Monica, California, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Comedians from New York City, Deaths from diabetes, Deaths from renal failure, Writers from New York City

Dominick "Dom" DeLuise (August 1, 1933  May 4, 2009) was an American actor, voice actor, comedian, movie director, television producer, chef and author.

He was the husband of actress Carol Arthur from 1965 until his death in 2009. He was the father of actor, director, pianist, and writer Peter DeLuise, actor David DeLuise, and actor Michael DeLuise. He starred in several movies directed by Mel Brooks. He was in a series of movies with career-long best friends Burt Reynolds. He was a voice actor in most of the animated movies by Don Bluth. DeLuise appeared in The Dean Martin Show. He appeared in more than 100 movies.

[[Water viper]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers, Venomous animals, Snakes

Agkistrodon piscivorus, also known as the cottonmouth snake, water moccasin, or water viper, is a species of highly venomous pit viper (a type of snake) found throughout southeastern United States. Commonly called cottonmouths because of their all-white mouth, they are often confused with Northern water snakes, which are harmless, but the cottonmouth is much the opposite.

[[Dick Van Patten]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American activists, Actors from New York City, Businesspeople from New York City

Richard Vincent "Dick" Van Patten (December 9, 1928 – June 23, 2015) was an American actor, businessman, and animal welfare advocate. He was best known for his role as Tom Bradford on the television sitcom Eight is Enough.

[[Daphne Zuniga]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Berkeley, California, 1962 births, Living people

Daphne Zuniga (born October 28, 1962) is an American actress.  She is best known for playing Jo Reynolds in the television series Melrose Place and as Victoria Davis on The CW teen drama One Tree Hill. 

Zuniga supports Equality Now.  Equality Now works to make legal changes in countries to better lives of females. Also, she is working to restore the river in Los Angeles.  She is a member of the board of directors for a group working to restore the river area.

[[Yun Chi-wang]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1982 deaths, Korean activists, Korean educators, South Korean politicians, Anti-Communists, Korean politicians, Autobiographers

General Yun Chi-wang (February 17 1895 – December 21 1982) was a South Korean politicians, solder and gynecologist. He was the half brother of Yun Chi-ho, uncle of Yun Poson, 4th president of South Korea.

[[Gretchen Carlson]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Minnesota, American journalists, Miss America winners, 1966 births, Living people

Gretchen Elizabeth Carlson (born 21 June 1966 in Minnesota) is an American television personality. She performs hosting shows on Fox News. Before that, Carlson received the title of Miss America 1989 (she still works with the Miss America Pageant club). Later she teamed up with CBS News. She joined Fox News around 2005.

[[Greta Van Susteren]]

CATEGORIES: American journalists, Television personalities from Wisconsin, 1954 births, Living people, People from Appleton, Wisconsin

Greta Van Susteren (born June 11, 1954 near Appleton, Wisconsin) is an American news commentator and television personality on Fox News Network . She is the host of On the Record on Fox News Network. She is also a former criminal defense and civil trial lawyer. She co-hosted Burden of Proof along with Roger Cossack on Cable News Network(CNN) prior to switching to Fox.  She received the American Bar Association’s Presidential Award for “Excellence in Journalism” in 2001.

She married lawyer John P. Coale in 1988. They are members of the Church of Scientology. 

[[Tucker Carlson]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American political commentators, Dancing with the Stars participants, Journalists from California, People from San Diego County, California, Writers from San Francisco, Television personalities from California

Tucker Swanson McNear Carlson (born May 16, 1969) is an American paleoconservative television host and political commentator who has hosted Tucker Carlson Tonight on Fox News since 2016. He is a contributing editor for The Weekly Standard.  He started his television career as a political analyst for the Cable News Network (CNN) and also a host on that network, co-hosting The Spin Room and Crossfire. He left CNN in 2004. He then started hosting a show on MSNBC.  Carlson co-founded The Daily Caller, funded by Foster Friess.  He currently co-hosts a weekend morning talk show on Fox News Channel. 

Tucker was born in San Francisco and grew up in Carlsbad, California.

In 2006, he was a contestant on Dancing with the Stars. He was the first person eliminated from the competition. 

[[Rules of Engagement (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 American television series debuts, 2013 American television series endings, 2000s American sitcoms, 2000s romance television series, 2010s American sitcoms, 2010s romance television series, CBS network shows, Narcissism in fiction, Romantic comedy television series, Television series about marriage, Television series set in New York City, English-language television programs

Rules of Engagement is an American sitcom set in New York City. It was shown from February 5, 2007 to May 20, 2013 on CBS. It has five main characters. Patrick Warburton and Megyn Price play married couple Jeff and Audrey. Oliver Hudson and Bianca Kajlich play engaged couple Adam and Jen. David Spade plays womanizing narcissistic single man Russell. Adhir Kalyan plays Timmy, Russell's office assistant.

[[Geraldo Rivera]]

CATEGORIES: Journalists from New York City, 1943 births, Living people

Geraldo Rivera (born July 4, 1943, Manhattan, New York City) is an American attorney, journalist, author, reporter, and talk show host. He almost always appears on Fox News. He hosted a talk show, Geraldo, which ran for eleven years and featured many controversial guests. He began hosting for Fox News not long after the attacks of September 11, 2001. He hosts Geraldo at Large. He has written six books.

[[Government of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Government of the United Kingdom

The Government of the United Kingdom, formally referred to as Her Majesty's Government, is the central government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. It is also commonly referred to as simply the British Government or the UK Government.

[[Margaux Hemingway]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Portland, Oregon, American models, American movie actors, Drug-related suicides in the United States, Models who committed suicide, 1954 births, 1996 deaths

Margot Louise Hemingway (February 16, 1954-July 1, 1996 ), later called Margaux Hemingway, was an American actress and fashion model. She was born in Portland, Oregon. She was the sister of Mariel Hemingway. On July 1, 1996, the day before the anniversary of her grandfather Ernest Hemingway's own suicide,  Margaux killed herself: she overdosed with a drug called phenobarbital.  She was found dead inside her apartment in Santa Monica, California.

[[Styx (moon)]]

CATEGORIES: Pluto's moons

Styx (formerly known as S/2012 (134340) 1 and informally as P5) is a small moon of the dwarf planet Pluto. It was discovered on June 26, 2012, using the Hubble Space Telescope. It is the fifth moon of Pluto discovered so far. The others are Charon, discovered in 1978, Nix and Hydra, which were discovered in 2005, and Kerberos, discovered in 2011.

[[The Doon School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in India, 1935 establishments in Asia, 1930s establishments in India

The Doon School (informally Doon School or Doon) is a boys-only private boarding school in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, India.  The school was founded by Satish Ranjan Das, a Calcutta lawyer. Doon's first headmaster was Arthur E. Foot, a former science master at Eton College. The present headmaster is Peter McLaughlin, who has occupied the post since 2009 and is the ninth headmaster of the school.

The school houses roughly 500 pupils aged 13 to 18.  Every year in January and April, the school admits pupils aged 13 in Grade 7 (known as D-form) and aged 14 in Grade 8 (C-form) respectively. Doon pupils take the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education in tenth grade and are thereafter offered two strands for the final two years: International Baccalaureate (IB) or Indian School Certificate (ISC). The school began offering the IB curriculum only in 2006, before which all pupils had to sit the ISC examinations in twelfth grade.  

Doon has consistently been ranked among the best residential schools of India by media such as The Times of India and Outlook. Doon remains a boys-only school despite continued pressure from political leaders, including President Pratibha Patil, to become coeducational. Former students of the school are commonly known as Doscos.  Although the total number of Doscos is relatively small (estimated at 5,000 since the school's founding), they include some of India's most prominent politicians, government officials and business leaders. The best known alumnus is former Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.

[[Maria Muldaur]]

CATEGORIES: Singer-songwriters from New York, 1943 births, Living people

Maria Muldaur (born in New York City, September 12, 1943) is an American singer and songwriter. Her birth name was Maria Grazia Rosa Domenica D'Amato. She is a folk-blues singer who contributed to the revival of American folk music in the early 1960s and recorded the 1974 hit song "Midnight at the Oasis".

[[Gavin Newsom]]

CATEGORIES: Lieutenant Governors of California, Governors of California, Mayors of San Francisco, US Democratic Party politicians, 1967 births, Living people, 21st-century American politicians

Gavin Christopher Newsom (born October 10, 1967) is an American politician. He is the 40th and current Governor of the U.S. state of California, serving since 2019. Before becoming governor, he was the 49th Lieutenant Governor of California from 2011 to 2019. He was also the 42nd Mayor of San Francisco from 2004 to 2011.  Newsom is a Democrat. His father was judge William Newsom. 

In February 2015, Newsom announced his candidacy for Governor of California in 2018. On June 5, 2018, he finished in the top two of the nonpartisan blanket primary, and faced off against Republican John H. Cox in November. He won the general election in November 2018.

Many people did not like how Newsom responded to the COVID-19 pandemic in California such as having a slow rollout of vaccines and for the timing of state COVID-19 restrictions. 

He faced an election for his recall in 2021, but it did not succeed.

[[Prytaneion]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Greece, Olympia, Greece

The Prytaneion was a building at Olympia, Greece. It was here that feasts in honor of the Olympic victors and official guests were held in ancient times. The Prytaneion was built towards the end of the 6th century BC. It was located northwest of the Temple of Hera at Olympia. During Roman times (as evidenced by the many bricks), it was reconstructed and extended many times. The Altar of Hestia (the Greek virgin goddess of the hearth) was in the building. It was on this altar that the Olympic eternal flame burned day and night. Every year, Olympian priests would daub the Great Altar of Zeus with a mixture made from the ashes of the Altar of Hestia and the water of the River Alpheios. The Altar of Hestia was in a square room on the southern side of the building. The rooms on the west side and the peristyle court on the north side were used for feasting and cooking. 

[[Elizabeth Arden]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian businesspeople, Businesspeople from New York City, People from Ontario, 1884 births, 1966 deaths, Company founders

Florence Nightingale Graham (31 December 1884–18 October 1966), better known as Elizabeth Arden, was a Canadian–American business woman who founded what is now known as Elizabeth Arden, Incorporated. She built a cosmetics network in the United States. At the peak of her career, she became one of the richest women in the world. She was born near to Woodbridge in the Province of Ontario.

[[Pintupi Nine]]

CATEGORIES: Pintupi, Indigenous Australian history, Indigenous Australian politics

The Pintupi Nine were a group of Aboriginal Australians. They are said to have been the last Aborigines in Australia to come into contact with modern civilisation. The group lived a nomadic, hunter-gatherer way of life in the Great Sandy Desert, before they met with their relatives near Kiwirrkurra in October 1984. Most other groups from this region had left the desert over 20 years before. They had been settled in towns to the east and west, but this group had stayed behind.

The group belonged to the Pintupi community. They lived on the western side of Lake Mackay, north of where Kiwirrkurra is today. It was made up of a single family. The father of the group had recently died, leaving two widows and seven children, most of whom were young adults. The family was moving south, hoping to find some of their relatives. They came across another family setting up an outstation, but ran away after a misunderstanding. Their relatives from Kiwirrkurra went to find them and then brought them into modern society.

[[Walala Tjapaltjarri]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian artists, Artists from Western Australia, Living people, Australian painters, 1970s births, Pintupi

Walala Tjapaltjarri (born Walala Tjapangati) is an Australian Aboriginal artist. He is one of the most well-known artists of the Western Desert style.

[[Thomas Tjapaltjarri]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian artists, Artists from Western Australia, Living people, Australian painters, 1960s births, Pintupi

Thomas Tjapaltjarri (born Tamayinya Tjapangati, also often known as Tamlik) is an Australian Aboriginal artist. He and his brothers Warlimpirrnga and Walala have become well-known as the Tjapaltjarri Brothers. Thomas and his family became known as the last group of Aborigines to come into contact with modern, European society. They came out of the desert in 1984, and became known as "the last nomads".

[[Adenorhinos]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Adenorhinos is a monotypic genus made for the venomous viper species, "Adenorhinos barbouri". It is a small and rare terrestrial (lives on the ground) snake found in the Uzungwe and Ukinga mountains in south-central Tanzania in Africa. There is currently no subspecies found.

[[Megan Mullally]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, American stage actors, 1958 births, Living people

Megan Mullally (born November 12, 1958 in Los Angeles) is an American television performer and stage actress who won two Emmy Awards for her Will & Grace acting. She worked for theater in Chicago and has done many performances in multiple Broadway musicals. She also starred in many television programs besides Will & Grace. She has been married to Nick Offerman since 2003.

[[Yukultji Napangati]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian artists, Artists from Western Australia, Living people, Australian painters, 1970s births, Pintupi

Yukultji Napangati is an Australian Aboriginal artist. She is a painter of the Papunya Tula group of artists. She is part of a generation of female painters who followed in the footsteps of the original male Papunya Tula artists.

Yukultji grew up around Marruwa, a waterhole near Lake Mackay. She grew up without knowing about places like Kiwirrkurra, or her relatives living there. She had never met anyone from outside her own family. Her family lived a completely traditional nomadic way of life. Her father, Lanti (or "Joshua"), had lived for a short time at the mission in Balgo, but he had run away after getting into trouble for stealing food. It was his decision to stay in the desert, and kept his family far away from the towns. Yukultji's father died sometime around 1980. The family finally came into contact with outsiders in October 1984, and were settled at Kiwirrkurra. The event was big news at the time, and the family became famously known as "the last nomads". Yukultji was the youngest of this group.

Yukultji experienced major culture shock when first coming out of the desert. She often found new things difficult to understand. In an interview once, she remembers, "I hopped into a car and crouched down, and I saw the trees move. I was frightened. I was scared. I jumped right off because the trees were racing around the place."

Yukultji began painting in the early 1990s. Before this, she had watched her brothers painting and later decided to try it for herself. She paints stories and songs from her and her mother's dreaming. These stories are about her traditional country, around Marruwa, Ngaminya and Marrapinti.

Her paintings are shown in several public collections in Australia. Her work has been shown in over 80 exhibitions in Australia and overseas. She was a finalist in the National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Art Awards, in 2006, 2009, 2010 and 2011. In 2012, Yukultji won the Alice Prize, an award for Australian artists in Alice Springs.

[[Yalti Napangati]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian artists, Artists from Western Australia, Living people, Australian painters, 1970s births, Pintupi

Yalti Napangati (born around 1970) is an Australian Aboriginal artist. She is a painter of the Western Desert style of art, and paints for the Papunya Tula school. Her husband, Warlimpirrnga, is also a well-known artist. They were both members of the infamous Pintupi Nine, the last group of Aborigines living a traditional way of life in Australia.

Yalti was born in the Great Sandy Desert, sometime around 1970. She and her family lived as nomads in the desert, travelling along the western side of Lake Mackay. Most other Pintupi families had moved into settlements during the 1950s, but Yalti's father kept the family away from these. Her parents were Lanti (or "Joshua") and Nanu. She has an older brother, Tamayinya, and a younger sister, Yukultji. She married Warlimpirrnga sometime during the early 1980s, possibly when she was as young as 12. She and her family came out of the desert in 1984. She now lives at Kiwirrkurra, and has two sons and two daughters.

Yalti finished her first paintings for Papunya Tula in June 1996. She makes acrylic paintings of landscapes associated with Pintupi dreaming stories. Her paintings are of important places in her country, around Marruwa, Laurryi, Wirrulnga and Patjarr.

[[Gatwick Airport railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England

Gatwick Airport railway station is a big station in the south of England for Gatwick Airport. Trains are currently run by Gatwick Express, First Great Western, Southern and Thameslink.

[[Megyn Price]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Seattle, Washington, American television actors, 1971 births, Living people

Megyn Price (born March 24, 1971 in Seattle) is an American screen and television actress. She is known for her acting in the sitcoms Grounded for Life and Rules of Engagement. She also performs in other TV shows.

[[Needham Market railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk, 1846 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1840s establishments in England, 1967 disestablishments, 1960s disestablishments in England, 1971 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1970s establishments in England

Needham Market railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Needham Market. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. Fast trains to London or Norwich do not stop here. Stopping trains to Cambridge, Peterborough or Ipswich do stop here. 

[[Luritja]]

CATEGORIES: Australian Aboriginal groups

Luritja is the name of an Australian Aboriginal group of the Western Desert. They speak the Luritja dialect of Wati, the language of the Western Desert people. The dialect itself has several varieties. The Luritja lands include areas to the west and south of Alice Springs. The region is centred on Kings Canyon. Their neighbours are the Arrernte (east), the Warlpiri (north), the Pintupi (west), and the Pitjantjatjara (south).

In recent decades, many from this group have inter-married with Pintupi-speaking people. During the mid 20th-century, the Pintupi were forced to leave their lands and were settled into government-built stations. Papunya became a settlement for both Pintupi and Luritja. In the 1980s, many of these people moved back west to Kintore. Both communities now mainly speak a hybridised dialect known as Pintupi-Luritja.

The name luritja is thought to come from the Arrernte word lurinya, which means "foreigner". Over time younger generations have taken on the name as their ethnonym. The total population of Luritja people (including those at Papunya) is probably in the thousands. This makes them the third largest of the Central Australian Aboriginal populations, behind the Arrernte and Pitjantjatjara.

[[Stowmarket railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Stowmarket railway station is a station in Suffolk, England for Stowmarket. Trains are run by Greater Anglia to London, Norwich, Ipswich, Cambridge and Peterborough.

[[Kukatja]]

CATEGORIES: Australian Aboriginal groups

Kukatja is an ethno-linguistic group of the Western Desert people in central Australia. The people who speak the Kukatja language live in the Tanami and Great Sandy Deserts in Western Australia. Their lands are south of Halls Creek, around Balgo and Lake Gregory. They neighbour the Pintupi and Ngarti (east), the Yulparitja and Walmatjarri (west), and the Jaru (north). In the 1996 census, about 580 people spoke the language.

[[Sudbury railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Sudbury railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Sudbury. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Beccles railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

[[Brampton (Suffolk) railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Brampton railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for the village of Brampton. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Brandon railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Brandon railway station is a small station in Norfolk, England for Brandon in Suffolk. The station is at the county boundary of Norfolk. Trains are run by Greater Anglia.

[[Bury St Edmunds railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk, 1847 establishments in Europe, 1840s establishments in England

Bury St Edmunds railway station is a large station in Suffolk, England for Bury St Edmunds. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Darsham railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Darsham railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for the village of Darsham. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Derby Road railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Derby Road railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Elmswell railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Elmswell railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Elmswell. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Felixstowe railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Felixstowe railway station is a large station in Suffolk, England for Felixstowe. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Halesworth railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Halesworth railway station is a station in Suffolk, England for Halesworth. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Volusia County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1854 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Florida

Volusia County is a county in the east-central part of the U.S. state of Florida. It is bordered by St. Johns River to the west and the south, with the Atlantic Ocean to the east. The county was founded on December 29, 1854. At the 2010 United States Census, 494,593 people lived there. It is the sole county of the Deltona–Daytona Beach–Ormond Beach, FL Metropolitan Statistical Area. The county seat is DeLand, and the largest municipality is Deltona.

[[Lakenheath railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Lakenheath railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Lowestoft railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Lowestoft railway station is a large station in Suffolk, England for Lowestoft. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Melton railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Melton railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Melton. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Newmarket railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Newmarket railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Newmarket. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Oulton Broad North railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Sudbury railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Oulton Broad. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Oulton Broad South railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Oulton Broad South railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Oulton Broad. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Saxmundham railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Saxmundham railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Saxmundham. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Somerleyton railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Somerleyton railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Somerleyton. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Thurston railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Thurston railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Thurston. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Trimley railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Trimley railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Trimley. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Wickham Market railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Wickham Market railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Wickham Market. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Woodbridge railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk

Woodbridge railway station is a small station in Suffolk, England for Woodbridge. Trains are currently run by Greater Anglia. 

[[Harwich International railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Tendring, 1883 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1880s establishments in England

Harwich International railway station is a station in Essex, England for Harwich International Port. Trains are currently run by Abellio Greater Anglia. 

[[East Coast (train company)]]

CATEGORIES: Train operating companies, 2009 establishments in the United Kingdom

East Coast was a government-owned British train operating company. It ran high-speed passenger trains on the East Coast Main Line between London, Yorkshire, the North East and Scotland, being forced to take over after National Express East Coast defaulted on their franchise. It started operations on 14 November 2009. It ended operations on 28 February 2015. They had 45 locomotives and served 53 stations whilst operating 12 of them. The franchise was re-let to Virgin Trains East Coast, ending the period of government ownership, despite contributing a lot of money to the Treasury and calls for the government to retain the franchise.

[[Pervasive developmental disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Pervasive developmental disorders, Developmental disorders

Pervasive developmental disorders (PDD) are a group of disorders. There are five disorders in the group. These disorders all slow down the rate a child learns to talk and listen to others, as well as cause other problems.

The five disorders are:

The first three of these disorders are also called autism spectrum disorders. The last two are not common.

A child's parents might begin to notice signs of PDD when the child is a baby, and it usually appears before the child is three years old.

[[Rita Moreno]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, Grammy Award winners, Academy Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Puerto Rican singers, Puerto Rican actors, 1931 births, Living people, Dancers

Rita Moreno (born December 11, 1931) is a Puerto Rican dancer, singer and actress. She is one of the few performers who have won an Emmy, a Grammy, an Oscar, a Golden Globe, and a Tony Award (an EGOT +Globe).  In 2014 she was honored with a Screen Actors Guild Award for lifetime achievement. 

[[First Hull Trains]]

CATEGORIES: Train operating companies, Open-access train operating companies

Hull Trains is a open-access operator running four trains on their single line from London King's Cross to Hull Paragon railway station. The company is made up of First Group (80%) and Renaissance Trains (20%).

[[TransPennine Express]]

CATEGORIES: Train operating companies, Rail transport in the United Kingdom

TransPennine Express is a British train operating company. it is fully owned by First Group. It runs regular passenger trains in northern England, including trains linking the west and east coasts across the Pennines. TransPennine Express runs three routes which provide rail links for large cities like Edinburgh, Glasgow, Liverpool, Sheffield, Leeds, York and Newcastle. All three routes stop at Manchester Piccadilly and Manchester Airport.

[[Electroconvulsive therapy]]

CATEGORIES: Health

Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), also called electroshock, is a psychiatric treatment in which seizures are caused by electricity in unconscious patients to treat llness.

The process is completed by placing electrodes on the sides of the patient's head (on either both or just one side) and sending a small electric current through the brain. This lasts for about half a second.

The patient is also made unconscious before the treatment for safety reasons. The therapy without informed consent is medical abuse and Article 18 of the Yogyakarta Principles prohibit to "care" any sexual orientation and gender identity though any therapy including this. 

[[Southeastern (train company)]]

CATEGORIES: Train operating companies, Railway operators in London, 2006 establishments in England

London & South Eastern Railway Limited, trading as Southeastern is a train operating company in southeast England. On 1 April 2006, it became the franchisee for the new Integrated Kent Franchise (IKF), overtaking the publicly owned South Eastern Trains on the former South East Franchise. It serves the commuter routes to south-east London, most of Kent, and parts of East Sussex.

Since 2012, Thameslink have taken over various routes including the Catford Loop and Sevenoaks to Blackfriars services.

[[Iowa Supreme Court]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Iowa, Courts (law)

The Iowa Supreme Court is the highest court in the U.S. state of Iowa. The Court has seven judges  called "justices"  on it: a Chief Justice and six Associate Justices. The Court normally meets in Des Moines in the Iowa Judicial Branch Building.

[[Merseyrail]]

CATEGORIES: Train operating companies

Merseyrail is a British train operating company owned by Serco-Abellio and overseen by Merseytravel. They provides passenger rail services across Merseyside. They run 59 trains serving 67 stations. 

[[Northern Rail (Serco-Abellio)]]

CATEGORIES: Train operating companies, Rail transport in the United Kingdom

Northern Rail was a British train operating company. It ran local passenger services in Northern England from December 2004 to March 2016. Northern Rail's owner was Serco and Abellio. It ran 287 trains to 529 stations. 

In 2016, Serco and Abellio lost the franchise to Arriva, who promised to buy new trains.

[[Stansted Express]]

CATEGORIES: Train operating companies

Stansted Express is a sub-brand of Greater Anglia. It is the direct train service linking central London (Liverpool Street station) to Stansted Airport, one of London's major airports. Before February 2012, Stansted Express was operated by National Express East Anglia. Until 2004 Stansted Express was part of the WAGN franchise.

[[Nicole Sullivan]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, 1970 births, Living people

Nicole Julianne Sullivan (born April 21, 1970 in Manhattan, New York) is an American actress and comedian. She is best known for doing sitcoms. She acted in the sketch comedy MADtv (1995 to 2001) and the CBS sitcom The King of Queens.                                                                              

[[Lupe Ontiveros]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2012 deaths, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from El Paso, Texas, Deaths from liver cancer

Lupe Ontiveros (September 17, 1942 - July 26, 2012) was an Mexican-American movie and television actress. Ontiveros acted in a lot of movies and television series. She usually took the role of a maid or a grandmother. Ontiveros has told interviewers that she has played a maid at least 150 times on stage and in movies. She was nominated for an Emmy Award for her role on Desperate Housewives. She also was given positive reviews for her role in Chuck and Buck. She won the National Board of Review award for Best Supporting Actress. She was also nominated for an Independent Spirit Award. Ontiveros took the role as Yolanda Saldivar in the 1997 biographical movie Selena.

[[Kōhei Uchimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic gold medalists, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Japanese gymnasts, People from Fukuoka Prefecture

Kōhei Uchimura is a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as a gymnast.

[[Edward James Olmos]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American television actors, American television directors, Living people

Edward James Olmos (born February 24, 1947) is a American actor and movie director. He is best known for his roles in Battlestar Galactica, Miami Vice, Stand and Deliver, Selena, Blade Runner and Zoot Suit. In 1988, Olmos was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role for the movie Stand and Deliever.

In 1971, Olmos married Katija Keel. She is the daughter of actor Howard Keel. They had two children but divorced in 1992 and later married actress Lorraine Bracco in 1994. However, they filed for divorce in January 2002. He has four adopted children. In the same year of 1994, he married Puerto Rican actress Lymari Nadal. 

In 1996, he was awarded the Doctorate of Fine Arts from California State University. In his honor, Asteroid 5608 Olmos was named after him.

[[Chris Matthews]]

CATEGORIES: American political commentators, American political activists, Writers from Pennsylvania, American television news anchors, 1945 births, Living people

Christopher John Matthews (born December 17, 1945 near Philadelphia) is an American news anchor and political commentator. He is known for as the host of his talk show Hardball with Chris Matthews on MSNBC. On weekends he hosted the syndicated ABC News program The Chris Matthews Show.

[[Al Sharpton]]

CATEGORIES: People from New York City, Democrats (United States), LGBT rights activists, American civil rights activists, American television presenters, 1954 births, Living people, 2004 United States presidential candidates, HuffPost writers and columnists

Alfred Charles "Al" Sharpton Jr. (born October 3, 1954 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American Baptist minister, civil rights activist and television talk show host. He was a candidate for the Democrat nomination for the United States presidential election, 2004. He makes regular guest appearances on Fox News, MSNBC and CNN. In 2011, he was named the host of MSNBC's PoliticsNation, a talk show.

[[Chuck Grassley]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, American Baptists, Presidents pro tempore of the United States Senate, United States representatives from Iowa, United States senators from Iowa, US Republican Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Charles Ernest "Chuck" Grassley (born September 17, 1933) is the senior U.S. Senator from Iowa. He was the 91st Senate President pro tempore from 2019 until 2021.  He has been Senator since 1981. He was also in the United States House of Representatives from 1975 to 1981. Before that he was in the Iowa state legislature from 1959 to 1974.

In January 2019, Grassley became the most senior Republican serving in the United States Senate due to the retirement of Orrin Hatch and the resignation of Thad Cochran. After the Republicans kept control of the Senate in the 2018 elections, Grassley became the 91st Senate President pro tempore.

In January 2021, when Republicans lost control of the U.S. Senate, Patrick Leahy became President pro tempore while Grassley became President pro tempore emeritus.

On November 17, 2020, Grassley announced that he had tested positive for COVID-19.

[[Khojaly Massacre]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 in Europe, 1992 in Asia, Massacres, Anti-Azerbaijani sentiment, 20th century in Armenia, 1990s in Azerbaijan, Nagorno-Karabakh, Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, 1990s in Russia

The Khojaly Massacre was the murder of hundreds of ethnic Azerbaijani civilians from the town of Khojaly in Azerbaijan on 25–26 February 1992 by the Armenian armed forces with the help of Russian armed forces during the Nagorno-Karabakh War.

613 people were killed, including 424 men, 106 women and 83 children. The massacre was the largest massacre of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.

[[Kosuke Hagino]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic gold medalists, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Japanese swimmers, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2016 Summer Olympics, People from Tochigi Prefecture

Kosuke Hagino is a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as a swimmer who competed at the Summer Olympic Games.

[[Conrad Burns]]

CATEGORIES: United States senators from Montana, US Republican Party politicians, Deaths from stroke, 1935 births, 2016 deaths

Conrad Burns (January 25, 1935 – April 28, 2016) was a former United States Senator from the state of Montana.  He was a member of the U.S. Republican Party. He was the longest serving Republican Senator in the history of Montana. He was born near Gallatin, Missouri.

Burns died at his home in Billings, Montana on April 28, 2016 from complications of a stroke, aged 81.

[[Pat Boone]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, American movie actors, American pop singers, American voice actors, Actors from Jacksonville, Florida, Singers from Jacksonville, Florida

Charles Eugene "Pat" Boone (born June 1, 1934 in Jacksonville, Florida) is an American singer, writer and actor. He was a very successful pop musician in the 1950s and 1960s. His many hits were covers of black R&B musicians' songs. At that time black musicians were not played on white radio stations. His daughter Debby is also a singer.

According to Billboard, Boone was the second biggest charting artist of the late 1950s, behind only Elvis Presley.  He is a member of the Gospel Music Hall of Fame.

Boone hosted a half-hour ABC variety television series.  There were 115 episodes from 1957 to 1960. Many musical performers, including Edie Adams, Andy Williams, Pearl Bailey and Johnny Mathis were on the show. 

[[Hiroaki Hiraoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Judoka, Japanese martial artists

Hiroaki Hiraoka is a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as a judoka. 

[[Ben Nelson]]

CATEGORIES: United States senators from Nebraska, Governors of Nebraska, US Democratic Party politicians, 1941 births, Living people

Earl Benjamin Nelson (better known as Ben Nelson and born May 17, 1941) is a former U.S. Senator from Nebraska and member of United States Democratic Party. Before that he was 37th Governor of Nebraska. He was born in McCook, Nebraska.

[[Tom Harkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 United States presidential candidates, United States senators from Iowa, US Democratic Party politicians, 1939 births, Living people

Tom Harkin (born November 19, 1939) is a retired American politician for the Democratic Party. From 1985 to 2015, he served as a junior Senator in Iowa. He also served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1975 to 1985.

Harkin ran for the Democratic nomination for President in 1992, losing to then-Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton.

In 2013 Harkin said he would retire from the Senate after completing his fifth term in 2015.

[[Chuck Hagel]]

CATEGORIES: United States senators from Nebraska, US Republican Party politicians, 1946 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Defense, People from North Platte, Nebraska

Chuck Hagel (tʃ CHUK HAY; born October 4, 1946) was the 24th Secretary of Defense and the former U.S. Senator from Nebraska. He is a member of the United States Republican Party. He has criticized the Bush Administration on many things, such as the Iraq War.

In October 2014, speaking at a meeting of defense ministers in Peru, Hagel highlighted a report’s https://web.archive.org/web/20141202224816/http://www.acq.osd.mil/ie/download/CCARprint.pdf findings of the global security threats of climate change and global warming; stating “The loss of glaciers will strain water supplies in several areas of our hemisphere,” and “Destruction and devastation from hurricanes can sow the seeds for instability. Droughts and crop failures can leave millions of people without any lifeline, and trigger waves of mass migration.”

He was confirmed by the United States Senate on February 26, 2012 to become Secretary of Defense during Barack Obama's second term replacing Leon Panetta.

On November 24, 2014, it was announced that Hagel would resign the position of Secretary of Defense due to job stress and decisions on ISIS/ISIL.

[[Nancy Travis]]

CATEGORIES: People from New York City, American television actors, 1961 births, Living people, American movie actors

Nancy Travis (born September 21, 1961 in New York City) is a television and movie actress. She is known for her roles in many movies, especially in Three Men and a Baby and its sequel Three Men and a Little Lady. She has also been in many television sitcoms.

[[Naughty by Nature]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 establishments in the United States, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rap music groups, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups established in 1988, Musical groups from New Jersey, Musical trios, 1980s establishments in New Jersey

Naughty by Nature are a Grammy winning rap trio from New Jersey. They formed in 1988, and their songs include O.P.P. from 1991 (on their own self titled album). Other hit songs by the rap group followed over the years.

[[Quai Branly Museum]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 establishments in France, Art museums in France, Buildings and structures in Paris

The Musée du quai Branly (my.ze dy ke bʁan.li) is a museum in Paris. It is known in English as the Quai Branly Museum, nicknamed MQB. It displays art and culture from indigenous civilisations of Africa, America, Asia and Oceania. Quai Branly opened on 23 June 2006. It holds the collections of the old Musée national des Arts d'Afrique et d'Océanie, which is now closed. It contains 267,000 objects in its permanent collection. Of these, 3500 items are on display.

[[Warlimpirrnga Tjapaltjarri]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian artists, Artists from Western Australia, Living people, Australian painters, 1950s births, Pintupi

Warlimpirrnga Tjapaltjarri (waɭɪmb̥ɪrɪ ɖ̥ɟəb̥əɭɖ̥ɟaːrɪ; born late 1950s) is an Australian Aboriginal artist. He is one of Australia's most well-known indigenous artists.

[[Pintupi]]

CATEGORIES: Pintupi

Pintupi is an Australian Aboriginal group who are part of the Western Desert cultural group. Their homeland is in the area west of Lake MacDonald and Lake Mackay in Western Australia. This is a very remote part of Australian desert. Because of this, the Pintupi were among the last Aboriginals in Australia to leave their traditional way of life. Most of the Pintupi were displaced (forced to leave) their homeland in the middle the 20th century, because of sti testing being done at Woomera. They were moved into settlements to the east and west of their country, such as Papunya, Balgo, Haasts Bluff and even as far away as Hermannsburg. They ended up scattered into different communities. Within a few years, several hundreds of Pintupi had died from foreign disease and infection. Others had problems with alcoholism and violence – having lived in small groups for most of their lives, they found it hard to deal with conflict.

During the 1960s, the assimilationist policies of the Menzies government had a major effect on the mentality of many Pintupi. Part of the policy led to hundreds of Pintupi children being taken away from their parents and put into missions or foster care (this is now known as the Stolen Generation). 

Beginning in the 1970s, there was a strong push within the Pintupi community at Papunya to return to their historical lands. They moved back west in 1981 to set up Kintore (Waḻungurru). Further west, Kiwirrkurra was founded in 1983, close to Lake Mackay.

[[Traditional brick factory]]

CATEGORIES: Industries, Construction

A traditional brick factory is a factory for the manufacturing of bricks from mud by humans. There is no modern equipment. All the work is done by workers.

[[Hester Jonas]]

CATEGORIES: 1570s births, 1635 deaths, Executed German people, People executed for witchcraft, People from North Rhine-Westphalia

Hester Jonas (around 1570 in Monheim am Rhein – December 24, 1635 in Neuss) was a German midwife and cunning woman. She was executed for witchcraft and is known as the so called Witch of Neuss.

[[Papunya Tula]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian culture, Australian artists, Companies of Australia

Papunya Tula Artists is a co-operative of Aboriginal Australian artists. It is owned and run by Aboriginal people of the Western Desert. It is famous for its development of the Western Desert art movement – widely referred to as "dot painting" – and is often credited with bringing Aboriginal art to the world's attention. The original group of artists started painting in the town of Papunya, but today the company is based in Alice Springs.

The origins of the company go back to 1971. Geoffrey Bardon, the school teacher at Papunya, taught the children to paint a mural using the classical style of body and sand art. Historically, paintings and designs are made by Aborigines to depict stories and songs about the dreamtime. The co-operative was formed in 1972 by a group of men from Bardon's classes. They painted spiritual designs used in ceremonial art, but using modern instruments (like acrylic paints on canvas).

As this style of art started to become famous, many in the Aboriginal community criticised the artists for revealing too many secrets from their sacred legends. Aborigines of the Western Desert believe that the knowledge of these things is dangerous; usually, a person must be initiated first, and this only happens when they are deemed "ready" by their community. In response, the artists changed or removed all detailed images of sacred symbols. In all works since then, these images have been hidden or left out completely.

In the late 1970s, many of the people at Papunya left and moved back to their traditional lands. But the company continued to grow, and it centralised in Alice Springs. In 1987, the National Gallery of Victoria bought eleven paintings by Warlimpirrnga Tjapaltjarri. As popularity of this style of art continued to grow, so did their value. In 2007, a single painting by Clifford Possum Tjapaltjarri set a record at auction for Aboriginal art. It was bought for £1.03 million, more than twice as much as the previous record-holder.

The first artists, including all of the company's founders, were men. In the early years, the men didn't like women painting. However, there was also a strong desire amongst many of the women to participate. In the 1990s large numbers of them began to create paintings.

[[Ham Tae-yeong]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean politicians, Korean activists, 1872 births, 1964 deaths

Ham Tae-yeong (1872-1964) was a Korean politician and independence activist. He was the 3rd Vice President of South Korea, from 1952 to 1956.

[[Hippocamp]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures

[[Stronghold 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, Real-time strategy video games

PROFAS LTU

[[Takariya Napaltjarri]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian artists, Artists from Western Australia, Living people, Australian painters, 1960s births, Pintupi

Takariya Napaltjarri (born early 1960s) is an Australian Aboriginal artist. She paints for the Papunya Tula artists' co-operative.

[[Glima]]

CATEGORIES: Wrestling, Iceland

Glíma is an Old Norse word meaning glimpse or flash, and is 

the name of the Scandinavian martial arts system used by the Vikings 

over 1200 years ago.

Glima as a self-defence system contains throws, blows, kicks, chokes,

locks, and pain techniques, and is comparable with the best complete 

martial arts systems from around the world. Glima as self-defence was 

the foundation for the Viking warrior, and these techniques are still 

practiced in Scandinavia, Europe, North America and South America.

Glima as a sport  is often called Viking wrestling and covers several types of Scandinavian folk wrestling: Lausatök, Brokartök and Hryggspenna. Lausatök (Loose-grip or Free-grip) is the most wide spread form of glima practiced in Norway. It is quite aggressive form of wrestling where the match the winner is considered the one who is standing up while the opponent is lying on the ground. Hryggspenna (Backhold) is a form of wrestling where the opponents take hold of each other's 

upper body with a grip around the back; whoever touches the ground with any part of the body except 

the feet has lost. Brokartök (Trouser-grip) the most widespread in Iceland and Sweden. In this type of Glima, the wrestlers hold each others trousers by the waistline, or by a special Brokartök glima belt, then attempts to trip and throw their opponent.

Christian priests regarded Glima as a pagan activity and tried to eliminate it when Scandinavia, became Christian. The people of Scandinavia however thought it good for physical and moral development and continued to practice the sport. Brokartök glima has been the national sport of Iceland for over 100 years. 

[[The Surgeon]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 movies, 1990s horror movies, English-language movies

The Surgeon is a 1995 horror movie directed by Carl Schenkel. The plot involves a small boy who witnesses his brother being killed in surgery, and grows up to become a monster with a scalpel. The film stars Isabel Glasser, Peter Boyle, Malcolm McDowell and Charles Dance. Originally titled Exquisite Tenderness, the film was released in Spain in 1995. Some of the footage was shot in Canada. It made about 10,000,000 in profit.October 2019 It also came out in the United Kingdom and Germany.

[[Bohr model]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

In quantum mechanics, a branch of physics, the Bohr model is the model of the atom proposed by Niels Bohr. Bohr's model is useful only when discussing the behavior of a hydrogen atom. Bohr's model is extremely useful in describing the hydrogen emission spectrum.

[[Matter wave]]

CATEGORIES: Wave physics, Quantum mechanics

In quantum mechanics, a branch of physics, a matter wave is when you think of matter as a wave. The concept of matter waves was first introduced by Louis de Broglie. Matter waves are hard to visualize, because we are used to thinking of matter as a physical object. De Broglie revolutionized quantum mechanics by producing the equation for matter waves.

[[Matt Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American Christians, American mixed martial artists

Matthew Allen Hughes (born December 13, 1978 in Hillsboro, Illinois) is a retired American mixed martial artist. Hughes is a former two-time UFC Welterweight Champion and UFC Hall of Famer. He put together two separate six-fight winning streaks. He defeated all the available opposition in his weight class. He defeated six former UFC Champions. Hughes also was the coach for the reality shows The Ultimate Fighter 2 and The Ultimate Fighter 6. He was the host of Trophy Hunters TV.

On June 16, 2017, Hughes was hospitalized with a serious head injury after a train struck the passenger side of his truck at a crossing near his home in Montgomery County, Illinois.

[[Niki Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: Models from Florida, People from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Participants in American reality television series, 1975 births, Living people

Niki Taylor (born March 5, 1975 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida) is an American model and was shown on multiple magazine covers, such as Sports Illustrated. She is also associated with cosmetics, including but not limited to CoverGirl. In 2001, she was almost killed because of a car accident, but has continued to model in spite of that accident.

[[Female sexual arousal disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality, Disorders

Female sexual arousal disorder is condition where a woman has a hard time getting aroused sexually. or to maintain this arousal, until after sexual intercourse.

Many women experience problems with sexual function at some point in their lives. Female sexual dysfunction can occur at all stages of life, and it may be ongoing or happen only once in a while.

You may experience more than one type of female sexual dysfunction. Types include:

Low sexual desire. You have diminished libido, or lack of sex drive.

Sexual arousal disorder. Your desire for sex might be intact, but you have difficulty or are unable to become aroused or maintain arousal during sexual activity.

Orgasmic disorder. You have persistent or recurrent difficulty in achieving orgasm after sufficient sexual arousal and ongoing stimulation.

Sexual pain disorder. You have pain associated with sexual stimulation or vaginal contact.

[[Masashi Ebinuma]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Judoka, 2012 Summer Olympics, Japanese martial artists

Masashi Ebinuma is a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as a judoka. 

[[Topsy Napaltjarri]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian artists, Artists from Western Australia, Living people, Australian painters, 1950s births, Pintupi

Topsy Gibson Napaltjarri is an Australian Aboriginal artist.

[[Brett Butler]]

CATEGORIES: American comedians, American television actors, Actors from Montgomery, Alabama, 1958 births, Living people

Brett Butler (born January 30, 1958) is an American actress and stand-up comedian. She is best known for playing Grace in the sitcom Grace Under Fire. She has also done other television programs and comedy acts.

Butler published Knee Deep in Paradise in 1996.  The book tells about her life before her successful television program.

[[Nicola Porpora]]

CATEGORIES: 1686 births, 1768 deaths, Entertainers from Campania, Italian composers, People from Naples

Nicola (Antonio) Porpora (or Niccolò Porpora) (17 August 1686 – 3 March 1768) was a composer and a very famous singing teacher from Italy. He composed more than 40 operas. He also composed cantatas, oratorios, sonatas for violin, and church music. Some of the famous people who studied singing and music with Porpora were the poet Pietro Metastasio, the composer Joseph Haydn, Princess Maria Antonia of Bavaria, and the castrato singers, Farinelli and Caffarelli.

[[Hermannsburg, Northern Territory]]

CATEGORIES: 1877 establishments in Australia, Indigenous Australian communities, Towns in the Northern Territory, Australian National Heritage List, Arrernte

Hermannsburg is an Aboriginal community in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is about 131 southwest of Alice Springs. It is known in the local Arrernte language as Ntaria.

In the 2006 census, Hermannsburg had a population of 559. It was established as a Lutheran mission in 1877 by two missionaries from Germany. They named their new mission after Hermannsburg in Germany where they had trained. The missionaries left in 1891, but people still lived at the settlement. The mission land was given over to traditional ownership in 1982.

The famous painter Albert Namatjira was born at Hermannsburg in 1902. He painted landscapes in Western-style watercolours. Painting in this style came to be known as the Hermannsburg School of painting.

[[Kiwirrkurra Community, Western Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Western Australia, Indigenous Australian communities, Pintupi, 1983 establishments, 1980s establishments in Australia

Kiwirrkura (also spelled Kiwirrkurra) is a small community in Western Australia, near to Lake Mackay. It is 850 km west of Alice Springs. It has been said to be the most remote community in Australia. It was established by Pintupi people as an outstation in the early 1980s. It became a permanent settlement in 1983. It was one of the last areas with nomadic, hunter-gatherer Aboriginals; the last group were settled here in 1984.

The town was evacuated in March 2001 because of serious floods. The population (about 170 people) were first moved to Kintore, then to Alice Springs and then finally to the Goldfields of Western Australia, over 2000 south of Kiwirrkurra. At Alice Springs, the people drunk alcohol for the first time. This led to major conflicts and violence. The community moved back to Kiwirrkurra in late 2002. Though they had been evacuated and living in other places at the time, the Kiwirrkurra people gained native title over the area on 19 October 2001. The title covered 42900 of the land and waters around the town. 

[[Karl Rove]]

CATEGORIES: Politicians from Colorado, 1950 births, Living people, US Republican Party politicians

Karl "Ham" Rove (born December 25, 1950 in Denver) is an American political consultant and a policy advisor. He was Deputy Chief of Staff under President George W. Bush. Rove is also a Fox News contributor and columnist for the Wall Street Journal. 

[[Ann-Margret]]

CATEGORIES: Naturalized citizens of the United States, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, 1941 births, Living people, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Swedish voice actors, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Actors from Stockholm

Ann-Margret Olssen (born April 28, 1941 in Valsjobyn, Sweden, more often known as just Ann-Margret) is a television and movie actress. She has won five Golden Globe Awards for her many performances. Her movies include The Cincinnati Kid and Carnal Knowledge.

From 1967 until his death in 2017, she was married to actor Roger Smith.

[[Annie Potts]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, 1952 births, Living people, Actors from Nashville, Tennessee, American television actors

Annie Potts (born 28 October 1952 in Nashville) is an American television, movie and voice actress. She starred in the two Ghostbusters movies and the first two Toy Story movies. She is best known for playing Mary in the CBS sitcom Designing Women and as Sheldon's MeeMaw in Young Sheldon. She also performed in other movies.

[[La Vita Nuova]]

CATEGORIES: 1295 books

La Vita Nuova or Vita Nova (in English: The New Life) is a book written by Dante Alighieri in 1295. It is an expression of the medieval courtly love and it is written in a prosimetrum style, a combination of both prose and verse. It tells the story of his love for Beatrice Portinari, who also served as the ultimate symbol of salvation in The Divine Comedy.

[[Caribbean Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch Caribbean, 2010 establishments in North America

The Caribbean Netherlands (Caribisch Nederland) is the part of the Netherlands that is in the Caribbean. The rest of the country is in Europe. The Caribbean Netherlands is made up of three special municipalities (bijzondere gemeenten): the islands of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba. They are also called the BES islands.

The Caribbean Netherlands does not include the other Dutch countries in the Caribbean (Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten). Those are three of the four countries that make up the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The fourth country is the Netherlands proper. The islands of the Caribbean Netherlands are fully part of the Netherlands proper. They were made a part of the Netherlands when the Netherlands Antilles was dissolved (broken apart) on 10 October 2010.

Although the islands are now part of the Netherlands, they are not yet part of the European Union. They will instead remain overseas territories until at least 2015. They are different to other municipalities in the Netherlands. Unlike normal municipalities, they do not form part of a Dutch province.

Bonaire is located east of Aruba and Curaçao, close to the coast of Venezuela. Sint Eustatius and Saba are located south of Sint Maarten and northwest of Saint Kitts and Nevis. The BES islands have a total population of 21,000 and a total area of 328.

[[Isabella Rossellini]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1952 births, American activists, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American television writers, Italian activists, Italian philanthropists, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian writers, Actors from Rome, American philanthropists

Isabella Rossellini (born June 18, 1952) is an Italian-American actress and writer. She has performed in many movies. She has written a lot of books. She is also a philanthropist.

Rossellini is the daughter of Swedish actress Ingrid Bergman and Italian director Roberto Rossellini.

[[Alfa Romeo 146]]

CATEGORIES: Alfa Romeo automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Alfa Romeo 146 is a car produced by Alfa Romeo. It replaced the Alfa Romeo 33 in 1995, and was replaced by the Alfa Romeo 147 in 2000.

[[Alfa Romeo 166]]

CATEGORIES: Alfa Romeo automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Alfa Romeo 166 is a car produced by Alfa Romeo. It replaced the Alfa Romeo 164 in 1998, and were produced until 2007.

[[Yoshiaki Oiwa]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Japanese sportspeople, 2012 Summer Olympics, 2008 Summer Olympics, Equestrians

Yoshiaki Oiwa is a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as an equestrian who competed in the 2008 Summer Olympics and in the 2012 Summer Olympics. 

[[Bose Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: American technology companies, Companies based in Massachusetts

Bose Corporation is a company that makes speakers and audio products. It is based in Framingham, Massachusetts in the United States. Bose Corporation was founded by Dr. Amar Bose, a sound engineer.

[[Vocational Independence Program]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in the United States, 2020 disestablishments, 1987 establishments in the United States

Vocational Independence Program or VIP was one of only 10 postsecondary schools in the United States that is known by the U.S. Department of Education as a Comprehensive Transition and Postsecondary (CTP) program for students with an intellectual disability.  In order to be accepted into the VIP program, students must be enrolled in the summer program and the interconnected program is for students 16 to 22 with special needs and provides job training and coursework in independent living, social and academic skills. Any student admitted to the VIP program must be at least 18 years of age. The IQ scores of these students are 70-143. The program was ended in June 2020 because of the COVID-19 pandemic. 

[[Kaori Matsumoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic gold medalists, Judoka, Japanese martial artists, People from Ishikawa Prefecture

Kaori Matsumoto is a female Japanese athlete.  She is best known as a judoka who competed in the Summer Olympic Games.

She was born in Kanazawa, Ishikawa.

[[Ren Hayakawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Japanese archers

Ren Hayakawa is a Japanese sportswoman.  She is best known as an archer who competed in the Summer Olympic Games.

[[The Spoiler]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 books, Novels

The Spoiler is a novel written by journalist Annalena McAfee.  It is about two women who work at a newspaper. It was published in the United States on April 10, 2012.

[[Annalena McAfee]]

CATEGORIES: British writers, Living people, 1948 births, British journalists

Annalena McAfee is a British writer, journalist and was the editor of The Guardian's literary supplement, the Guardian Review until July 2006. She has written children's books. Some of them have been translated into French, German and Dutch. McAfee is also the editor of a collection of literary profiles from The Guardian.

She married the British novelist Ian McEwan in 1997.

[[Steven Seagal]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Russian movie actors, American television actors, American environmentalists, American animal rights activists, 1951 births, Living people, Actors from Michigan, People from Lansing, Michigan, Police officers

Steven Frederic Seagal (born April 10, 1952) is an American movie actor, producer, writer, martial artist, guitarist and reserve deputy sheriff.

Seagal began his adult life as an Aikido instructor in Japan. He became the first foreigner to have an Aikido dojo in Japan.

He later moved to Los Angeles, California.  There he made several movies.  Under Siege (1992) brought him the most fame.  He made several studio movies that were not successful.  He then made many direct-to-video movies.  These were usually low budget and shot in Europe or Asia.

In 2009 the A&E Network began showing his reality show Steven Seagal: Lawman.  This show focuses on his work as a deputy sheriff.  In 2011, Steven Seagal produced and starred in a 13 episode television series called True Justice.

From 1996 to 2010, multiple women have accused Seagal of sexual harassment or assault.

[[Mitsubishi Grandis]]

CATEGORIES: Mitsubishi automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Mitsubishi Grandis is a car produced by Mitsubishi Motors. It replaced the Mitsubishi Space Wagon in 2003.  It was sold in Japan, Asia, Europe, Oceania, Mexico, Honduras, Jamaica, and South America.

It won the Best MPV award at the Bangkok International Motor Show from 2005 to 2010.

Production ended in 2011.

[[Il Canto degli Italiani]]

CATEGORIES: National anthems, Italy, 1847 establishments in Europe, 19th century songs

Il Canto degli Italiani (The Song of the Italians) also known as Inno di Mameli (Mameli's Hymne, from the name of the author) and Fratelli d'Italia (Borthers of Italy, from the incipit) is the Italian national anthem.

The text was written by Goffredo Mameli in the autumn of 1847 in Genoa when he was 20-years-old. The words were later set to music by Michele Novaro in the same year. The hymn was successful during the Risorgimento because hopes in the unification of the Italy.

After the unification (1861), however, was adopted the Marcia Reale, Savoy's official anthem. Il Canto degli Italiani became anthem of Italy after 1946, when Italy became repubblic.

[[Shannon Lucid]]

CATEGORIES: American astronauts, 1943 births, Scientists from Oklahoma City, American chemists, Female scientists, Living people, Recipients of the Congressional Space Medal of Honor

Dr. Shannon Lucid (born 1943) is a biochemist and a retired NASA astronaut. At one time she had the longest duration in space for an American astronaut.  She has flown in space five times.  This includes a long mission on the Mir space station.

Lucid was born in Shanghai, China.  She grew up in Bethany, Oklahoma.  She attended the University of Oklahoma.

Lucid was awarded the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in December 1996.  She is the tenth person and first woman to be given that honor. In 1993 she was inducted into the Oklahoma Women's Hall of Fame. 

On January 31, 2012, Lucid said she was retired from NASA.

[[Hiromi Miyake]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Weightlifters

Hiromi Miyake is a Japanese athlete.  She is best known as a weightlifter who has competed in three Summer Olympic Games.

[[Jacob Wukie]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, American archers, American Olympic silver medalists

Jacob Wukie (born May 11, 1986) is an American athlete.  He is best known as an archer who competed in the Summer Olympic Games. 

[[County-equivalent]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of the United States

A county-equivalent in the United States is a type of area that is not inside any county. The county-equivalents are defined by the federal government. They are used for administrative and statistical reasons.

As of the 2000 census there were 3,141 county-equivalents in the United States. The number went down to 3,140 in 2001. That is because the city of Clifton Forge, Virginia changed from being a city to being a town.

[[Thandie Newton]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Actors from London, Black British actors, Buddhists, English movie actors, English television actors, Entertainers from Cornwall

Melanie Thandiwe Newton GBR (ˈ; born 6 November 1972) is a British actress. She has performed in numerous British and American movies, including The Pursuit of Happyness and Mission: Impossible II. She was born in London to a black Zimbabwean mother and white British father. She grew up in Africa, London and Penzance.

[[Jenna Elfman]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors

Jennifer Mary "Jenna" Elfman (born September 30, 1971, Los Angeles) is an American movie and television actress. She is highly known for her role as Dharma in the television sitcom Dharma & Greg

She began taking ballet class at the age of five and became a classically trained ballet dancer.  She attended high school at the Los Angeles County High School for the Arts (LACHSA).  She then attended college at California State University, Northridge (CSUN)

Elfman began her professional career as a dancer.  She appeared in the music video for "Halo", a song by Depeche Mode.She also danced in the video for Chris Isaak's 1995 single "Somebody's Crying".  She toured with the rock band ZZ Top on their 1994 World Tour.

She was in a number of national television commercials.  Her first television program role was on the short-lived 1996 American sitcom called Townies.  This role led to her part in Dharma & Greg.

[[Joey Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American child actors, American R&B singers, American television actors, Singers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Joseph "Joey" Lawrence (born Joseph Lawrence Mignogna Jr., April 20, 1976 in Philadelphia) is an American actor and R&B singer.  He is best known for his character roles in the television series Gimme a Break, Blossom and Melissa & Joey. Other television series include the hit show Brotherly Love. He has also acted in several movies.

He has two younger brothers, Matthew and Andrew, who are also actors.

He attended the University of Southern California.

Lawrence's first acting role was in a Cracker Jack commercial. At the age of five, he appeared on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson.  He sang the song "Give My Regards to Broadway".

[[Showa Women's University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Tokyo, 1920 establishments in Asia, 1920s establishments in Japan

Showa Women's University is a private university for women in Sangenjaya, Setagaya Ward in Tokyo, Japan. SWU was founded in 1920 and re-established in 1949. The university shares a campus with a graduate school, a high school, a junior high school, an elementary school and a nursery school. Showa's founder, Enkichi Hitomi, was influenced by the educational ideas of Lev Tolstoy. 

[[The Spinners]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from Detroit, Michigan, 1954 establishments in the United States, American R&B bands, 1950s establishments in Michigan

The Spinners is a Detroit-based R&B club.  They have had many hit records and singles since the late 1960s. Some people in the group have died, though this group continues touring and making records.

The band is also sometimes called the Detroit Spinners, or Motown Spinners. These group names were used in the UK to avoid confusion with a British folk group also called The Spinners.

[[Angel on My Shoulder]]

Angel on My Shoulder may refer to:

[[AS]]

AS or as may refer to:

[[The Pointer Sisters]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 establishments in the United States, 1960s American music groups, 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, African-American musical groups, American girl groups, American R&B bands, Musical groups established in 1969, Musical groups from Oakland, California, Musical quartets, Musical trios

The Pointer Sisters are an American R&B girl group. They were founded in 1969 and are based out of Oakland, California who first achieved mainstream success in the 1970s and 1980s. Their genres are bebop, disco, blues, country and rock. The group were a duo when they started, though they became trio, then a quartet in the later years. The Pointer Sisters had their greatest and highest success in the 1980s. They are best-known for a song called "I'm So Excited". 

[[Kerri Strug]]

CATEGORIES: American gymnasts, Sportspeople from Arizona, American Olympic gold medalists, 1977 births, Living people

Kerri Allyson Strug (b. November 19, 1977 in Tucson, Arizona) is a retired American gymnast. She won a gold medal in the 1996 Summer Olympics. She is remembered for performing the vault despite hurting her ankle.

[[Kim Zmeskal]]

CATEGORIES: American gymnasts, Sportspeople from Texas, 1976 births, Living people

Kim Zmeskal (born February 6, 1976 in Houston) is a retired gymnast. She went up against Shannon Miller during the 1992 Summer Olympics but was beaten.

Zmeskal retired from gymnastics in 2000.

[[Jamie Salé]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian figure skaters, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Canadian sportspeople, Sportspeople from Edmonton, 1977 births, Living people

Jamie Rae Salé (born near Edmonton, Alberta, April 21, 1977) is a Canadian pair skater.  She and David Pelletier won a gold medal in the 2002 Winter Olympics. The gold medal, however, was shared by a Russian pair skating couple after a figure skating scandal hit through the Olympics.

Salé was born in Calgary, Alberta. She competed first as a singles skater.  She and Jason Turner placed 12th at the Lillehammer Olympics.

After the 2002 win, the pair has turned professional and are now touring North America with Stars on Ice, a figure skating show.

Salé and Pelletier were engaged on Christmas Day of 2004 at their Edmonton, Alberta home. They married on December 30, 2005 at the Fairmont Banff Springs hotel in Alberta.   Their son, Jesse Joe Pelletier, was born on September 30, 2007.

Salé and Pelletier were inducted into the Skate Canada Hall of Fame in 2008. They were inducted into the Canadian Olympic Hall of Fame on March 26, 2009.

On June 4, 2010, it was reported that Salé and Pelletier would divorce; however, they will remain skating partners.

On June 20, 2012 Salé married her Battle of the Blades partner, Craig Simpson.

[[Indigo Girls]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in the United States, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Folk music groups, American rock bands, Grammy Award winners, LGBT musical groups, LGBT-themed musical groups, Musical groups from Atlanta, Georgia, 1980s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

The Indigo Girls are an American folk and rock music duo. Their names are Amy Ray and Emily Saliers. They met during elementary school. They began performing together while in high school near Atlanta, Georgia. They began performing with the name Indigo Girls close to 1986. They have had many hit songs. They got a Grammy Award in 1990.

[[Chaka Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Singers from Chicago, American jazz singers, American soul singers, American funk singers, American gospel singers, American R&B singers, Warner Bros. Records artists

Yvette Marie Stevens (better known as Chaka Khan and born March 23, 1953 near Chicago) is a ten time Grammy Award winning American singer and songwriter.  She first became famous in the 1970s as the main singer for the funk group Rufus. Khan went solo around 1978, and her hit songs include I Feel for You, I'm Every Woman, Sweet Thing and Through the Fire. She also got several nominations for American Music Awards.

On May 19, 2011, Khan was given the 2,440th Hollywood Walk of Fame star plaque on a section of Hollywood Boulevard in Los Angeles.

[[Genes, Brain and Behavior]]

CATEGORIES: Journals, Genetics, Psychiatry, Neuroscience

Genes, Brain and Behavior (also known as G2B) is a peer-reviewed scientific journal covering the fields of the genetics of behavior, the nervous system (neurogenetics), and mental illness (psychiatric genetics). It began in 2002. It is the official journal of the International Behavioural and Neural Genetics Society.

[[Suzanne Vega]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1959 births, American folk musicians, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, People from Santa Monica, California, Singers from California

Suzanne Nadine Vega (born 1959 in Santa Monica, California) is an American singer, recording artist and songwriter. She is best known for her songs "Luka" and "Tom's Diner". 

At the age of nine she began to write poetry. She wrote her first song at age fourteen. She attended New York's High School of Performing Arts. There she studied modern dance and graduated in 1977.

[[Orleans (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, American pop music groups, 1970s American music groups

Orleans are an American soft rock band who were extremely popular during 1970s. Their song, Dance with Me was a highly popular single, though they have had other songs.

[[Cornus canadensis]]

CATEGORIES: Asterids, Rapid plant movement

Cornus canadensis is a herbaceous member of the Cornaceae (dogwood) family. It has various common names, such as the Bunchberry dogwood, Canadian Bunchberry, Quatre-temps, or Crackerberry. It is a widespread plant of the northern hemisphere.

It grows about 20–30 cm tall and bears tiny flowers a few millimetres across. They form an inflorescence at the center of four white, petal-like bracts 3–4 cm diameter.

Each flower has highly elastic petals that flip backward, releasing springy filaments that are cocked underneath the petals. The filaments snap upward flinging pollen out  in less than half a millisecond. The pollen experiences a force two to three thousand times the force of gravity.  The Bunchberry has one of the fastest plant actions found so far. It needs a camera capable of shooting 10,000 frames per second to catch the action.

In other words, it is a mechanism for cross-pollination by air.

The fruits are edible with a mild flavour somewhat like apples.  The large seeds within are somewhat hard and crunchy. Birds are the main dispersal agents of the seeds, consuming the fruit during their fall migration. In Alaska, bunchberry is an important forage plant for mule deer, black-tailed deer and moose, which consume it throughout the growing season. 

Where bunchberry, a forest species, and Cornus suecica, a bog species, grow near each other in their overlapping ranges in Alaska, Labrador, and Greenland, they can Hybrid ize by cross-pollination, producing plants with intermediate characteristics.

[[Gore Vidal]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT people from New York, American historians, American movie actors, American novelists, American television writers, Bisexual people, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, LGBT writers, Screenwriters from New York, 1925 births, 2012 deaths

Gore Vidal (Eugene Luther Gore Vidal, October 3, 1925 - July 31, 2012) was an American writer.

Vidal was born at West Point, New York, the only child of Eugene Luther Vidal (1895-1969) and Nina Gore (1903-1978). He was promiscuous in his youth and was openly bisexual. He lived with a man for over fifty years until he died in 2003. Vidal died of pneumonia at his home in the Hollywood Hills, Los Angeles, California.

[[Billy Ocean]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, British R&B musicians, English singers, Grammy Award winners, Soul musicians, Trinidad and Tobago people, Members of the Order of the British Empire

Billy Ocean GBR (born Leslie Sebastian Charles; 21 January 1950) is a songwriter, recording artist and musician. He was born in Fyzabad, Trinidad to Grenadan parents. He has many hit singles. Most were put out in the 1980s. He was the most popular British-based R&B singer-songwriter of the early to mid-1980s.

On 20 October 2010, Ocean was presented with the Lifetime Achievement Award at the MOBO Awards.

On 29 July 2011, Ocean became a Companion of the Liverpool Institute for Performing Arts. His title was presented by Sir Paul McCartney.

[[Natalie Merchant]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Singers from New York

Natalie Merchant (born October 26, 1963 in Jamestown, New York) is an American musician, recording artist and singer-songwriter. Her hit singles include Carnival and Trouble Me. She was part of 10,000 Maniacs until 1993.  She then left the group for a solo career.

[[Emil Cioran]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1995 deaths, Romanian writers, Philosophers

Emile Cioran (8 April 1911 – 20 June 1995) was a Romanian philosopher and essayist. He was known for his pessimism, skepticism, nihilism and gnosticism.

His works often depict an atmosphere of torment, a state that Cioran himself experienced, and came to be dominated by lyricism.

[[The Angels]]

CATEGORIES: American girl groups, American pop music groups, 1960s American music groups

The Angels are an American girl group who had most of the popularity in the 1960s. Their song My Boyfriend's Back hit #1 in 1963, although the band has had many other songs.

[[Nick Nolte]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American movie producers, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1941 births, Living people, Actors from Omaha, Nebraska

Nick Nolte (born February 8, 1941) is an American actor. He has acted in many movies, including the dramas I'll Do Anything and Blue Chips. Nolte has won a Golden Globe Award. 

Nolte was born in Omaha, Nebraska on February 8, 1941. Nolte was educated at the University of Arizona. Nolte was married three times; first to Sheila Page from 1966 until they divorced in 1970. Second he married Sharyn Haddad from 1978 until they divorced in 1983. Lastly he married Rebecca Linger from 1984 until they divorced in 1994. 

He was partners with; Karen Louise Ecklund from 1970 until they separated in 1977. Then he was partners with Vicki Lewis from 1994 until they separated in 2003. He is currently partners with Clytie Lane since 2003. With Linger Nolte has a son Brawley Nolte, and with Lane he has a daughter Sophie Lan Nolte.  

[[Nu Shooz]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, American R&B bands, Musical groups from Oregon, Musicians from Portland, Oregon, Musical groups established in 1979, 1979 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Oregon, Musical groups disestablished in 1988, 1988 disestablishments in the United States, Musical groups established in 2007, 2007 establishments in the United States

Nu Shooz are an R&B group based in Portland, Oregon.They formed in 1979. They released many records in the 1980s. However, they did not hit the mainstream until after their 1986 album Poolside was released. The song I Can't Wait was among their many hit songs. In 1988 the band broke up. In 2007 they got back together.

[[Robert Palmer]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2003 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in France, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Yorkshire, Swiss musicians

Robert Allen Palmer (January 19, 1949 – September 26, 2003) was a British musician, singer-songwriter and recording artist who released many hits during the 1970s and the 1980s. His hits include Addicted to Love and "Bad Case of Loving You (Doctor, Doctor)".

Palmer received a number of awards throughout his career, including two Grammy Awards for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance, an MTV Video Music Award, and was twice nominated for the BRIT Award for Best British Male.

[[Edwin Starr]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2003 deaths, African American musicians, American singer-songwriters, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Musicians from Tennessee, Singers from Cleveland, Ohio, Singers from Nashville, Tennessee

Edwin Starr (January 21, 1942 – April 2, 2003) was an American singer-songwriter and musician. He had many hit songs. His most notable song was War. The song sold over one million copies. He was very popular in the late 1960s and early 1970s.

Starr was an African American who was born in Nashville and grew up in Cleveland.

On April 2, 2003, at the age of 61, Starr suffered a heart attack and died while taking a bath at his home in Bramcote near Nottingham.  He left a wife, Annette Mary Hatcher, a son André Hatcher, and two grandchildren Alonté Renfroe and Maryah Hatcher.

[[Blackstreet]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, American R&B bands

Blackstreet is an American R&B group. It began around 1991. It was created through Teddy Riley. The group was very strong during the 1990s. Their songs included "No Diggity" and "Booty Call".

[[The Bartons Arms]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in England, Grade II* listed buildings

The Bartons Arms is a pub in the Newton neighborhood of Aston, Birmingham.  It is in the country of England.

The pub was built in 1901. It had special walls built that let middle class people drinking in the bar see the working class drinkers on the other side, but the working class drinkers could not see the middle-class people watching them. Laurel and Hardy visited the pub. There are photographs of them serving beer to bar visitors.

The Bartons Arms is in the movie Felicia's Journey and a book, The Last Viking: The Untold Story of the World's Greatest Heist, by Ron Dawson. In 2006 the pub had a fire due to electrical problems. In the 2011 England riots the pub was attacked.

[[R. G. Armstrong]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2012 deaths, American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, American playwrights, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Alabama, Writers from Los Angeles, California, Writers from Alabama

Robert Golden "R. G." Armstrong, Jr. (April 7, 1917  July 27, 2012) was an American movie, stage, television actor, and playwright.

[[Kate Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, 1940s births, Living people

Catherine Elise "Kate" Jackson (born October 29, 1948 in Birmingham, Alabama) is an American actress. She has acted in many movies and television programs. She was in Charlie's Angels during the 1970s to early 1980s.

[[Chick-fil-A]]

CATEGORIES: American food companies

Chick-fil-A is an American fast food restaurant chain known for not being open for service on Sundays. The franchise is based in Atlanta and has places in parts of the United States.

[[Richard Dreyfuss]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Jewish American actors, People with bipolar disorder

Richard Stephen Dreyfuss (born October 29, 1947) is an American actor, television actor, and stage actor.

[[Paradise Valley, Montana]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Montana, Valleys of the United States

Paradise Valley is a major river valley of the Yellowstone River in southwestern Montana.  It is just north of Yellowstone National Park in Park County, Montana.  The Absaroka Range is on the east and the Gallatin Range on the west.

The Paradise Valley is separated from the Gallatin Valley and Bozeman, Montana by the Bozeman Pass.  The valley lies mostly along a north-south axis.  It is anchored to the north by Livingston, Montana and to the south by Yankee Jim Canyon which is about fifteen miles north of Gardiner, Montana. 

The Paradise Valley was the original entrance to Yellowstone National Park.  Today, the other entrances to the park are at West Yellowstone, Montana from the west, from the northeast at Cooke City-Silver Gate, Montana, from the east at Cody, Wyoming, and from the south at Grand Teton National Park and Jackson, Wyoming.

The Yellowstone River flows through the valley.  It is noted for world-class fly fishing in the river and nearby spring creeks such as DePuy Spring Creek. The valley has other natural wonders such as several natural hot springs, including Chico Hot Springs near Emigrant, Montana, La Duke Hot Springs near Gardiner, and Hunter's Hot Springs near Livingston.

Emigrant Peak is the largest peak near the valley.  It is 10,921 feet in elevation. It is in the southern part of the valley on the eastern side of the river.  It is in the Absaroka mountain range.

[[Hardee's]]

CATEGORIES: American restaurants, 1960 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in North Carolina

Hardee's is an American fast food franchise which first began on September 3, 1960. It operates mainly across the Midwestern States of the United States. The restaurant sells chicken strips, French fries and burgers. Wilbur Hardee was the founder of Hardee's.

[[Easy Rider]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 movies, 1960s drama movies, American road movies, English-language movies, Movies about drugs, Movies about prostitution, Murder in movies, Columbia Pictures movies, Movies set in Texas

Easy Rider is a 1969 American road movie directed by Dennis Hopper, and written by Hopper, Peter Fonda and Terry Southern. It tells the story of two bikers who travel through the American Southwest and South for freedom. The success of the movie helped spark the New Hollywood phase of movie making during the early 1970s. The movie was added to the Library of Congress National Registry in 1998.

The movie was said to be a counterculture movie. Easy Rider explores the societal landscape, issues, and tensions in the United States during the 1960s, such as the rise and fall of the hippie movement, drug use, and communal lifestyle.

Easy Rider is famous for its use of real drugs in its portrayal of marijuana and other substances.

[[Gaby Hoffmann]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, 1982 births, Living people, American television actors

Gabriella "Gaby" Hoffmann (born January 1982) is an American movie and television series actress who also did some commercials. She starred in the 1988 comedy Uncle Buck and Field of Dreams, a 1989 movie.

[[Bob Newhart]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, Grammy Award winners, Emmy Award winning actors, American television actors, 1929 births, Living people, Mark Twain Prize recipients, Comedians from Chicago, American voice actors, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stand-up comedians, Actors from Chicago, People from Oak Park, Illinois

Bob Newhart (born September 5, 1929) is an American actor and stand up comedian. He has performed on many television sitcoms. One of them was his self-titled sitcom The Bob Newhart Show. He also appeared in the Christmas comedy movie Elf.

In 2011, Newhart made a cameo in the movie Horrible Bosses, and in 2013 he guest starred in an episode of The Big Bang Theory, for which he won his very first acting Emmy Award on September 15, 2013. 

Newhart was born in Oak Park, Illinois on September 5, 1929. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. Newhart studied at Loyola University at Chicago. He served in the United States Army before his acting career began. Newhart has been married to Virginia Quinn since 1963. They have four children.

[[Della Reese]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, African-American movie actors, African-American singers, African-American stage actors, African-American television actors, American gospel musicians, American jazz musicians, American pop singers, American Protestants, American R&B singers, Christian ministers, Deaths from diabetes, American jazz singers, Singers from Detroit, Michigan

Della Reese (July 6, 1931 – November 19, 2017) was an American singer, (television) actress, and Christian minister. She started acting in the 1950s. She was best known for performing as Tess in the CBS drama Touched by an Angel (which began September 1994 and ended in 2003). She was born in Detroit, Michigan.

Reese died of complications from diabetes on November 19, 2017 in Encino, California at the age of 86.

[[June Carter Cash]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Virginia, American country musicians, American guitarists, American movie actors, American singer-songwriters, American television actors, Johnny Cash, Deaths from surgical complications, Musicians from Virginia, Singers from Virginia, 1929 births, 2003 deaths

Valerie June Carter Cash (June 23, 1929 - May 15, 2003) was an American singer, actress, and dancer. She was the second wife of singer Johnny Cash. She and Johnny had many hit records in their careers. She died due to complications of surgery. Her widower, Johnny, died four months after her. She was the cousin of President of the United States Jimmy Carter.

[[Tanya Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2021 deaths, Actors from the Bronx, Actresses who played Bond girls, American movie actors, American television actors, Jewish American actors, Models from the Bronx, Movie producers from New York City, Deaths from sepsis, Deaths from urinary tract infection

Tanya Roberts (born Victoria Leigh Blum; October 15, 1955 – January 4, 2021) was an American actress, producer, and model. She appeared in many movies and television series. Roberts was born in Bronx, New York, and has both an English and a Jewish background.

She was known for her role as Julie Rogers on the fifth and final season of Charlie's Angels (1980–81) and as Midge Pinciotti on That '70s Show (1998–2001). She was a Bond girl in A View to a Kill (1985).

On December 24, 2020, Roberts collapsed suddenly at her home in Los Angeles. She was hospitalized under critical condition at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and she developed a urinary tract infection and sepsis. Roberts died on January 4, 2021 at aged 65.

[[Miss You]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 songs

"Miss You" is a song by American singer Aaliyah. It was written in 1998, by Johnta Austin, Ginuwine and Teddy Bishop. The song was recorded for Aaliyah's third album (2001). However, it was decided not to be included on the album. "Miss You" remained an unreleased song. When Aaliyah died in the Bahamas in August 2001, it was released on her greatest hits album I Care 4 U (2002). It was released as the first single from the album in 2003.

The song is a ballad. It was given positive reviews from music critics. It reached the top twenty in Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland. In the US, the song reached number one on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart and number three on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. It then became Aaliyah's highest-charting single after her 2000 number one single "Try Again" featuring Timbaland.

A music video of the song was released. It was directed by Darren Grant. It features Aaliyah's friends and other artists lip synching the song. These artists include Missy Elliott, Lil' Kim, Toni Braxton, Queen Latifah, Rosario Dawson and Quincy Jones among others. The music video was nominated for Best R&B Video at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards. American rapper Jay-Z used the instrumental and chorus of "Miss You" for its official remix version.

[[Documents on the Persian Gulf's name]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 books, 2004 books, 2009 books, Middle East, Cartography, History

Documents on the Persian Gulf's name the eternal heritage ancient time is a book and atlas written and compiled by Dr. M. Ajam. It was published first on 2004. A second edition was published under the supervision of Dr. Pirouz Mojtahedzadeh and Dr.Mohammad Hassan Ganji in 2009.

[[Derek Tsang]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Actors from Hong Kong, Chinese movie actors, Chinese movie directors, Chinese screenwriters

Derek Tsang(曾國祥, born 8 November 1979) is an actor, director and screenwriter from Hong Kong. He is Eric Tsang's son. He appeared in The Thieves movie.

[[Gabrielle Union]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Omaha, Nebraska, 1972 births, Living people

Gabrielle Union (born October 29, 1972 in Omaha, Nebraska) is an American movie actress. She has starred in many movies. She was in the 2003 movie Bad Boys II with Martin Lawrence and Will Smith.

[[William John Macquorn Rankine]]

CATEGORIES: 1820 births, 1872 deaths, British engineers, British physicists, People from Edinburgh, Scottish scientists

William John Macquorn Rankine (born July 5, 1820 in Edinburgh – died December 24, 1872 in Glasgow) was a Scottish  physicist and engineer.  He developed the Rankine scale. He made many important contributions to the thermodynamics. His manuals of engineering science and practice were used for many decades after their publication, in the 1850s and 1860s.

[[Gabby Douglas]]

CATEGORIES: American gymnasts, 1995 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Virginia, 2012 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Des Moines, Iowa

Gabrielle Christina Victoria Douglas (born December 31, 1995 in Virginia Beach, Virginia) is an American gymnast. She competed with the United States' women's gymnastics team in the 2012 Summer Olympics.  She won gold medals in both the individual all-around and team competitions. (In the "all-around" competition, gymnasts do all four gymnastics activities - balance beam, vault, uneven bars, and floor exercise.) 

Douglas is the first African-American woman in Olympic history to win first place in the individual all-around competition. She is also the first American gymnast who ever won gold medals in both the all-around and team competitions at the same Olympics. 

Douglas started gymnastics at age 6.  Her sister Arielle, who had broken her wrist doing gymnastics, convinced their mother to let Gabby start taking gymnastics classes.  In October 2002, Douglas began her training at Gymstrada Gymnastics in Virginia Beach, Virginia. In July 2004, she left Gymstrada and began training at Excalibur Gymnastics.

At age 16, Douglas made it to the Olympic Trials. She won first place and got a spot on the United States' 2012 women's gymnastics Olympic team.  Her teammates were Jordyn Wieber, McKayla Maroney, Kyla Ross, and Aly Raisman. They won the team all-around gold medal, and Gabby also won the individual all-around gold medal.

[[Phil Hartman]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 1998 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Writers from Ontario, Actors from Ontario, Comedians from Ontario, Comedians from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Canadian comedians, Canadian voice actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian television writers, American television writers, American television actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, American murder victims, Murdered entertainers, Murders by firearm in California, Murder-suicides in the United States, People murdered in California

Phillip Edward Hartmann (known professionally as Phil Hartman; September 24, 1948 - May 28, 1998) was a Canadian-born American graphic designer, artist, writer, comedian, voice artist, and actor. Hartman was born in Brantford, Ontario, Canada and he then moved to the United States with his family at the age of 10 and then became an American citizen in 1990. Hartman was a cast member of Saturday Night Live.

[[Gloria Gaynor]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B singers, American R&B musicians, 1949 births, Living people, Singers from Newark, New Jersey, Musicians from Newark, New Jersey

Gloria Gaynor (born Gloria Fowles, September 7, 1949 near Newark, New Jersey) is an American recording artist and musician. She performed disco in the 1970s. She is best known for her classic song "I Will Survive". 

[[John Forsythe]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Actors from New Jersey, Actors from New York City, Golden Globe Award winning actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors

John Forsythe (born Jacob Lincoln Freund; January 29, 1918  April 1, 2010) was an American stage, television, and movie actor.

[[Spinal muscular atrophy]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Genetic disorders

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a serious genetic disease that causes nerves and muscles to stop working. Babies affected by SMA often get weak and might die after their lungs fail. Adults who develop the disease gradually lose the ability to move their bodies. The muscle weakness is known to worsen as the patient ages. 

Spinal muscular atrophy is inherited from parents who might or might not have the disease themselves but both of whom have a fault (mutation) in their genes that predisposes to the disease. Around one in 25 to one in 50 persons, depending on the country, carries a faulty gene of SMA.

Spinal muscular atrophy is the most common genetic disease causing deaths of babies. Only one medicine helps in SMA, it is called Spinraza.

[[African traditional religion]]

CATEGORIES: African traditional religions

Traditional African religions are the traditions of the religious groups in Africa. After Christianity and Islam, they are the third-biggest religious group in Africa. These religions still stick to their traditions. They are folk religions, and combine different beliefs. In general, people in the cities confess to either Christianity or Islam. The people outside the cities believe in the traditional religions. These religions are omnipresent in everyday life. All that happens has a supernatural cause, rooted in religion. People are born with a certain religion. Normally conversions from one belief system to another do not take place. There is a central belief in a life force which links everyday life with the metaphysical. Generally, such religions are full of life, and have a low esteem for an ascetic lifestyle. There is also the fear of spirits, the dead, and of magic, which influence everyday life.

[[Helsingborg]]

CATEGORIES: Helsingborg

Helsingborg is a city in Sweden. It is the seat of Helsingborg Municipality, Skåne County. In 2010, 97,122 people lived there.

[[Patty Hearst]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Actors from San Francisco, American movie actors, American robbers, American socialites, Kidnapped American people

Patricia Campbell "Patty" Hearst (born February 20, 1954) is an American socialite and kidnapping victim. On February 4, 1974, Hearst was kidnapped from her apartment. Her experience may have been a case of Stockholm syndrome. She went on to commit robbery with the gang who kidnapped her. Natasha Richardson played Hearst in the movie Patty Hearst.

[[Beatrice Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, Actors from New York City, 1970 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Movie serial actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors

Alice Beatrice Roberts (March 7, 1905  July 24, 1970) was an American actress whose career lasted for 40 years. She is best known for being the wife of Robert L. Ripley and the mistress of Louis B. Mayer. 

She was born on March 7, 1905 in Manhattan, New York City, New York. Roberts died on July 24, 1970 in Plymouth, Massachusetts from complications of pneumonia. She was 65. 

[[Barbara Eden]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Actors from San Francisco, Actors from Tucson, Arizona, American movie actors, American television actors

Barbara Eden (born Barbara Jean Huffman  August 23, 1931) is an American actress. She is best known for her acting in the sitcom I Dream of Jeannie. She has been featured in other television series. She was born in Tuscon, Arizona. She was raised in San Francisco.

[[Mike Beebe]]

CATEGORIES: US Democratic Party politicians, Governors of Arkansas, 1946 births, Living people

Mickey Dale Beebe (better known as Mike Beebe; born December 28, 1946) is an American politician. He was the Governor of Arkansas from 2007 to 2015. He was elected in 2006 as governor and re-elected in 2010. He is a member of the Democratic Party of the United States.

[[Common juniper]]

CATEGORIES: Cupressaceae, Trees, Medicinal plants

The common juniper (Juniperus communis) is a species in the genus Juniperus, in the family Cupressaceae. It has the largest range of any woody plant.  It is all over the cool temperate Northern Hemisphere.  It can be found in North America, Europe and Asia.

[[Snail kite]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of South America, Accipitriformes

The snail kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis) is a bird of prey.  It is in the family Accipitridae, which also includes the eagles, hawks, and Old World vultures. 

[[Old World vulture]]

CATEGORIES: Vultures

Old World vultures belong to the family Accipitridae.  This family also includes eagles, buzzards, kites, and hawks.

Old World vultures are not closely related to New World vultures and condors.  They do not share that group's good sense of smell. 

Both Old World and New World vultures are scavenging birds.  They feed mostly from carcasses of dead animals. Old World vultures find carcasses only by sight. Many vultures have a bald head, with no feathers or short down feathers.  Because of how a vulture eats, their head is spattered with blood and other fluids.  They are able to keep clean by not having long feathers on their head.

There are two groups of Old World vultures.  The first group has the Egyptian vulture, bearded vulture, and palm-nut vulture. Some scientists put this group into a separate subfamily called "Gypaetinae", which means "eagle-vultures". It is related to the group of bazas, honey-buzzards and cuckoo-hawks, which are much smaller birds.  The second group has all the other species.  It is related to the booted eagles, which is a group of eagles that have feathers on their legs down to their toes.  

The palm-nut vulture is unusual, because it feeds mainly on the fruit of the oil palm.  

[[Kite (bird)]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes

Kites are raptors.  They have long wings and weak legs.  They spend most of the time soaring. Most feed mainly on carrion.  Some take live prey.

They are birds of prey which, along with hawks  and eagles, are from the family Accipitridae.

[[Buzzard]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes

A buzzard in biology is a member of the genus Buteo. In general talk it may be one of several large birds.

[[Sacred kingfisher]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Australia, Coraciiformes

The sacred kingfisher (Todiramphus sanctus) is a medium sized woodland kingfisher.  

They live in mangroves, woodlands, forests, and river valleys in Australia, New Zealand, and other parts of the western Pacific. In New Zealand the species is also known by its Māori name Kōtare.

The sacred kingfisher is mostly turquoise, with white underparts and collar feathers. Both sexes are similar.  The females are usually more dull colored. Juveniles have rusty-brown edges on the collar and underparts. The bird is 19 long.  They feed on insects, small crustaceans, fish, small rodents and reptiles. Usually, a bird will sit on a low branch and wait for prey to pass by. It swoops down to grab the prey and returns to its perch to eat, much like a hawk.

Once a pair of birds has mated, both members of the pair dig the nest.  The nest is usually on a burrow in a river bank or a large, empty branch. The female lays about five eggs.  Both birds incubate the eggs and take care of the young.

[[The Lady of Rage]]

CATEGORIES: singers from Virginia, American rap musicians, Living people, 1968 births

Robin Yvette Allen (better known by her stage name The Lady of Rage; born February 6, 1968) is an American recording artist, rap musician and actress. Her most notable hit single is Afro Puffs in 1994, though she has had other songs.

[[Bill Finnegan]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2008 deaths, Businesspeople from Kansas City, Missouri, American movie producers, American television producers

William Robinson "Bill" Finnegan (June 29, 1928 in Kansas City, Missouri  November 28, 2008 in Sag Harbor, New York) was an American television and movie producer who is well known for his works in The Fabulous Baker Boys, Hawaii Five-O, and Reality Boys. He was a five time Emmy Award nominee. He was born in Kansas City, Missouri on June 29, 1928. He died from Parkinson's disease in Sag Harbor, New York on November 28, 2008, aged 80.

[[Operation Barbarossa]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 in Europe, 1940s in the Soviet Union, Battles involving the Soviet Union, Battles involving Germany, European battles of World War II

Operation Barbarossa (Unternehmen Barbarossa, named after Frederick I) was the code name for the European Axis invasion of the Soviet Union during World War II. It began on 22 June 1941. More than 3 million men attacked along the 2,900 km front, which made it the largest military invasion in human history. It also involved 600,000 motor vehicles and 750,000 horses.

Planning for the operation started in December 1940. The attack was to start on May 15, and its main objective was to destroy the Soviet military power. Some Nazi ideological goals were included, as were Soviet deposits of natural resources which would be helpful to keep fighting the war against the Allies.

Even though the Soviets were in a terrible condition, the Axis did not complete its objectives. Tactically, the Germans held some of the most important economic areas of the Soviet Union, mainly in Ukraine. However, the Germans were pushed back from Moscow and could not do another attack as large and long as Operation Barbarossa on the Eastern Front.

[[Hoxne]]

CATEGORIES: Mid Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Archaeological sites in Suffolk

Hoxne (pronounced 'Hoxen') is an ancient village in Suffolk, England, about five miles (8 km) east-southeast of Diss, Norfolk

The area around the village is of great archaeological significance. 

The village is also home to The Swan Inn. The Swan occupies a 15th Century, Grade II listed lodge, formerly known as Bishops Lodge. This pub is set at the bottom end of the village green, near Saint Edmund's memorial and bridge. Built in 1480 by the Bishop of Norwich, The Swan has a long history; both the restaurant and bars reflect Hoxne's ecclesiastical past, with ornate ceiling beams and wide-planked floors.

[[Type species]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy

The term type species is used in the scientific naming of living things, and is part of a system using a so-called "type".

The type system is central to the scientific naming of living things (organisms). How exactly it works is different depending on exactly what living thing is considered, but in a very general (and imprecise) sense it may be said that it fixes each name to a particular specimen, the type specimen. This helps in finding out what particular name is to be used for a particular living thing (or a group of living things, a taxon). There are international Codes of nomenclature which set out exactly how types are to be designated and used.

For animals, the type species of a genus (or subgenus) is the type of that genus (or subgenus). The species (hopefully) has a specimen (or in some cases a group of specimens) as its type, so the type species is the link between a genus (or subgenus) and a type specimen.

For algae, fungi and plants, it is different: the type species of a genus is the species that has the same type (specimen or illustration) as the genus. For example, Malus sylvestris, the European Wild Apple, is the type species of the genus Malus. Thus, for algae, fungi and plants, a type species plays no great role; it is not an official term, but only a term of convenience.

[[Type site]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeology, Geology

In archaeology, a type site (or type-site, or typesite) is a site that is typical of a particular archaeological culture. A type site contains artifacts which are typical of that culture. Type sites are often the first or foundational site discovered about the culture they represent. 

For example, the type site of the Pre-Pottery Neolithic A culture is Jericho, in the West Bank. The type site of the pre-celtic/Celtic Bronze Age Hallstatt culture is the lakeside village of Hallstatt, Austria.

In geology the term is used similarly for a site considered to be typical of a particular rock formation, etc. The use of this term is similar to that of the type specimen in biology. 

[[Sportsperson]]

CATEGORIES: Sportspeople

A sportsperson, also known as sportsmen or sportswomen, is a person who is involved in sports.  It may mean someone who is known for the promotion of sport or athletic activities.  

A sportsperson can be a man or a woman who is person trained to compete or interested in a sport involving physical strength, speed or endurance.  A sportsman is a player  in a sport; but the term also means someone who plays sport in a way that shows respect and fairness towards the opposing player or team. 

The term sportsman can also be used to describe a former competitor who continues to promote the sport in later years.  For example, Tsunekazu Takeda is a sportsman who competed in two Summer Olympic Games and who was the President of the Japanese Olympic Committee before he was elected to the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in 2012. 

Sportspeople may be professionals or amateurs.    Sportsmen and sportswomen often have particularly well-developed physiques obtained by extensive physical training and strict exercise accompanied by a strict dietary regimen, but term is also used more broadly.  For example, Hou Yifan was honored in 2011 as the best sportsperson of the year in a non-Olympic event.

The term athlete may be used as a synonym for sportspeople in general, but the word  has strong connotations of people who compete in team sports, as contrasted with other sporting types such as horse riding and driving. For example, a fisherman may be called a sportsman, but not an athlete.  In British English (as well as other variants in the Commonwealth) athlete can also have a more specific meaning of people who compete in traditional athletics (track and field) events.

[[Salt-n-Pepa]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in New York (state), 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, African-American musical groups, American rap music groups, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups from New York City

Salt-n-Pepa are an American hip hop trio. They started in New York City in 1985. Among their hit singles are None of Your Business, Whatta Man, Push It and You Showed Me. The group have gone through several lineup changes since their starting. They released their first album Hot, Cool & Vicious in 1986. "None of Your Business" won the Grammy Award for Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group in 1995.

[[Volkswagen Bora]]

CATEGORIES: Volkswagen automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Volkswagen Bora is a car produced by Volkswagen. It replaced the Vento in 1998, and was replaced by the Jetta in 2005.

[[Audi 80]]

CATEGORIES: Audi automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles

The Audi 80 was a car produced by Audi from 1972 to 1994. It was replaced by the Audi A4.

[[Miki Kanie]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Japanese archers, People from Gifu Prefecture

Miki Kanie is a sportswoman.  She is best known as a archer who competed in the Summer Olympic Games.

[[Kaori Kawanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Japanese archers

Kaori Kawanaka is a female Japanese sportswoman.  She is best known as an archer who competed in the Summer Olympic Games.

[[Ryohei Kato]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, Japanese sportspeople, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Japanese gymnasts

Ryohei Kato is a Japanese sportsman.  He is best known as a gymnast.

He is the son of Hiroyuki Kato who is the Olympic team coach for gymnastics.

[[Néstor Carbonell]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Actors from New York City, American television actors, American voice actors, American movie actors, Living people, Harvard University alumni

Nestor Gastón Carbonell (born December 1, 1967 in New York City, New York) is an American television and movie actor. He is known for playing Richard Alpert in Lost, and for playing Mayor Anthony Garcia in Christopher Nolan's The Dark Knight (2008) and in The Dark Knight Rises (2012). He is also known for his role in Suddenly Susan, and as Batmanuel in The Tick.

Carbonell was born on December 1, 1967 in New York City, New York to a Spanish family. Carbonell was educated at Harvard University. He has been married to Shannon Kenny since 2001. They have two children together.

[[Amuca tribe]]

CATEGORIES: History of Turkey, Ethnic groups in Asia

The Amuca tribe (Amuca Kabilesi) is one of the nomadic tribes of the Oghuz Turks who traces back to Gündüz Bey b.1361 son of Sehzade Halil. This was a group of people in the Ottoman Empire which moved from Anatolia to the Balkans. At the end of 14th century, this clan settled in Thrace. Today they live in Kırklareli Province. The first founded village of this tribe was Keşirlik, located in the Mahya Dağı.

[[Kazuhito Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1985 births, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Japanese gymnasts, People from Wakayama Prefecture

Kazuhito Tanaka is a Japanese sportsman.  He is best known as a gymnast.

[[Sportsmanship]]

CATEGORIES: Sports

Sportsmanship is traditional value in sports and competition.  It means playing clean and handling both victory and defeat with grace, style, and dignity.

Sportsmanship is generally understood to include

The ideal of sportsmanship argues that "it doesn't matter whether you win or lose, but how you play the game".

[[Multi-touch]]

CATEGORIES: Data input

In computing, multi-touch is the name for a piece of technology that lets you use a trackpad or touchscreen by pressing on more than one place on the screen at one time. This often lets you do things that you could not do by other ways, such as pinch to zoom.

One of the first products to have multi-touch was the iPhone. Its iOS operating system was meant to be used using gestures such as tapping, pinching, spreading, rotating, and more. At the time, Apple, the company who made the iPhone, tried to register the word "multi-touch" as a trademark, but they could not do so as the term became used by everyone else.

Today, multi-touch can be found on many electronic devices with touchscreens, such as smartphones, tablet computers, and even some PCs.

[[Pierre de Coubertin medal]]

CATEGORIES: Olympic Games, 1997 establishments, Sports trophies and awards

The Pierre de Coubertin medal is awarded by the International Olympic Committee and recognizes those who demonstrate the spirit of sportsmanship in the Olympic Games. The medal is not the same award as the Pierre de Coubertin World Trophy, which is awarded by the International Fair Play Committee.

[[Iberian lynx]]

CATEGORIES: Felines

The Iberian lynx (Lynx pardinus) is a feline. It is similar to other versions of the genus Lynx. The Iberian lynx has almost no threats except man, but it is almost extinct. It is the most endangered cat species in the world.

Iberian lynx hunt rabbits. One of the strategies aimed at saving the species is to change the use of land in such a way that it becomes more attractive to rabbits, which can then be hunted by the lynx. This strategy also benefits other endangered species, such as the Spanish imperial eagle.

In 2014, the Iberian lynx is treated as a species inside the famly of lynx by many biologists, mainly because of its independent development on the Iberian peninsula. This has not always been the case: Beforehand, it was seen as a subspecies of the Eurasian Lynx.

[[Suzy Bogguss]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, American folk musicians, singers from Illinois, Musicians from Illinois, Living people, 1956 births

Susan Kay "Suzy" Bogguss (b. December 30, 1956 in Illinois), is an American country and folk singer and musician. She was extremely popular in the 1980s and 1990s. During that time she had one platinum record, three gold records and six top ten songs. She last appeared on Billboard Hot Country Singles Chart around 2001. She has continued to record albums and songs in the country and rock areas.

At the 1992 Country Music Association Awards, Bogguss won the Horizon Award.

[[Vivica A. Fox]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Actors from South Bend, Indiana, American movie actors, American television actors

Vivica Anjanetta Fox (born July 30, 1964 in South Bend, Indiana) is an American movie and television producer and actress. 

Fox' breakthrough came in 1996, with roles in two box-office hit films, Roland Emmerich's Independence Day and F. Gary Gray's  Set It Off. She later starred in films Booty Call (1997), Soul Food (1997), Why Do Fools Fall in Love (1998), Kingdom Come (2001), Two Can Play That Game (2001), and Boat Trip (2002). Fox played Vernita Green in Kill Bill, and played supporting parts in films like Ella Enchanted (2004).

Fox has appeared in numerous television shows, including Empire and The Young and the Restless.

[[Stardust (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s songs, 1927 works

"Stardust" is an American popular song It was composed in 1927 by Hoagy Carmichael. In 1929, Mitchell Parish added lyrics. At first, the song was called "Star Dust". Carmichael was the first person to record the song. He recorded it at the Gennett Records studio in Richmond, Indiana. The song is "a song about a song about love".

Many musicians recorded this song.  Artie Shaw recorded it with his big band.

[[Andalién River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Chile

The Andalién River is a river in the province of Concepción in Chile. It crosses part of the communes of Concepción, Talcahuano and Penco, ending at the Bay of Concepción. The total length of the river is 130 km with a basin area of 780 km² and the average discharge is 10–300 m³/s.

[[Howard Dean]]

CATEGORIES: US Democratic Party politicians, Governors of Vermont, Living people, 1948 births, 2004 United States presidential candidates, Lieutenant Governors of Vermont

Howard Brush Dean III (born November 17, 1948) is a Democratic Party member. 

He held office with the Democratic National Committee from 2005 to 2009. Before that, he was Governor of Vermont (1991 to 2003). Dean ran, without success, for United States President during 2004. However, the "Dean Scream", which happened during a campaign rally, ruined his chances. 

[[Mike Kellogg]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Chicago, Writers from Ohio, American radio personalities, 1941 births, Living people

Michael "Mike" Kellogg (born September 27, 1941) is a senior announcer with Moody Radio and host for Music Through the Night.

[[Theresa Russell]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from San Diego, California, American movie actors, American television actors, 1957 births, Living people

Theresa Russell (born March 20, 1957 in San Diego) is an American actress. She has done many movies. Some of the better-known ones are The Last Tycoon (1976), Black Widow (1987) and Spider-Man 3 (2007).

Russell was married to British movie director Nicolas Roeg (born 1928) from 1982 until they divorced.

[[Crystal Bernard]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Living people, 1961 births

Crystal Bernard (born September 30, 1961) is an American sitcom actress. She also does other television acting. She is best known for her role in the NBC sitcom Wings.

[[Call Me Maybe]]

CATEGORIES: Music memes, Pop songs

"Call Me Maybe" is a song by Canadian singer-songwriter Carly Rae Jepsen. It is the first song on her EP Curiosity (2012). It is the third song on her second album Kiss (2012). The song was written by Jepsen and Tavish Crowe as a folk song, but its genre (style of music) was changed to pop after the production by Josh Ramsay. It was released as the first single from the EP on 20 September 2011, through 604 Records. Jepsen was later signed to Schoolboy Records and the song was released in the United States. Call Me Maybe is about love at first sight.

"Call Me Maybe" reached number one on the charts in Australia, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Poland, Slovakia, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. It reached the top three in Austria, Belgium (Flanders & Wallonia), Germany, Israel, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden. "Call Me Maybe" made Carly Rae Jepsen the fifth Canadian artist to reach number one on the Canadian Hot 100 since 2007. In the United States, "Call Me Maybe" is the first number one by a female Canadian artist on the Billboard Hot 100 chart since "Girlfriend" by Avril Lavigne in 2007.

"Call Me Maybe"'s music video was directed by Ben Knechtel. In the video, Carly Rae Jepsen wants the attention of an attractive boy. At the end of the video, the boy is revealed to be attracted to a male band member. To promote the song, Carly Rae Jepsen sang it on The Ellen DeGeneres Show. This was Carly Rae Jepsen's first time on US television. Jepsen also sang the song at the 2012 Billboard Music Awards. "Call Me Maybe" has been covered by many singers including Kelly Clarkson, Fun, Big Time Rush, Lil Wayne and Cody Simpson. "Call Me Maybe" has been parodied by Cookie Monster and some of the news staff of National Public Radio. "Call Me Maybe" was covered on "The New Rachel", the first episode of the fourth season of Glee.

"Call Me Maybe" was nominated for two Grammy Awards in 2013: Song of the Year and Best Pop Solo Performance. On 11 December 2012, "Call Me Maybe" was chosen as Song of the Year for 2012 by MTV. In 2012, Billboard magazine ranked the song #2 in the Hot 100 Songs, Digital Songs, and Canadian Hot 100 charts. On all three charts it was behind "Somebody That I Used to Know", a song by Gotye featuring Kimbra. "Call Me Maybe" sold over 12 million copies in 2012, so it was the best-selling song in the world that year. It was the best-selling single on the iTunes Store in 2012. "Call Me Maybe" had sold over 18 million copies by July 2015. It is the best selling song of the 21st century by a female artist. "Call Me Maybe" was the best-selling digital single of 2012. It is the seventh best-selling digital single ever.

[[Blue Chips]]

CATEGORIES: Sports drama movies, 1994 movies, English-language movies

Blue Chips is a 1994 sports drama movie about basketball. It stars Nick Nolte and Shaquille O'Neal. Nolte plays a basketball coach whose by-the-book recruitment methods run afoul of substandard school officials. O'Neal plays Neon Bodeau, an innocent basketball player.

[[Michael Michele]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Indiana, Living people, 1966 births, American movie actors, American television actors, People from Evansville, Indiana

Michael Michele (born August 30, 1966 near Evansville, Indiana) is an American television and movie actress. She played Selina in the 1991 movie New Jack City. She acted in the medical drama ER and in Gossip Girl.

[[Cassius Dio]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Roman writers, Ancient Roman historians, Ancient Greek writers

Lucius Cassius Dio Cocceianus (Δίων ὁ Κάσσιος, c. AD 150 – 235), known in English as Cassius Dio, Dio Cassius, or Dio  (Dione. lib) was a Roman consul. He was active as a historian writing in Greek.  Dio published a history of Rome in 80 volumes, beginning with the legendary arrival of Aeneas in Italy through the subsequent founding of Rome (753 BC), the formation of the Republic (509 BC), and the creation of the Empire (31 BC), up to AD 229; a period of about 1,400 years.  Of the 80 books, written over 22 years, many survive into the modern age intact or as fragments. Modern scholars still use them to get a detailed understanding of Ancient Roman history.

[[Sharon Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from Charlotte, North Carolina

Sharon Lawrence (born June 29, 1961) is an American actress who became notable when she starred in NYPD Blue. She also acted in other programs.

[[Lismore, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales, 1856 establishments in Australia

Lismore is a town in northeastern New South Wales, Australia and is in the Aboriginal Bundjalung Nation. It is on the Bruxner Highway, and the state capital city of New South Wales, Sydney is 735 to the south by highway. The state capital city of Queensland is 197 north.

Southern Cross University is based in Lismore, so there are a lot of students from around the state and country. There are six high schools and three primary schools as well a school which has students from Kindergarten all the way through to Year 12.

[[Michael Roark]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1983 births, American stage actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American lawyers, Actors from Illinois

Michael Sean Roark (born May 9, 1983) is an American actor and lawyer.

[[Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-1]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet military aircraft, World War II aircraft

Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-1 is a Soviet fighter aircraft. It first entered into the Soviet Air Force in 1941.

[[Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-3]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet military aircraft

Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-3 is a Soviet fighter aircraft. It first entered into the Soviet Air Force in 1941.

[[Mary Ann Mobley]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from breast cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Mississippi, Miss America winners, People from Biloxi, Mississippi

Mary Ann Mobley (February 17, 1939 – December 9, 2014) was an American television and movie actress. She appeared in the sitcoms Designing Women and Diff'rent Strokes, and in other television programs. She was Miss America 1959. She was married to actor Gary Collins until his death in 2012.

Mobley died at her home in Beverly Hills, California from breast cancer, aged 75.

[[Mikoyan-Gurevich DIS]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet military aircraft, World War II aircraft

Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG DIS is a Soviet fighter aircraft. Two prototypes were made and the program was cancelled.

[[Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-9]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet military aircraft

MiG-9 Fargo is a Soviet fighter aircraft. It first entered into the Soviet Air Force in 1946.

[[Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-23]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet military aircraft

MiG-23 Flogger is a Soviet interceptor-fighter aircraft. It first entered into the Soviet Air Force in 1970.

[[Mikoyan MiG-27]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet military aircraft

MiG-27 Flogger is a Soviet fighter aircraft. It first entered into the Soviet Air Force in 1975.

[[Mikoyan MiG-31]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet military aircraft

MiG-31 Foxhound is a Soviet/Russian interceptor aircraft. It first entered into the Soviet Air Force in 1982.

[[Sukhoi Su-35]]

CATEGORIES: Military aircraft

Sukhoi Su-35 is a Russian fighter aircraft. It first entered the Russian Air Force in 2010.

[[Mule deer]]

CATEGORIES: Deer, Mammals of North America

The mule deer (Odocileus hemionus) is a species of deer. They are sometimes called black-tailed deer. They live in western North America. Their name was given to them because of their mule-like ears. There are many subspecies, including the black-tailed deer. Unlike the white-tailed deer, mule deer lives on land west of the Missouri River. They also live in the Rocky Mountains region of North America. Mule deer have been introduced to Argentina.

The mule deer's favorite food is new plants that grow in the spring.  They eat a large number of their yearly calories during spring feeding.  Because spring comes later in colder places, the mule deer move from warmer to colder places so they spend the most where there are spring plants to eat.  Scientists call this "green wave surfing." According to scientists from the University of Wyoming, by migrating, mule deer can eat spring plants for 120 days in a year with lots of rain and 60 days in a year with very little rain.  The deer are very good at figuring out where the spring growth will be and when it will be there, even when it is different from the last year.  The scientists also say that climate change is putting the deer in danger by causing more years with very little rain.

[[Haitian Creole]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of the Caribbean, Haiti, Pidgins and creoles

Haitian Creole is a type of Creole language spoken by about 13 million people, mostly Haitians and the Haitian diaspora. Most of its vocabulary is derived from French. This language is called Kreyòl Ayisien by those who speak it.

[[Mountain goat]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of North America

The mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) is a species of goats. They are also known as the Rocky Mountain goat. They live in North America. They are part of the genus Oreamnos, or 'true goats'. They like to live on high elevations. Mountain goats are great at climbing, and will rest on rocky cliffs. They do this so predators cannot get them.

The mountain goat wanders the mountains alone, and meets only to mate. It eats grasses, lichens, and leaves. It is 3–4 ft. at the shoulder (90-120 centimeters.) The mother mountain goat is called a nanny, and the male is called a billy, the baby is called a kid.

Their thick undercoat, and long white overcoat, protects them from blustery wind, and harsh weather that often occurs in their mountainous habitat. Both male and female have short, strong, legs that have large black hooves on the end. The billy had long slender horns that measure approximately 1 foot. The nannies have slightly longer horns. The female uses her horns to defend her young. She will often dominate the territory, and the male will leave her alone.

The female mountain goat, or nanny, becomes pregnant in November, the only month they are together, and gives birth to her kid six months, or half a year, later. The nanny will protect her young for a while and eventually the kid will leave his mother. He will most likely not know his father. They are alone for most of the year except for November which is the mating month.

[[Bighorn sheep]]

CATEGORIES: Caprids, Mammals of North America

The bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) is a species of sheep that lives in the western half of North America. They live in North America. Their name was given to them because of their large horns. Their horns can weigh up to 30 pounds (14 kg). However, the sheep themselves weigh up to 300 pounds (140 kg). 

Genetic testing showed that there are three subspecies of bighorn sheep:

[[Dominican Spanish]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish language, Dominican Republic

Dominican Spanish is Spanish as it is spoken in the Dominican Republic and by the Dominican diaspora.

[[Julie Brown]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, comedians from Los Angeles, California, actors from Los Angeles, California, 1958 births, Living people

Julie Ann Brown (born August 31, 1958) is a comedian and movie actress who often parodies other celebrities. Celebrities included (though not limited to) skater Nancy Kerrigan, singer Madonna and more in her comedy movies. She was especially popular between the mid 1980s until around the early 2000s.

Brown is known for her popular parody song "Homecoming Queen's Got a Gun".

[[Bristol Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in England, Bristol, 1955 establishments in Europe, 1950s establishments in England

Bristol Airport BRS, is in  Lulsgate Bottom in North Somerset. It is the commercial airport for the city of Bristol, England, and the area around it. It opened as Bristol (Lulsgate) Airport in 1955, from March 1997 to March 2010 it became known as Bristol International Airport. In 2003, the airport drew 45% of its passengers from the former county of Avon area, 13% from Devon, 10% from Somerset. It also has bases for Easyjet and Ryanair. In 2011, it was the ninth busiest airport in the United Kingdom, with 5,780,746 passengers, a 0.6 percent  rise compared with 2010.

In March 2010, the airport was given the name Bristol Airport.

The airport specialises in package trips to Spain and other Mediterranean destinations. It has no flights to the London airports, or Manchester Airport or Birmingham Airport. Its passengers come from Scotland, Ireland, and the North East of England. The airport does serve general aviation such as private and business planes.

[[Forth]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

Forth (sometimes written FORTH) is a stack-based programming language best known for its use of Reverse Polish notation which greatly simplified the compiler as it required no precedence analysis component.

It was developed by Charles H. Moore in 1969.  Forth uses a two component system, an operating system to run the programs, and an editor to write them. Like most other high-level languages, FORTH can produce highly-efficient code.

[[Summer in the City]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 1966 songs

"Summer in the City" is a very popular song about summer. It was by The Lovin' Spoonful. Many other musicians have covered the song. It was released in 1966, at which time it hit #1 across the charts of Billboard Hot 100. The instrumental bridge of the song features car honking, starting with a Volkswagen Beetle horn and then ending with jackhammer sounds. These sounds were included to represent what summer in the city sounds like. The song was featured in several movies.

[[Cruel Summer]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 1983 songs

"Cruel Summer" is a popular song by Bananarama. It was released in 1984 in the United States. It charted higher around the United Kingdom after being released there one year before. The song is about sadness during the summer and wanting to be close to another person. Fourteen years after it came out, Ace of Base did an updated version of this classic.

[[Teddy Riley]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from New York City, Musicians from New York City, Grammy Award winners, 1967 births, Living people

Edward Theodore "Teddy" Riley (born October 8, 1967) is a Grammy Award winning, American singer-songwriter, musician, keyboardist, and record producer. He is credited with the creation of the New Jack Swing. The musicians with whom Riley has been connected include Michael Jackson, Keith Sweat, and Mike Posner.

[[Emma Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: People from London, English movie producers, Christopher Nolan, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Emma Thomas is an English movie producer. She is known for producing movies like The Prestige, Batman Begins, The Dark Knight, Inception, and The Dark Knight Rises, in which all movies are directed by her husband Christopher Nolan. She also produced the 2013 movie Man of Steel.

[[Sade]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, British R&B musicians, British soul musicians, Nigerian musicians, Singers from Essex

Sade (Helen Folasade Adu, OBE, born January 1959) is a British-Nigerian singer-songwriter who has many hit songs. Among them are No Ordinary Love, The Sweetest Taboo and Paradise, all of them getting high marks on United States music charts.

Sade was born  in Nigeria to an English mother and Nigerian father. She moved to Essex at age four. In 2002, Adu was awarded an OBE for services to music, and stated her award was "a great gesture to me and all black women in England".

[[Henry Cavill]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, English models, Living people, Jersey people

Henry William Dalgliesh Cavill (born May 5, 1983) is an English movie, voice, and television actor. He is known for playing Superman in the DC Extended Universe, beginning in Man of Steel (2013).

[[Michael Shannon]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Actors from Kentucky, American child actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Chicago, Saturn Award winners, People from Lexington, Kentucky

Michael Corbett Shannon (born August 7, 1974 in Lexington, Kentucky) is an American actor. He is a two-time Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor nominee for his roles in Revolutionary Road and Nocturnal Animals. He was a regular on the HBO series Boardwalk Empire, playing Agent Nelson Van Alden. Shannon played General Zod in Zack Snyder's 2013 movie Man of Steel. He plays Colonel Richard Strickland in The Shape of Water.

Shannon was born in Lexington, Kentucky on August 7, 1974 to Donald S. Shannon and to Geraldine Hine. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. His career began in 1993 in the movie Groundhog Day.

Shannon is in a relationship with actress Kate Arrington. They have two daughters.

[[24 Hours of Le Mans]]

CATEGORIES: Sports events, Sport in France, 1923 establishments in Europe, Motor sports, Le Mans, 1920s establishments in France

The 24 Hours of Le Mans is the world's oldest active sports car race in endurance racing. The race happens each year near the town of Le Mans, France.  It was first run in 1923.

The cars must run for 24 hours without mechanical damage.  It is important to manage the cars' consumables, mostly fuel, tires and braking materials. The driver goes over two hours behind the wheel before stopping in the pits.  Then a relief driver takes over the driving duties. Drivers then eat and rest before returning to drive. Today it is a rule that three drivers share each car.

At the end of the 24 hours, the car which has driven the most laps of the track wins the race. Different types of cars race in different categories. Currently there are four different categories, with the fastest cars racing in the 'LMP1' category.

The race is held in June.  This can lead to very hot conditions for the drivers. The race begins in mid-afternoon.  The drivers race through the night and following morning.  They then finish at the same time the race started, the following day.

Tom Kristensen has won the race 8 times.  This is the most of any driver.  Porsche cars have won 16 times.  This is the most of any car manufacturer.

[[Motocross]]

CATEGORIES: Motorcycling, Motor sports

Motocross is a form of motorcycle racing. It is done on an off-road circuit. The sport came from motorcycle trials competitions held in the United Kingdom. Motocross is a physically demanding sport.  It is held in all weather conditions and is a high-octane sport.

There are many competitive events in motocross.

[[Tour of Flanders]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 establishments in Europe, Cycling, Sport in Belgium, Flanders, 20th century establishments in Belgium

The Tour of Flanders is a Flanders Classics road cycling race.  It is held in Belgium every spring.  It is a week before the Paris–Roubaix road race. The Tour of Flanders is part of the UCI World Tour.  It is one of the monuments of the European professional calendar. It is the most important cycling race in Flanders. Its nickname is Vlaanderens mooiste which is Dutch for "Flanders' finest".

When the race began in 1913 the starting city was Ghent with the end of the race in Mariakerke.  It has changed twelve times since then.  In 2012 the race starts in Bruges and ends in Oudenaarde.

The race has a number of short, sharp hills.  The race gives prizes to the first cyclist to go up 17 of these hills.  These hills make the race very challenging.

[[Annabeth Gish]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Iowa, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Albuquerque, New Mexico, People from Cedar Falls, Iowa, People from Waterloo, Iowa, 1971 births, Living people

Anne Elizabeth "Annabeth" Gish (March 13, 1971 near Albuquerque, New Mexico) is a television, movie and stage actress. She has acted in many movies, including Mystic Pizza (1988) and Beautiful Girls (1996). She was born near Albuquerque but was raised near Cedar Falls and Waterloo, Iowa.

[[Liège–Bastogne–Liège]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 establishments in Europe, Cycling, Sport in Belgium, Wallonia, Luxembourg (Belgium), Liège (province), Liège, 19th century establishments in Belgium

Liège–Bastogne–Liège is one of the five 'Monuments' of the European professional road cycling calendar.  It is often called La Doyenne which means "the oldest". It is run in the Ardennes region of Belgium.  The race is from Liège to Bastogne and back to Liège.

[[Mystic Pizza]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 comedy-drama movies, 1988 romance movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, 1980s teen comedy movies, 1980s teen drama movies, 1980s teen romance movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Connecticut

Mystic Pizza is a 1988 American romantic comedy-drama movie. It stars Annabeth Gish and Julia Roberts. The movie is about teenage girls who work in a pizza parlor in Connecticut. The movie received very positive reviews and has become a cult classic.

[[Dunkin' Donuts]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Michigan, American food companies, Companies based in Massachusetts

Dunkin' Donuts, often abbreviated as DD and officially known as simply Dunkin', is an American franchise based in Canton, Massachusetts. 

The company started as a traditional donut shop, selling doughnuts and coffee. Later, they added flavored coffee and iced coffee. They also began to sell breakfast sandwiches: these contain egg, cheese, and pork (bacon, ham, or sausage), on bread (bagel, croissant, or English muffin). With the addition of breakfast sandwiches, Dunkin' Donuts has since become a popular spot for a quick breakfast. 

The franchise was established around 1950, in Quincy, Massachusetts. As of 2010, over ten thousand Dunkin' Donuts locations exist worldwide. Their largest market outside of the United States is in South Korea. Its name was changed to Dunkin' in 2019.

[[Ichikawa Raizō VIII]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese stage actors, Japanese television actors, Dancers, 1931 births, 1969 deaths, People from Kyoto Prefecture

Ichikawa Raizō (市川雷蔵, 29 August 1931 - 17 July 1969), also called Ichikawa Raizō VIII (八代目 市川雷蔵), was a Japanese movie actor, kabuki actor, and television actor.

[[Benbecula]]

CATEGORIES: Inner and Outer Hebrides

Benbecula (Beinn nam Fadhla) is an island of the Outer Hebrides in the Atlantic Ocean off the west coast of Scotland. It forms part of the area administered by the Western Isles Council.

In the 2001 census it had a resident population of 1,249, with a sizable percentage of Roman Catholics. This is slightly unusual because the Highlands and Islands is generally the religious territory of the Wee Frees, the Free Church of Scotland and its various offshoots.

[[Free Church of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Presbyterianism, Scotland

The Free Church of Scotland is the general name given to groups of worshippers who broke off from the official Church of Scotland. All these Scottish churches are Presbyterian, based on the ideas of John Knox, and do not have permanent leaders such as Popes or bishops. The breakaway groups, like the Church of Scotland itself, base their beliefs on the Bible, but differ in how it should be understood. As a general rule, all the Wee Frees read the Bible in a fairly literal way, more so than the Church of Scotland.

The main free churches are:

[[The English Patient (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 romance movies, 1996 drama movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, 1990s war movies, Academy Award winning movies, American romantic drama movies, American war movies, BAFTA Award winning movies, British romantic drama movies, British war movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in the 1930s, Movies set in the 1940s, World War II movies, Movies set in deserts, Movies directed by Anthony Minghella

The English Patient is a 1996 British-American romantic drama movie based on the novel of the same name by Michael Ondaatje. It was written and directed by Anthony Minghella. It stars Joseph Fiennes, Kristin Scott Thomas, Juliette Binoche and Willem Dafoe. This melodrama won many Academy Awards, including Best Picture of the Year.

[[Husbands and Wives]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 romance movies, 1992 comedy-drama movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, English-language movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Woody Allen

Husbands and Wives is a 1992 comedy-romance movie. It stars Woody Allen (who also directed) and Mia Farrow. Its subjects are marriage and separation. It was released in the United States on September 18, 1992. It got mixed to positive reviews from audience and critics.

[[When Harry Met Sally]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 romance movies, 1989 comedy movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Chicago, Illinois, Movies shot in Chicago, Illinois, Movies set in the 1970s, Movies directed by Rob Reiner

When Harry Met Sally is a 1989 American romantic comedy movie. It was written by Nora Ephron and directed by Rob Reiner. It stars Billy Crystal as Harry and Meg Ryan as Sally. They are friends in Chicago who, from 1977 to 1989, become a couple. The movie is about relationship problems. It received positive reviews by movie critics and its revenue at the box office was high.

[[Mo' Better Blues]]

CATEGORIES: American musical movies, American comedy-drama movies, 1990s musical movies, 1990 comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by Spike Lee, English-language movies

Mo' Better Blues is a 1990 comedy-drama movie that was directed by and starring Spike Lee. The movie also has Wesley Snipes, Denzel Washington and Samuel L. Jackson starring. The movie relates to pianos, nightclubs and jazz.

[[Belmopan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Belize, National capitals in North America, Cities in Central America, 1970 establishments in North America, 20th-century establishments in Belize

Belmopan is the capital city of Belize.  There are about 20,000 people living there.

Belmopan is at an altitude of 76 metres (250 ft) above sea level. Belmopan was built just to the east of the Belize River.  It is 80 inland from the former capital, the port of Belize City.  Belize City was nearly destroyed by Hurricane Hattie in 1961. The government was moved to Belmopan in 1970. Its National Assembly Building is made to look like a Pre-Columbian Maya temple.

The University of Belize has a campus in Belmopan.

[[Corozal Town]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Belize, 1840s establishments in North America, Establishments in Belize

Corozal Town is a town in the nation of Belize.  It is the capital of Corozal District. Corozal Town is about 84 miles north of Belize City, and 9 miles from the border with Mexico.  The population of Corozal Town, according to the 2010 census, is 9,871. Corozal was a private estate before becoming a town in the 1840s.  It was mostly settled by Mestizo refugees from the Caste War of Yucatán.  Much of the town was built over an ancient Maya city. This may have been the original Pre-Columbian town called Chetumal. Corozal Town was badly damaged by Hurricane Janet in 1955.  It was mostly rebuilt afterwards.      

[[Orange Walk Town]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Belize

Orange Walk Town is the second largest town in the nation of Belize.  It has a population of about 13,400. It is the capital of the Orange Walk District. Orange Walk Town is on the left bank of the New River.  It is 53 miles north of Belize City and 30 miles (50 km) south of Corozal Town.

In the days of the Mayas, the area was known as Holpatin.

Orange Walk Town is nicknamed "Sugar City". The local Tower Hill Sugar Factory (Belize Sugar Industries) handles all of the country's sugar cane output. The farming of other crops, and tourism, also play a role in the economy.

The region is highly populated by Mestizos, Kriols, Mennonites, Chinese, Taiwanese, Indians, and other people from Central America.

[[Punta Gorda]]

Punta Gorda may be:

[[Erdzeichen]]

CATEGORIES: Sculptures, Munich, 1995 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Germany

The Erdzeichen (Earth Sign) is an artwork on the grounds of Munich Airport by the painter Wilhelm Holderied and the sculptor Karl Schlamminger. According to the artist, the earth sculpture at the airport is meant to be “An Island in Time,” i.e. a symbol of time sequences which are determined by the “primeval energy of the earth.” The ground-level artwork was completed in 1995. It stands in the tradition of archaic earth sculptures and modern works of Land Art, and also calls to mind Smithson’s famous “Spiral Jetty.”

The Earthsign stretches across an area measuring 270 meters by 170 meters. Its furrows are 3.40 meters deep. These furrows and the tall gravel embankments between them circle a central point, continue in a straight row, form a loop and then flow in irregularly undulating lines into the surrounding field, where they end at a straight line.

The artwork was collectively financed by circa 400 donors in a campaign entitled “Be Part of Art.” The aerial archeological photographer Klaus Leidorf has documented the earth sculpture and the changes which nature and the seasons have brought to it since 1994.

The lease granted by the airport company to Wilhelm Holderied and Karl Schlamminger expires on December 30, 2013. The continued existence of the Earthsign has not yet been assured.

[[All That]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, American children's television series, English-language television programs

All That is an American live action sketch-comedy television series. It started on Nickelodeon on April 16, 1994. It ended after ten seasons on October 22, 2005. The show aired weekly. It had comedy sketches and musical guests. The theme song for All That was recorded by American trio TLC. At first, the show was taped at the now closed Nickelodeon Studios at Universal Orlando. They moved to Hollywood at the Nickelodeon On Sunset theater. There have been three spin-offs of the show: The Amanda Show, Kenan & Kel, and Drake & Josh, which also were filmed at Nickelodeon On Sunset.

The first episode aired on April 16, 1994, as a "sneak peek". It became a regular series starting on December 24, 1994. It was broadcast worldwide including, the United Kingdom, Australia, India, Japan, Malaysia, Spain, and Canada. There were ten complete seasons of All That before it was canceled in 2005. The last episode aired on October 22, 2005. The show started out in the SNICK block until 2004. However, the network changed its time slot into TEENick. Some cast members hosted SNICK as the "On Air Dare", only during commercial breaks.

[[Very important person]]

CATEGORIES: Acronyms

A very important person (VIP) is a person who is given special privileges due to the status or importance of the person. The term "VIP" (usually pronounced V-I-P) is often used as an abbreviation for very important person. Such a person might be a celebrity, a head of state, a politician, a rich person, or any other person who receives special service for any reason.

The term V.I.P. appeared before World War Two, starting in the Russian emigration.  It abbreviated the Russian phrase “''ves'ma imenitaya persona''” which described someone accorded special privileges due to social status or importance.

[[The Bodyguard]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 romance movies, 1992 drama movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, 1990s musical movies, American romantic drama movies, American musical movies, English-language movies, Movies about interracial romance, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Whitney Houston

The Bodyguard is a 1992 American musical romantic drama movie starring Whitney Houston and Kevin Costner. 

Although the movie got mixed reviews from movie critics, it did very well at the box office and it became a cult movie.

[[North Uist]]

CATEGORIES: Inner and Outer Hebrides

North Uist (Uibhist a Tuath) is an island and community in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland.

North Uist is the tenth largest Scottish island, and the thirteenth largest island surrounding Great Britain. It has an area of 117, slightly smaller than South Uist. North Uist is connected by causeways to Benbecula via Grimsay, to Berneray, and to Baleshare.

With the exception of the south east, the island is very flat, and covered with a patchwork of peat bogs, low hills and lochs, with more than half the land being covered by water. Some of the lochs contain a mixture of fresh and tidal salt water, giving rise to some complex and unusual habitats.

Loch Sgadabhagh is the largest loch by area on North Uist but Loch Obisary has about twice the volume of water.  The northern part of the island is part of the South Lewis, Harris and North Uist National Scenic Area, one of 40 in Scotland.

[[Faraday's law of induction]]

CATEGORIES: Electromagnetism, Laws of physics

Faraday's law of induction is a law of physics proposed by English physicist Michael Faraday in 1831. It is one of the basic laws of electromagnetism. The law explains why generators, transformers and electrical motors work.

Faraday's law of induction says that when a magnetic field changes, it causes a voltage, a difference in the electric potential that can make electric currents flow. That phenomenon was also found by Joseph Henry in 1831. 

Imagine we have a closed loop of wire. To figure out how much current will be "induced" (i.e. produced by the magnetic field), we need to define the magnetic flux, a number describing how much of the magnetic field is actually going through the loop. Magnetic fields are vector fields, so they have both a strength and a direction. This leads to the following surface integral:

where

That is, we could imagine filling in the wire loop with a thin surface, like a soap film. This formula tells us to look at every point on that surface, measure how much the magnetic field is pointing straight through the loop at that point, and add up all those measurements to get a single number. That number is the magnetic flux. When the flux changes, it produces electromotive force. The flux changes when B changes or when the wire loop is moved or bent, or when both happen. The electromotive force can then be calculated with the following equation:

This equation says that how much current is induced in the wire loop depends directly on how fast the magnetic flux is changing in time, whether due to the loop moving or the magnetic field changing.

[[Paul Langevin]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1946 deaths, French physicists, French inventors

Paul Langevin (23 January 1872 – 19 December 1946) was a French physicist who was active at the beginning of the 20th century.

He invented sonar and worked with Albert Einstein.

[[Gene Siskel]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 1999 deaths, Burials at Westlawn Cemetery, American historians, American journalists, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from brain cancer, Deaths from surgical complications, Jewish American writers, Movie critics from Chicago, Television personalities from Chicago, Writers from Chicago

Eugene Kal "Gene" Siskel (January 26, 1946  February 20, 1999) was an American movie critic and journalist for the Chicago Tribune. Along with his friend Roger Ebert, with Ebert they hosted a popular review show Siskel & Ebert At the Movies from 1975 until his death in 1999.

Siskel was born in Chicago, Illinois and was educated at Yale University. Siskel was married to Marlene Iglitzen in 1980 until his death, they had 3 children; Kate, Calie, and Will. Siskel died from complications from surgery to remove a brain tumor in Evanston, Illinois, aged 53. He is buried at Westlawn Cemetery in Norridge, Illinois.

[[Donald Pleasence]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1995 deaths, Actors from Nottinghamshire, Actors who played Bond villains, Cardiovascular disease deaths in France, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from surgical complications, English movie actors, English radio actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Halloween (franchise)

Donald Henry Pleasence OBE (October 5, 1919 – February 2, 1995) was an English actor. Pleasence was born in Worksop, Nottinghamshire, England. He was raised in Lincolnshire, England. During his career, Pleasence was nominated for four Tony Awards. He won a BAFTA TV Award for Best Actor in 1959.  In his whole career, Pleasence appeared in over 200 movies.

He made his first movie The Dybbuk in 1952. It was a television movie. He acted in several movies, such as You Only Live Twice, where he played James Bond villain Ernst Stavro Blofeld, and The Great Escape. Pleasence is known for his role as Dr. Samuel Loomis in John Carpenter's Halloween. Since then, he appeared in five out of the six movies of the Halloween movie series. Pleasence did not appear in Halloween III: Season of the Witch because it was a different story from the last two movies.

Pleasence died at the age of 75 in Saint-Paul-de-Vence, France, from complications of heart failure. It was following a heart valve replacement surgery.

[[List of cities in Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indiana, Lists of cities by US state

The following is the list of cities in Indiana. Cities marked with an asterisk (*) have a population of at least 35,000 and up to 600,000.

[[Big Bend (Florida)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Florida

The Big Bend of Florida, U.S.A., is an informal region of the state.  There are not official boundaries. 

[[Dallas, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Georgia (U.S. state), County seats in Georgia

Dallas is the county seat of Paulding County, Georgia, United States.  As of the 2010 census, the city had a population of 11,544. It was named for George M. Dallas, Vice President of the United States of America under James K. Polk.

[[Santa Venera]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Malta

Santa Venera is a town in Malta.  In 2013 the population was about 6,941. This town is in the Outer Harbour Region of Malta. The oldest buildings in Santa Venera are Wignacourt Aqueduct and Casa Leoni.  Both of these buildings were built by the Knights of St. John.

The football team of St. Venera is the St. Venera Lightnings.  They use the colours of the town: yellow and blue.

[[Paul Rogers]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Devon, Deaths from natural causes, English movie actors, English television actors, Tony Award winning actors

Paul Rogers (22 March 1917 – 6 October 2013) was an English movie and television actor who has appeared in movies such as; The Beachcomber, Our Man in Havana, Edwin, The Looking Glass War, and Billy Budd. 

Rogers was born on March 22, 1917 in Plympton, Devon, England.

Rogers was educated at The Michael Chekhov Theatre Studio. Rogers was currently married to Rosalind Boxall. They two children. He lived in London, England. He has won a Tony Award.

Rogers died on October 6, 2013 in his London, England home from natural causes, aged 96.

[[San Lorenzo]]

San Lorenzo is the Italian and Spanish name for Saint Lawrence, the 3rd century Christian martyr. It may also be:

[[San Lorenzo, Santa Fe]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Argentina, 1796 establishments, Establishments in Argentina, 18th-century establishments in South America

San Lorenzo is a city in the south of the province of Santa Fe, Argentina.  It is 23 km north of Rosario, on the western shore of the Paraná River. It is the head town of the San Lorenzo Department. As of 2001 there were about 43,500 people.

San Lorenzo has no certain foundation date. In 1984 the Municipal Council decided to choose 6 May 1796 as the day of formations.  This is the date when Franciscan friars came and started the evangelization of the area.

The city was the stage of the Battle of San Lorenzo on 3 February 1813. Troops loyal to the Spanish Crown were defeated by local revolutionaries under General José de San Martín. The 18th century San Carlos Monastery has a museum about this battle.  The battle was the first in the Argentine War of Independence.

San Lorenzo is the birthplace of Argentina captain Javier Mascherano.

[[San Lorenzo Department, Chaco]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Argentina

San Lorenzo is a  department of Chaco Province in Argentina. There are about 14,000 people.  Its capital city is Villa Berthet. 

[[Jack Klugman]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, Cancer deaths in the United States, Comedians from Pennsylvania, Deaths from prostate cancer, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Jewish American actors, People from Malibu, California

Jacob Joachim "Jack" Klugman (April 27, 1922 - December 24, 2012) was an American movie, stage and television actor. Klugman played Oscar Madison in the television series The Odd Couple from 1970 to 1975. He played the title character in the television series Quincy, M.E. from 1976 to 1983.

[[Monte San Lorenzo]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Argentina, Mountains of Chile

Monte San Lorenzo, also known as Monte Cochrane, is a mountain on the border between Argentina and Chile.  It is in Patagonia.  The mountain reaches a height of 3706. The Chilean name of Cochrane comes from the nearby town of Cochrane.  This is where climbers often approach the mountain. The peak was first climbed by Alberto María de Agostini in 1943.

The mountain is covered by three large glaciers.  There are two in Argentina and one in Chile. The Argentine glaciers show clear evidence of retreat.

[[San Lorenzo, Tarija]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bolivia

San Lorenzo (or: Villa San Lorenzo) is a town in the Tarija Department in Bolivia.

San Lorenzo is the administrative center of Eustaquio Méndez Province.  It is 2,001 m above sea leavel, on the left bank of Río Tojtiwaysho.  It is 15 km north of Tarija, the department capital.

San Lorenzo had a population of more than 3,000 people in 2007.

San Lorenzo was the home of Don Eustaquio Méndez.  He was one of the leaders in the fights for Bolivian independence. The local museum Casa del Moto Méndez shows some of his personal belongings and weapons.

[[Mary Stuart Masterson]]

CATEGORIES: People from New York, American movie actors, 1966 births, Living people

Mary Stuart Masterson (born in New York City, 28 June 1966) is a television actress and movie performer. She acted in the 1991 movie Fried Green Tomatoes (which got positive reviews by the critics). Her father was Peter Masterson.

[[Plasencia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Extremadura, Municipalities in Extremadura

Plasencia is a walled market city in western Spain. 2010, it had a population of 41,447.  It is on the bank of the Jerte River. 

[[Lisa Rinna]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American television presenters, Actors from Oregon, 1963 births, Living people

Lisa Deanna Rinna (born July 11, 1963) is an American  television host and actress.  She is best known for her roles as Billie Reed on Days of our Lives, Taylor McBride on Melrose Place, and as the host of SoapNet's Soap Talk.

[[Extreme (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American hard rock bands, Musical groups from Massachusetts, Musical groups established in 1985, 1985 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Massachusetts

Extreme is an American rock band.  They are headed by frontmen Gary Cherone and Nuno Bettencourt. They were popular in the late 1980s and early 1990s.

Among some of Extreme's musical influences are Aerosmith, Led Zeppelin, Queen. 

Extreme had their greatest success with their 1990 album Pornograffitti. It peaked at number 10 on the Billboard 200.  It became gold in May 1991 and 2×platinum in October 1992. That album had the ballad single "More Than Words," which reached No. 1 on Billboard's Hot 100 in the United States.

[[Extreme Records]]

CATEGORIES: Australian record labels

Extreme Records is an Australian based record label. 

The label was started by Ulex Xane.  They first focused on experimental and industrial music. Roger Richards became involved in 1987.  After Xane left, he became director.

[[Extremes (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Country albums, 1994 albums

Extremes is the third studio album released by American country music artist Collin Raye. Extremes became platinum in the United States for sales of over one million copies. The singles released from this album were "That's My Story", "Man of My Word", "My Kind of Girl", "If I Were You" and "Little Rock". "My Kind of Girl" was a Number One hit on the Hot Country Songs charts.  The other singles all reached Top Ten.

"Dreaming My Dreams with You" is a cover of the Waylon Jennings song. "A Bible and a Bus Ticket Home" was later recorded by Confederate Railroad on their album Keep On Rockin'.

[[Yoshito Usui]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2009 deaths, Cartoonists, Japanese artists, People from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yoshito Usui was a Japanese cartoonist. His most famous work is Crayon Shin-chan.

He liked to climb mountains. In 2009, when he climbed the Arafuneyama mountain in Gunma Prefecture, he slipped and died. He was 51 years old.

[[History of Bosnia and Herzegovina]]

CATEGORIES: History of Bosnia and Herzegovina

In ancient times, Bosnia and Herzegovina was called Illyricum. It was taken over by the Roman Empire. They were conquered in the 1st and 2nd centuries A.D. The Romans occupied the area until their fall in the 6th century, but only to be conquered by the Byzantine Empire. After that era it was a part of Hungary. Around 1200 A.D., they revolted and won their independence. They went on to become a Christian state for some 260 years. This was during the crusades where the Europeans would travel around and kill those not a part of the Catholic Church.

After that era, the Ottoman Empire was on the rise. It headed towards the Balkans, which due to cultural diffusion introduced new culture and ways of life to that area. The Turkish defeated the Serbians at the great battle of Kosovo in 1389. They later conquered Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1463. They spread the teachings of Muhammad the prophet and Muslim ways in that area. Jewish people also flooded into the area of Sarajevo (the capital). As parts of the Ottoman borders shrank, Bosnia-occupied parts shrank apart. Some countries next to Bosnia fought for their land, like Serbia and Montenegro. At the Berlin Congress in 1878, after the Russo-Turkish War, Austria-Hungary was given the rights to occupy and govern Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia was still with the Ottoman Empire and Austria-Hungary annexed them. This brought them into a feud with the Serbs and caused one Serb nationalist to assassinate the Austrian Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo on June 18, 1914. This assassination was one of the causes of World War I. Bosnia and Herzegovina was annexed to Serbia. The newly formed kingdom was called Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes. Later it changed to Yugoslavia.

When Yugoslavia was invaded by Nazi Germany 1941, Bosnia and Herzegovina was made a part of Nazi-controlled Croatia. Resistance fighters of Bosnia fought against fascist troops from Croatia in guerrilla battles. At the end of World War II, they were reunited back into Yugoslavia but this time under communist rule. Their leader at this point was Marshall Tito. As Marshall Tito died, so did the economy. Economic dissatisfaction grew in Yugoslavia and the Berlin Wall came down, marking an end to an era of the communist rule in much of East Europe.

Yugoslavia began to fall apart. In December 1991, Bosnia was on the brink of war as they declared independence from Yugoslavia. They demanded recognition into the European Union. In 1992, the Bosnian president, Alija Izetbegovic, declared independence. Both Croatia and Serbia claimed parts of Bosnia and had a war to see who occupies Bosnia. Serbia started to execute Muslims. The United Nations stepped in and started to bomb Serbian camps because of the terror-like things the Serbs were doing. The United States set up a peace talk headquarters in Dayton, Ohio. In 1995, the war ended. The Muslim Bosnian President is still in power and a three-part democracy was set up in Bosnia. These three countries still face problems after the war and NATO takes over peace acts. They are now producing a new government through a time of deadlock and the Bosnian Serb president in charge for counts of genocide was found in Belgrade on put on trial. They are currently working for a spot in the European Union.

[[Extreme Pita]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian fast food restaurants, Ontario, 1997 establishments in Canada

Extreme Pita is a Canadian-based fast food chain.  It was started by brothers Alex Rechichi and Mark Rechichi in 1997. The headquarters are in Mississauga, Ontario.  The company has more than 225 units in Canada and the United States.

Extreme Pita serves pita sandwiches, salads, and pizza-style "flat-baked" pitas. The chain says these types of products are more healthy than the usual fast-food choices. Available ingredients include fresh vegetables, cheeses, meats and vegetarian options such as falafel and hummus.

[[Voždovac]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Serbia, Belgrade

Voždovac is one of 17 municipalities that make up the City of Belgrade, the capital of Serbia.

The neighborhood of Voždovac is 4–5 km south of downtown Belgrade.  The name Voždovac come from the word vožd which means leader.

Due to its shape, it borders more municipalities than any other: Vračar on the north, Zvezdara on the north-east, Grocka on the east, Sopot on the south, Barajevo on the south-west, Čukarica and Rakovica on the west and Savski Venac on the north-west.

[[Takashi Ohyama]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Japanese people

Takashi Ohyama is a Japanese dentist, educator and president of Tokyo Medical and Dental University (TMDU).   He is best known as an expert sports dentistry.

[[Fez, Morocco]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Morocco, 789 establishments, Establishments in Morocco, 8th-century establishments in Africa

Fes or Fez is the second largest city of Morocco.  About 1 million people lived there in 2010. It is the capital of the Fès-Boulemane region.  The city has been called the "Mecca of the West" and the "Athens of Africa".

Fez is the former capital.  It is one of the country's four "imperial cities".  The others are Rabat, Marrakech and Meknes.

"Fas el Bali", one part of the city, is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Fes has a football team, MAS Fez. They play in the Botola the highest tier of the Moroccan football system. They play their home matches at the 45,000 seat Complexe Sportif de Fès stadium.

[[Kuwait City]]

CATEGORIES: Kuwait, Capital cities in Asia

Kuwait City is the capital of Kuwait. It has a population of 2.38 million in the metropolitan area. It is near the center of the country on the shore of the Persian Gulf.  It has Kuwait's parliament (Majlis Al-Umma), most governmental offices and the headquarters of most Kuwaiti corporations and banks. 

On August 2, 1990, Iraqi forces invaded Kuwait and took the city. On August 8, Iraq said the emirate was their land. During the occupation, the city was badly damaged.  Many buildings were destroyed, including the Kuwait National Museum.

Kuwait City has an arid climate.  They have very hot summers, little rainfall, and frequent dust storms.

[[Akio Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2010 deaths, Japanese scientists

Akio Suzuki was a Japanese doctor, medical scientist, educator and president of Tokyo Medical and Dental University (TMDU).  He was best known as a heart surgery expert.

[[Juntendo University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Japan, 1838 establishments, 19th century establishments in Japan, 1830s establishments in Asia

Juntendo University, also known as Jundai,  is a private university in Japan.

[[Warabimochi]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Warabimochi is a kind of Japanese confection or sweet food.

Warabimochi is made of starch, sugar and water and used to be used roots of the "warabi" (one of the Japanese plants). People often eat it with kinako or anmitsu.

[[Kinako]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food, Flour

Kinako is toasted soybean flour.  It is commonly used in Japanese cuisine.

Kinako itself is not sweet, but people often add sugar into kinako and coat the mixed-one to wagashi (Japanese sweets), for example Warabimochi.

[[Tergum]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy

A tergum (plural terga) is the dorsal portion of an arthropod segment other than the head. A given tergum may be divided into hardened plates or sclerites commonly referred to as tergites.

[[List of hobbies]]

CATEGORIES: Hobbies, Lists

This is a partial list of hobbies. A hobby is an activity, interest, enthusiasm, or amateur pastime that people do for pleasure or relaxation.  It is usually done during one's leisure time. This list includes only recognized hobbies that have been the subject of published discussions or which have organized membership associations.

[[Harry Reid]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, American Latter Day Saints, People with cancer, Writers from Nevada, Minority leaders of the United States Senate, Majority leaders of the United States Senate, United States representatives from Nevada, United States senators from Nevada, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Henderson, Nevada, Lieutenant Governors of Nevada

Harry Mason Reid (born December 2, 1939) is a former American politician. He was the United States senator from Nevada from 1987 to 2017. He is a member of the United States Democratic Party, and was their leader in the Senate. Earlier, Reid was a member of the United States House of Representatives from Nevada and Lieutenant Governor of Nevada.

[[Flags of Asia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of flags, Flags of Asia

This is a gallery of international and national flags used in Asia.

[[Soleil Moon Frye]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles County, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American bloggers

Soleil Moon Frye (born August 6, 1976) is an American television actress. Her best-known roles are that of Punky Brewster in the same-named sitcom which lasted from 1984 to 1988 and Roxie in the television sitcom Sabrina, the Teenage Witch (starting in 1996 and ending in 2003). Frye was also in other things on television.

She began acting at age 6 on television.

[[Chung Il-Kwon]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1994 deaths, Anti-Communists, South Korean politicians, Autobiographers

Chung Il-kwon(정일권; hanja: 丁一權, November 21, 1917 - January 17, 1994) was a South Korean politician and military general. He was one of the South Korean army commanders during the Korean War.

He was Foreign Minister (1963-1964, 1966-1967) and the Ambassador to the United States (1960-1961, 1962-1963). From 1964 to 1970 he served as the 9th Prime Minister of South Korea. His nickname was Chungsa(청사, 淸史).

[[Flags of Oceania]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of flags, Oceania

This is a gallery of national flags of Oceania.

[[Dorothy Parker]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1967 deaths, American poets, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Writers from New Jersey, Writers from New York City

Dorothy Parker (August 22, 1893 – June 7, 1967) was an American poet, short story writer, critic and satirist. She was best known for her epigrams, wit, wisecracks, and her eye for 20th century fads and conceits.

From an unhappy childhood, Parker rose to fame, both for her writing in The New Yorker and as a founding member of the Algonquin Round Table. After the breakup of the circle, Parker went to Hollywood to do screenwriting. She got two Academy Award nominations for this, but her involvement in left-wing politics put her on the Hollywood blacklist in the 1950s.

She disliked her reputation as a "wisecracker". Nevertheless, her writing and reputation for her sharp wit have endured.

[[Yun Il-sun]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1994 deaths, Anti-Communists, South Korean politicians, Autobiographers

Yun Il-sun (윤일선; 尹日善, October 5, 1896 - June 22, 1987) was a South Korean pathologist, anatomist and politician. He was  Vice Chairman (1954-1956) and 6th Chairman (1956 to 1960) of the University of Seoul. He was the nephew of Korean resistance leader Yun Chi-ho and elder cousin of Yun Po-sun, the 4th President of South Korea. His pen name was Dongho.

[[Jonathan Taylor Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Pennsylvania, American television actors, 1981 births, Living people

Jonathan Taylor Thomas (born Jonathan Taylor Weiss; September 8, 1981 in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania) is a television, film and voice actor. His most notable acting projects are the ABC sitcom Home Improvement and as the voice of young Simba in The Lion King.

[[Lee Meriwether]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American television actors, 1935 births, Living people, Miss America winners

Lee Ann Meriwether (born May 27, 1935, Los Angeles) is an actress and former Miss America and has acted in many television series. Before acting, she was crowned Miss America 1955. She is best known for playing Catwoman in the 1966 movie version of Batman, Betty Jones in the 1970s crime drama Barnaby Jones and Ruth Martin on the ABC soap opera All My Children.

[[Punky Brewster]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, NBC network shows, First run syndicated television programs, 1984 American television series debuts, 1986 television series endings, English-language television programs

Punky Brewster was an American television sitcom. It began in September 1984 and officially ended May 27, 1988. It aired on NBC from 1984 to 1986, and in syndication from 1986 to the end of its run. The show was about a teenaged girl named Penelope "Punky" Brewster (played by Soleil Moon Frye) who was under care of foster parents one of them is Henry Warnimont (played by George Gaynes).

[[Do the Right Thing]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, Brooklyn in fiction, English-language movies, Movies directed by Spike Lee, Movies set in New York City, Screenplays by Spike Lee, Universal Pictures movies, American independent movies

Do the Right Thing is a 1989 American comedy-drama movie that is notable for the movie debuts for Rosie Perez and Martin Lawrence. Spike Lee directed, wrote and played as Mookie in this movie, which is set in Brooklyn, New York City. The subjects in Do the Right Thing involve racial troubles and hot weather around New York City. Other actors in the movie were Samuel L. Jackson. This movie received positive reviews by critics.

[[Melanie Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Black British musicians, British R&B musicians, English pop musicians, English hip hop musicians, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Yorkshire, People from Leeds, Spice Girls

Melanie Brown (born 29 May 1975) is a British singer, songwriter and television personality. She is best known as a member of the Spice Girls. She became known for her big frizzy hair during the groups early years and her nickname was "Scary Spice". She has also released two solo albums. Hot was released in 2000. "I Want You Back" was released as a single from the album. Missy Elliott rapped in it. It reached number one in the UK. Brown's second album L.A. State of Mind was released in 2005. In 1997 Brown acted in Spice World. She won the Razzie Award for Worst Actress. The Spice Girls started in 1994. The band released three albums. They broke up in 2000. In 2007 the Spice Girls did a tour called The Return of the Spice Girls.

She was born in Harehills, Leeds, West Yorkshire to an English mother and Nevisian father. She grew up working class in Burley, Leeds. She has three daughters.

[[Daichi Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic gold medalists, Japanese swimmers, Medalists at the 1988 Summer Olympics, People from Chiba Prefecture

Daichi Suzuki is a Japanese athlete and sportsman. He is best known as a swimmer who competed in two Summer Olympic Games.  

[[Football at the 2012 Summer Olympics – Women's tournament]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 Summer Olympics, Women's football, 2012 in association football

The women's football tournament at the 2012 Summer Olympics was held in London and 5 other cities in the United Kingdom. This was the first FIFA women's competition in the United Kingdom.

[[Yusuke Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1989 births, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Japanese gymnasts

Yusuke Tanaka is a Japanese athlete and sportsperson.  He is best known as a gymnast.

[[Koji Yamamuro]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1989 births, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Japanese gymnasts, People from Ibaraki Prefecture

Koji Yamamuro is a Japanese sportsman.  He is best known as a gymnast.

[[Sarah, Duchess of York]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, British Dukes and Duchesses, Royalty from London

Sarah, Duchess of York (Sarah Margaret; formerly Ferguson; born 15 October 1959) is a British charity patron, spokesperson, writer, film producer, television personality and member of the British Royal Family. She was the wife of Prince Andrew, Duke of York. She was married to him from 1986 until they divorced in 1996. She is often called "Fergie", a usual nickname for people named Ferguson.

She has two children from her marriage, Beatrice and Eugenie. They are currently eighth and ninth in the line of succession to the thrones of 16 independent Commonwealth realms.

[[Colegio de la Preciosa Sangre]]

CATEGORIES: Pichilemu, Schools in Chile

Colegio de la Preciosa Sangre is a Chilean private state-subsidized primary and secondary school in the coastal town of Pichilemu. It is also known by the name Preciosa Sangre.

The school ranks first in Cardenal Caro Province, based on the scores from the Prueba de Selección Universitaria (PSU) test, taken each December. The school has been qualified as the "best school in Pichilemu", and "a regional icon" by Region of O'Higgins newspaper El Rancagüino.

[[SummerSlam (2011)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in professional wrestling, Sports in Los Angeles, SummerSlam, 2011 in American television, 2010s in Los Angeles, California, August 2011 events

SummerSlam (2011) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view made by WWE, that took place on August 14, 2011 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. It was the 24th yearly SummerSlam event held by the WWE. There were 6 matches on the card.

[[Franz Josef Land]]

CATEGORIES: Archipelagos, Arctic islands, Islands of Russia

Franz Josef Land is an archipelago, north of Novaya Zemlya in the Arctic Ocean. It is part of Russia. It is administered from Archangelsk. It is made of 191 islands. Cape Fligely is the northernmost point of Eurasia. Getting to the island group is only possible during a few weeks in summer, in most summers. The northernmost point of Franz-Josef Land is only about 900 km from the North Pole - this means that the only places which are closer are Greenland, and Ellesmere Island in Canada. In the south, about 370 km of ocean separates the group from  Novaya Zemlya. The group consists of about 191 islands. Roughly 80% of the islands are covered with ice all the time. The group has a volcanic origin. In 2007, there were two manned stations: Nagurskoye, a weather station, with 5 people, and observatory with 4 people. Victoria Island is 160 km west of the other islands, about half way to Svalbard.

[[Football at the 2008 Summer Olympics – Women's tournament]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 Summer Olympics, Women's football, 2008 in association football

The women's football tournament at the 2008 Summer Olympics was held held in Beijing and 4 other cities in the China. The tournament had 12 teams. The group stage began two days before the opening ceremony, August 6. The United States won the tournament against Brazil, winning their 3rd olympic gold medal.

[[Christine Sinclair]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Canadian footballers, Canadian Olympic bronze medalists, Living people, People from Burnaby, Sportspeople from British Columbia, Female footballers

Christine Margaret Sinclair (born June 12, 1983) is a Canadian football player who plays for the Portland Thorns and the Canada women's national soccer team. She is thought to be one of the best women football players in the world.

[[Ysis Sonkeng]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian footballers, 1989 births, Living people

Ysis Sonkeng (born September 20, 1989) is a Cameroonian women's football player who plays for the Cameroon women's national football team and Louves Minproff de Yaoundé. She plays as a defender and played in the 2012 Summer Olympics. She was known for scoring an own goal against New Zealand women's national football team.

[[Choe Mi-Gyong]]

CATEGORIES: North Korean footballers, 1991 births, Living people

Choe Mi-Gyong (born January 1, 1991) is a North Korean football player that plays for the North Korea women's national football team and Rimyongsu Sports Club. She played in the 2012 Summer Olympics, and was known as being the only player to receive a red card in the women's tournament.

[[Bob Woodward]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Chicago, Journalists from Chicago, 1943 births, Living people, American political writers

Bob Woodward (born March 26, 1943) is an American author and journalist who began working for The Washington Post around 1971. He was born in Chicago, Illinois.

He is known for his reporting with Carl Bernstein on the Watergate Scandal which eventually led to President Richard Nixon's resignation in 1974.

[[Nordic Football Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Nordic Football Championship, 1924 establishments in Europe

The Nordic Football Championship (Danish: Nordisk Mesterskab, Norwegian: Nordisk Mesterskap, Swedish: Nordiska Mästerskapet, or NM) was an international football tournament played with the men's national football teams of the Nordic countries. In the first tournament, only Denmark, Norway and Sweden played, but Finland joined the second tournament. On the last tournament, Iceland and the Faroe Islands joined as well.

[[Mizuho Sakaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Speranza Osaka-Takatsuki players, Tasaki Perule FC players, Albirex Niigata Ladies players, Nippon TV Tokyo Verdy Beleza players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2006 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2018 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2014 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2014 Asian Games

Mizuho Sakaguchi is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[White Men Can't Jump]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 comedy-drama movies, 1990s sports movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American comedy-drama movies, American sports movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Sports comedy movies, Sports drama movies

White Men Can't Jump is a 1992 American comedy-drama sports movie in which Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson star. The earlier stars as Sidney Deane, and the latter acts as Billy Hoyle, between whom a partnership forms. In this comedy-drama, the subject is basketball around Los Angeles. Rosie Perez acts as Billy's girlfriend Gloria.

[[Ashfield, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Sydney

Ashfield is a suburb in Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Ashfield is about 9 kilometres south-west of the business centre of Sydney.  The local government of the suburbs around Ashfield is called the Ashfield Council.

The people that live in Ashfield are from many places.  15% of people in Ashfield were born in China.

The number of people living in Ashfield is high in comparison to other suburbs of the same size. Many apartment buildings in Ashfield were built after World War II.  Many houses in Ashfield were built around 1900.

The oldest building in Ashfield is a church called St John's.  The building was started in 1840.

[[Richard D. Zanuck]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2012 deaths, Academy Award winners, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Movie producers from Los Angeles, California

Richard Darryl Zanuck (December 13, 1934  July 13, 2012) was an American movie producer. He won an Academy Award for Best Picture in 1989 for his work in Driving Miss Daisy. He has also won the Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award, and a Hollywood Film Award. Zanuck and David Brown were one of the most successful movie producers in Hollywood in the 1960s and in the 1970s.

[[Richard Schiff]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Actors from New York City, Actors from Maryland, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television directors, American television producers, Emmy Award winning actors, People from Bethesda, Maryland

Richard Schiff (born May 27, 1955) is an American actor and television director and producer. He is an Emmy Award winning actor. 

[[Lee Byung-chull]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1987 deaths, South Korean businesspeople, Autobiographers

Lee Byung-chull (Korean:이병철;李秉喆, February 12, 1910 – November 19, 1987) was a South Korean businessman and trader. He was a founder of Samsung Electronics, Samsung Heavy Industries and many Samsung group companies.

[[Clive Dunn]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from London, Comedians from London, Deaths from surgical complications, English movie actors, English radio actors, English radio personalities, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Singers from London, Television personalities from London

Clive Robert Benjamin Dunn OBE (9 January 1920 – 6 November 2012) was an English actor, comedian, singer, artist, and author. Dunn is most known for his role as Lance-Corporal Jones, the butcher (meat-cutter) in Dad's Army.

[[Al B. Sure!]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American R&B singers, Singers from Boston, Massachusetts, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts, Warner Bros. Records artists

Albert Joseph Brown III (born June 4, 1968) is an American R&B singer, songwriter, and record producer. He was born in Boston, Massachusetts and grew up in Leonia, New Jersey, and Mount Vernon, New York. During the late 1980s under the stage name Al B. Sure!, he was one of the most popular new jack swing singers and producers.  His hits included Rescue Me and Nite and Day.

[[Ralph Tresvant]]

CATEGORIES: R&B musicians, 1968 births, Living people

Ralph Tresvant (born May 16, 1968) is an American musician and recording artist. He was once a member of New Edition. He left the group around 1989 or 1990 and started his solo music career, with R&B songs like Sensitivity.

[[Jerry Bruckheimer]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, American movie producers, American television producers, Emmy Award winners, Living people, Businesspeople from Detroit, Michigan, People's Choice Award winners

Jerome Leon "Jerry" Bruckheimer (born September 21, 1945) is an American movie and television producer. He has achieved great success in the genres of action, drama, and science fiction. His best known television series are CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, CSI: Miami, CSI: NY, Without a Trace, Cold Case, and The Amazing Race. Some of his best known movies include Beverly Hills Cop, Flashdance, Top Gun, The Rock, Con Air, Armageddon, Bad Boys, Enemy of the State, Black Hawk Down, Pearl Harbor, Pirates of the Caribbean, and the National Treasure franchise. He is also one of the Board of Directors at ZeniMax Media.

Many of his movies were produced by Paramount and Disney. Many of his television series were co-produced by Warner Bros. and CBS Television Studios.

As of 2010, Bruckheimer has produced over 40 feature movies.  He is regarded in the industry as one of the most successful movie producers of all time. Bruckheimer has been nicknamed "Mr. Blockbuster", due to his track record of commercially successful, high-grossing movies. Overall, his movies have brought in over $13 billion to Hollywood. They have also launched the careers of numerous actors and directors.

In 2007, he was ranked #39 on Forbes Celebrity 100 List, up from #42 in 2006. With reported annual earnings of $120 million,

he was the 10th highest money-earner on the 2006 Forbes Celebrity 100 List.

[[Bernard Fox]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Actors from Glamorgan, People from Port Talbot, Welsh movie actors, Welsh stage actors, Welsh television actors, Welsh voice actors

Bernard Fox (Bernard Lawson May 11, 1927 – December 14, 2016) was a Welsh retired television, stage, voice, and movie actor who has appeared in 50 movies and his career has lasted more than 49 years, until retiring in 2004. His uncle was late actor Wilfred Lawson. 

[[Fairuza Balk]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Marin County, California, 1974 births, Living people

Fairuza Balk (born Fairuza Alejandra Feldthouse, May 21, 1974) is an American movie actress. She was especially active in the 1990s. She acted in the movies The Waterboy, American History X and many others. Balk was born in Point Reyes, California.

[[Sina Motalebi]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, People from Tehran, Iranian writers, Iranian journalists, BBC newsreaders and journalists

Sina Motalebi (Motallebi, سينا مطلبی; born 21 April 1973 in Tehran) is an Iranian journalist, based in London. He is currently the Editor of ZigZag magazine, a website based on the content of journalists and citizen's contributions following their distance journalism training course provided by the  BBC World Service Trust.

[[Dangerous Liaisons]]

CATEGORIES: American drama movies, 1988 drama movies, British drama movies, Academy Award winning movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Stephen Frears

Dangerous Liaisons is a 1988 erotic-romantic drama movie. It is based on an 18th century French novel "Les Liaisons dangereuses". This movie was released on December 16, 1988. It stars Glenn Close, Michelle Pfeiffer, Swoosie Kurtz and John Malkovich. It was nominated for seven Academy Awards (including Best Picture). It received three (Best Art Direction, Best Costume Design being among the ones actually received).

[[Chung Ju-young]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2001 deaths, South Korean businesspeople, Autobiographers

Chung Ju-young (Korean:정주영;鄭周永, November 25, 1915 – March 21, 2001) was a South Korean businessman and trader. He was a founder of Hyundai automobile, Hyundai construction company, Hyundai heavy industry and many Hyundai group companies.

[[Shin Kyuk-ho]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2020 deaths, South Korean businesspeople, Autobiographers, Waseda University alumni

Shin Kyuk-ho (4 October 1921spaced ndash19 January 2020), known in Japan as Takeo Shigemitsu, was a South Korean businessman known for being the founder of the Korean conglomerate Lotte Corporation.

[[Bank of Israel]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Jerusalem, Government of Israel, Banks

The Bank of Israel (בנק ישראל بنك إسرائيل) is the central bank of Israel. It is in Kiryat HaMemshala in Jerusalem, and has a branch office in Tel Aviv. The current governor of the bank is Karnit Flug.

[[Rob Lowe]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, People from Charlottesville, Virginia, Actors from Virginia, 1964 births, Living people

Rob Lowe (born March 17, 1964) is an American actor. He has acted in many television programs and movies. He was in Parks and Recreation between 2010 and 2015,  The West Wing between 1999 and 2003 and in the movies St. Elmo Fire and Wayne's World. He was born in Charlottesville, Virginia.

[[Patricia Kalember]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York, 1957 births, Living people

Patricia Kalember (born December 30, 1957) is an American television and movie actress. She is best known for playing in the TV drama Sisters. Many sources list Kalember's birth date as December 30, 1956 instead of 1957.

[[Bow Wow Wow]]

CATEGORIES: British pop music groups, British girl groups

Bow Wow Wow is a British girl group. It is best known for the hit song "I Want Candy". The group was very popular between the years 1980 and 1989. They continued making records in the 1990s. Annabella Lwin was the singer. She was on the cover of the band's first album not wearing any clothes. The cover was banned.

[[2000–01 Nordic Football Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Nordic Football Championship, 2000 in association football, 2001 in association football, 21st century in Denmark, Faroe Islands, History of Finland, 21st century in Iceland, 21st century in Norway, 2000s in Sweden

The 2000–01 Nordic Football Championship was the 14th Nordic Football Championship. Six Nordic countries were in the tournament, Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. Some of the tournament was played in Spain.

[[Úrsula Murayama]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Mexican television actors, Mexican movie actors, 1972 births

Úrsula Murayama (born in Mexico in 1972) is a Mexican actress of Japanese origin who appears in telenovelas (soap operas). Her best known role was that of handmaiden Jacinta in telenovela Esmeralda (1997).

Her possible relative was actor Noé Murayama, who died in 1997. He appeared with Úrsula in Esmeralda.

Other roles:

[[Ōtaki, Chiba]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Chiba Prefecture, Towns in Japan

Ōtaki is a town in Isumi District, Chiba Prefecture, Japan. Ōtaki is at the middle of the Bōsō Peninsula. The town was the home of general Honda Tadakatsu during the Edo period (1603 – 1868). He built a large castle, Ōtaki Castle. The town had a population of about 10,412 (April 2012). The total area the town is 129.83 km².

[[Beit Aghion]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Jerusalem, Government buildings in Israel

Beit Aghion (בית אגיון), also known as Beit Rosh HaMemshala (בית ראש הממשלה, lit. House of the Prime Minister) is the official residence of the Prime Minister of Israel. It is at 9 Peretz Smolenskin street, on the street corner of Balfour street in the Jerusalem neighborhood of Rehavia, between the city center and Talbiya neighborhood.

[[Heichal Shlomo]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Jerusalem, Chief Rabbinate of Israel

Heichal Shlomo is the former seat of the Chief Rabbinate of Israel. It is next to the Great Synagogue on King George Street, Jerusalem. The building currently has the Jewish Heritage Museum, Renanim Synagogue, office space and an auditorium. It is across from the Leonardo Plaza Hotel Jerusalem. The building was finished in 1958.

In 2009, Pope Benedict XVI made a visit to the area. 

[[Safra Square]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Jerusalem, Town squares

Safra Square (כיכר ספרא, Kikar Safra) is Jerusalem's City Hall public square. It is named after Jacob and Esther Safra, the parents of Edmond J. Safra, a Jewish philanthropist who helped to renovate downtown Jerusalem.

[[Tony Snow]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Cancer deaths in Washington, D.C., Journalists from Ohio, Television personalities from Kentucky, Television personalities from Ohio, White House Press Secretaries, 1955 births, 2008 deaths

Robert Anthony Snow, better known as Tony Snow (June 1, 1955 - July 12, 2008), was an American journalist, television personality, commentator and radio host who made contributions for Fox News very regularly beginning in 1996. He was born in Berea, Kentucky and raised in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was  host of Fox News Sunday, before working for President Bush the second, but he briefly performed switched to CNN during 2008. However, he was merely an analyst at CNN, not a journalist. He was strongly associated with George W. Bush (when he was the President). Before Fox News, Snow was often a guest for The Rush Limbaugh Show. Snow died from colon cancer in Georgetown, Washington, D.C.

[[Martha Plimpton]]

CATEGORIES: American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from New York City, 1970 births, Living people, American LGBT rights activists, American singers, American television actors, Child actors, Drama Desk Award winners, People from New York City, Singers from New York City

Martha Plimpton (born November 16, 1970) is an American movie and stage actress. She has appeared in movies, including The Goonies (1985), Parenthood (1989), Stanley & Iris (1991) and in many Broadway stage plays. She also appeared in many television programs.

Plimpton was born in New York City.

[[Madeline Zima]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, 1985 births, Living people, Actors from New Haven, Connecticut

August 2012

Madeline Rose Zima (born September 16, 1985, New Haven, Connecticut) is an American television series actress. Her best-known roles were in The Nanny, The Hand That Rocks the Cradle and Californication.

[[Heather Tom]]

CATEGORIES: People from Hinsdale, Illinois, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Illinois, 1975 births, Living people

Heather Marie Tom (born November 4, 1975 in Illinois) is an American actress who acts primarily in soap operas. She represented Victoria Newman in the CBS soap The Young and the Restless. She also acted in other soap operas.

In August 2011, Tom said she was engaged to her partner of 15 years, James Achor. On September 17, 2011, the pair married. On May 19, 2012, it was said that the couple was expecting their first child together. Tom later said she was due around October and was expecting a boy.

[[Darlene Conley]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Chicago, 1934 births, 2007 deaths

Darlene Conley (18 July 1934 – 14 January 2007) was an American actress. She worked most in television soap operas. She played Sally Spectra in the soap opera The Bold and the Beautiful from 1988 to 2007. Conley was born in Chicago.

[[USS Maine (1889)]]

CATEGORIES: Naval ships of the United States

USS ''Maine was a United States Navy ship. She sank in Havana Harbor in 1898, which was the reason the United States got involved in the Spanish-American War. USS Maine'' was reported as a battleship, which was an error because at first, she was commissioned as ACR-1 (Armored Cruiser #1).

[[David Caruso]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York, American movie actors, American voice actors, American television actors, 1956 births, Living people, Golden Globe Award winning actors

David Stephen Caruso (born January 7, 1956) is an American movie and television actor, who is especially known by his acting in NYPD Blue. He also performed in the 1995 movies Kiss of Death and Jade. From 2002 to 2012, he starred on the TV series CSI: Miami in the role of Lieutenant Horatio Caine.

[[Rene Russo]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Burbank, California, American movie actors, 1954 births, Living people

Rene Marie Russo (b. Los Angeles, California, February 17, 1954) is an American movie actress. She has starred in many different types of movies. Her most notable movies include Lethal Weapon 3 (1992) and Ransom (1996).

[[Japan women's national football team]]

CATEGORIES: Women's national football teams, Football in Japan

Japan women's national football team, also known as ''Nadeshiko'' Japan, is a Japanese women's association football team.  The team represents Japan in international competition.  It is made up of the best female players in Japan.

Nadeshiko Japan is best known as the first Asian team to win the FIFA Women's World Cup.

[[Brigitte Nielsen]]

CATEGORIES: Danish movie actors, Danish television actors, Models, Reality television participants, 1963 births, Living people

Brigitte Nielsen (born July 15, 1963) is a Danish model and movie actress. She has performed in many movies. She is also a television personality who is involved with reality shows.

[[Princess Beatrice]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, British royalty, English people, Extras, House of Windsor, Princes and princesses

Princess Beatrice, Mrs Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi (born Beatrice Elizabeth Mary; 8 August 1988) is a member of the British royal family.

Beatrice was born at The Portland Hospital for Women and Children in London, She is the daughter of Andrew, Duke of York and Sarah, Duchess of York. 

When Lilibet Mountbatten-Windsor was born on 4 June 2021, the second born of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Beatrice became tenth in the line of succession to the British throne. 

Beatrice studied history at Goldsmiths, University of London. She got engaged in September 2019 to Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi. The couple got married on 17 July 2020.  They are expecting their first child in late 2021.

[[Everything She Wants]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 songs, Pop songs

"Everything She Wants" is a 1984 song by music group Wham!. The song is about a man having trouble trying to satisfy the woman with whom he is having a relationship. The song has several versions, one lasting six and a half minutes. It has been sampled for other songs and covered by other musicians since its 1984 release.

[[Watchmaker analogy]]

CATEGORIES: Intelligent design, Evolution, Metaphors referring to nature

The Watchmaker analogy is a teleological argument. In simple terms, it states that because there is a design, there must be a designer. The analogy is important in natural theology where it is used to show the existence of God as well as supporting the idea of intelligent design. William Paley (1743 – 1805) gave one of the best known explanations for this in his book Natural Theology, published in 1802: "Anyone finding a pocket watch in a field will recognise that it was designed intelligently; living beings are similarly complex, and must be the work of an intelligent designer". In 1859, Charles Darwin provided another explanation for this complexity; according to Darwin, this complexity is a result of continuing adaptation. Paley was not the first to use the analogy, though. Bernard le Bovier de Fontenelle is generally credited for this, when he used it in his work Conversations on the Plurality of Worlds, published in 1686.

There are three main points of criticism against the Watchmaker analogy: 

[[Barbie Girl]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 songs, Pop songs

"Barbie Girl" is a dance-pop hit song from the Danish music group Aqua. The single was released in 1997. Its lyrics are about Barbie and Ken, the toys from Mattel. The song was very popular. It was #1 across the music charts of certain countries. It was in the Top 20 charts in the United States. Barbie Girl also caused controversy at various times.

[[Don Rickles]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Comedians from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, American television personalities, American radio personalities, Jewish American actors, Democrats (United States), Actors from New York City

Donald Jay "Don" Rickles (May 8, 1926 – April 6, 2017) was an American stand-up comedian, actor, voice actor and author, best known for his role as Mr. Potato Head in Toy Story, Toy Story 2, and Toy Story 3. He was also known for being an on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson, and in The Dean Martin Celebrity Roasts.

[[Mount Monadnock]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of the United States, Geography of New Hampshire

Mount Monadnock, or Grand Monadnock, is a mountain in the New England state of New Hampshire. Authors such as Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau wrote about the mountain, so it is well-known. It is the highest mountain  between the White Mountains of New Hampshire and the Massachusetts Berkshires. It is the highest point in Cheshire County, New Hampshire. Monadnock is one of the most popular mountains to climb in the world.

At 3165, Mount Monadnock is nearly 1,000 feet (300 m) higher than any mountain within 30. It is 2,000 feet (600 m) above the nearby land. Mount Monadnock is in the towns of Jaffrey and Dublin, New Hampshire.

The term "monadnock" is used by American geologists to describe any single mountain formed when erosion removes softer rock and leaves harder rock behind. This is called an inselberg in other parts of the world.

Monadnock's bare, isolated, and rocky summit gives people wide, clear views. The mountain is clear mostly because of fires set by early settlers. The first major fire in 1800 cleared trees the lower parts of the mountain to make pasture for animals. More fires and hurricane damaged the forest more. Between 1810 and 1820, local farmers thought that wolves were living in the forest and set the mountain on fire again. The fire burned hot and powerfully for weeks. It destroyed the topsoil and removed trees and plants mountain above 2000.

[[Estelle Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television actors, American television personalities, Actors from New York City, Comedians from New York City, Jewish American actors, Jewish American comedians, Seinfeld

Estelle Harris, born as Estelle Nussbaum, (born April 4, 1928 in Manhattan, New York) is a comedian, actress, voice actress, and television actress. She is best known for her role as Estelle Costanza in Seinfeld. To younger audiences, she is known for her role as Mrs. Potato Head in the Toy Story franchise. She is also known as Muriel on The Suite Life of Zach and Cody. 

[[Kronstadt rebellion]]

CATEGORIES: Russian Revolution, 1921 in Europe, Rebellions in Europe, 20th century rebellions, March events

The Kronstadt rebellion was a left-wing revolt which occurred in Russia from 7–17 March 1921. It was carried out by Communists who did not like the way the Bolsheviks made the Workers' Councils do what the new Russian state, the RSFSR told them to do.

[[Nikolai Evreinov]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1953 deaths, Russian people

Nikolai Nikolayevich Evreinov (Николай Николаевич Евреинов; February 13, 1879 - September 7, 1953) was a Russian theatre director, dramatist and theatre practitioner. He was associated with the art movement known as Russian Symbolism.

[[Chantal Kreviazuk]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian singers, People from Winnipeg, 1973 births, Living people

Chantal Jennifer Kreviazuk (May 18, 1973, Winnipeg, Manitoba) is a Canadian singer, songwriter and recording artist. She has had many high charting songs in Canada and some in the United States. She also writes songs for others.

[[Jamaican Patois]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of the Caribbean, Jamaica, 17th-century establishments in North America

Jamaican Patois, known as Patwa, Jamaican Creole or simply Jamaican, is an English-African Creole language spoken mostly in Jamaica and among the Jamaican diaspora.

[[Lou Rawls]]

CATEGORIES: American blues musicians, American gospel musicians, American jazz musicians, American R&B singers, American soul musicians, Singers from Chicago, American movie actors, American voice actors, Actors from Chicago, Deaths from brain cancer, 1933 births, 2006 deaths

Louis Allen "Lou" Rawls (December 1, 1933 - January 6, 2006) was an American singer, record producer, recording artist and movie actor. He made over 60 albums. He sold over 40 million copies of them. Rawls was born in Chicago. He was associated with a huge number of rhythm and blues songs.

[[Roscoe Lee Browne]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2007 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, Actors from New Jersey, Actors from Pennsylvania, Emmy Award winning actors, African American actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American movie directors

Roscoe Lee Browne (May 2, 1922 – April 11, 2007) was an American television, stage, voice, and movie actor, narrator, and director. He was known for his deep voice.

[[Mahalia Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from New Orleans, Louisiana, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana, American gospel singers, American gospel musicians, 1911 births, 1972 deaths

Mahalia Jackson (October 1911 - January 27, 1972) was an American gospel singer and musician. She was born in New Orleans. She had many hit songs during her career. She was in Evergreen Park,IL in 1972 when she died. She lived with her Aunt Duke when her mother died in 1917. She started to sing at Mt. Moriah Baptist Church at the age of 12.

[[Marla Gibbs]]

CATEGORIES: Comedians from Chicago, Television personalities from Chicago, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Chicago, 1931 births, Living people

Marla Gibbs (born June 14, 1931 in Chicago) is an American comedian and actress. She played Florence Johnston on The Jeffersons. Then she played Mary Jenkins on the sitcom 227. She also acts in movies.

[[Falling in Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 drama movies, 1984 romance movies, 1980s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City

Falling in Love is a 1984 American romantic drama movie set in New York City. It stars Meryl Streep, Robert De Niro and Harvey Keitel. This movie was released in autumn 1984 in the United States.

[[Soupy Sales]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2009 deaths, Actors from New York City, Actors from North Carolina, American radio personalities, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American television presenters, American voice actors, Cancer deaths in New York City, Comedians from New York City, Jewish American actors

Soupy Sales (born Milton Supman January 8, 1926  October 22, 2009) was an American comedian and actor, who is best known for his role in the television series Lunch With Soupy Sales that lasted for a short moment. And from 1968 through 1975 Sales is known a regular rival in What's My Line?. 

[[The Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne]]

CATEGORIES: Biology books, 1780s books, 1789 works

The Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne, or just The Natural History of Selborne is a book written by pioneering English naturalist and ornithologist Gilbert White. It was first published in 1789. It has continued to be printed since then, with nearly 300 editions up to Thames & Hudson's The Illustrated Natural History of Selborne in 2007.

[[Louis Jean Pierre Vieillot]]

CATEGORIES: 1748 births, 1831 deaths, Ornithologists, French scientists

Louis Jean Pierre Vieillot (10 May 1748, Yvetot - 1831, Rouen) was a French ornithologist.

Vieillot described a large number of birds for the first time, especially those he met during the time he spent in the West Indies and North America. 26 genera and 32 species of North American birds were first described by him. Most of the well-known North American birds, such as the Wild Turkey,the Pintail, the Cedar Waxwing, and the Scarlet Tanager, were given Latin names by him.

[[Heinrich Boie]]

CATEGORIES: 1784 births, 1827 deaths, German zoologists

Heinrich Boie (May 4, 1784, Meldorf, Holstein – September 4, 1827) was a German zoologist. He and his brother Friedrich Boie described 49 new species of reptiles and several new species of amphibians.

Boie studied law at Kiel and Göttingen. At university he became interested in natural history through the lectures of Johann Friedrich Blumenbach and Friedrich Tiedemann. He became Coenraad Jacob Temminck's assistant at Leiden. In 1825 he traveled to Java with Salomon Muller to collect specimens for the museum. He died there of gall fever.

[[Old World warbler]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

An "Old World warbler" is the name used to describe one of a large group of birds that used to be in the bird family Sylviidae. The family held over 400 species in over 70 genera, and was the source of much taxonomic confusion. Two families were separated later, the Cisticolidae and the Regulidae. In the past ten years they have been researched and many species are now put into other families. These families include the Acrocephalidae, Cettiidae, Phylloscopidae, and Megaluridae.

[[Paik Sun-yup]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2020 deaths, Anti-Communists, Asian diplomats, Generals, Military personnel of the Korean War, South Korean military people, South Korean politicians

Paik Sun-yup (백선엽, Hanja 白善燁, November 23, 1920 – July 10, 2020) was a South Korean soldier, politician and diplomat.

Paik was a an army commander in the Korean War.

Paik died on July 10, 2020 in Seoul at the age of 99.

[[Lesser roadrunner]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Central America

The lesser roadrunner (Geococcyx velox) is one of the two species of roadrunner. It looks a lot like the other roadrunner species, the greater roadrunner, but is smaller and has a shorter beak. It is found in Mexico and Central America. 

It is large and slender and has long legs. The lesser roadrunner's wings and tail are covered with black, brown and white feathers, and it has a yellowish-white belly. It is 12 to 20 inches in length, and weighs around 8 to 15 ounces. The lesser roadrunner has zygodactyl feet, meaning it has two toes on the back of its feet and two toes on the front.

[[Tarantula hawk]]

CATEGORIES: Wasps

The Tarantula hawk is a type of spider wasp which hunts tarantulas as food for its larvae. The Tarantula hawk is any type of spider wasp which is in the genera Pepsis and Hemipepsis in the family Pompilidae (spider wasps).

[[Wheatus]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 1990s establishments in New York (state), 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, American punk bands, Musical groups established in 1995, Musical groups from New York, Post-grunge bands

Wheatus is an American alternative rock band from Northport, New York. Wheatus has six members in the band; the current band members are Brendan B. Brown, Matthew Milligan, Kevin Joaquin Garcia, Karlie Bruce, Gabrielle Aimée Sterbenz and Mark Palmer.

The band was formed in 1995 by lead singer Brendan B. Brown. The band is probably best known for their 2000 hit song, "Teenage Dirtbag" from their self-titled debut album. Their song "Punk Ass Bitch" was also used as the ending theme for Jackie Chan Adventures. They released their self-titled debut album "Wheatus" on August 15, 2000. They are currently signed to Montauk Mantis which the band created after leaving Sony Records. They released their third studio album "TooSoonMonsoon" on October 18, 2005.

[[Kitty Wells]]

CATEGORIES: Country musicians, Singers from Tennessee, 1919 births, 2012 deaths

Ellen Muriel Deason, better known as Kitty Wells (August 30, 1919-July 16, 2012), was a country singer from Nashville who underwent the nickname The Queen of Country Music. She had many country singles that hit #1. Her death was due to complications of a stroke.

[[Under Siege]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 action movies, 1992 thriller movies, 1990s action thriller movies, American action thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies about terrorism, Movies set in Hawaii, Movies directed by Andrew Davis

Under Siege is a 1992 American military action thriller movie. It stars Tommy Lee Jones and Steven Seagal, the latter of whom stars as a Navy SEAL. Under Siege received very strong reception by critics: it brought Seagal right into the mainstream. It was released October 9, 1992. It's sequel is the 1995 movie Under Siege 2: Dark Territory also starring Seagal. 

[[List of Japan women's international footballers]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Japan, Lists of Japanese football players, Women's football

The List of Japan women's international footballers is evolving. The history of the team is created by its players.

Japan women's national football team, also known as ''Nadeshiko'' Japan, is a Japanese women's association football team.  The team represents Japan in international competition.

[[Marvin Hamlisch]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning composers, American composers, Emmy Award winners, Golden Globe Award winners, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from New York City, Tony Award winners, Deaths from respiratory arrest, Deaths from hypertension, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, 1944 births, 2012 deaths, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters

Marvin Frederick Hamlisch (June 2, 1944 – August 6, 2012) was an American composer. He was born in Manhattan, New York City. He arranged the scores of lots of movies, including The Sting and Sophie's Choice. He won an Academy Award, an Emmy Award and a Golden Globe Award, Grammy Awards, a Tony Award and a Pulitzer Prize. 

Hamlisch died from respiratory arrest complicated by hypertension in Los Angeles, California on August 6, 2012 at the age of 68.

[[List of cities in Colombia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colombia, Lists of cities in South America, Lists of cities by country

This article lists cities and towns in Colombia:

[[Charlie Callas]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Actors from New York City, Comedians from New York City, American movie actors, American voice actors, American television actors, American radio actors, American stage actors

Charlie Callas (born Charles Callias December 20, 1927  January 27, 2011) was an American comedian and actor. He worked with Dean Martin, Frank Sinatra, Mel Brooks, Dom DeLuise, Jerry Lewis, Milton Berle, and Don Rickles.

[[List of settlements in the Democratic Republic of the Congo]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of settlements in Africa, Settlements in the Democratic Republic of the Congo

This is a list of cities and towns in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

[[Colonization of Mars]]

CATEGORIES: Mars, Space colonization

The colonization of Mars by humans is an ongoing debate. Some people want to colonize the planet Mars.  Satellite imagery shows that there is frozen ground water on the planet.  Mars also has a thin atmosphere.  Because of this, it has potential to host humans and other organic life.  That makes Mars the best choice for a thriving colony off the Earth.  The Moon has also been proposed as the first location for human colonization but it not known to have air or water.  

There are many factors humans on Mars will go through, such as the risks in landing on the planet within gravity wells.

Many organizations support the colonization of Mars.  They have also given different reasons and ways humans can live on Mars.  One of the oldest organizations is the Mars Society.  They promote a NASA program that supports human colonies on Mars. The Mars Society have set up Mars analog research stations in Canada and the United States.  Other organizations include MarsDrive, who want to help fund settlements on Mars, and Mars to Stay.  Mars to Stay advocates settlements on Mars.  In June 2012, Mars One released a statement that they believe could help start a colony on Mars by 2023.

[[Yuki Nagasato]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Nippon TV Tokyo Verdy Beleza players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2006 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games

Yuki Nagasato is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team. She used her name Yuki Ogimi (大儀見 優季) from 2012 to 2016. Her brother Genki Nagasato and sister Asano Nagasato are former footballers.

[[List of cities in the Republic of the Congo]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Africa, Republic of the Congo, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in the Republic of the Congo.

[[List of cities in Costa Rica]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in North America, Cities in Costa Rica, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Costa Rica.

[[Saki Kumagai]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, People from Sapporo, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Urawa Red Diamonds Ladies players, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2018 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games

Saki Kumagai is a Japanese football player. She plays for the Japan national team.

[[Azusa Iwashimizu]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Nippon TV Tokyo Verdy Beleza players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2006 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2014 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2014 Asian Games

Azusa Iwashimizu is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Aya Sameshima]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, TEPCO Mareeze players, Mynavi Sendai Ladies players, INAC Kobe Leonessa players, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2018 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2018 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2018 Asian Games

Aya Sameshima is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[John Aniston]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Greek actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States

John Aniston (born Yannis Anastasakis; July 24, 1933) is a Greek-American television and movie actor. He is the father of actress Jennifer Aniston. He is best known for his role as Victor Kiriakis in Days of our Lives. That started in 1985. Anisto's career lasted 50 years. He has appeared in over 100 television programs and movies. 

[[2012 Summer Olympics medal table]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 Summer Olympics, London-related lists

The 2012 Summer Olympics medal table is a list of the medals won by athletes in the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.

[[Valmont]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s romantic drama movies, 1989 drama movies, 1989 romance movies, French drama movies, British drama movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Miloš Forman

Valmont is a 1989 drama movie starring Annette Bening. It is based on the French book Les Liaisons Dangereuses. This movie received an Academy Award nomination for the Best Costume Design.

[[Curiosity rover]]

CATEGORIES: Mars, NASA spacecraft, 2011, 2012, Planetary rovers

The Curiosity rover is a robotic car-sized Mars rover. It is exploring Gale Crater, which is near the equator of Mars. The rover uses a nuclear power and is part of NASA's Mars Science Laboratory (MSL). 

The MSL mission has four main scientific goals: study Martian climate and geology, search for water, and find out whether Mars could have ever supported life.  Curiosity carries the most advanced scientific equipment ever used on the surface of Mars. 

Curiosity is the fourth NASA surface rover sent to Mars in 16 years. Curiosity is also the heaviest robotic wheeled vehicle (at 900 kg) to have ever landed on Mars (The Soviet Union's Lunokhod 2 lunar rover (1800) used to be the largest with 840 kg). Curiosity was launched from Cape Canaveral on November 26, 2011 at 10:02 EST. It successfully landed on Aeolis Palus in Gale Crater on Mars on August 6, 2012, 05:21:27 UTC.

In December 2012, Curiosity's two-year mission was extended indefinitely. On August 7, 2017, NASA celebrated the fifth anniversary of the Curiosity rover landing and related exploratory accomplishments on the planet Mars. The rover is still operational, and as of , Curiosity has been on Mars for Curiosity Mission Timer sols (6 August 2012 05:17:57 total days) since landing on August 6, 2012. 

Curiosity's design served as the basis for the Mars 2020 rover that is scheduled to land on Mars in February 2021.

[[Mars flyby]]

CATEGORIES: Mars, Spaceflight

A Mars flyby is when a spacecraft passes near the planet Mars, but does not enter orbit or land on it. Unmanned (no humans on board) space probes have used this method to collect data on Mars and other worlds. A spacecraft that is built for a flyby is also known as a "flyby bus" or "flyby spacecraft".

[[Terraforming of Mars]]

CATEGORIES: Mars

The terraforming of Mars is an idea that humans can change the climate and surface of Mars. They would do this to make Mars a place where humans and other life forms from Earth could live. The project will rely on the idea that the environment of a planet can be changed through artificial means. There are a number of proposed methods.

[[Miho Fukumoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Okayama Yunogo Belle players, INAC Kobe Leonessa players, Chifure AS Elfen Saitama players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2006 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2002 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Asian Games bronze medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2002 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games

Miho Fukumoto is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Jessica Capshaw]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Missouri, 1976 births, Living people

Jessica Capshaw (born August 9, 1976, Missouri) is an American movie actress. She is the stepdaughter of Steven Spielberg. She appeared in the ABC TV-series Grey's Anatomy.

[[List of cities in Ivory Coast]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Africa, Cities in Ivory Coast, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in the Ivory Coast.

[[Magellan (spacecraft)]]

CATEGORIES: NASA spacecraft, Venus (planet)

The Magellan spacecraft, also called the Venus Radar Mapper, was a NASA spaceprobe designed to explore the Venus planet. It was launched on May 4, 1989, and reached Venus on August 10, 1990. It was in orbit around Venus for four years making detailed maps of the surface using radar and measuring the planet's gravity. Because of the thick atmosphere around the planet, the information from Magellan provided scientists with their first views of the surface of Venus. On October 12, 1994, the Magellan spacecraft was crashed into the planet on purpose.

The Magellan was the first spacecraft to be launched from a Space Shuttle, the Atlantis. It was also the first spacecraft to be deliberately crashed. Magellan was made from parts left over from other space exploration programs, including the Voyager program. 

The Magellan was named after the Portuguese explorer, Ferdinand Magellan (1480-1521). 

[[List of cities in Croatia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Croatia, Lists of cities in Europe, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities and towns in Croatia.  In Croatia these are called a grad.

[[List of cities in Cuba]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in North America, Cities in Cuba, Lists of cities by country

The nation of Cuba has several cities. 

[[List of cities in the Czech Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Europe, Cities in the Czech Republic, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in the Czech Republic.

[[List of cities in Denmark]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Europe, Cities in Denmark, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Denmark. 

1 = All cities with a population of 20,000 or more.

2 = Ølstykke-Stenløse is a new city, created by conurbation between Ølstykke and Stenløse on 2010-01-01.

3 = The city Hørsholm is a part of several municipalities.

a = Part of the Urban Copenhagen (da: Hovedstadsområdet).

b = Part of the Aalborg urban area.

[[List of cities in the Dominican Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in North America, Settlements in Dominican Republic, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of Cities in the Dominican Republic.  Only cities with more than 20,000 people are listed.

[[List of settlements in East Timor]]

CATEGORIES: East Timor, Lists of settlements in Asia

This is a list of cities, towns, and villages in East Timor.

[[List of cities in Ecuador]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ecuador, Lists of cities in South America, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Ecuador.

[[List of cities in Egypt]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Africa, Cities in Egypt, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of the most important and largest cities and towns in Egypt.

42 Giza

[[Charlene Tilton]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from San Diego, California, American television actors, American movie actors, 1958 births, Living people

Charlene Tilton (b. December 1, 1958 in San Diego) is an American actress. She acts mostly on television. She has also acted in a few movies. She is best known for playing Lucy Ewing on the CBS television series Dallas.

[[Robert H. Goddard]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1945 deaths, American inventors, Scientists from Massachusetts, American astronomers

Robert Hutchings Goddard (1882-1945) was an American scientist who designed, built and fired rockets. In 1918 he invented the bazooka for the United States Army. 

On March 16, 1926, he launched the world's first liquid fueled rocket.  It reached a height of 56 at a speed of 100. When he suggested that a rocket could travel fast enough to leave the Earth and reach the Moon, the newspapers made fun of him. Many of his ideas, such as multi stage rockets, and the concept of escape velocity are now part of modern rocket science. He has been called "the father of space flight."

[[Alexis Bledel]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Houston, Texas, Democrats (United States), Models from Houston, Texas, 1981 births, Living people

Kimberly Alexis Bledel (September 16, 1981), is an American television and movie actress. Her most notable acting is the television series Gilmore Girls. She has also been in the movies Sin City and Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants. Bledel is a Democrat and attended the 2012 Democratic National Convention in support of President Obama's re-election. 

[[Near-threatened species]]

CATEGORIES: Near threatened species

A near-threatened species is a conservation status given to species or lower taxa that may be endangered in the near future. However, it does not mean that the species is threatened.

The Near Threatened taxa usually includes the Vulnerable species.

[[Sternum]]

CATEGORIES: Bones

The sternum or breastbone, in vertebrate anatomy, is a flat bone.  In amphibians and reptiles it is normally shaped like a shield, often made of cartilage.  It is absent in both turtles and snakes. In birds it is larger, and has large flight muscles attached to it.  Only in mammals does the sternum take on the longer form seen in humans.

[[Bombay High]]

CATEGORIES: Economy of India

Bombay High is an offshore oilfield, gas field and refinery. It used to send its low sulphur crude oil to Mathura Oil Refinery. But this factory was closed, so now it transports oil to other refineries. It was founded by a Russian and an Indian oil exploration team.

[[Tree stump]]

CATEGORIES: Trees

The stump or tree stump is a small remaining part of the trunk with the roots still in the ground. Stumps may show the ages of a tree through its rings. The study of these rings is known as dendrochronology. Sometimes stumps are able to grow again into new trees. Sometimes a tree is cut to a stump on purpose to grow again. This is known as "coppicing".

[[Space colonization]]

CATEGORIES: Space colonization

Space colonization is the idea of humans living outside of Earth permanently. At present, there are no space colonies. However, many people have put forward ideas and thought about the first space colony. Some national space programs see space colonization as a long-term goal.

Building colonies in space would require access to water, food, space, people, building materials, energy, transportation, communications, life support, simulated gravity, radiation protection and money. Launching things from Earth is expensive, so it is better if the materials come from the place of the colony.

Possible sites for space colonies include the Moon, Mars, asteroids and big, free-floating space stations.  Resources, such as solar energy and water, are available from or on the Moon, Mars, near-Earth asteroids or other planetary bodies.  People could use them to build the space colony and live there. 

Mars is the most Earth-like planet known, so the colonization of Mars may be first. Some celestial bodies might be terraformed. This means changing a body's atmosphere, temperature, surface topography or ecology to be similar to the biosphere of Earth, so that humans can live there.

[[IPhone 3GS]]

CATEGORIES: IPhone, Mobile phones released in 2000s

iPhone 3GS is a smartphone made by Apple Inc. It is the third generation iPhone, coming after iPhone 3G. It was introduced on June 8th 2009, It was released on June 19th 2009.

This iPhone is named "3GS". The "S" in "iPhone 3GS" means "Speed". The iPhone 3GS has better performance, allowing it to run faster and more efficiently. It also has a higher quality camera that can take photos with higher resolution, as well as take videos with better quality. It also adds the ability to use voice control, a function where users can talk into the phone to command actions on the phone.  The iPhone 3GS can also support faster downloading. 

It was released in the United States, Canada, and six European countries on June 19th 2009, in Australia and Japan on June 26th, and worldwide in July and August 2009.

[[Nadeshiko]]

The Japanese word Nadeshiko may mean:

[[Virgo Supercluster]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxy clusters

The Virgo Supercluster (Virgo SC) or Local Supercluster is the large galaxy cluster that contains the Virgo Cluster and the Local Group. At least 100 galaxies and clusters are in it.

The diameter of Virgo SC is 33 megaparsecs (110 million light-years). It is one of millions of superclusters in the observable universe.

[[Connie Stevens]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Singers from New York City, Musicians from New York City, 1938 births, Living people

Connie Stevens (born August 8, 1938 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American recording artist, singer and actress. She acted in the television series Hawaiian Eye. She was also in the sitcom Wendy and Me with George Burns.

[[Yamato nadeshiko]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture

Yamato nadeshiko is a Japanese term and a flower metaphor. The term describes the "flower of Japanese womanhood" or what is generally believed to be typical and best about Japanese women. It also means "traditional daughter of Japan".

The phrase combines the words Yamato, which is an ancient name for Japan, and nadeshiko, which is a wild pink carnation (dianthus superbus).

[[Water on Mars]]

CATEGORIES: Mars

There is less water on Mars compared to Earth. Most of the water known is in the cryosphere (permafrost and polar caps). There is no liquid water. There is only a small amount of water vapor in the thin atmosphere.

The conditions on the planet's surface do not support the long-term existence of liquid water. The average atmospheric pressure and temperature are far too low, which freezes water. However, it seems Mars once had liquid water flowing on the surface. This would make large areas like Earth's oceans.

There are a number of signs of water on or under the surface, now or in the distant past. These include stream beds, polar caps, spectroscopic measurement, eroded craters. Also, there are minerals which are often  formed when there is liquid water (such as goethite), grey, crystalline hematite, phyllosilicates, opal, and sulfate.

The Mars flybys such as Viking, Mars Odyssey, Mars Global Surveyor, Mars Express, and the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter had cameras.  They took pictures of what seem to be ancient lakes, ancient river valleys, and widespread glaciation. An orbiting Gamma Ray Spectrometer found ice just under the surface of much of the planet. Also, radar studies found ice that were thought to be glaciers. The Phoenix lander showed ice on Mars when it was landing. Phoenix also showed ice melting, snow falling, and even saw drops of liquid water.

A recent report says Martian dark streaks on the surface were affected by water.

[[Dianthus superbus]]

CATEGORIES: Caryophyllaceae

Dianthus superbus, also known as Large Pink, is a species of Dianthus native to Europe and northern Asia. It is a herbaceous perennial plant. 

This flowering plant grows in Western Europe from northern Spain to  Norway.  The wild flower is also native across northern Asia, including China and Japan.

[[Tin Ujević]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1955 deaths, Croatian writers, Poets

Augustin "Tin" Ujević (5 July 1891 – 12 November 1955) was a Croatian poet, considered one of the most important poets in Croatian language of all time.

When Ujević was young, he thought to dedicate his life to politics. After having been involved in various activities related to the nationalism of Yugoslavia between 1912 and 1916, he began a life with a bohemian style, developing a great interest in literature.

Ujević classified his works in 3 different fields: translation, assays and poetry. 

He translated many works of various authors into the Croatian language, like Walt Whitman, Marcel Proust and Joseph Conrad.

[[Jesolo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Veneto

Jesolo is a city in the region of Veneto in Italy. Jesolo is known for its beach.

[[Kozue Ando]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Urawa Red Diamonds Ladies players, Footballers at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2006 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games

Kozue Ando is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Whitetip reef shark]]

CATEGORIES: Sharks

The Whitetip reef shark (Triaenodon obesus), is a species of requiem shark, and the only member of its genus. The whitetip reef shark gets its name because of the white tips on its first dorsal fin and caudal fin. This shark has a slim body, with a short, wide head, a blunt, flattened snout, and oval-shaped eyes. The body is dark grey to brown in colour, and the underside is white. The whitetip reef shark is widely distributed across the entire Indo-Pacific region, and is common along coral reefs, but is also found over sandy flats, in lagoons, and near drop-offs to deeper water. This species of shark is viviparous, giving birth to 1-5 pups after a gestation period lasting up to 12 months. The whitetip reef shark is currently listed as Near Threatened by the IUCN.

[[Mana Iwabuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Nippon TV Tokyo Verdy Beleza players, INAC Kobe Leonessa players, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2018 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2018 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2018 Asian Games

Mana Iwabuchi is a Japanese football player. She plays for the Japan national team.

[[Hola (ethnic group)]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the Middle East

Hola, or Huwala (هوله), is a blanket term denoting an ethnically Persian Sunni community currently residing in the Gulf nations with origins in cities and villages lying along the eastern coast of the Persian Gulf.

[[Mel Stuart]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from cancer, American movie directors, American movie producers, Movie directors from New York, Golden Globe Award winning directors

Mel Stuart (born Stuart Solomon; September 2, 1928 – August 9, 2012) was an American director and producer who is known for directing such movies as; Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory, Two is a Happy Number, and Running on the Sun: The Badwater 135. Stuart's career would span for nearly 37 years which started in 1963 until his retirement in 2000. Stuart was born on September 2, 1928 in New York City, New York. Stuart was never married and had no children. He was related to late TV producer David L. Wolper. Stuart died on August 9, 2012 in his Beverly Hills, California home from cancer, he was 83 years old. Stuart's first cousin was Stan Lee.

[[Conrad Bain]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Actors from Alberta, People from Lethbridge, Actors from Alameda County, California, American movie actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, American activists, Canadian movie actors, Canadian radio actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Canadian military personnel of World War II, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Twin people from Canada, Twin people from the United States

Conrad Stafford Bain (February 4, 1923 – January 14, 2013) was a Canadian-American actor. He was best known for his role as Phillip Drummond in the sitcom Diff'rent Strokes and as Dr. Arthur Harmon in Maude. Bain had a twin brother, Bonar Bain.

[[Akihiko Hoshide]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Astronauts, Living people, People from Tokyo, Keio University alumni

Akihiko Hoshide, also known as 'Aki, is a Japanese engineer and an astronaut with the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA). He was born in 1968 in Tokyo, but grew up in New Jersey in the United States. 

He studied at the United World College of South East Asia in Singapore.  In 1992, he earned a degree  from Keio University in Japan.  In 1997, he was awarded a Master of Science degree at the University of Houston in Texas.

Japan's National Space Development Agency (NASDA) accepted Hoshide into the astronaut training program in 1999. He first trip to the International Space Station was in May 2008. His second trip to the International Space Station was in July 2012.

[[Self-determination]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Human rights, Nationalism

The right of nations to self-determination (from Selbstbestimmungsrecht der Völker), or with less words, self-determination  is the idea that nations  have the right to choose their sovereignty (who or what rules them) and international political status without other countries telling them. Most of the world used to be ruled by empires (really big countries with more than one ethnic group, usually with one group having a lot of power over the others), and many of the countries that the empires ruled were considered colonies of the empire, but after The first World War (1914-1919), and especially the second World War (1929-1945), most of these empires collapsed (fell apart) and local populations (people living in the "colonies" native to the area) began to want independence and their country to be ruled by them, not someone very far away who they thought was mistreating them. Lots of nationalist movements arose in these countries, usually in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, because people usually considered themselves as a separate group than the one who ruled them (for example, Arabs, not British, when the British Empire had ruled a lot of Arabia).

Some people who believe in self-determination use violence, others do not.

[[Football at the 1988 Summer Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 Summer Olympics, Olympic football tournaments, 1988 in association football

The Football at the 1988 Summer Olympics was held in South Korea. The tournament was on September 17 to October 1, 1988.

[[National Space Development Agency]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 establishments in Asia, Japanese space program, Space agencies, 1960s establishments in Japan

National Space Development Agency or NASDA,  was one Japan's national space agencies from 1969 to 2003.

NASDA was responsible for developing satellites and space exerpiments.

[[Michael Ansara]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in California, Actors from Massachusetts, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Syrian people, Saturn Award winners, People from Lowell, Massachusetts

Michael Ansara (April 15, 1922 – July 31, 2013) was a Syrian-American stage, movie and voice actor.

He was best known for playing of Cochise in the American television series Broken Arrow, Kane in the 1979-81 series Buck Rogers in the 25th Century, Commander Kang on three different Star Trek TV series, Deputy U.S. Marshal Sam Buckhart on the NBC series, Law of the Plainsman, and the voice for villain character Mr. Freeze in the Emmy Award winning series Batman: The Animated Series, The New Batman Adventures, Batman & Mr. Freeze: SubZero, and Batman Beyond.

[[Stacey Dash]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, African American actors, American movie actors, American television actors, People from the Bronx, 1966 births, Living people

Stacey Lauretta Dash (born January 20, 1966) is an American television and movie actress. She usually acts in sitcoms and comedy related movies. Her most notable television program works include The Cosby Show and The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. Her movies include Clueless (1995) and Mo' Money (1992). 

Some sources say Dash was born January 20, 1966 with others mentioning that she was born in either 1967 or 1968. Dash was born in The Bronx, New York City.

[[Brussels sprout]]

CATEGORIES: Leaf vegetables

Brussels sprouts are a green vegetable. They are small cabbages that can be used for salads or other recipes. They have almost the same nutrition as cabbage in carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. As with other cabbages, they can be either steamed or roasted. They have a lot of fiber.

[[Tamera Mowry]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, 1978 births, Living people

Tamera Darvette Mowry (born July 6 1978) is an American actress who first gained fame through the sitcom Sister, Sister. She has also been in other TV works and in multiple movies (particularly comedy movies. Her sister Tia was born exactly the same day.

[[Tia Mowry]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, 1978 births, Living people

Tia Mowry (born July 6 1978 alongside sister Tamera Mowry) is an American actress and former singer who, similar to her sister, first became famous as a result of the sitcom Sister, Sister in the 1990s. She also does other television related works and movie projects.

[[Niall Horan]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, Irish pop singers, Irish guitarists, Irish rock musicians, Irish singer-songwriters

Niall James Horan (born 13 September 1993) is an Irish singer and songwriter. He was best known as a member of the boy band One Direction. In 2016, Horan signed a recording deal as a solo artist with Capitol Records. Horan has also been known for his relaxing, and upbeat style of music.

[[Apollo 6]]

CATEGORIES: Apollo program

Apollo 6 was a space flight launched on April 4, 1968. It was the second mission of the United States Apollo program and last unmanned test flight of its Saturn V launch vehicle. It was also the last unmanned Apollo flight. It was an A-Type mission.

It was to show that the Saturn V could carry the weight of the Apollo fast enough and far enough into space to make a flight to the Moon possible. It was also designed to show that the Apollo Command Module's heat shield could survive the high speed re-entry into the Earth's atmosphere. The project was designed to fly into space at the necessary speeds, turn around, and return in about 10 hours.

However problems in the fuel lines of several Saturn V second and third stage engines stopped it from reaching the speeds Apollo would need to reach the Moon. It was able to test the return speeds by using the Apollo spacecraft's engine. This had been done with Apollo 4, the first Saturn V test. Despite the engine failures, the flight gave NASA enough confidence in the Saturn V to use it for manned launches. Since Apollo 4 had also tested the heat shield at a full speed re-entry, a third unmanned flight was cancelled.

[[Hurricane Ernesto (2012)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 Atlantic hurricane season, August events, 2012 in North America, Hurricanes in Mexico, 2010s in Mexico, 2010s in Jamaica

Hurricane Ernesto is an Atlantic tropical cyclone that went across Jamaica and then cut through the Mexican Yucatán Peninsula as a hurricane. The storm later made landfall in southeastern Mexico and caused several deaths over the area. The storm was born August 1, 2012 and died August 10 over south central Mexico.

[[Édouard Herriot]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 births, 1929 deaths, Prime Ministers of France

Édouard Herriot (July 5, 1872 – March 26, 1929) was a French politician of the Third Republic.

[[Bonar Bain]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2005 deaths, Actors from Alberta, Canadian movie actors, Canadian radio actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Cancer deaths in Canada, Disease-related deaths in Alberta, People from Lethbridge, Twin people from Canada

Bonar Stewart Bain (born February 4, 1923 – February 18, 2005) was a Canadian actor. He was the identical twin brother of actor Conrad Bain, who starred in Diff'rent Strokes as Phillip Drummond. He once played a fictional “evil” twin to Conrad (“Hank Bain”) in an episode of SCTV. He also portrayed Arthur's (Conrad Bain) twin brother Arnold on Maude. 

Bain was born on February 4, 1923 in Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada to Jean Agnes Young and to Stafford Harrison Bain. He was married to Vella Bain until his death in 2005. Bain died on February 18, 2005 in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, from cancer, aged 82.

[[Charles Durning]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American Roman Catholics, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Deaths from natural causes, Drama Desk Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, World War II people

Charles Edward Durning (February 28, 1923 - December 24, 2012) was an American actor.

[[Christopher Lambert]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, American voice actors, American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American movie producers, French movie actors, French television actors, French movie producers, People from Great Neck, New York, Actors from New York, Movie producers from New York

Christophe Guy Denis Lambert (born March 29, 1957) who is known professionally by his credited stage name Christopher Lambert is an American-born French actor, novelist and producer, who has appeared in American, as well as French and other European films. He is best known for his work as Connor MacLeod, or simply "The Highlander", from Highlander and the Highlander (franchise). 

He is also known for his roles as Tarzan in Greystoke: The Legend of Tarzan, Lord of the Apes and as the thunder god Raiden in the first movie adaptation of the video game Mortal Kombat. He is sometimes credited internationally as Christopher Lambert, with the notable exceptions of French-speaking countries, where he is known as Christophe Lambert. and Anime adaptations as Chris Lambert. 

Lambert was born in Great Neck, New York to French parents. Lambert was married to Diane Lane from 1988 until they divorced in 1994. Later he married Jaimyse Haft from 1999 until they divorced in 2000. He was married to Sophie Marceau from 2012 until they divorced in 2014. His career began in 1978 and he still continues to “act”.

[[Al Freeman, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from San Antonio, Texas, Emmy Award winning actors, African American actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American educators

Albert Cornelius Freeman, Jr. (March 21, 1934 – August 9, 2012) was an American actor and director.

[[Geoffrey Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from Cheshire, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from prostate cancer, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Geoffrey Hughes, DL (2 February 1944 – 27 July 2012) was an English actor.

Hughes as appeared in a wide range of TV and film appearances, Hughes was best known for a series of supporting roles in popular UK television dramas. He played Vernon Scripps in the British drama series Heartbeat (2001–05, 2007); Twiggy in the popular television sitcom The Royle Family (1998–2000, 2006, 2008); Onslow in the sitcom Keeping Up Appearances (1990–95) and Eddie Yeats in the soap opera Coronation Street (1974–1983, 1987). Hughes was born on 2 February 1944 and died on 27 July 2012 from prostate cancer, he is survived by his wife Susan.

[[Randy Travis]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, Singers from North Carolina, American movie actors, Actors from North Carolina, 1959 births, Living people, Warner Bros. Records artists

Randy Travis (born May 4, 1959 in Marshville, North Carolina) is an American country music singer and actor. He first went into mainstream in the mid to late 1980s, having a number of hits. By the early to mid 1990s, his started to be less successful. He acted in several movies, including The Rainmaker (1997).

[[Yellow-lipped sea krait]]

CATEGORIES: Elapidae

The yellow-lipped sea krait (Laticauda colubrina) is a species of sea snake found in tropical Indo-Pacific ocean waters. The yellow-lipped sea krait is also known as the "banded sea krait" and the "colubrine sea krait".

[[Apollo 10]]

CATEGORIES: Apollo program

Apollo 10 was a crewed F-Type mission of NASA's Apollo program to land a man on the surface of the Moon. It was the fourth crewed mission and was a full rehearsal for the actual landing by Apollo 11. It was launched on May 10, 1969.76 The three astronauts, Tom Stafford, John W. Young and Eugene Cernan went into orbit around the Moon. Stafford and Cernan flew the Lunar Module to just 14.5 above the Moon's surface.76  The Apollo 10 crew reached the farthest point in their orbit around the far side of the Moon. They have been the farthest any human has traveled from the Earth's surface. 

[[Apollo 12]]

CATEGORIES: Apollo program, 1969 in the United States

Apollo 12 was the sixth crewed flight in the Apollo program. It was the second crewed spacecraft to land on the Moon. Apollo 12 was launched on November 14, 1969.76 Charles "Pete" Conrad and Alan Bean become the third and fourth persons to stand on the lunar surface, while Richard Gordon stayed in orbit around the Moon. The two astronauts spent over seven hours exploring the surface of the Ocean of Storms.76 They brought back pieces of Surveyor III which had landed on the Moon in April 1967. They set up a number of experiments which would continue to collect information after they left. The Lunar ascent stage, the part that helped it take off from the surface, was deliberately crashed back onto the Moon so that shock waves could be measured by seismic equipment left behind.

[[Apollo 15]]

CATEGORIES: Apollo program

Apollo 15 was the ninth crewed flight of NASA's Apollo program. It was the fourth mission to land on the surface of the Moon and the first J-Type mission. Apollo 15 was launched on July 26, 1971.77 Alfred Worden stayed in orbit in the Command Module, Endeavour, while the Lunar Module, Falcon, landed at Hadley Base, with David Scott and James Irwin. The astronauts used the first Lunar Roving Vehicle to travel on the Moon. This vehicle was specially designed to work in a vacuum, with a wide range of temperatures across rough ground. They travelled a distance of 17.5 on the Moon. They spent three days (66 hours, 55 minutes) on the Moon. They were able to collect a lot of rock samples, including a core sample from at least 10 deep.

[[Virgo Cluster]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxy clusters

The Virgo Cluster is a cluster of galaxies. Its center is 53.8 ± 0.3 million light years (16.5 ± 0.1 million parsecs) away from Earth, in the constellation Virgo. The cluster forms the heart of the larger Virgo Supercluster, of which our Local Group is an outlying member. 

The Virgo Cluster has about 1300 (and perhaps up to 2000) member galaxies. Its mass is about 1.215 solar masses out to 8 degrees of the cluster's center or a radius of about 2.2 million parsecs.

Many of the brighter galaxies in this cluster, including the giant elliptical galaxy Messier 87 and brightest member Messier 49, were discovered in the late 1770s and early 1780s. They were included in Charles Messier's catalogue of non-cometary fuzzy objects. Described by Messier as nebulae without stars, their true nature was not recognized until the 1920s. Many of the member galaxies of the cluster are visible with a small telescope. Its brightest member is the elliptical galaxy Messier 49.

[[Eyelash viper]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

The eyelash viper (Bothriechis schlegelii) is a species of venomous pit viper found in Central and South America. The scientific name Bothriechis schlegelii is for the German ornithologist, Hermann Schlegel. 

[[Apollo 16]]

CATEGORIES: Apollo program

Apollo 16 was the tenth crewed space flight in NASA's Apollo program. It was the 5th of six Apollo missions to land on the Moon. It was a J-Type mission, as having a longer stay on the Moon. Launched on April 16, 1972, Ken Mattingly stayed in orbit around the Moon in the Apollo Command Module, Casper. He spent 3 days, 9 hours and 28 minutes by himself, the longest solo US space flight.77 On the Moon, astronauts John Young and Charles Duke got to put the Lunar Roving Vehicle ("moon buggy") through a series of tests, including s-turns, hairpin turns and quick stops. John W. Young was the commander of the mission.

A satellite was launched on the return journey to examine the Moon's mass and gravitation, space particles near the Moon, and the interaction of magnetic fields between the Moon and Earth. The mission was stopped one day early as there were several problems with the spacecraft.

[[Triangulum galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Spiral galaxies, Local galaxies

The Triangulum galaxy  is a spiral galaxy approximately 3 million light years (ly) from Earth in the constellation Triangulum.

The Triangulum galaxy is the third-largest member of the Local Group of galaxies, which includes the Milky Way galaxy, the Andromeda galaxy and about 50 other smaller galaxies. It is one of the most distant permanent objects that can be viewed with the naked eye.

It is catalogued as Messier 33 or NGC 598, and is sometimes informally referred to as the Pinwheel galaxy, a nickname it shares with Messier 101.

[[Mermaids]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 comedy-drama movies, 1990s coming-of-age movies, 1990s teen comedy movies, 1990s teen drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American teen comedy movies, American teen drama movies, Coming-of-age comedy movies, Coming-of-age drama movies, English-language movies, Movies about families, Movies about virginity, Movies based on books, Movies set in Massachusetts, Movies set in the 1960s, Movies directed by Richard Benjamin

Mermaids is a 1990 American comedy-drama movie. It set during 1963 in Massachusetts. It is based on a novel of the same name. The movie stars Cher as Rachel, Winona Ryder as her elder daughter Charlotte and Christina Ricci as her younger daughter Kate. This movie was released December 14, 1990 in the U.S. It got positive reviews from movie critics.

[[Elliptical galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Elliptical galaxies

An elliptical galaxy is a galaxy having an ellipsoidal shape, and a smooth, nearly featureless brightness profile. They are one of the three main types of galaxy originally described by Edwin Hubble in 1936. The others are spiral and lenticular galaxies.

Elliptical galaxies range in shape from nearly spherical to nearly flat, (E7, one of the flattest types of elliptical galaxies is cigar-shaped) and in size from hundreds of millions to over one trillion stars. Originally, Edwin Hubble thought that elliptical galaxies may evolve into spiral galaxies, but this turned out to be false. Stars found inside elliptical galaxies are much older (and cooler; thus redder) than stars found in spiral galaxies.

Most elliptical galaxies are composed of older, low-mass stars, with a sparse interstellar medium and minimal (or no)star formation activity. They tend to be surrounded by large numbers of globular clusters. Elliptical galaxies are believed to make up approximately 10–15% of galaxies in the Virgo Supercluster, but are not the dominant type of galaxy in the universe overall. They are usually found close to the centers of galaxy clusters.

Elliptical galaxies and lenticular galaxies are also called "early-type" galaxies (ETG), due to their position in the Hubble sequence. They are less common in the early Universe, that is, in galaxies further away from us.

[[Ayumi Kaihori]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Speranza Osaka-Takatsuki players, INAC Kobe Leonessa players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2014 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2014 Asian Games

Ayumi Kaihori is a former Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Arata Fujiwara]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Competitors in athletics, 2012 Summer Olympics

Arata Fujiwara is a Japanese athlete.  He is best known as a marathon runner.

At the 2009 World Championships in Athletics at Berlin, Fujiwara finished 61st in the men's marathon.

He finished second in the 2012 Tokyo Marathon.

He was a member of the Japanese team in the 2012 Summer Olympics at London.

[[Ricochet]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 action movies, 1991 crime movies, 1991 thriller movies, 1990s action thriller movies, 1990s crime thriller movies, American action thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies about abduction, Movies about drugs, Movies about prostitution, Movies set in Los Angeles, California

Ricochet is a 1991 American action crime thriller movie. It stars Denzel Washington. John Lithgow and Ice-T. The movie is about a psychotic ex-convict named Blake who has been creating chaos and looking for revenge. This movie was released in the United States on October 4, 1991.

[[Galaxy cluster]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxy clusters

Galaxy clusters are large collections of galaxies. They consist of hundreds of galaxies and galaxy groups, bound together by gravity. Galaxy clusters are much larger than galaxy groups, like our Local Group. 

Clusters of galaxies should not be confused with either star clusters, which are inside galaxies, or with globular clusters, which usually orbit galaxies.

Notable galaxy clusters in the relatively nearby universe include the Virgo Cluster (which includes our Local Group), Fornax Cluster, Hercules Cluster, and the Coma Cluster. 

Still larger than galaxy clusters are superclusters. A very large aggregation of galaxies known as the Great Attractor, dominated by the Norma Cluster, is massive enough to affect the local expansion of the universe (Hubble's law).

Notable galaxy clusters in the distant, high-redshift universe include SPT-CL J0546-5345, the most massive galaxy cluster ever found in the early universe.

[[Norman Alden]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from Fort Worth, Texas, American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American voice actors

Norman Alden (born Norman Adelberg; September 13, 1924 – July 27, 2012) was an American character actor. He performed in television programs and movies. He first appeared on television on The 20th Century Fox Hour in 1957. He provided the voice of Kay in The Sword in the Stone (1963), and had a notable role in I Never Promised You a Rose Garden. His acting career began in 1957 and lasted nearly 50 years. He also played the role of Kranix and Arblus in the 1986 animated Transformers movie. He retired from acting in 2006. 

Alden was born on September 13, 1924 in Fort Worth, Texas and died at the age of 87 on July 27, 2012 from natural causes in Los Angeles. He is survived by his two children from his first marriage, one grandson, and his partner of  over 25 years, Linda Gilbert Thieben.

[[Dwarf galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Dwarf galaxies

A dwarf galaxy is a small galaxy composed of up to several billion stars. This is a small number compared to our own Milky Way's 200–400 billion stars. The Large Magellanic Cloud, containing over 30 billion stars, is sometimes classified as a dwarf galaxy and sometimes as a full-fledged galaxy orbiting the Milky Way galaxy.

[[Solar flare]]

CATEGORIES: Solar System

A solar flare or solar limb is a sudden brightening observed over the Sun's surface. It is a large energy release of up to 6 × 1025 joules of energy. The energy is about a sixth of the total energy that is released from the Sun each second equal to 160,000,000,000 megatons of TNT. It can also be compared with the impact of Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 with Jupiter. The release is then followed by a colossal coronal mass ejection also known as a CME. The first flare releases clouds of electrons, ions, and atoms through the corona of the Sun into space. These clouds usually reach planet Earth a day or two after this has happened. A solar flare is sometimes referred to another phenomena in other stars, such as stellar flare.

Solar flares affect all layers of the solar atmosphere such as the photosphere, chromosphere, and corona. Solar flares produce radiation across the electromagnetic spectrum at all wavelengths from radio waves to gamma rays. Most of the energy goes to frequencies outside it's range and because of this most of the flares cannot be seen by the naked eye. Solar flares are observed (looked at) with special instruments. Solar flares occur in active regions around sunspots. Solar flares are powered by the sudden release of magnetic energy that is stored in the corona. The same energy releases may produce coronal mass ejections (CME), although the relation between CMEs and flares is still not known.

X-rays and UV radiation that is released by solar flares can affect Earth's ionosphere. Because of this, radio communications, radars and other devices may be disrupted for a short time. Richard Christopher Carrington was the first person to observe a solar flare in 1859. Carrington had spotted brightening's of small areas within a sunspot group. Stellar flares have also been observed on several of other stars. Solar flares can be "active" from several flares a day or "quiet" from several flares every week. Solar flares occurs during the 11-year cycle (the solar cycle). There are less "large flares" than smaller ones.

[[Messier 87]]

CATEGORIES: Elliptical galaxies

Messier 87 (also known as M87, Virgo A or NGC 4486) is a supergiant elliptical galaxy. It was discovered in 1781 by the French astronomer Charles Messier, who catalogued it as a nebulous feature. The second brightest galaxy within the northern Virgo Cluster, it is about 16.4 million parsecs (53.5 million light-years) from Earth.

Unlike a disk-shaped spiral galaxy, Messier 87 has no distinctive dust lanes. It has an almost featureless, ellipsoidal shape. Luminosity diminishes  with distance from the centre. At the core of this unusually large galaxy is an unusually large supermassive black hole. This is a strong source of radiation at many wavelengths, particularly radio waves. This black hole is the first and, to date, the only one for which astronomers have been able to make a direct image. A radio image taken by the Event Horizon Telescope in 2017 was published on 10 April 2019. The image shows the shadow of the black hole, surrounded by an emission ring with a diameter of 3.36e-3.

A jet of energetic plasma known as a blazar is thrown out by the black hole at near the speed of light. It goes outward at least 1,500. In pictures taken by the Hubble Space Telescope in 1999, the motion of Messier 87's jet was measured at four to six times the speed of light. This motion is probably an optical illusion caused by the relativistic velocity of the jet.

[[Eric Braeden]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, American movie actors, German movie actors, American television actors, German television actors, American voice actors, German voice actors, American stage actors, German stage actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Eric Braeden (born Hans-Jörg Gudegast; April 3, 1941) is a German-American movie and television actor, best known for his role as Victor Newman on the soap opera The Young and the Restless, as Hans Dietrich in the 1960s TV series The Rat Patrol, and as John Jacob Astor IV in the 1997 film Titanic. Braeden won a Daytime Emmy Award in 1998 for Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series for the role of Victor Newman.

[[Jerry Stiller]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, Deaths from natural causes in the United States, Jewish American actors, Jewish American comedians, Seinfeld

Gerald Isaac "Jerry" Stiller (June 8, 1927 – May 11, 2020) was an American comedian and actor. He spent many years in the comedy team Stiller and Meara with his wife Anne Meara. Stiller and Meara are the parents of Ben Stiller (with whom he co-starred in the movies Zoolander, Heavyweights, Hot Pursuit, and The Heartbreak Kid) and Amy Stiller. He is best known for his recurring role as Frank Costanza in Seinfeld and his supporting role as Arthur Spooner in The King of Queens.

[[Anne Meara]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, Converts to Judaism, Jewish American actors, Jewish American comedians

Anne Meara (born September 20, 1929 – May 23, 2015) was an American actress and comedian. She and Jerry Stiller were a 1960s comedy team, appearing as Stiller and Meara, and are the parents of actor/comedian Ben Stiller and actress Amy Stiller.

[[Deniece Williams]]

CATEGORIES: People from Gary, Indiana, Singers from Illinois, Grammy Award winners, American singer-songwriters, 1950 births, Living people

Deniece Williams (born June 3, 1950 in Gary, Indiana) is an American Grammy Award winning musician and singer-songwriter. She has had many hit records. She is best known for the 1980s song Let's Hear it for the Boy. The single that came out in 1984.

[[Amy Stiller]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, Jewish American actors, Jewish American comedians, Comedians from New York City

Amy Stiller (born August 9, 1961) is an American actor, stand-up comedian and Bikram Yoga instructor. 

[[Bert Sugar]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, American historians, Writers from Washington, D.C.

Bert Randolph Sugar (June 7, 1937 – March 25, 2012) was a boxing writer and sports historian.

[[Ken Mattingly]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Admirals, Apollo astronauts, Military people from Chicago

Thomas Kenneth "Ken" Mattingly II (born March 17, 1936) is a former NASA astronaut and a Rear Admiral in the United States Navy. He was one of the Apollo program astronauts, acting as support crew for Apollo 8 and Apollo 11. He also was the astronaut who helped with the development of the Apollo spacesuit and backpack. Mattingly should have been on Apollo 13, but he was removed from the crew a few days before the launch because he had been in contact with German measles. He was the Apollo Command Module pilot for Apollo 16 (April 16-27, 1972), which meant he stayed in orbit around the Moon while John Young and Charles Duke landed on the surface. During this time he performed 26 scientific experiments. He spent 3 days, 9 hours and 28 minutes by himself, the longest solo US space flight.77 On the return from the Moon, Mattingly completed a 1 hour, 13 minute, spacewalk.

After the Apollo missions, Mattingly become a Space Shuttle astronaut and flew two missions. The first was STS-4, from June 26 to July 4, 1982. This was the fourth and final orbital test flight for the Space Shuttle Columbia and Mattingly was the mission commander. STS-4 did 112 orbits of the Earth. His second mission was STS-51C in January 1985 in the Space Shuttle Discovery. Mattingly was again the mission commander for this short trip which launched equipment for the Department of Defense.

Mattingly was born in Chicago, Illinois. Educated in Florida, he completed a degree in aeronautical engineering at Auburn University. He joined the navy in 1958 and trained as a pilot. In 1966 he was chosen for the Apollo program. He spent 504 hours in space, and retired from NASA in 1985.

[[Katarina Witt]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, 1984 Winter Olympics, 1988 Winter Olympics, 1994 Winter Olympics, East German sportspeople, Figure skaters, German autobiographers, German Olympic gold medalists, German sportspeople, Sportspeople from Berlin, Sportswomen

Katarina Witt (born 3 December 1965) is a retired German figure skater. She won gold medals at the 1984 and 1988 Winter Olympics and competed in the 1994 Winter Olympics. She also won four World Championships and six European Championships. In 1995, Witt became a member of the World Figure Skating Hall of Fame.

Witt was born in East Germany and began skating at the age of five. She went to a special school for athletic children, where she met her coach, Jutta Muller. Witt won the European Championships for the first time in 1983. She won the gold medal in the 1984 Winter Olympics, and also won the World Championships later that year. At the 1988 Winter Olympics, Witt and her rival, Debi Thomas, both performed to Bizet's music from the opera Carmen. Their competition for first place was called the "Battle of the Carmens." Witt won gold, and her artistic performance became famous. Witt competed in the 1994 Winter Olympics and finished seventh. Afterwards, she retired from competition.

[[Tony Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from San Francisco, American movie actors, Singers from California

Tony Martin (born Alvin Morris, December 25, 1913 – July 27, 2012) was an American actor and singer who was married to performer Cyd Charisse for 60 years.

[[Zack Snyder]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, Actors from Wisconsin, Writers from Wisconsin, Businesspeople from Wisconsin, Saturn Award winners, People from Green Bay, Wisconsin

Zachary Edward "Zack" Snyder (born March 1, 1966) is an American actor, director, screenwriter, and producer, best known for action/science fiction movies.

[[Janine Turner]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Nebraska, American movie actors, American television actors, 1962 births, Living people, People from Lincoln, Nebraska

Janine Turner (born Janine Loraine Gauntt; December 6, 1962) is an American movie and television actress. She starred in the television drama Northern Exposure (which started in 1990 and ended in 1995) and in the movies Steel Magnolias and Cliffhanger. She was born in Lincoln, Nebraska.

[[Deborah Snyder]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American movie producers

Deborah Snyder (née Johnson) is an American producer of movies and television commercials. She is married to moviemaker Zack Snyder. She has often worked with him on movies such as Watchmen and 300.  She is the co-founder of the production company Cruel and Unusual Films.

[[Diane Lane]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City

Diane Lane (born January 22, 1965) is an American movie actress.

Born and raised in New York City, New York. Lane made her career debut at the age of 13 in George Roy Hill's 1979 movie A Little Romance, starring opposite Sir Laurence Olivier. Soon after, she was featured on the cover of Time magazine. She has since appeared in several notable movie, including the 2002 movie Unfaithful, which earned her Academy Award, Golden Globes and Screen Actors Guild Award nominations. She appeared in Zack Snyder's movie Man of Steel.

She played Hillary Rodham Clinton in the 2013 NBC four-hour miniseries Hillary.

Lane has been married to actor Josh Brolin since 2004. She filed for divorced in February 2013. She was previously married to actor Christopher Lambert from 1988 to 1994.

[[Richard Lynch]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Irish movie actors, Irish television actors, Saturn Award winners

Richard Hugh Lynch (February 12, 1940 – June 19, 2012) was an Irish-American actor best known for playing villains in movies and television. He often appeared in science fiction productions, including Battlestar Galactica (as Wolfe) and its sequel series Galactica 1980 (as Commander Xaviar). He also appeared in such shows as Starsky and Hutch, T. J. Hooker, The A-Team, Charmed and Star Trek: The Next Generation.

[[Jenna von Oy]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Connecticut, 1977 births, Living people

Jenna von Oÿ (born May 2, 1977) is an American country music singer-songwriter and actress. She is best known for her acting in the sitcom Blossom. She has acted in other television series as well as in movies. Von Oÿ  was born in Danbury, Connecticut.

[[Barry Lynch]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Year of birth missing (living people)

Barry J. Lynch (born Brooklyn, New York) is an American actor. His older brother, Richard Lynch, was also an actor who appeared in Star Trek: The Next Generation.

[[Allison Janney]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Satellite Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Actors from Ohio, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Emmy Award winning actors, 1959 births, Living people

Allison Brooks Janney (born November 19, 1959) is an Emmy Award American movie, television and voice actress.  She is best known for her roles in the television drama The West Wing for which she received several Emmy Awards. She starred in the 1999 Oscar winning movies American Beauty and Juno as well as many other movies.

In 2017, Janney starred as LaVona Fay Golden in the black comedy I, Tonya. She won an Academy Award, BAFTA Award, Screen Actors Guild Award, Satellite Award and a Golden Globe Award for her role as Golden in 2018.

[[Robert Culp]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2010 deaths, Actors from Oakland, California, American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, American screenwriters, American movie directors, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Robert Martin Culp (August 16, 1930 – March 24, 2010) was an American actor, scriptwriter, voice actor and director.

[[Lee Wallace]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Actors from New York City, 2020 deaths

Lee Wallace (born Leo Melis, July 15, 1930 – December 20, 2020) was an American movie, stage, radio and television actor. Wallace only had movie roles in; Used People (1992), Batman (1989) as Gotham City's mayor William Borg, Private Benjamin (1980) as Mr. Waxman, and as the Mayor of New York City in The Taking of Pelham One Two Three (1974), The Muppets Take Manhattan as the Mayor of New York City. On Broadway, he appeared in A Teaspoon Every Four Hours, Unlikely Heroes, The Secret Affairs of Mildred Wild, Molly, Zalmen or The Madness of God, Some of My Best Friends, Grind and The Cemetery Club. 

Wallace was born in Brooklyn, New York on July 15, 1930 to Celia (née Gross) and Eddie Melis. Wallace died on December 20, 2020 at his New York City home after a long-illness, aged 90.

[[IC 1101]]

CATEGORIES: Elliptical galaxies

IC 1101 is the largest known galaxy. It is a supergiant elliptical galaxy  at the center of the Abell 2029 galaxy cluster. It, along with its cluster is 1.07 billion light years away in the constellation of Virgo. 

[[Vostok 2]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet spacecraft

Vostok 2 (yes, Orient 2 or East 2) was a Soviet space mission. It carried cosmonaut Gherman Titov into orbit for a full day to study the effects of a long period of weightlessness on the human body.  Titov orbited the earth over 17 times. Yuri Gagarin in Vostok 1 had only done one orbit.

The flight was an almost complete success. Problems included not turning on a heater which meant the temperature dropped to 50,113 a period of space sickness, and problems on re-entry when the reentry module failed to separate cleanly from its service module.

Titov took manual control of the spacecraft for a short while. The Soviets admitted that Titov did not land with his spacecraft. Titov said he ejected from his capsule to test another landing system. It is now known that all Vostok program landings were done this way.

The re-entry capsule was destroyed during development of the Voskhod spacecraft.117

As of 2012, Titov is the youngest person to reach space. He was 25 years old at launch.

[[Thérèse of Lisieux]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1897 deaths, Christian saints, French Roman Catholics

Saint Thérèse of Lisieux (1873 - 1897) (aka. St Therese of the Child Jesus/ Sainte Thérèse de Lisieux) is  Doctor of the Catholic church, which means that her life and writings are considered particularly important for Catholics. She is also called the Little Flower of Jesus. She lived in France as a nun, and died at 24 from tuberculosis. Mother Teresa chose her name in honor of her.

[[Delphinus]]

CATEGORIES: Cetaceans

Delphinus is a genus of dolphin, commonly known as the "Common Dolphin". There are two species in this genus, the Short-beaked Common Dolphin (Delphinus delphis), and the Long-beaked Common Dolphin (Delphinus capensis). But some studies say that there is a third species, the "Arabian Common Dolphin" (Delphinus tropicalis), which has a long, thin beak and is found in the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea.

[[Elizabeth Berkley]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Michigan, American movie actors, 1972 births, Living people

Elizabeth Berkley (July 28, 1972, in Farmington Hills, Michigan) is an American movie and television actress. She is best known for her role in Saved by the Bell. She also acted in the 1995 erotic drama Showgirls. Most of her movies are independent movies.

[[Cartwheel galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Lenticular galaxies, Starburst galaxies, Ring galaxies

The Cartwheel galaxy (also known as ESO 350-40) is a lenticular galaxy about 500 million light-years away in the constellation Sculptor.

It is about 150,000 light years across, slightly larger than the Milky Way. It has a mass of about 2.9–4.8 × 109 solar masses, and rotates at 217 km/s.

It was discovered by Fritz Zwicky in 1941. Zwicky said his discovery was "one of the most complicated structures awaiting its explanation on the basis of stellar dynamics".

The Cartwheel galaxy shows radio and optical spokes, but they are not the same spokes.

[[Messier 49]]

CATEGORIES: Elliptical galaxies

Messier 49 (also known as NGC 4472) is an elliptical galaxy about 49 million light-years away in the constellation of Virgo. This galaxy was discovered by French astronomer Charles Messier in 1771. Messier 49 is 4.1° west-southwest of the star Epsilon Virginis.

Messier 49 was the first member of the Virgo Cluster of galaxies to be discovered. It is the most luminous member of that cluster and is brighter than any galaxy closer to the Earth. This galaxy is part of the smaller Virgo B subcluster 4.5° away from the dynamic center of the Virgo Cluster, which is centered on Messier 87. Messier 49 is gravitationally interacting with the dwarf irregular galaxy UGC 7636. 

Messier 49 has the radio emission of a normal galaxy. However, the core of the galaxy is emitting X-rays, which suggests the presence of a supermassive black hole of 5.65 × 108 solar masses, or 565 million times the mass of the Sun. To the southwest of the core, the luminous outline of the galaxy can be traced out to a distance of 260 thousand parsecs. The only supernova event observed within this galaxy is SN 1969Q, discovered in June 1969.

This galaxy has a large collection of globular clusters, estimated at about 5,900. However, this count is far exceeded by the 13,450 globular clusters orbiting the supergiant elliptical galaxy Messier 87. On average, the globular clusters of M 49 are about 10 billion years old. Between 2000–2009, strong evidence for a stellar mass black hole was discovered in an M 49 cluster. A second candidate was announced in 2011.

[[National Astronomical Observatory of Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Japan, Observatories, 1988 establishments in Japan

National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, also known as NAOJ, is a Japanese astronomy research organization.  NAOJ has several facilities in Japan; and it has an observatory on Mauna Kea in Hawaii.

[[Short-beaked common dolphin]]

CATEGORIES: Cetaceans

The short-beaked common dolphin (Delphinus delphis) is one of the two species of the genus, Delphinus. It is found in warm temperate and tropical waters of the Atlantic and Pacific Ocean. It is also found in the Caribbean and the Mediterranean Sea.

[[Cheryl Tiegs]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, Actors from Minnesota, Models from Minnesota, 1947 births, Living people

Cheryl Rae Tiegs (born September 25 1947 in Breckenridge, Minnesota) is an American fashion model and actress. She is best known for her modeling for the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue. Tiegs has been on the cover of the SI Swimsuit Issue three times. She has also been on the covers of many other magazines. These include Vogue, Glamour, Harper's and Time. Tiegs performed as herself in the sitcom Just Shoot Me.

From 1970 to 1979, she was married to movie director Stan Dragoti.

[[Patrika Darbo]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Actors from Jacksonville, Florida, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors

Patrika Darbo (born April 6, 1948 in Jacksonville, Florida) is an American movie and television actress. She played Nancy Wesley in the television soap opera Days of Our Lives. She also acted in independent movies.

[[Messier 84]]

CATEGORIES: Lenticular galaxies

Messier 84 (also known as NGC 4374) is a lenticular galaxy in the constellation of Virgo.  M84 is in the heavily populated inner core of the Virgo Cluster of galaxies.

Radio observations and Hubble Space Telescope images of M84 have revealed two jets of matter shooting out from the galaxy's centre, as well as a disk of rapidly rotating gas and stars. This suggests there is  a supermassive black hole at the centre of the galaxy. Its mass is  1.5 9 M☉, that is gravitation amounting to 15 billion solar masses.

[[Ricardo Montalbán]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2009 deaths, Actors from Mexico City, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from heart failure, Emmy Award winning actors, Mexican movie actors, Mexican radio actors, Mexican stage actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors

Ricardo Montalbán (Ricardo Gonzalo Pedro Montalbán y Merino, KSG November 25, 1920 – January 14, 2009) was a Mexican radio, television, theatre and movie actor. He had a career seven decades long (motion pictures from 1943 to 2006) and many notable roles. 

During the mid-1970s, Montalbán was the spokesman in tv automobile advertisements for the Chrysler Cordoba, in which he praised the "soft Corinthian leather" used for its interior. He also advertised the Chrysler New Yorker. 

From 1977 to 1984, he was famous as Mr. Roarke the main star in the television series Fantasy Island. He played Khan Noonien Singh in the 1967 episode "Space Seed" of the first season of the original Star Trek series, and the 1982 film Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan. 

He won an Emmy Award in 1978 for his role in the miniseries How the West Was Won and a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Screen Actors Guild in 1993. Into his 80s, he continued to perform, often providing voices for animated films and commercials, and appearing in several Spy Kids films as "Grandfather Valentin". 

Montalbán was born in Mexico City, Mexico on November 25, 1920. He grew up in the city of Torreón, the son of Spanish immigrants Ricarda Merino and Jenaro Montalbán, a store manager. He was married to Georgiana Belzer from 1944 until her death in 2007. They had four children.

Montalbán died from heart failure in his Los Angeles, California home on January 14, 2009, aged 88. 

[[Subaru Telescope]]

CATEGORIES: Telescopes, 1999 establishments in Japan

Subaru Telescope is the large telescope of the National Astronomical Observatory of Japan at the Mauna Kea Observatory on the island of Hawaii. From 1999 to 2005, its main mirror was the largest in the world.

The telescope is named after the Pleiades star cluster. 

[[Kepler-22b]]

CATEGORIES: Exoplanets

Kepler-22b is an extrasolar planet orbiting (going around) G-type star Kepler-22. It is located about 600 light years away from Earth in the constellation Cygnus. It was found by NASA's Kepler Space Telescope. It is also the first known planet to orbit within the habitable zone of a Sun-like star.

Kepler-22b's first transit in front of its host sun was observed on Kepler's third day of scientific operations in mid-2009. Kepler-22b's third transit was detected in late 2010. The Spitzer Space Telescope provided more data that confirmed Kepler-22b's transits. On December 5, 2011, the confirmation of the existence of Kepler-22b was announced. 

[[Western scrub jay]]

CATEGORIES: Corvids

A Western scrub jay (Aphelocoma californica) is a type of jay bird in Western North America. They live in forests and look for food on the ground. They eat acorns, hairy caterpillars, beetles, wasps, corn, nuts, fruit, lizards, and other things.

[[Jill Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, Cancer deaths in California, Deaths from breast cancer, English movie actors, 1936 births, 1990 deaths

Jill Dorothy Ireland (April 24, 1936 - May 18, 1990) was an English actress. She was born in London. She was in many movies. She also did some television performances. She was married to the actor Charles Bronson. Ireland died in Malibu, California due to breast cancer.

[[Cynthia Nixon]]

CATEGORIES: US Democratic Party politicians, Actors from New York City, Politicians from New York City, LGBT people from New York City, Bisexual people, American political activists, American progressives, American movie actors, American television actors, 1966 births, Living people

Cynthia Ellen Nixon (born April 9, 1966) is an American actress, activist and politician. She is most well known role comes from playing Miranda Hobbes in the HBO series Sex and the City (1998-2004). She has had other movie and TV starring acts as well. In 2016, she played Nancy Reagan in the television movie Killing Reagan. 

On March 19, 2018, she announced via Twitter that she was running for Governor of New York.

[[Vostok (rocket)]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet spacecraft

The Vostok rocket was developed by the Soviet Union to as their main launch vehicle for space flights. It was based on the R-7, an ICBM designed by Sergei Korolev and first launched in 1957. An R-7 rocket was used to carry Sputnik 1 into space on October 4, 1957. It was a single rocket with 4 booster engines attached to the sides, which acted like a multi stage rocket. The Vostok was an R-7 with an extra upper stage rocket, called Blok-E. This upper stage would fire as the lower stages ran out of fuel (a mix of kerosene and liquid oxygen. 

The Vostok was the first rocket with enough power to reach a solar orbit, with Lunar 1, launched on January 2, 1959. Luna 2 was the first rocket to reach the Moon, launched September 14, 1959. Luna 3, launched October 4, 1959, was able to take photographs of the far side of the Moon.

A Vostok rocket carried the Vostok 1 spacecraft, carrying Yuri Gagarin, the first person to go into space on April 12, 1961. Vostok 6 carried Valentina Tereshkova, the first woman in space on June 16, 1963.

[[Robin Wright]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Actors from Dallas, Texas, American movie actors, American television actors

Robin Gayle Wright (born April 8, 1966 in Dallas, Texas) is an American actress. Her roles include starring as Jenny in the Academy Award winning movie Forrest Gump. She played in many other movies and television series. Wright was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award for her acting in the soap opera Santa Barbara.

Wright was married to actor Sean Penn from 1998 until 2010. They have 2 children.

[[Australian Aboriginal astronomy]]

CATEGORIES: Australian mythology, Indigenous Australian culture, Astronomy

Australian Aborigines were some of the first people in the world to develop ideas with astronomy. It is possible that their interpretation of astronomy is the oldest still alive today. Studying astronomical subjects – such as the Sun, Moon, stars and planets – and the way they appeared to move was used as a way to find and explain the relationship between people, nature and the sky. The ideas that came from this contributed to their basic perception of the universe (their cosmology), and still form an important part of traditional culture and knowledge. Many legends, art forms, music and ceremonies originate from interpretations of astronomical phenomena and objects in the sky. Many Aboriginal groups give spiritual or mythological meanings to these things. Some groups used their knowledge of the movement of objects across the sky to develop practical tools like calendars.

Old Australian Aboriginal culture is an oral tradition, so knowledge of astronomy has been passed down through stories, song and dance. A lot of knowledge is kept secret, only passed to those who have been initiated. As in all aspects of Aboriginal society, some things are only known to men, other things are only known to women. The earliest written account of Aboriginal astronomy was published in 1857. It was written by Edward Stanbridge, an Englishman who became friends with the Boorong people of Victoria. 

Astronomy is a huge part of Aboriginal people's social, cultural and religious knowledge. It has little relation to the scientific theory of Western thinking. There are many different Aboriginal groups in Australia, and each interpret the sky in different ways. The interpretations all developed along the same lines and share the same basic themes, but can be very different in meaning. Most objects and phenomena are interpreted as figures or events in the Dreaming. Unlike in other ancient cultures, these legends and beliefs are still part of modern life for Australian Aborigines.

[[Elizabeth McGovern]]

CATEGORIES: People from Evanston, Illinois, American television actors, Actors from Illinois, 1961 births, Living people

Elizabeth McGovern (born July 18 1961 in Evanston, Illinois) is an American movie, television and stage actress. Her movies include Johnny Handsome (1989) and Once Upon a Time in America (1984). Most of her acting has been on stage or in television.

Ms. McGovern was also a member of the "Brat Pack", and unofficial group of young Hollywood actors who gained fame mainly in the 1980s.

[[Flag of Belize]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, Belize, 1981 establishments in Belize

The flag of Belize comes from the earlier flag of British Honduras.  British Honduras is the name of Belize during the time the British ruled. 

The flag is royal blue. It has a white disc at the centre with the national coat of arms held by a white and a black man. They are surrounded by fifty mahogany leaves. The flag is bordered at top and bottom by two red stripes.

The colours on the flag are for the country's national parties. The People's United Party (PUP) uses the color blue.  The United Democratic Party (Belize) (UDP) uses red. 

[[Coat of arms of Belize]]

CATEGORIES: Belize, National coats of arms, 1981 establishments in Belize

The Coat of Arms of Belize began to be used when Belize became independent.  The current coat of arms is only slightly different from that used when Belize was a British colony.

The border is a circle of twenty-five leaves. Inside the circle is a mahogany tree. There are the tools of a woodcutter and a ship.  These show the importance of mahogany in the 18th and 19th century Belizean economy.  

The shield is supported by two wood-cutters of different races.  The one on the left is holding an axe. The one on the right is holding an oar.  Again this shows the importance of the mahogany and its importance to boat building.  

At the bottom is the national motto: SUB UMBRA FLOREO.  This means "Under the Shade I Flourish".

The Flag of Belize has the coat of arms in its centre.

[[Land of the Free]]

CATEGORIES: National anthems, Belize, 1981 establishments in Belize

Land of the Free is the national anthem of Belize. Samuel Alfred Haynes wrote the words.  Selwyn Walford Young wrote the music. They did this in 1963. It became official in 1981.

[[Hondo River (Belize)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Belize, Rivers of Guatemala, Rivers of Mexico

The Rio Hondo is a river of Central America.  It is about 150 km (93.2 mi) in length.  It flows in a northeasterly direction and ends in the Chetumal Bay on the Caribbean Sea. Most of border of Mexico and Belize runs along its length.

Many archaeological sites of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization are near the river's course.

The river is mentioned in a stanza of Belize's national anthem, Land of the Free:

[[Rio Hondo]]

Río Hondo (Spanish for "deep river") or Hondo River may be:

[[Mopan people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in North America, Maya civilization, Belize, Guatemala

Mopan are one of the Maya peoples in Belize and Guatemala. Their language is also called Mopan.  It is one of the Yucatec Maya languages. 

The British forced the Mopan out of British Honduras and into Guatemala. The Mopan in Guatemala were made into slaves. In the 19th century, many Guatemalan Mopan came back into British Honduras.

In the 2000 Census, 6,093 Belizeans said Mopan was their first language.  This was 3% the population.

[[Q'eqchi' people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in North America, Maya civilization, Belize, Guatemala

Q'eqchi' (K'ekchi', or simply Kekchi) are one of the Maya peoples in Guatemala and Belize.  Their language is also called Q'eqchi'.

Before the Spanish came in the 1520s, Q'eqchi' were mostly in what are now the departments of Alta Verapaz and Baja Verapaz in Guatemala. With the activity the Q'eqchi' moved into other regions of Guatemala, southern Belize, and smaller numbers in El Salvador, Honduras and southern Mexico.

[[Ambergris Caye]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic islands, Islands of Central America, Geography of Belize

Ambergris Caye is the largest island of Belize.  It is in the northeast of the country in the Caribbean Sea.  It is administered as part of the Belize District. The closest point on the mainland is part of the Corozal District. Caye is pronounced as "key". It means an island.  

The Caye is about 40 long from north to south, and about 1.6 wide. It was named after large lumps of ambergris which washed ashore here.

The Belizean island is mostly a ring of white sand beach around mangrove swamp in the centre.

A Maya community lived on the island in Pre-Columbian times.  They made polished red ceramics. 

San Pedro Town is the largest settlement and only town on Ambergris. There are a number of small villages and resorts. 

The main attractions are the Belize Barrier Reef and its beaches. The barrier reef is the second-largest in the world. Only the Great Barrier Reef of Australia is bigger. 

[[Izabal Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Guatemala

Izabal is one of the 22 departments of Guatemala. Its coastal areas are part of the homeland of the Garifuna people.

[[List of SpongeBob SquarePants episodes]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants episodes, Lists of animated television series episodes

SpongeBob SquarePants is an animated television series broadcast on Nickelodeon, an American cable network. The series started showing on May 1, 1999. It is in its thirteenth season.

[[Sarstoon River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Belize, Rivers of Guatemala

Sarstoon River is a river in the Toledo District of Belize. It makes the country's southern border with Guatemala.

The river's sources are in Guatemala. There it is called by its Spanish name, Río Sarstún. It flows through the Guatemalan departments of Alta Verapaz and Izabal.  Then it goes into Belize and through Toledo to the Caribbean Sea.

[[Channing Tatum]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Alabama, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American dancers, American movie producers, 1980 births, Living people

Channing Matthew Tatum (born on April 26, 1980 in Cullman, Alabama) is an American movie producer and actor. He is a main actor in the movies Coach Carter, Dear John, 21 Jump Street, its sequel 22 Jump Street, White House Down, The Lego Movie, Foxcatcher, The Hateful Eight, and in Hail, Caesar!. 

In 2006, Tatum met actress Jenna Dewan. They became engaged in 2008. They married on July 11, 2009. Their daughter was born in 2013.

[[Michael Hutchence]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 1997 deaths, Actors from Sydney, Australian movie actors, Australian rock singers, Australian singer-songwriters, Musicians from Sydney, Musicians who committed suicide, Suicide in the 1990s, Suicides by hanging, Suicides by asphyxiation, Suicides in Australia

Michael Kelland John Hutchence (22 January 1960 - 22 November 1997) was an Australian recording artist and actor. He was best known as being one of the founding members and lead singer of the rock band INXS. 

Hutchence was also the lead singer for the band Max Q and acted in the movies Frankenstein Unbound and Dogs in Space. 

In 1992, Hutchence was punched by a taxi driver in Copenhagen, knocking him to the ground. This caused Hutchence brain damage and depression. 

In July 1996, Paula Yates gave birth to their daughter.

Hutchence was found dead by a hotel maid in his hotel room at the Ritz-Carlton hotel in Double Bay, Sydney on 22 November 1997. He committed suicide by hanging himself with his snake skin belt. Hutchence had been a drug user and was using drugs just before his death.

[[Michael Bolton]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Singers from Connecticut, American rock singers, American guitarists, Grammy Award winners, Writers from New Haven, Connecticut, Musicians from New Haven, Connecticut

Michael Bolotin (born February 26, 1953), better known as Michael Bolton, is an American singer, guitarist and songwriter. He has eight Top 10 records and received Grammy Awards as well as the American Music Awards. He began singing in hard rock, though he later went to the soft rock styles starting in the late 1980s and has stayed there since. He was born in New Haven, Connecticut

[[Melanie Mayron]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Pennsylvania, American television actors, 1952 births, Living people

Melanie Joy Mayron (born October 20, 1952 near Philadelphia) is a movie actress and director who was featured in many television programs in the 1980s and 1990s. She also directed them, and directed many movies.

[[Audrina Patridge]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American television actors, Television personalities from California, 1985 births, Living people

Audrina Patridge (born 9 May 1985) is an American television personality and actress.  She acted in several motion pictures. She is especially notable for being among the four original members of the MTV reality show The Hills.

[[Seasons, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Listed buildings, Babergh

[[Hathaway Cottage]]

CATEGORIES: Babergh

[[The Flushing]]

CATEGORIES: Listed buildings, Babergh

[[Quicks Farmhouse]]

CATEGORIES: Listed buildings, Babergh

[[Round Maple Mild]]

CATEGORIES: Babergh, Alcoholic drink

[[The Waltons]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s American television series, Fictional families, English-language television programs

The Waltons (September 14 1972-June 4 1981) was an American television show. It was about a family in rural Virginia between the Great Depression and 1946. The series was distributed by Lorimar and syndicated via Warner Bros. Domestic Television Distribution. Six television movies followed this: three in 1982, and another three in the 1990s. The series lasted almost nine years.

[[John Playfair]]

CATEGORIES: 1748 births, 1819 deaths, British mathematicians, Fellows of the Royal Society, Scottish scientists

John Playfair FRSE, FRS (10 March 1748 – 20 July 1819) was a Scottish scientist and mathematician, and a professor of natural philosophy at the University of Edinburgh. 

He is perhaps best known for his book Illustrations of the Huttonian Theory of the Earth (1802), which summarised the work of James Hutton. It was through this book that Hutton's principle of uniformitarianism first reached a wide audience. The idea was later taken up by Charles Lyell and Charles Darwin. Playfair is also remembered for his proposal of an alternative to Euclid's parallel postulate.

[[Ryan Tannehill]]

CATEGORIES: Miami Dolphins players, 1988 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Texas, People from Lubbock, Texas

Ryan Timothy Tannehill is an American quarterback who plays for the NFL's Miami Dolphins.

[[Orivesi]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Finland, Towns in Finland, 1865 establishments in Europe, 1860s establishments in Finland

Orivesi is a town and municipality in Finland. It is in Pirkanmaa. The municipality was founded in 1865. It has been classed as a town since 1986.

Nearby municipalities include Juupajoki, Jämsä, Kangasala, Kuhmoinen, Ruovesi and Tampere.

There were more than 9,600 people in Orivesi (as of January, 2014). The name Orivesi means "stallion water".

[[Messier 100]]

CATEGORIES: Spiral galaxies, Starburst galaxies

Messier 100 (also known as NGC 4321) is an example of a so-called 'grand design' spiral galaxy. It is visible in the southern part of constellation Coma Berenices. Messier 100 is one of the brightest and largest galaxies in the Virgo cluster, about 55 million light-years away, with a diameter of 160,000 light years. It was discovered by Pierre Méchain in  1781. Later it was entered in Messier’s catalogue of nebulae and star clusters after Charles Messier made observations of his own a month later. The galaxy was one of the first spirals discovered, and was listed as one of 14 spiral nebulae by the Earl of Rosse in 1850.

The galaxy has two satellite galaxies, NGC 4323  connected with M100 by a bridge of luminous matter  and NGC 4328.

[[Akari (satellite)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites, 2006 in Asia, 2000s in Japan

Akari is a Japanese artificial satellite which was put into orbit in 2006.  

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science and the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA).

The satellite was launched on February 22, 2006.   

The primary mission of Akari was as a space observatory to survey the entire sky in near-, mid- and far-infrared  with its infrared telescope.

[[Walkie-talkie]]

CATEGORIES: Radio, Messaging, Telecommunications

A walkie-talkie is a hand held device, two way radio receiver/transmitter. It was developed in the second world war. 

Radio engineer Alfred J. Gross worked on the early technology behind the walkie-talkie between 1934 and 1941. During the war it was developed by Donald L. Hings and engineering teams at Motorola led by  Henryk Magnuski.

Typical walkie-talkies today are phone sized and have a push to talk button. Walkie-talkie are used for various reasons, in the military, for amateur radio, and for personal use.

[[Abell 2142]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxy clusters

Abell 2142 is a huge, X-ray luminous galaxy cluster in the constellation Corona Borealis. It is the result of an ongoing merger between two galaxy clusters. 

The combined cluster is six million light years across, contains hundreds of galaxies and enough gas to make a thousand more. It is "one of the most massive objects in the universe".

[[Screen printing]]

CATEGORIES: Printmaking, History of printing

Screen printing is a printing technique. It uses a woven mesh to support an ink-blocking stencil. The attached stencil has open areas of mesh that transfer ink or other printable materials. The ink or paint can be pressed through the mesh as a sharp image onto a material. 

A fill blade or squeegee is moved across the screen stencil, forcing ink through the mesh openings.

[[Julianne Hough]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Utah, American movie actors, Actors from Utah, Country musicians, 1988 births, Living people

Julianne Alexandra Hough (born July 20 1988) is an American dancer, country music singer, songwriter and actress. She is best known for being a two-time champion on the ABC series Dancing with the Stars. Her first album was released May 20, 2008. She acted in the 2011 remake of the movie Footloose.

Hough is the second of five children. She has three sisters and a brother. All of her grandparents were professional dancers.

[[Jake Kaminski]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, American archers, American Olympic silver medalists

Jake Kaminski (born August 11, 1988) is an American archer.  He is best known for competing in the Summer Olympic Games. 

[[Brady Ellison]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, American archers, American Olympic silver medalists, People from Glendale, Arizona

Brady Ellison (born October 27, 1988) is an American athlete.  He is an archer who competed in the Summer Olympic Games. 

[[Crystal Bowersox]]

CATEGORIES: American rock singers, American soul musicians, American country musicians, American blues musicians, American blues singers, American country singers, American gospel singers, American gospel musicians, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Ohio, American television actors, Actors from Ohio, People from Toledo, Ohio, 1985 births, Living people, American Idol contestants, American soul singers

Crystal Lynn Bowersox (Born August 4, 1985, in Elliston, Ohio) is an American singer-songwriter and actress. She was the runner-up in the ninth season of American Idol. Her debut album was Farmer's Daughter, released in 2010. She was diagnosed with diabetes when she was age 6 and has been hospitalized several times since.

[[Kyoko Yano]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Urawa Red Diamonds Ladies players, Footballers at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2003 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2003 AFC Women's Championship players, 2006 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games

Kyoko Yano is a former Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[David Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, American movie producers, American writers, American journalists, Movie producers from New York, Writers from New York City

David Brown (July 28, 1916 – February 1, 2010) was an American movie producer. Brown and business partner Richard D. Zanuck were one of the most successful producers in Hollywood in the 1960s and in the 1970s.

Brown was born in New York City, the son of Lillian (née Baren) and Edward Fisher Brown. He was best known as the producing partner of Richard D. Zanuck. They were jointly awarded the Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in 1990 for their achievements in producing. Among their films were Steven Spielberg's Jaws (1975), and other box office hits such as Cocoon (1985), Driving Miss Daisy (1989) and A Few Good Men (1992).

Brown had one son (Bruce, from an earlier marriage) who died before him, and a half brother (Edward Fisher Brown Jr.).

Brown authored Brown's Guide to the Good Life: Tears, Fears, and Boredom, which gives advice on life. He also wrote Let Me Entertain You, an anecdotal auto-biography.

Brown died at his home in Manhattan from renal failure on February 1, 2010, at the age of 93.

[[Helen Gurley Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2012 deaths, American editors, American feminists, Chief executives, Writers from Arkansas, Publishers

Helen Gurley Brown (February 18, 1922 – August 13, 2012) was an American author, publisher, and businesswoman. She was editor-in-chief of Cosmopolitan magazine for 32 years.

[[Muscadine]]

CATEGORIES: Vitaceae

Muscadine is a grapevine species.  It is in the southeastern United States.  They grow well in a warm and humid climate.

Muscadine berries are bronze to dark purple to black in color when ripe. However, many wild varieties stay green.  Their skin is very tough.  To eat the raw fruit a person bites a small hole in the skin to suck out the pulp inside. Muscadines are not only eaten fresh, but also are used in making wine, juice, and jelly.

[[Kathy Baker]]

CATEGORIES: People from Midland, Texas, Actors from Texas, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television actors, American movie actors, 1950 births, Living people

Katherine Whitton "Kathy" Baker (born June 8, 1950) is an American movie and television actress. She acted in the movies Edward Scissorhands, The Cider House Rules and Cold Mountain. She also acted in the TV series Picket Fences and Boston Public. She was born in Midland, Texas.

[[Bill Butler (cinematographer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, Living people, American cinematographers, People from Colorado

Wilmer C. “Bill” Butler, A.S.C. (born April 7, 1921) is an American cinematographer, part of the New Hollywood generation. He shot The Conversation (1974), Jaws (1975), and three Rocky sequels. He completed 1975's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest after Haskell Wexler was fired from the production.

[[Robert Shaw (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1978 deaths, Actors from Lancashire, Actors who played Bond villains, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English movie actors, English radio actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Writers from Lancashire

Robert Archibald Shaw (9 August 1927 – 28 August 1978) was an English actor and writer. Shaw is remembered for his roles in From Russia with Love (1963), A Man for All Seasons (1966), The Sting (1973), the original The Taking of Pelham One Two Three (1974), Black Sunday (1977), The Deep (1977) and Jaws (1975), where he played the shark hunter Quint. Robert Shaw was born in Westhoughton, near Bolton, Lancashire.

[[Asuna Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Tasaki Perule FC players, INAC Kobe Leonessa players, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players

Asuna Tanaka is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Jerry Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Texas, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Models from Texas, 1956 births, Living people

Jerry Faye Hall (born July 2, 1956 in Gonzales, Texas) is an American actress and model. She appeared in several movies., the most notable being Batman (1989). 

In November 1990, she married Mick Jagger. They had four children. The couple divorced in 1999. Hall has appeared on many magazine covers during her fashion modeling career. In 2016, she married Rupert Murdoch.

[[Leonardo Cimino]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Disease-related deaths in the United States

Leonardo Cimino (November 4, 1917 – March 3, 2012) was an American movie, television and stage actor. In 1937, he appeared in the original stage production of Marc Blitzstein's The Cradle Will Rock. Leonardo's most well known roles are in the 1983 science fiction miniseries, V as Abraham Bernstein and the 1987 feature film The Monster Squad as the "scary German guy". Born in Manhattan, Cimino was the son of Andrea and Leonilda Cimino. Cimino was married to Sharon Powers until his death. Cimino died on March 3, 2012 of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease at his home in Woodstock, New York.

[[Warren Stevens]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American radio actors

Warren Albert Stevens (November 2, 1919 – March 27, 2012) was an American stage, movie, and television actor.

[[Murray Hamilton]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1986 deaths, Actors from North Carolina, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in North Carolina

Murray Hamilton (March 24, 1923 – September 1, 1986) was an American stage, screen, and television actor who appeared in such memorable films as The Hustler, The Graduate, and Jaws.

[[Peter Benchley]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2006 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary fibrosis, American novelists, American screenwriters, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Harvard University alumni, Writers from New Jersey, Writers from New York City

Peter Bradford Benchley (May 8, 1940 – February 12, 2006) was an American author, best known for his novel Jaws and its subsequent movie adaptation, the latter co-written by Benchley (with Carl Gottlieb) and directed by Steven Spielberg. Several more of his works were also adapted for cinema, including The Deep and The Island.

[[Lorraine Gary]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City

Lorraine Gary (born August 16, 1937) is a retired American actress, best known for her role as "Ellen Brody" in Jaws, Jaws 2, and Jaws: The Revenge. She also appeared in 1941 and Car Wash.

Gary was born as Lorraine Gottfried in Forest Hills, Queens, New York on August 16, 1937, to Betty and George Gottfried, an entertainment business manager.

She began her acting career in the late 1960s doing guest appearances on several popular TV shows. These include Night Gallery, The Virginian Dragnet 1967, McCloud, Kojak and The F.B.I. (TV series). She began her first major acting role when she was a guest star on seven episodes of the TV series Ironside, among them "Tom Dayton Is Loose Among Us", in which she played the substitute librarian Miss Kirk, who pushes the unstable Tom Dayton too hard, and "In Search of an Artist", as a woman with a drinking problem who may have been involved in a murder. January 2012

She has been married to entertainment industry executive Sid Sheinberg, with whom she had two children, since August 19, 1956. She retired for eight years after 1941 but then came out of her voluntary retirement to reprise Ellen Brody in Jaws: The Revenge.

[[Sid Sheinberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, American lawyers, American movie producers, American screenwriters, Businesspeople from Texas, Columbia University alumni, Jewish American writers, Jewish businesspeople, Jewish lawyers, People from Corpus Christi, Texas, Writers from Texas

Sidney Jay "Sid" Sheinberg (January 14, 1935 – March 7, 2019) was an American screenwriter, lawyer, and entertainment executive.

Sheinberg, the son of immigrants, a Ukrainian mother and a Polish father, is Jewish and grew up in Corpus Christi, Texas where he was born on January 14, 1935.

In June 1973, Sheinberg was elected President and Chief Operating Officer of MCA, Inc. At the time he was 38. During his presidency, Universal Pictures, a division of MCA, Inc., released the films that grossed more in each of the past three decades, starting with Jaws in 1975, following with E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial in 1982 and concluding with Jurassic Park in 1993.

Sid Sheinberg married actress Lorraine Gary in 1956. They had two sons: Bill and Jonathan Sheinberg, both of whom work as film producers. Sheinberg died on March 7, 2019 in Beverly Hills, aged 84.

[[Denholm Elliott]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1992 deaths, Actors from London, Bisexual people, Deaths from AIDS, Deaths from tuberculosis, English LGBT people, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Infectious disease deaths in Spain, LGBT actors

Denholm Mitchell Elliott, CBE (31 May 1922 – 6 October 1992) was an English film, television and theatre actor. He was in more than 120 movies and television programmes. In the 1981, he won the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role.

[[Ted Nugent]]

CATEGORIES: American rock singers, American rock guitarists, American singer-songwriters, Musicians from Detroit, Michigan, Musicians from Illinois, Singers from Detroit, Michigan, Singers from Illinois, 1948 births, Living people

Theodore Anthony "Ted" Nugent (born December 13, 1948) is an American musician, singer and songwriter. He was born in Detroit, Michigan. He moved to Palatine, Illinois during his teens. He has had many hit records while a part of different music groups. He has also had hits songs as a solo performer. His views are of a conservative nature. He has strong beliefs for gun rights.

[[Kim Chwa-chin]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1930 deaths, Anti-Communists, Terrorists, Korean politicians, Murder victims, Autobiographers

Kim Chwa-chin(hangul:김좌진, 金佐鎭, November 24 1889 - January 24 1930) was one of politician, reform activists and independent activists of Korea. nickname was Baikya (백야, 白冶) also Chinese style name was Myungyeo (명여, 明汝).

[[Royce D. Applegate]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2003 deaths, Deaths from fire, Actors from Oklahoma, American movie actors, American screenwriters, Writers from Oklahoma, American television actors

Royce D. Applegate (December 25, 1939 – January 1, 2003) was an American actor and screenwriter. Born in Oklahoma, his most visible role was that of Chief Petty Officer Manilow Crocker on the first season of the Steven Spielberg-produced television series seaQuest DSV.

In 1985, Applegate played tragic family man-turned-kidnapper Donald Brown, a bereaved father who abducts the character Sam in order to replace his own dead son, on the season premiere of Diff'rent Strokes last season when it moved from NBC to ABC.

Applegate portrayed Confederate General James L. Kemper in two Ronald F. Maxwell movies, Gettysburg (1993) and Gods and Generals (2003).

On New Year's Day 2003, Applegate died in his Hollywood Hills home in a fire just one week after his 63rd birthday.

[[James Newton Howard]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American composers, American songwriters, American movie score composers, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Arquette family

James Newton Howard (born June 9, 1951) is an American composer.  He is best known for his scores to movies. A score is the music that is heard during a movie. He has written the music for over 100 movies. He is now one of the most well-known composers for movies.

He has eight Academy Award nominations.  Some of Howard's best known movie scores include The Prince of Tides (1991), The Fugitive (1993), Dinosaur (2000), King Kong (2005), Batman Begins, I Am Legend (2007) The Dark Knight (2008).  Recent movies include Green Lantern (2011), The Hunger Games (2012), Snow White and the Huntsman (2012), and The Bourne Legacy (2012). 

Howard is also known for working with director M. Night Shyamalan.  He has scored all Shyamalan's movies since The Sixth Sense (1999).

From 1986 to 1987, Howard was married to actress Rosanna Arquette.

[[Dangriga]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Belize, 1700s establishments in North America, Establishments in Belize

Dangriga, formerly known as Stann Creek Town, is a town in southern Belize.  It is on the Caribbean coast at the mouth of Stann Creek. It is the capital of Belize's Stann Creek District and also the largest town in southern Belize. It is served by the Dangriga Airport.

Dangriga is a Garífuna word meaning "standing waters".

[[Alexander Haig]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths from staphylococcal infection, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Purple Heart recipients, United States Secretaries of State, 1988 United States presidential candidates, US Republican Party politicians, White House Chiefs of Staff, American Roman Catholics, Businesspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American diplomats, American generals, American military personnel of the Korean War, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Columbia University alumni, Members of the Cabinet of the United States, United States Department of State

Alexander Meigs Haig, Jr. (December 2, 1924 – February 20, 2010) was a United States Army general and diplomat.

He was the United States Secretary of State under President Ronald Reagan. He was also White House Chief of Staff under Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford. He also was Vice Chief of Staff of the Army. This is the second-highest ranking officer in the Army. He was in charge of all US and NATO forces in Europe.

Haig was a veteran of the Korean War and Vietnam War. He received the Distinguished Service Cross, the Silver Star with oak leaf cluster, and the Purple Heart.

On February 20, 2010, Haig died from complications from a staphylococcal infection, aged 85.

[[Kathryn Grayson]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2010 deaths, Actors from North Carolina, Actors from St. Louis, Missouri, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American opera singers, People from Winston-Salem, North Carolina

Kathryn Grayson (February 9, 1922 - February 17, 2010) was an American actress and operatic soprano singer.

Grayson trained as an opera singer starting at age 12. She was under contract to MGM by the early 1940s.  Most of her work was in musicals. She was the lead in movies such as Thousands Cheer (1943), Anchors Aweigh (1945) with Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly,Show Boat (1951) and Kiss Me Kate (1953) (both with Howard Keel).

Musicals stopped being popular.  She then worked in theatre.  She was in Camelot (1962–1964). Later in the decade she was in several operas, including La bohème, Madama Butterfly, Orpheus in the Underworld and La traviata.

Grayson died in her sleep at her home in Los Angeles, California on February 17, 2010, aged 88.

[[Kurt Kasznar]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1979 deaths, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Deaths from cancer, Actors from Vienna

Kurt Kasznar (born Kurt Servischer; August 12, 1913 – August 6, 1979) was a stage, movie and television actor.  His movies include: Waiting for Godot, The Sound of Music and Barefoot in the Park. 

Kasznar was born in Vienna, Austria-Hungary. He married American heiress Cornelia Woolley.  This was after her 1939 divorce from her second husband. She died at home unexpectedly in June 1948, at age 48. At the time, Kasznar was performing in John Houseman's Broadway production of Joy to the World.

Kasznar met his second wife, actress Leora Dana, when they worked together in the Broadway production of The Happy Time (1950). That marriage ended in divorce.

Kasznar died August 6, 1979, in Santa Monica, California.  This was 10 months after being diagnosed with cancer. He had no known survivors.

[[Jeff Garlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, American movie actors, American voice actors, American television actors, Jewish American actors, Comedians from Chicago, Television personalities from Chicago, Actors from Chicago

Jeffrey "Jeff" Garlin (born June 5, 1962) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, producer, voice artist, director, writer and author.  He is best known for playing Jeff Greene on the HBO show Curb Your Enthusiasm. He is also a producer on the show.

Garlin was born in Chicago, Illinois.  He grew up in Morton Grove, Illinois. Garlin is Jewish.

[[Nipsey Russell]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, Comedians from Georgia (U.S. state), Actors from Atlanta, Georgia

Julius "Nipsey" Russell (September 15, 1918 – October 2, 2005) was an American comedian and movie actor. 

He is best known for being a guest panelist on TV game shows from the 1960s through the 1990s.  The game shows, where he appeared, include: Match Game, Password, Hollywood Squares, To Tell the Truth and Pyramid. He would tell short, humorous poems. Because of those poems, people like Bandstand leader Dick Clark, host Bill Cullen, actress Betty White, and others called him "the poet laureate of television." 

He also was in the movie The Wiz as the Tin Man. He was a guest many times on the long-running "Dean Martin Celebrity Roast" series.

He died on October 2, 2005 in New York City, U.S. He had stomach cancer. His ashes were scattered into the Atlantic Ocean.

[[Richard Roundtree]]

CATEGORIES: People from New Rochelle, New York, Actors from New York, Models from New York, Cancer survivors, American television actors, American voice actors, American movie actors, 1942 births, Living people

Richard Roundtree (born July 9, 1942) is an American movie actor and a former fashion model. He portrayed John Shaft in the 1971 movie Shaft and its related sequels. He was also in many other movies.

[[Gerald McRaney]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Cancer survivors, Republicans (United States), Actors from Mississippi

Gerald Lee "Mac" McRaney (born August 19, 1947) is an American television and movie actor. McRaney is best known as one of the stars of the television shows Simon & Simon, Major Dad, and Promised Land. He was a series regular for the first season of Jericho, and the final season of Deadwood.

[[Roberts Blossom]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from cerebrovascular disease, American movie actors, American poets, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from New Haven, Connecticut, Actors from Santa Monica, California

Roberts Scott Blossom (March 25, 1924 – July 8, 2011) was an American theater, movie and television actor and poet.  He is best known for being Old Man Marley in Home Alone and as Ezra Cobb in the horror movie Deranged. He is also remembered for his supporting roles in movies such as Close Encounters of the Third Kind and Escape from Alcatraz. 

Blossom died on July 8, 2011 at the age of 87 of cerebrovascular disease. He is survived by his wife Beverly Schmidt and his two children.

[[Dennis Weaver]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2006 deaths, Actors from Missouri, American activists, American movie actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, Cancer deaths in Colorado, Emmy Award winning actors, People from Joplin, Missouri, Presidents of the Screen Actors Guild

William 'Billy' Dennis Weaver (June 4, 1924 – February 24, 2006) was an American actor. He was best known for his work in television. His TV roles included Chester Goode on the long-running western series Gunsmoke, Marshal Sam McCloud on the NBC police drama McCloud. He was in the 1971 TV movie Duel. He has won an Emmy Award in 1959.

Weaver was born on June 4, 1924 in Joplin, Missouri. He studied at Joplin Junior College and at the University of Oklahoma. He was married to Gerry Stowell from 1945 until his death in 2006. They had three children. Weaver died of complications of cancer at his home in Ridgway, Colorado on February 24, 2006.

[[George Lindsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2012 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, People from Fairfield, Alabama, People from Jasper, Alabama, Writers from Alabama, Writers from Tennessee, Actors from Alabama, Actors from Tennessee

George Lindsey (December 17, 1928 – May 6, 2012) was an American actor.  He is best known as "Goober Pyle" on The Andy Griffith Show, Mayberry R.F.D. He also was on Hee-Haw.

[[Megumi Takase]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, INAC Kobe Leonessa players, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2014 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2014 Asian Games

Megumi Takase is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team. His brother Akira Takase is also footballer.

[[Yukari Kinga]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Nippon TV Tokyo Verdy Beleza players, INAC Kobe Leonessa players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games

Yukari Kinga is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Takeichi Nishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1945 deaths, Japanese military people, Japanese Olympic gold medalists, Military people killed in World War II, Sportspeople from Tokyo, Equestrians

Takeichi Nishi was a Japanese military officer and athlete.  He is best known as an  equestrian who competed in two Summer Olympic Games.

Nishi  won a gold medal in show jumping at the 1932 Summer Olympics at Los Angeles. He was also on the Japanese team at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin.

He was a tank unit commander at the Battle of Iwo Jima. He was killed in action during the defense of the Japanese island of Iwo Jima.

[[David Hasselhoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Actors from Baltimore, Maryland, Actors from Jacksonville, Florida, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Singers from Baltimore, Maryland, Singers from Jacksonville, Florida

David Hasselhoff (born July 17, 1952) is an American actor and singer. He is best known for his lead roles in the popular 1980s show Knight Rider and in the 1990s series Baywatch. He was also in the eleventh season of Dancing with the Stars in September 2010.

Hasselhoff was born in Baltimore, Maryland and grew up in Jacksonville, Florida and Atlanta, Georgia.

[[Redd Foxx]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from St. Louis, Missouri, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Comedians from Missouri, Deaths from myocardial infarction, 1922 births, 1991 deaths

John Elroy Sanford (much better known as Redd Foxx (December 9, 1922 – October 11, 1991) was a television program actor and stand up comedian who also starred in movies. He was born in St. Louis. He acted in numerous television sitcoms. Foxx died in Los Angeles at age 68 from a heart attack.

[[Hyoid]]

CATEGORIES: Bones

The hyoid is a horseshoe-shaped bone in the front of the neck. between the chin and the thyroid cartilage (Adam's apple). At rest, it lies at the level of the mandible in the front and the third cervical vertebra behind.

Unlike other bones, the hyoid is not directly connected to other bones. It is connected only to  muscles and ligaments. The hyoid aids in tongue movement and swallowing. The hyoid bone provides attachment to the muscles of the floor of the mouth and the tongue above, the larynx below, and the epiglottis and pharynx behind.

[[Quantum electrodynamics]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

Quantum electrodynamics (also called QED for short) is the quantum theory of electricity and magnetism. QED describes how electric and magnetic forces work on the scale of things smaller than atoms.  QED also describes how single photons of light behave.  QED is one of the most well-tested theories in physics.

[[Sashimi]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food, Seafood dishes

Sashimi is a type of  Japanese food.  It is very fresh fish which has been sliced into thin pieces.  Some sashimi is cooked, but most seafood is served fresh.

The most popular fish in sashimi include:

The art of making sashimi is in the choice of fish and the way it is cut into pieces. 

[[Molly Ivins]]

CATEGORIES: American journalists, 1944 births, 2007 deaths, American political commentators

Mary Tyler "Molly" Ivins (August 30, 1944-January 31, 2007) was an American journalist, author and political commentator. She worked for numerous newspapers, including the Minneapolis Star Tribune. She was the writer of many books. She died of severe breast cancer.

In 2005, Ivins received the Courage in Journalism Award.

[[George Wendt]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, Comedians from Chicago, American television actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, American stage actors

George Robert Wendt (born October 17, 1948 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American television, voice, stage and movie actor. He is known for his role as Norm Peterson in the comedy show Cheers. He has also appeared in Michael Jackson's music video Black or White. He hosted his own show, The George Wendt Show, before it was cancelled in April 1995. He is currently married to Bernadette Birkett since 1978 and have three children together and two step-children.

[[Kelsey Grammer]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Republicans (United States), American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, American writers, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Soap opera actors

Allen Kelsey Grammer (born February 21, 1955) is an American television, voice, and movie actor. He is known for his role as Dr. Fraiser Crane in Cheers, Frasier, and in Wings. He was good friends with late producer David Angell. He won five Emmy Awards and three Golden Globe Awards.

[[Molly Shannon]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Entertainers from Ohio, 1964 births, Living people

Molly Helen Shannon (born September 16, 1964) is an American television actress and comedian. She is best known for being on Saturday Night Live (1995-2001). She appeared in many movies in leading and supporting roles. She was born near Cleveland, Ohio.

[[Dee Wallace]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American movie actors, Actors from Kansas

Deanna Bowers (born December 14 1948), better known as Dee Wallace, is an American actress.

[[David Angell]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2001 deaths, American murder victims, American television producers, Businesspeople from Rhode Island, Emmy Award winners, People from Barrington, Rhode Island, People murdered in New York, Victims of the September 11 attacks

David Lawrence Angell (April 10, 1946 – September 11, 2001) was an American producer for television shows. He was mostly known for his production work on Frasier, Cheers, and Wings. He was friends with actor Kelsey Grammer.

He was born in Barrington, Rhode Island. He was married to Lynn Edwards from 1971 until their deaths in 2001. Angell died in the North Tower on September 11, 2001 after the hjack of American Airlines Flight 11 along with his wife of thirty years, Lynn Angell. Their names are on the National 9/11 Memorial.

[[Neomorphinae]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

Neomorphinae is a subfamily of the cuckoo family, Cuculidae. The birds in this group live in the Americas and are terrestrial, meaning they live on the ground. But the two genera, Dromococcyx and Tapera, are more arboreal, meaning they live in trees. Birds in this group are known as "New World ground cuckoos".

[[Backpropagation]]

CATEGORIES: Algorithms

Backpropagation is a method of training neural networks to perform tasks more accurately. The algorithm was first used for this purpose in 1974 in papers published by Werbos, Rumelhart, Hinton, and Williams. The term backpropagation is short for "backward propagation of errors".

It works especially well for feed forward neural networks (networks without any loops) and problems that require supervised learning.

[[National Campus for the Archaeology of Israel]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Jerusalem, Archaeology

The Jay and Jeanie Schottenstein National Campus for the Archaeology of Israel (הקריה הלאומית לארכיאולוגיה של ארץ ישראל) is the new building for the Israel Antiquities Authority. It is being built between the Israel Museum and the Bible Lands Museum in Jerusalem. The architect is Moshe Safdie. The cornerstone ceremony was held on 15 October 2006 and plans to open in October 2012. The building will be the home of the World Center for the Dead Sea Scrolls, and will have all the 15,000 Dead Sea scrolls.

[[Kiryat HaLeom]]

CATEGORIES: Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem

Kiryat HaLeom (קריית הלאום; The Nation City), also known as Kiryat HaUma (קריית האומה; The People's City), is a big project in West Jerusalem that will include all of the Israeli government buildings and the national cultural institutions. The project is near Kiryat HaMemshala, the Knesset, and Wohl Rose Park, in the northern part of Givat Ram.

The project will include a national boulevard and square, and many parking spaces and pedestrian streets.

[[Ouro Preto]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minas Gerais, 1711 establishments, 18th-century establishments in Brazil

Ouro Preto (from Portuguese, Black Gold) is a town in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil. It is at the geographic coordinates 20. It is at an altitude of 1116 meters on the slope of a rocky hill. In 2010, there were about 70,227 people living there.

[[Anita Baker]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B singers, American soul musicians, American jazz singers, Entertainers from Toledo, Ohio, Grammy Award winners, Singers from Detroit, Michigan, Singers from Ohio, 1958 births, Living people, American soul singers

Anita Baker (born January 26, 1958, in Toledo, Ohio, and raised in Detroit, Michigan) is a singer and recording artist. She has had multiple studio records with hit songs. She was born near Toledo, Ohio. She was raised around Detroit. She received several Grammy Awards due to her numerous recordings, mostly during the 1980s, in which decade she was extremely popular.

[[Karina Maruyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, TEPCO Mareeze players, JEF United Chiba Ladies players, Speranza Osaka-Takatsuki players, Footballers at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2003 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2003 AFC Women's Championship players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2002 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Asian Games bronze medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2002 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games

Karina Maruyama is a former Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team. Her husband is a former footballer Kenji Honnami.

[[Shinobu Ohno]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Nippon TV Tokyo Verdy Beleza players, INAC Kobe Leonessa players, Nojima Stella Kanagawa Sagamihara players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2003 AFC Women's Championship players, 2006 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games

Shinobu Ohno is a former Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Megumi Kamionobe]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Albirex Niigata Ladies players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games

Megumi Kamionobe is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[James Herbert Brennan]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Irish writers

James Herbert Brennan (5 July 1940) is an Irish writer of fantasy literature and occultism.

His most known work is the book titled "Occult Reich", published in 1974. The book explains various aspects of the Ariosophy. Brennan is also the author of the quest game The search for the Grail, published in the 1980s. He sold millions of copies worldwide of this quest game, mainly in France.

[[Annabella Sciorra]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, People from New York City, 1960 births, Living people

Annabella Sciorra (born March 29, 1960) is an American television and movie actress. Her parents are of Italian origin. She has performed in television programs and movies. She was featured in Spike Lee's 1991 Jungle Fever. Other notable movies she starred in include Internal Affairs (1990), The Hand That Rocks the Cradle (1992) and Romeo Is Bleeding (1993). Sciorra was born in Brooklyn, New York City.

[[Monte Fitz Roy]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Argentina, Mountains of Chile

Monte Fitz Roy (also known as Cerro Chaltén, Cerro Fitz Roy, or simply Mount Fitz Roy) is a mountain in the border between Argentina and Chile that is located near the village of El Chaltén that is in Argentina. 49. It is in the Southern Patagonian Ice Field in Patagonia. The mountain is 3375 metre high. It was first climbed in 1952 by French mountain climbers Lionel Terray and Guido Magnone. It is one of the most difficult mountains to climb on Earth. The clothing label, Patagonia, used Monte Fitz Roy as the idea for their logo, after Yvon Chouinard climbed the mountain in 1968 and made a movie about it.

Francisco Moreno first saw the mountain on 2 March 1877. He named it Fitz Roy, in honour of Robert Fitz Roy. Fitz Roy was captain of HMS Beagle and had travelled up the Santa Cruz River in 1834 and made maps of large parts of the Patagonian coast .

Cerro is a Spanish word meaning hill, while "Chaltén" is a Tehuelche word meaning smoking mountain, as they believe it was a volcano for its peak is most of the time covered by clouds.

[[Saori Ariyoshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, TEPCO Mareeze players, Nippon TV Tokyo Verdy Beleza players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2018 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2014 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2018 Asian Games, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2014 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2018 Asian Games

Saori Ariyoshi is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Ami Otaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Urawa Red Diamonds Ladies players, JEF United Chiba Ladies players

Ami Otaki is a Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Erina Yamane]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, TEPCO Mareeze players, JEF United Chiba Ladies players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 2014 Asian Games, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 2014 Asian Games

Erina Yamane is a former Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Irregular galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies

An irregular galaxy is a galaxy that does not have a distinct regular shape, like a spiral or an elliptical galaxy.

Irregular galaxies do not fall into any of the regular types of the Hubble sequence. They do not have a bulge in the centre, nor any trace of spiral structure. They are quite common: they may make up a quarter of all galaxies. Most were once spiral or elliptical galaxies but were deformed by gravitational pull. Irregular galaxies also contain abundant amounts of gas and dust.

There are three sorts of irregular galaxies:

The Magellanic Cloud galaxies were once classified as irregular galaxies, but have since been found to contain barred spiral structures.

[[Adèle Dumilâtre]]

CATEGORIES: 1821 births, 1909 deaths, Ballerinas, French ballet dancers, Entertainers from Paris

Adèle Alphonsine Dumilâtre (30 June 18214 May 1909) was a French ballerina associated with the romantic ballet.  She was born in Paris to Michel Dumilâtre, an actor in the Comédie-Française. He hoped she would become a tragedienne, but her dance talent led her to the ballet of the Paris Opéra. She performed from 1840 to 1848. She rose quickly from minor parts to principal roles. At eighteen she danced La Sylphide. She created the roles of Myrtha in Giselle and the title role in Lady Henriette. Rich gentlemen sustained her power at the Opéra. She danced in Milan and London where she created the title role in The Marble Maiden (1845) by Arthur Saint-Léon. She married Louis Drake y del Castillo in 1848 and bore him three children. She died in Paris and was buried in the Montmartre Cemetery. Her older sister Sophie was also a prominent Parisian ballerina.

[[Rhea Perlman]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Actors from Brooklyn, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Writers from New York City

Rhea Jo Perlman (born March 31, 1948) is an American television, movie actress, and writer. She is best known for her role as Carla Tortelli in Cheers. She was born in Brooklyn, New York City. Perlman is married to actor Danny DeVito. They have three children together. Perlman has won four Emmy Awards. 

[[Stacy Keach]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, People from Savannah, Georgia

Walter Stacy Keach, Jr. (born June 2, 1941 in Savannah, Georgia) is an American television, voice, stage, narrator, and movie actor. He is mostly known for his dramatic roles and guest star appearances. Keach is also known for his role as Ken in Titus. Keach is a Golden Globe Award winning actor.

Keach was born in Savannah, Georgia on June 2, 1941 to Mary Cain (née Peckham) and to Walter Stacy Keach. Keach was married four times. First to Kathryn Baker from 1964 until they divorced. Second to Marilyn Aiken from 1975 until they divorced. Thirdly to Jill Donahue from 1981 until they divorced 1986. He has been married to Malgosia Tomassi since 1986.

[[Harry Harrison]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2012 deaths, Writers from Connecticut, People from Stamford, Connecticut, Unexplained deaths

Harry Harrison (born Henry Maxwell Dempsey; March 12, 1925 – August 15, 2012) was an American science fiction author. He was best known for his character the Stainless Steel Rat and the novel Make Room! Make Room! (1966). 

Harrison was born in Stamford, Connecticut. Harrison was married to Joan Merkler Harrison from 1930 until her death in 2002. They had two children. Harrison died on August 15, 2012 in his home in Brighton, England. 

[[Dayana Mendoza]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Venezuelan models, Miss Universe winners, People from Caracas

This article applies Spanish naming customs: the paternal last name first, followed by the maternal last name

Dayana Sabrina Mendoza Moncada (born June 1, 1986) is a model and beauty pageant titleholder, who won Miss Venezuela 2007 and Miss Universe 2008. She also received the honor of crowning  Stefanía Fernández as Miss Universe 2009. Eighteen-year-old Fernández was a fellow Venezuelan, and Dayana became the first Miss Universe to crown a compatriot.  

[[Maurice Sendak]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2012 deaths, American atheists, American illustrators, LGBT people from New York, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Connecticut, Deaths from stroke, Gay men, LGBT artists, LGBT writers, Writers from New York City

Maurice Bernard Sendak (June 10, 1928 – May 8, 2012) was an American writer and illustrator of children's literature. He was best known for his book Where the Wild Things Are which was released in 1963.

[[Harrison Ford (silent movie actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 births, 1957 deaths, Actors from Kansas City, Missouri, American radio actors, American silent movie actors, American stage actors, Road accident deaths in California

Harrison Ford  (March 16, 1884 – December 2, 1957) was an American stage and movie actor. He was a leading Broadway theatre performer and a star of the silent film era. 

Ford was born in Kansas City, Missouri on March 16, 1884. Ford died on December 2, 1957 after being run-over by a car in the early 1950s. He was not related to the living actor with the same name. He was married to actress to Beatrice Prentice from 1909 until his death in 1957. Ford died in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, California after being run over by a car on December 2, 1957, aged 73.

[[Stefanía Fernández]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Venezuelan models, Miss Universe winners

Stefanía Fernández Krupij* (born September 4, 1990) is a Venezuelan beauty pageant titleholder, humanitarian and political activist who participated in the 2014 Venezuela Protests, and was awarded Miss Venezuela 2008 as well as Miss Universe 2009 titles. Fernández is also the face of Avon Products, and was listed among the 50 Most Beautiful People list by People en Español. She has participated in many humanitarian activities, including fighting for AIDs awareness and fighting against human rights violations. Fernández also earned a Guinness record by becoming the first Miss Universe winner who was crowned by a compatriot. 

[[Dana Hill]]

CATEGORIES: American voice actors, American television actors, Deaths from diabetes, Deaths from stroke, 1964 births, 1996 deaths

Dana Hill (born Dana Lynne Goetz; May 6, 1964-July 15, 1996) was an American voice actress. She has a raspy voice. She starred in television programs and movies, including Goof Troop (1992-1993). She died resulting from a stroke that was due to having type 1 diabetes (she was diagnosed at age 10). Hill was born around California.

[[List of introduced molluscs of Venezuela]]

CATEGORIES: Molluscs, Lists of animals, Venezuela

This is a list of 52 species of molluscs that have been introduced into Venezuela, that are living in the wild, and that have been reported in the literature.

[[Jewish languages]]

CATEGORIES: Judaism, Languages

Jewish languages are the various languages and dialects that developed in Jewish communities around the world.

[[Maureen McCormick]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American autobiographers, 1956 births, Living people

Maureen Denise McCormick (born August 5, 1956) is a television actress. She played the character of Marcia Brady on The Brady Bunch starting in 1969 and ending in 1974. She also acted in many other TV series. She wrote an autobiography called Here's the Story: Surviving Marcia Brady and Finding My True Voice.

[[Daniel Francois Malan]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of South Africa, 1874 births, 1954 deaths

Daniel Francois Malan (May 22 1874-February 7 1959) also known as D.F. Malan, was Prime Minister of South Africa from 1948 to 1954. He was leader of the National Party, an Afrikaner nationalist political party. Apartheid began as a state policy in South Africa under Malan.

[[Phyllis Thaxter]]

CATEGORIES: Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, People from Portland, Maine, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Maine, 1919 births, 2012 deaths

Phyllis St. Felix Thaxter (November 20, 1921 – August 14, 2012) was an American stage and movie actress. She was known for playing Superman's mother in the 1978 movie Superman, and as Ellen Lawson in Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo.

[[Godfather's Pizza]]

CATEGORIES: American restaurants, 1973 establishments in the United States

Godfather's Pizza is an American pizza franchise group that was started around around 1973. The restaurant chain is headquartered out of Omaha, Nebraska and sells Italian foods in addition to pizza. The chain sells golden, original and thin crusts depending on the eatery.

[[Shelley Winters]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2006 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from St. Louis, Missouri, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from heart failure, Emmy Award winning actors

Shelley Winters (Shirley Schrift August 18, 1920 – January 14, 2006) was an American movie actress who appeared in many blockbuster movies such as Place in the Sun, The Big Knife, Lolita, The Night of the Hunter, Alfie, and The Poseidon Adventure. Her career spanned over 50 years until her death in 2006. Winters won Academy Awards for her acting in The Diary of Anne Frank and A Patch of Blue.

[[Anthony Franciosa]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2006 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Deaths from stroke, Actors from New York City

Anthony Franciosa (Anthony George Papaleo October 25, 1928 – January 19, 2006) was an American movie, TV, and stage actor, usually known as Tony Franciosa during his career. 

He made some movies such as; Career (1959) for which he won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor/Drama. In television he is known for his lead roles in five well-known TV shows as; the sitcom Valentine's Day (1964–65), the drama series The Name of the Game (1968–71), Search (1972–73), Matt Helm (1975) and Finder of Lost Loves (1984). Franciosa received a Tony Award nomination for his role in the play A Hatful of Rain.

Franciosa was born in New York City, New York on October 25, 1928. 

Franciosa was married to Beatrice Bakalyar from 1952 until it ended in divorce in 1957. Secondly he married Shelley Winters from 1957 until they divorced in 1960. Thirdly he married Judy Balaban from 1961 until they divorced in 1967. Lastly he married Rita Thiel from 1970 until his death in 2006.

Franciosa suffered a stroke on the day his ex-wife Shelley Winters died on January 14, 2006. Franciosa died five days after Winters' death on January 19, 2006 from a stroke at the UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles, California, he was 77 years old. He is survived by his wife Rita, his three children, and his two grandchildren. His remains were later cremated.

[[Ron Palillo]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from Connecticut, American movie actors, American playwrights, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Florida, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT people from Connecticut, LGBT writers, Writers from Connecticut

Ronald Gabriel "Ron" Palillo (April 2, 1949 – August 14, 2012) was an American television and movie actor, who is best known for his role as high school student Arnold Dingfelder Horshack on the ABC sitcom Welcome Back, Kotter, from 1975 to 1979.

Palillo was born in Cheshire, Connecticut on April 2, 1949.  He was educated at University of Connecticut. Palillo died on August 14, 2012 from a heart attack in his Palm Beach, Florida home.  He was 63 years old. He is survived by his partner of 41 years, Joseph Gramm.

[[Johannes Gerhardus Strijdom]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1958 deaths, Prime Ministers of South Africa

Johannes Gerhardus Strijdom (also spelled Strydom) also known as J.G. Strydom or Hans Strydom (July 14 1893-August 24 1958) nicknamed the Lion of the North, was Prime Minister of South Africa from 30 November 1954 to 24 August 1958. He was an Afrikaner nationalist, and a supporter of apartheid.

[[Murder of JonBenét Ramsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 in the United States, 1990s murders in the United States, 20th century in Colorado, American children, American murder victims, Boulder, Colorado, Deaths by strangulation, December events, Murder in 1996, Murder in Colorado, Unsolved murders in the United States

JonBenét Patricia Ramsey (August 6, 1990 - December 25, 1996) was an American child beauty pageant queen. She was born in Atlanta, Georgia and moved to Boulder, Colorado when she was nine months old. She was strangled in her house in Boulder. Her murder remains unsolved. Alexis Reich falsely confessed to the murder in 2006.

[[Thomas Kretschmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, German movie actors, German television actors, German voice actors, German stage actors, People from Malibu, California

Thomas Kretschmann (Born 8 September 1962 in Dessau, East Germany) is a German movie, television, voice actor best known for playing Leutnant Hans von Witzland in the 1993 film Stalingrad, Hauptmann Wilm Hosenfeld in The Pianist, Hermann Fegelein in Der Untergang, Captain Englehorn in the 2005 remake of King Kong, Valkyrie, and voicing Professor Z in Cars 2. 

Kretschmann was born on September 8, 1962 in Dessau, East Germany. Kretschmann had a partner Lena Roklin from 1997 until they split-up in 2009, they had three children. Kretschmann currently lives in Malibu, California and Los Angeles, California.

[[John Turturro]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

John Michael Turturro (born February 28, 1957) is an Italian-American movie and television, voice actor, writer and director known for his roles in the movies; Do the Right Thing (1989), Miller's Crossing (1990), Barton Fink (1991), Quiz Show (1994), The Big Lebowski (1998), O Brother, Where Art Thou? (2000) and the Transformers movie series. He has appeared in over sixty films, and has worked mostly with the Coen brothers, Adam Sandler and Spike Lee. Turturro also starred in Disney/Pixar Cars 2. He will star as Carmine Falcone in the 2022 movie The Batman.

Turturro was born in Brooklyn, New York on February 28, 1957. Turturro is currently married to Katherine Borowitz since 1985, they have two children. 

[[John Lasseter]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning directors, 1957 births, American voice actors, Living people, American animators, Pixar, American movie producers, American movie directors, American writers, Writers from California

John Alan Lasseter (born January 12, 1957) is an American animator, movie director and the former chief creative officer at Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios. He was also the Principal Creative Advisor for Walt Disney Imagineering. Lasseter bought Pixar from the late Steve Jobs. He eventually left Pixar and Disney due to allegations of sexual harassment. Lasseter has been married to Nancy Lasseter since 1979. He was born in Hollywood, California.

[[Melissa Manchester]]

CATEGORIES: American pop musicians, Singers from New York City, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, Grammy Award winners, 1951 births, Living people

Melissa Manchester (born February 15 1951 in the Bronx, New York) is an American singer, songwriter and actress. She has acted in several movies. She has received several awards during her musical career, which began in the late 1960s.

[[Blythe Danner]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Saturn Award winners, Tony Award winners, 1943 births, Living people

Blythe Katherine Danner (born February 3, 1943) is an American actress. She is the widow of movie director Bruce Paltrow. She is the mother of actress Gwyneth Paltrow and director Jake Paltrow. She has starred in many Broadway plays and movies.

[[Kim Du-han]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 1972 deaths, Anti-Communists, Terrorists, Gangsters, South Korean politicians, Murder victims, Autobiographers

Kim Du-han(korea:김두한, hanja:金斗漢, 1918-1972) was South Korean politician, gangsters. he was one of boss of Big gangsters groups of Seouls. a penname was Uisong(의송, 義松).

[[Jordana Brewster]]

CATEGORIES: People from Panama City, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, 1980 births, Living people

Jordana Brewster (ʒoʁˈdɐnɐ ˈbɾuste(ʁ), born April 26, 1980) is an American actress. She began acting during her late teens starting with the soap opera All My Children. Later, Brewster began acting in movies and television programs. These include The Fast and the Furious series of movies. Brewster was born in Panama City, Panama. Her father is American. Her mother is Brazilian. She grew up in Brazil and London before moving to New York at age 10.

[[Outrage (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 drama movies, Japanese movies, Japanese-language movies

Outrage is a movie that came out in 2010. Autoreiji is the movie's original title in Japan. Takeshi Kitano is the director. It has a restricted rating. It is 109 minutes long. It is a crime drama. It is about Tokyo's yakuza clans. It has a little sexual content. It competed for the Palme d'Or at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival.

[[Tom Kenny]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American Roman Catholics, American television actors, American video game actors, American voice actors, Annie Award winners, Comedians from New York, People from Syracuse, New York, Singers from New York, Writers from New York

Thomas James "Tom" Kenny (born July 13, 1962) is an American actor, voice actor, comedian and voice director. He is mostly known for being the voice of SpongeBob SquarePants in SpongeBob SquarePants. He has also done the voices of The Ice King in Adventure Time, The Mayor in The Powerpuff Girls, Wheelie in The Transformers Movie Series, and Scout Master Lumpus in Camp Lazlo. 

Kenny was born on July 13, 1962 in Syracuse, New York. He studied at the Bishop Grimes High School. Kenny has been currently married to Jill Talley since 1995. They have two children, Mack (born 1997) and Nora (born 2003). The Kennys live in Studio City, California.

[[Edwardstone Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Babergh, Listed buildings, Buildings and structures in England

[[Regina King]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, 1971 births, Living people

Regina King (born January 15, 1971 in Los Angeles) is an American movie and television actress. She began acting in 1985 with the situation comedy 227, on which program she stayed until 1990. She has performed in many movies, including Jerry Maguire, Boyz n the Hood (1991) and Higher Learning (1995). She voiced both Huey and Riley Freeman in the Adult Swim television series The Boondocks.

[[Poetic Justice]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s drama movies, 1993 movies, English-language movies, Maya Angelou

Poetic Justice is a 1993 urban drama movie. It stars Tupac Shakur, Regina King and Janet Jackson. It is about poems from the poet Maya Angelou. Poetic Justice received mixed to negative reviews, though received close to $28 million while in theaters.

[[Wave function]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

In quantum mechanics, the Wave function, usually represented by Ψ, or ψ, describes the probability of finding an electron somewhere in its matter wave. To be more precise, the square of the wave function gives the probability of finding the location of the electron in the given area, since the normal answer for the wave function is usually a complex number. The wave function concept was first introduced in the legendary Schrödinger equation.  

[[Partial derivative]]

CATEGORIES: Calculus

In calculus (particularly in multivariate calculus, the study of rate of change on functions with multiple variables), the partial derivative of a function is the derivative of one named variable, where all other unnamed variables of the function are held constant. In other words, the partial derivative takes the derivative of certain indicated variables of a function, and does not differentiate the other variable(s). 

For the partial derivative of a function f with respect to the variable x, the notations

are usually used, although other notations are valid. Usually, although not always, the partial derivative is taken in a multivariable function (a function which takes two or more variables as input).

[[String (physics)]]

CATEGORIES: String theory

In string theory and theoretical physics, strings are hypothetical objects that are believed to be the elementary particles of the universe. If they exist, they would not be point-like particles, but rather 1-dimensional "strings" of energy that vibrate in various dimensions. The image to the right illustrates the various possible dimensions that a string could vibrate in. (Currently, physicists accept the fact that there are at least 11 dimensions in our universe: 1 time dimension and 10 spatial dimensions.) The length of the strings would be determined by Planck length:

It is still not known whether these strings actually exist. They are pretty much the main topic of string theory.

[[Kathy Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Actors from Glendale, California, American movie actors, American television actors, Businesspeople from Los Angeles County, California, Models from California, Writers from Los Angeles County, California

Kathleen Marie "Kathy" Ireland (born March 20, 1963 in Glendale, California) is an American fashion model, actress and businesswoman. She has been featured in Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue thirteen times and been on the cover three times. She also acted in several movies and television programs. Her licensing company, Kathy Ireland Worldwide, is responsible for most of her approximately $420 million wealth.

[[Biff Elliot]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Actors from Massachusetts

Biff Elliot (born Leon Shalek; July 26, 1923 – August 15, 2012) was an American television, stage, voice, radio, and movie actor. He is best known for his role as Mike Hammer in the 1953 movie I, the Jury, and as his guest appearance in the Star Trek episode "The Devil in the Dark". 

Elliot was born Leon Shalek on July 26, 1923 in Lynn, Massachusetts to Jack and Susan Elliot, he served in the army and later attended the University of Maine. After he graduated in 1949 he began acting and later appeared in 100 of movies and television programs, his career began and known after his role in I, the Jury in 1953.

Elliot was married to Betty Dole from 1948 until her death in 1974. He lastly married Connie Elliot from 1977 until his death in 2012. Elliot died on August 15, 2012 in his Studio City, California home from natural causes, he was 89 years old.

[[Paul Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: Speakers of the United States House of Representatives, United States representatives from Wisconsin, US Republican Party politicians, 1970 births, Living people

Paolo Davis "Paul" Ryan (born January 29, 1970) is an American politician.  He was the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives from October 29, 2015 to January 3, 2019. He was a member of U.S. House of Representatives from 1999 to 2019. He was also the House Budget Committee chairman.

Ryan also served as Chairman of the House Budget Committee from 2011 to 2015. He was the Republican Party nominee for Vice President in the 2012 election. On October 22, 2015, Ryan said he was going to run for Speaker of the United States to succeed John Boehner. He was elected on October 29 and shortly afterwards became speaker. As Speaker, Ryan helped launch the House passing of the American Health Care Act.

Ryan announced his retirement from Congress on April 11, 2018.

[[Phil Leeds]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1998 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Actors from New York City, American television actors, American movie actors

Phil Leeds (April 6, 1916 – August 16, 1998) was an American television and movie actor. Leeds' eyes, rubbery face and wizened made him known in movies and his guest appearences in television programs such as in; The Dick Van Dyke Show, Roseanne, The Golden Girls, Three's Comapany, Friends, Everybody Loves Raymond, Wings, The Patty Duke Show, The Larry Sanders Show, and as a ghost in the movie Ghost. 

Leeds was born on April 6, 1916 in New York City, New York. Leeds was never married and had no children. Leeds died on August 19, 1998 from pneumonia in Los Angeles, California, he was 82 years old.

[[Walter Slezak]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1983 deaths, Austrian movie actors, Austrian television actors, Actors from Vienna, Austrian stage actors, Radio actors, Suicides by firearm, Tony Award winning actors

Walter Slezak (3 May 1902 – 21 April 1983) also known as Walt Slezak was an Austrian television and movie actor who appeared in many movies. Slezak mostly played villains or thugs, most notably the German U-boat captain in Alfred Hitchcock's movie Lifeboat (1944), but occasionally he got to play lighter roles, as in The Wonderful World of the Brothers Grimm (1962). He also played a cheerfully corrupt and philosophical private detective in the film noir Born to Kill (1947) and appeared as Squire Trelawney in Treasure Island (1972). He is also known for playing the Clock King in Batman (1966). Slezak won a Tony Award in 1955.

Slezak was born in Vienna, Austria-Hungary. Slezak was married to Johanna Van Rijn from 1943 until his death in 1983. They had three children. Slezak died on April 21, 1983 after he shot himself in his home in Flower Hill, New York. He is buried in Rottach-Egern, Germany.

[[David Wayne]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1995 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, American television actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from Michigan, Tony Award winning actors, People from Traverse City, Michigan

David Wayne (born Wayne James McMeekan January 30, 1914 – February 9, 1995) was an American television, voice, stage, and movie actor. He acted for nearly 50 years. He starred with famous actors such as Frank Sinatra, Marilyn Monroe, Debbie Reynolds, Celeste Holm, Katherine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor, and Spencer Tracy. He has appeared in nearly 100 movies. He won the first Tony Award for his role in the stage production of Finian's Rainbow.

Wayne was born Wayne James McMeekan in Traverse City, Michigan on January 20, 1914. He was raised in Bloomingdale, Michigan. Wayne was married to Jane Gordon from 1941 until her death in 1993. They had two children. Wayne died on February 9, 1995 in his home in Santa Monica, California from lung cancer. He was 81 years old. His remains were cremated.

[[Nusa Lembongan]]

CATEGORIES: Bali, Lesser Sunda Islands

Nusa Lembongan is an island to the southeast of Bali, Indonesia at 8. It's area is about 8 square kilometers and there are about 7,000 people living on the island year round. It is part of a group of three islands called Pulau Penida. This island group is part of the Lesser Sunda Islands. This island group is on the western side of the Wallace Line. This line marks a change in animals and plants. To the east of this line, the ecology changes to become Australasian.

Tourism is the most important part of the economy of the island. Most tourist development is on the western side of the island at Mushroom Bay and Jungut Batu. Most local residents live in the central village of Nusa Lembongan. The other major industry is seaweed farming along the southwest coast between Nusa Lembongan and Nusa Cenignan.

[[Yiddish Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias

Yiddish Wikipedia is the Yiddish language version of Wikipedia. It was founded on March 3, 2004, and the first article was written November 28, 2004.

[[Mick Veivers]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Politicians from Queensland, Australian rugby league players

Mick Veivers (born 12 August 1939) is an Australian politician from Queensland. He was the Member for Southport from 1987 to 2001 and was Minister for Emergency Services and Sport in the Borbidge Government. He was a member of the Queensland National Party. Before politics, he had been a rugby league player.

[[Saskatoon Greystone]]

CATEGORIES: Saskatchewan

Saskatoon Greystone is a district for the Legislative Assembly of Saskatchewan, Canada.

[[Carol Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Chicago, 1932 births, Living people

Carol Lawrence (born September 5, 1932 in Melrose Park, Illinois, USA) is an American stage and television actress. She is probably best known for playing best Maria in West Side Story in 1957. She has received several Tony Awards. She has performed on many television series, including General Hospital and Sex and the City.

[[IS/LM model]]

CATEGORIES: Economics models

The IS/LM model is a tool that shows the relationship between interest rates and real output in "the goods and services market" and "the money market". IS/LM model is used in Macroeconomics. The point of meet of the IS curve and the LM curve is "general equilibrium".  At general equilibrium, there is same equilibrium in both markets. The letters I and S of the IS curve express Investment-Saving. The letters L and M of the LM curve express Liquidity preference—Money supply. This model makes clear an effect of either a fiscal policy or a monetary policy. 

[[Fathom]]

CATEGORIES: Imperial units, Units of length

The fathom is a unit of length. It is used especially when talking about operating ships, to measure the depth of water. It is equal to two yards. The distance between a man's outstreched arms is about a fathom. By this definition, a statute mile is 880 fathoms long. According to the directive 80/181/EWG, one fathom is 1,829 meters long.

One  fathom is equal to:

In 1959 the United States, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, and the United Kingdom defined the length of the international yard to be exactly 0.9144 metre. With the adoption of the metric SI system the use of fathoms declined.

[[Norio Sasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamagata Prefecture, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Omiya Ardija players, Japan women's national football team managers

Norio Sasaki is a former Japanese football player and manager. He managed for Japan women's national team.

[[George C. Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1999 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Virginia, American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, American stage actors, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from aortic aneurysm, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

George Campbell Scott (October 18, 1927 – September 22, 1999) was an American stage, television, and movie actor, director and producer. He was best known for his stage work, and also well known as his role of General George S. Patton in the movie Patton, and as General Buck Turgidson in Stanley Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove. 

[[Marion Ross]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Actors from Minnesota, Actors from San Diego, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors

Marion Ross (born Marian Ross October 25, 1928) is an American movie, voice, stage, and television actress who is best known for her role as Marion Cunningham on the television series Happy Days from 1974 to 1984. After Happy Days Ross had appeared in over 50 movies. 

She was born in Watertown, Minnesota. She was educated at San Diego State University. She was married to Freeman Meskimen from 1951 until they divorced in 1969, they had two children. She was partners with Paul Michael from 1988 until his death in 2011.

[[Scott Baio]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Actors from Brooklyn, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors

Scott Vincent James Baio (born September 22, 1960 in Brooklyn, New York City) is an American movie and television actor and television director. He is best known for his roles as Chachi Arcola on the sitcom Happy Days and its spin-off, Joanie Loves Chachi. He was the main character in the series Charles in Charge. Baio has been married to Renee Sloan since 2007. He has a daughter and a stepdaughter. Baio had two reality television series Scott Baio Is 45...and Single (2007) and Scott Baio Is 46...and Pregnant (2008) premiered on VH1.

[[Al Molinaro]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Wisconsin, American movie actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, Infectious disease deaths in Los Angeles County, California, People from Kenosha, Wisconsin

Albert Francis "Al" Molinaro (June 24, 1919 – October 30, 2015) was an American television and movie actor, who is mostly known as Al Delvecchio, the owner of Arnold's on Happy Days and its spin-off show Joanie Loves Chachi.

He is also known for his roles in The Odd Couple television series, as well as starring in commercials for On-Cor frozen dinners. He also starred in a 1982 comedy The Ugily Family. Molinaro retired from acting in 1992.

[[Jack Albertson]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1981 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Actors from Massachusetts, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Comedians from Massachusetts, musicians from Massachusetts, singers from Massachusetts, American dancers, Academy Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, Vaudeville performers, People from Malden, Massachusetts

Jack Albertson (June 16, 1907 – November 25, 1981) also known as Jackie Alberts was an American television, movie, stage, radio, and voice actor, singer, vaudeville, dancer, musician, and comedian. 

[[Nora Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Maryland, 1950 births, Living people

Eleanor Marie Robertson, better known as Nora Roberts (born October 10, 1950 in Maryland), is an American novelist. She has written over 200 romance books. Many of her novels were bestsellers.

[[Irving Fein]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American centenarians, Movie producers from New York, American movie producers, American television producers, Emmy Award winners

Irving Fein (June 21, 1911 – August 10, 2012) was an Emmy Award winning American television and movie producer, and the longtime manager of comedians Jack Benny and George Burns. 

Fein was born in Brooklyn, New York. Fein was married to Florence Kohn until they divorced. Lastly he married Marion Schecter from 1969 until his death in 2012. Fein has two children and a stepson. Fein died on August 10, 2012 in Los Angeles, California from heart failure, he was 101 years old.

[[Racing video game]]

CATEGORIES: Racing video games, Types of video games, Video game genres

A racing game is a video game genre which involves competing in races. The object of the game is to be the first racer to compete in a arena in the shortest time. They may be based on anything from real-world racing leagues to entirely fantastical settings, and feature any type of land, air, or sea vehicles. 

[[Naughty Dog]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies, Santa Monica, California, Companies based in California, American technology companies, 1984 establishments in California

Naughty Dog is a video game company founded by Andy Gavin and Jason Rubin in 1986. It is part of Sony since 2001. They produced more successful games, including Rings of Power for Sega Genesis and Way Of The Warrior for 3DO. 

Rings of Power was created with a low budget. Universal Studios signed a deal with the duo to a three-title deal and fund the expansion of the company. Mark Cerny, who had produced Sonic the Hedgehog 2 for Sega, convinced Naughty Dog to focus on new resources on creating a character-based platform game in 3D. Crash Bandicoot was developed and became the first 3D video game by Naughty Dog. for the PlayStation on September 9, 1996. Naughty Dog would develop three Crash Bandicoot sequels over the next several years. In January 2001, it was announced Sony would acquire Naughty Dog. After developing the fourth Crash Bandicoot game (Crash Team Racing), the company began working on Jak and Daxter for PlayStation 2. In 2004, Naughty Dog's studio president and co-founder, Jason Rubin left the company to work on a new game named Iron and the Maiden.

[[List of Sony Greatest Hits games]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation games, PlayStation Portable games, PlayStation 3 games, Video game lists

Greatest Hits are video games for the North American Sony PlayStation, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, and PlayStation Portable game consoles that are released again but at a lower price by Sony. The term "Greatest Hits" applies to selected video games from North America. Other programs exist in PAL territories (as the Platinum Range), Japan and Asia (as "The Best") and Korea (as "BigHit Series").

[[Luleå]]

CATEGORIES: Luleå

Luleå (ˈlʉːlɛo, Lule sami Luleju, Finnish Luulaja) is a city in northern Sweden. In 2010, 46,607 people lived there. It is the seat of Luleå Municipality and the capital of Norrbotten County.

[[Platinum Range]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation, Japan-related lists, Computer-related lists

The Platinum Range is a Sony PlayStation chain. It includes PlayStation, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable video games that have been successful in PAL countries. Other chains from Sony include the Greatest Hits for North America and The Best for Japan.

To become a Platinum release it was required that a game must sell over 400,000 copies worldwide within a year. For PSP, not only Platinum Range exist. There are also PSP Essentials. The first PS3 titles were released on August 1, 2008.

[[Paul Rusesabagina]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1954 births, Rwandan people, Activists

Paul Rusesabagina (born 1954) is a Rwandan humanitarian. He is known for hiding and protecting 1,268 people during the 1994 Rwandan genocide. Rusesabagina was the assistant manager of the Sabena Hôtel des Mille Collines. Later, he was the manager of the Hôtel des Diplomates. Both hotels are in Kigali, Rwanda. During the genocide, he used his influence and connections with high ranking and important people to protect 1,268 Tutsis and Hutus from being killed by the Interahamwe.

Rusesabagina's story was the basis of the Academy Award winning 2004 movie Hotel Rwanda staring Don Cheadle. Rusesabagina currently lives in Brussels, Belgium with his wife, four children and two adopted nieces.

On 20 September 2021, he was found guilty of terrorism-related charges. During the court proceeding, he denounced president Paul Kagame and reported that he had been abducted from exile to stand trial in Rwanda.

[[Gameplay]]

CATEGORIES: Video game gameplay

Gameplay is the way players interact with a game, and in particular with video games. Gameplay is the connection between player and the game, game rules, challenges and overcoming them, plot and overcoming them, plot and player's connection with it. Video game gameplay is how attracting the graphics and audio are to the player.

[[Crash Nitro Kart]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 video games, Crash Bandicoot games, Nintendo GameCube games, PlayStation 2 games, Racing video games, Game Boy Advance games, Xbox games

Crash Nitro Kart is a 2003 racing video game developed by Vicarious Visions and published by Universal Interactive Studios (along with Konami in the Japanese release) for the PlayStation 2, Nintendo GameCube, Xbox, Game Boy Advance and N-Gage. It is the second Crash Bandicoot racing game behind Crash Team Racing. It is the ninth Crash Bandicoot game overall.

[[List of best-selling PlayStation video games]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation games, Video game lists, Computer-related lists

The list of best-selling PlayStation video games are listed in order of greatest to least best-selling video game. The video games listed here have sold or shipped at least one million copies.

[[Mary Ann Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1823 births, 1899 deaths, Ballerinas

Mary Ann Lee (18231899) was one of America's first professional ballerinas. She was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to theatrical parents, and trained there with Paul Hazard of the Paris Opéra. She made her ballet debut as Fatima in 1837 in The Maid of Cashmere at the Chestnut Street Theatre in Philadelphia. Debuting in the same production was the great Augusta Maywood. Night after night, the two girls were showered with applause and bouquets.

Lee studied in New York City with James Sylvain, and made her New York debut in June 1839 at the Bowery Theatre. She did not confine herself to dance, but acted in melodramas and other stage works. She toured the United States, then studied with Ballet Master Jean Coralli in Paris. When she returned to the United States, she brought the directions for several popular ballets with her. She danced the first American performance of Giselle in Boston in 1846.

Lee danced and toured with George Washington Smith. She retired in 1847 at age 24 for health reasons. She married William Vanhook, a Philadelphia merchant. The couple had three children. She made a few returns to the stage, and taught dance in later life. She died in Philadelphia in 1899, and is buried in Laurel Hill Cemetery. Critics and ballet lovers alike were unanimous in their praise of Lee. If she had pursued her career rather than retirement, she would likely have become a star of international renown.

[[Claire Forlani]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, English actors, Living people

Claire Antonia Forlani (December 17, 1971) is an English movie performer who also stars on TV programs. She starred in the movie Mystery Men in 1999. She also starred in other movies.

[[Eddy Arnold]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Tennessee, American pop musicians, 1918 births, 2008 deaths

Richard Edward "Eddy" Arnold (May 1918-May 2008) was an American pop icon during the 1950s and 1960s. He sold almost 86 million albums and had many hit songs during his career. He was born in Tennessee.

[[Arte Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from bladder cancer, Deaths from prostate cancer, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Comedians from Michigan, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, American voice actors, American television personalities, American radio personalities, Saturn Award winners, Actors from Michigan

Arthur Stanton Eric "Arte" Johnson (January 20, 1929 – July 3, 2019) was an American comedian and television, movie, and voice actor. His career lasted for 50 years. His career started in 1954 up until his retirement in 2005. Johnson was a regular cast in Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In. His well-known "character" was that of a German soldier with his famous the catchphrase: "Verrrry interesting, but...'not very funny', and other versions". He won a Saturn Award.

Johnson was born in Benton Harbor, Michigan. He was educated at the University of Illinois. He was married to Gisela Johnson from 1968 until his death. Johnson died on July 3, 2019 in Los Angeles from bladder and prostate cancer at the age of 90.

[[Chia]]

Chia may be:

[[Chía, Cundinamarca]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colombia

Chía is a town in the Cundinamarca department of Colombia.  It is to the north of Bogotá on the main road to Zipaquira. Its history goes back to the pre-Columbian time. The name comes from the Chibchan language.  It means "moon" or "month".

It is home of the Universidad de la Sabana.

[[Chía, Aragon]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Spain, Municipalities in Aragon, Settlements in Huesca

Chía is a small town in the eastern Pyrenees, in Aragon, Spain; it is a municipality in the Huesca province.

People in this region speak patués, a dialect of the eastern Aragonese language.

[[Chia, Italy]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Sardinia

Chia or Baia di Chia is a coastal area in southern Sardinia (Italy).  It is part of the municipality of Domus de Maria in the  Province of Cagliari.

[[Robert Loggia]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Staten Island, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television directors, American voice actors, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Saturn Award winners

Robert Loggia (Salvatore Loggia; January 3, 1930 – December 4, 2015) was an American actor and director. 

[[Pigou effect]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

The Pigou effect is an economics term that refers to the stimulation of output and employment. It is caused by increasing consumption due to a rise in real balances of wealth. It often happens particularly during deflation.

Wealth was defined by Arthur Cecil Pigou as "the sum of the money supply and government bonds divided by the price level". He explained that Keynes' General theory was incomplete because it was not clarifying a link from "real balances" to current consumption. He also pointed out that it didn't include such a "wealth effect" would make the economy more 'self correcting' to drops in aggregate demand than Keynes predicted. Because the effect derives from changes to the "Real Balance", this is also called the Real Balance effect.

[[Joan Fontaine]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Tokyo, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, Best Actress Academy Award winners, British movie actors, British radio actors, British stage actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Joan de Beauvoir de Havilland (October 22, 1917 – December 15, 2013), known professionally as Joan Fontaine, was a British-American actress and singer. She and her older sister Olivia de Havilland were two of the last surviving leading ladies from Hollywood of the 1930s.

Fontaine is the only actress to have won an Academy Award for a performance in a movie directed by Alfred Hitchcock, Suspicion (1941).

Fontaine was born in Tokyo to British parents. She became an American citizen in 1943. She has divorced four times. She has one child from her second marriage.

She died on December 15, 2013 at her Carmel-by-the-Sea, California home from natural causes, aged 96.

[[Charing Cross railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in London, 1864 establishments in Europe, 1860s establishments in England

Charing Cross station, is a central London rail terminus in the City of Westminster . The rail station is one of 18 stations managed by Network Rail, and trains serving it are operated by Southeastern. It is the fifth busiest rail terminal in London.

The station takes its name from the central London road junction of Charing Cross. The front of the rail station faces The Strand. The other end is the northern end of Hungerford Bridge, which is crossed by all trains serving the station. Ticket barriers control access to all platforms, although the bridge entrance has no barriers. 

The original station building was built on the site of Hungerford Market and opened on 11 January 1864. The station has a single span wrought iron roof arching over the six platforms on its relatively cramped site. A year later the Charing Cross Hotel opened on 15 May 1865, and gave the station an ornate front in the French Renaissance style. At the same time, a replica of the Eleanor Cross was erected in the station forecourt, based on the original 13th century Whitehall Cross that had been demolished in 1647. Distances in London are officially measured from the original site of the cross in Whitehall, now the statue of Charles I, and not from this replica cross.

[[Charing Cross tube station]]

CATEGORIES: London Travelcard zone 1, Northern Line stations, Bakerloo Line stations, Tube stations in the City of Westminster

Charing Cross tube station is a London Underground station at Charing Cross. It has entrances in Trafalgar Square and The Strand. The station takes its name from the central London road junction of Charing Cross.

The station is served by the Northern and Bakerloo lines and provides an interchange with the National Rail network at the Charing Cross rail station. On the Northern Line it is between Embankment and Leicester Square stations on the Charing Cross branch, and on the Bakerloo Line it is between Embankment and Piccadilly Circus stations. It is in Travelcard Zone 1. 

The station was served by the Jubilee Line between 1979 and 1999; acting as the southern terminus of the line during that period. For most of the history of the Underground the name Charing Cross was associated with a different station, the one now called Embankment. 

[[Shin Ik-hee]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1956 deaths, Anti-Communists, Autobiographers, Korean educators, People of the Korean War, South Korean politicians, South Korean writers, Terrorists

Shin Ik-hee(신익희, June 9 1892 - May 5 1956) was Resistance activists and politicians, educator of South Korea. nickname was Haegong(해공, 海公) and Haehoo(해후, 海候), customs name was Yeogu(여구, 如耉). header of National Assembly of Koreas 1948 to 1954.

[[Video game producer]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment occupations

A video game producer is the person in charge during the development of a video game.

The earliest known use of the term producer in games was by Trip Hawkins. He became the first video game producer when he founded Electronic Arts in 1982. Hawkins believed that a video game producer could be like a record producer, who takes control over the whole development of a video game. Hawkins brought record producers from A&M Records to help train the first video game producers.

Back then, video game producer had a negative reputation as "imitation Hollywood" by game executives and press members. However, it is now a term that is accepted and used more often in video games. The role of the video game producer has been defined by different companies and different teams. There are a number of positions of a producer.

Video game producers earn the third most money in the video game industry. They earn an average of USD$75,000 annually. Associate producers with less than three years experience earn $43,000. However, those between three to six years of experience earn an average of $55,700 annually. Executive producers with over six years experience earn an average of $103,000 annually.

[[Azathioprine]]

CATEGORIES: drugs

Azathioprine is an immunosuppressant drug. It is used in, for example, the organ transplantation of kidneys. 

[[Game artist]]

CATEGORIES: Video games

A game artist is an artist who creates art for video games. Game artists are in charge of all game development of visual art.

Many game artists are asked to develop graphical environments and elements in which role-playing games take place. For example, in the Monster Manual early Dungeons & Dragons artists created visual imitations of monsters players might see while playing the video game.

Visual art can help make the gameplay of a video game more appealing to a player. Art for role-playing games can be expressed in a lot of different ways. These can include from pencil drawings, pen and ink drawings, oil paintings or even 3D models created with a computer.

[[Video game music]]

CATEGORIES: Video game design

Video game music is any musical instruments or soundtrack and background music found in video games. It can be from just a synthesizer tune to an orchestral piece. The older a game is, the simpler the music will be. In recent times, many games have had complex soundtracks similar to those of movies. 

Interactive soundtracks in a video game is music changing into different sounds, depending on what the player does. It is also common for a video game soundtrack to be sold in stores or performed in concerts. Music is very important to gameplay.

There are many awards for composers who create the music in a video game. Awards available are from the Ivor Novello Awards, Spike Video Game Awards, Grammy Awards, International Film Music Critics Association, Inside Gaming and the MTV Video Music Awards.

[[Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine]]

CATEGORIES: Monthly magazines

Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine (OPM) was a monthly video game magazine. It was published by Ziff Davis Media. It was a sister publication of Electronic Gaming Monthly. The magazine talked about anything that dealt with the PlayStation.

Topics included its hardware, software, and culture. It covered new video game releases and critics gave reviews on games available on PlayStation One, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable.

The magazine was known for its free demos it included in each issue. The demos were upcoming or new video games that might be interesting to buy by the player. The magazine was produced for almost ten years. The first issue was the September 1997 issue and the final issue was released on January 2007.

In December 2007, one month after the magazine was discontinued, the PlayStation: The Official Magazine (PSM), replaced OPM as the official magazine focusing on Sony game consoles.

[[Adolphe Nourrit]]

CATEGORIES: French composers, Librettists, Musicians who committed suicide, French opera singers, 1802 births, 1839 deaths, People from Montpellier, Burials at Montmartre Cemetery, Paris, French singers, Suicides in France, Tenors

Adolphe Nourrit (3 March 1802 – 8 March 1839) was a French operatic tenor, librettist, and composer. He was born in Montpellier, Hérault. His father was an operatic tenor. Nourrit was almost 20 when he made his professional operatic debut in 1821 in Gluck's Iphigénie en Tauride. In 1826, he succeeded his father as the principal tenor at the Paris Opéra. He held the position until 1836. He became a pupil of Rossini, and created all the principal tenor roles in Rossini's French operas. In time, he gained considerable power at the Opéra. He was consulted by composers and his approval was sought for works in progress. He was appointed to the Conservatoire de Paris in 1827. He wrote many libretti for ballets at the Opéra, and, in 1832, he wrote the libretto for La Sylphide, the seminal romantic ballet. In 1836, he went hoarse during a performance at the Opéra and thereafter turned to salon recitals, introducing Schubert's songs to the salon audiences. He studied in Naples with Donizetti and made his debut in that city in 1838. His physical and mental health declined and in 1839 he committed suicide. He was buried in Montmartre Cemetery with his wife, who only survived him by a few months, dying in childbirth.

[[Pierre-Luc-Charles Cicéri]]

CATEGORIES: 1782 births, 1868 deaths, French people, Designers

Pierre-Luc-Charles Cicéri (17 August 178222 August 1868) was a 19th century French set designer. He was born in Saint-Cloud, Hauts-de-Seine, and died in Saint-Chéron, Essonne. Cicéri designed the scenery for the first performance of La belle au bois dormant which opened on 2 March 1825 at the Théâtre de l'Académie Royale de Musique in Paris. He also designed the sets for a ballet version of Jocko ou le Singe du Brésil (Jocko or the Monkey of Brazil) by Frédéric-Auguste Blache with music by Alexandre Piccinni. The ballet was first performed at the Théâtre de la Porte Saint-Martin in Paris on 16 March 1825. He designed the scenery for the first performance of the ballet Giselle in 1841. The ballet opened at the Opéra and was especially acclaimed for the setting of its second act. He was awarded a Chevalier of the Légion d'honneur.

[[Jesse Robredo]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2012 deaths, Aviation deaths, Filipino politicians, Civil servants

Jesse Manalastas Robredo (May 27, 1958 – August 18, 2012) was the Secretary of the Interior and Local Government of the Philippines. Robredo was a member of the Liberal Party.

Until his death in 2012, Robredo was married to Leni Gerona who is the 14th and current Vice President of the Philippines.

On July 9, 2010, President Benigno Aquino III named Robredo as Secretary of the Interior and Local Government. Robredo was a former Mayor of Naga City in Camarines Sur. He was the first Filipino Mayor to receive the Ramon Magsaysay Award for Government Service in 2000.

On August 18, 2012 (PHT), the aircraft carrying Robredo crashed off Masbate bay. He was scheduled to attend a political event in Naga City. The Philippine Department of Interior and Local Government said that the pilot sent a distress call to the Masbate airport. The pilot was requesting an emergency landing. The plane never made it to the airport and crashed in the ocean. His body was retrieved three days later, August 21, 800 meters from the shore and 180 feet below sea level.

[[Michael Stuhlbarg]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, Jewish American actors, Actors from Long Beach, California

Michael S. Stuhlbarg (born July 5, 1968), is an American theatre, movie and television actor. His most important movie roles are "Larry Gopnik" in A Serious Man (2009), and "Griffin" in Men in Black 3 (2012) . Stuhlbarg is Jewish. He recently appeared as "Dr. Robert Hoffstetler/Dimitri Mosenkov" in The Shape of Water (2017).

[[Mount Herzl]]

CATEGORIES: Mount Herzl, 1948 establishments in Israel, Military monuments and memorials, Military monuments and memorials in Israel, Commonwealth War Graves Commission

Mount Herzl (הר הרצל, he), also called Har HaZikaron (הר הזכרון, which means "Mount of Remembrance"), is the national cemetery of Israel in Jerusalem. It is named for Theodor Herzl, the founder of modern political Zionism. Yad Vashem, the main Holocaust museum of Israel is on the Mount of Remembrance. It is an extension of Mount Herzl. Mount Herzl is 834 meters above sea level. The northern area is the National Military and Police cemetery and the southern area is the National Civil Cemetery of the State of Israel.

[[National Library of Israel]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Jerusalem, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, National libraries

The National Library of Israel (NLI; הספרייה הלאומית; formerly Jewish National and University Library - JNUL, בית הספרים הלאומי והאוניברסיטאי), is the national library of the state of Israel. It is on the campus of Hebrew University of Jerusalem in Givat Ram.

[[Israel Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Jerusalem, National museums, 1965 establishments in Israel, Museums in Jerusalem

The Israel Museum (מוזיאון ישראל,ירושלים, Muze'on Yisrael, Yerushalayim) is Israel's national museum. It is in Jerusalem. It was founded in 1965. It is on a hill in the Givat Ram near The National Campus for the Archaeology of Israel, Bible Lands Museum and the Knesset.

[[Emperor newt]]

CATEGORIES: Newts

The emperor newt (Tylototriton shanjing) is a highly toxic newt.  It lives in southeast Asia. They live in pools and slow-moving streams in subtropical forests.They mostly are awake during night and sleep during the day. The emperor newt usually eats small insects.  These include crickets and worms. 

It is also called the mandarin newt or mandarin salamander. They can grow up to 8 long. It has a ridged orange head. A single orange ridge runs along its back. This ridge is lined with two parallel rows of orange bumps on a black background. The tail and legs are entirely orange. There are different shades of orange.

When the newt is grabbed, the tips of the ribs will squeeze out poison. Emperor newts have enough toxin to kill about 7,500 mice. 

[[Elle Varner]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Elle Varner, Living people, Singer-songwriters from California, Musicians from Los Angeles, California

Gabrielle Shellise Varner (born February 12, 1989), simply known as Elle Varner is an American singer-songwriter. Her parents, Mikelyn Roderick and Jimmy Varner were publishers and songwriters. Elle signed a recording agreement with Sony Music in 2009. Her debut album Perfectly Imperfect was released on August 7, 2012. Two singles from the album were released: "Only Wanna Give It to You" and "Refill". The singles reached the top twenty on the US Billboard Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart.

[[Perfectly Imperfect]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, Elle Varner

Perfectly Imperfect is the first album by American singer-songwriter Elle Varner. It was released on August 7, 2012 by RCA Records. Songwriters and producers on the album include Jermaine Lamar Cole, Andrew "Pop" Wansel, Warren "Oak" Felder, Frankie Storm and Darrhyl Camper.

[[Elle Varner discography]]

CATEGORIES: Elle Varner, Discographies

Elle Varner, an American singer-songwriter, has released one studio album, one mixtape, three singles, one promotional single and two music videos.

[[Johann Friedrich Franz Burgmüller]]

CATEGORIES: 1806 births, 1874 deaths, German composers

Friedrich Burgmüller (Johann Friedrich Franz Burgmüller, 4 December 1806 – 13 February 1874) was a German pianist and composer. He was born in Regensberg, Germany, to a musical family. In 1832, he settled in Paris and adopted the French musical style. He wrote many works for piano, especially etudes for children that are still played today. His best known work is probably the Peasant pas de deus (originally Souvenirs de Ratisbonne) in Adolphe Adam's ballet Giselle (1841). It is not known how this music came to be inserted into the ballet.

[[Hurricane Richard]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes, 2010 in weather, 2010 in Belize

Hurricane Richard was the seventeenth named storm and the tenth hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season. The National Hurricane Center declared it a tropical storm on October 20.

Throughout Belize, Hurricane Richard caused about US$80 million in damage. Two deaths took place in the country, one direct and the other indirect. One person drowned after his ship broke during the storm. Another was mauled to death by a jaguar that escaped its cage after a tree fell and broke the cage.

[[Belize District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Belize

The Belize District is a district of the nation of Belize.  The district capital is the nation's largest city, Belize City.

[[Atelopus longirostris]]

CATEGORIES: Toads, Extinct species

Atelopus longirostris, a harlequin frog or jambato, is a member of the family of true toads: Bufonidae. It has only been found in northern Ecuador.  It is extinct. The species has not been seen since 1989.

[[Atelopus]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Atelopus, commonly known as harlequin frogs, is a large genus of true toads.  They live in Central and South America.  They go as far north as Costa Rica and as far south as Bolivia. Atelopus are small, generally brightly colored and diurnal. Most species live near mid- to high-elevation streams. Many species are now considered endangered, while others already are extinct. The cause of these declines mostly appears to be the chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis.

New Atelopus species are discovered with some regularity. Many new species have been described in the last ten years. 

[[Adenomus]]

CATEGORIES: Toads, Sri Lanka

Adenomus is a small genus of true toads.  It only has three species.  These all live in Sri Lanka. Adenomus kandianus was thought to be extinct for 133 years.  It was rediscovered in October 2009 in the Kandy area.

[[Altiphrynoides]]

CATEGORIES: Toads, Ethiopia

Altiphrynoides is a genus of toads.  They are commonly called Ethiopian toads. They only live in the highlands of south-central Ethiopia in the Arussi, Bale, and Sidamo provinces. Both species are threatened by habitat loss. They used to be included in Nectophrynoides.  Now they are separate because they lay eggs, while Nectophrynoides give birth to fully developed young.

[[Amietophrynus]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Amietophrynus is a large genus of true toads.  They live in Africa. At first Amietophrynus species were included in the genus Bufo.  They have been split because they are considered different enough.

[[Andinophryne]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Andinophryne is a small genus of true toads.  There are only three species.  They are found in the Andes.

[[Ansonia (genus)]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Ansonia (commonly known as stream toads) is a small genus of true toads.  They are found in South India; northern Thailand; Malay Peninsula; Tioman Island; Borneo and Mindanao (Philippines). These are a small forest species.  They spawn in streams and have torrent-adapted tadpoles.

[[Darryl F. Zanuck]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1979 deaths, Deaths from jaw cancer, Actors from Nebraska, Academy Award winning actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American movie producers, American movie directors, American writers

Darryl Francis Zanuck (September 5, 1902 – December 22, 1979) was an American producer, writer, actor, director and studio executive. He played a major parts in the Hollywood studio system. He earned three Academy Awards. His career lasted 48 years.

Zanuck was born in Wahoo, Nebraska on September 5, 1902 to Louise (née Torpin) and Frank Zanuck. Zanuck was married to Virginia Fox from 1924 until they separated in 1956. They had three children. One of their children was movie producer Richard D. Zanuck who produced Jaws.

Zanuck died on December 22, 1979 in Palm Springs, California from jaw cancer. He was 77 years old.

[[Bufoides]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Italic title

 

Bufoides is a genus of true toad.  Bufoides meghalayanus is the only species. They are known as "Mawblang Toad" or "Khasi Hills Toad". They live in north-eastern India.

[[Capensibufo]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Capensibufo is a genus of true toads with only two species. The common English name is Cape Toads. They live in the Republic of South Africa from Breede River to north of Knysna, Western Cape Province.

[[Churamiti]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Italic title

Churamiti is a genus of the true toads.  The only species is Churamiti maridadi.  They live in Tanzania. It is listed as a critically endangered species.  This is due to a restricted range and habitat loss. 

[[Crepidophryne]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Crepidophryne is a genus of toads commonly called Cerro Utyum Toads.  The genus has three species.  They live throughout the Costa Rican and Panamian highlands.

[[Dendrophryniscus]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Dendrophryniscus is a genus of true toads. They live in the forests of Brazil, amazonian Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and the Guianas. They prefer to live in subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests.

[[Virginia Fox]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1982 deaths, Deaths from cerebral thrombosis, Actors from West Virginia, American silent movie actors, Deaths from emphysema, People from Wheeling, West Virginia

Virginia Fox (April 2, 1902 - October 14, 1982) was an American actress who starred in many silent movie of the 1910s and 1920s, her career spanned 14 years. 

Fox was born in Wheeling, West Virginia to Marie (née Oglseby) and Frederick Fox.   She was married to Darryl F. Zanuck from 1924 until they separated in 1956. They had three children, one of them was movie producer Richard D. Zanuck. Fox died on October 14, 1982 in Palm Springs, California from emphysema and from cerebral thrombosis, she was 80 years old.

[[Didynamipus]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Didynamipus is a genus in the Bufonidae family.  Didynamipus sjostedti, also called the four-digit toad, is the only species.  They live in Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, and Nigeria.  They prefer to live in subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests, subtropical or tropical moist montane forests, and heavily degraded former forest.  They are threatened by habitat loss.

[[Duttaphrynus]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Duttaphrynus is a genus of true toads. They live in southwestern and southern China (including Taiwan and Hainan)  and throughout southern Asia from northern Pakistan and Nepal through India to Sri Lanka, Andaman Island, Sumatra, Java, Borneo, and Bali.

[[Natterjack Toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The natterjack toad (Epidalea calamita, formerly Bufo calamita) is a toad.  They live in the sandy and heathland areas of Europe. Adults are 60–70 mm in length.  They are different from other toads because they have a yellow line down the middle of the back. They have relatively short legs. This gives them a distinctive gait, which is different than the hopping movement of many other toad species.

Natterjacks have a very loud and distinctive mating call.

[[Frostius]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Frostius — also called Frost's Toads — is a small genus of true toads.  There are only two species.

[[Ingerophrynus]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Ingerophrynus is a genus of true toads with eleven species.  Ten of the species in this genus used to be thought to be species of the genus Bufo. In 2007 a new species, Ingerophrynus gollum, was added to this genus. This species is named after the character Gollum created by J. R. R. Tolkien. These species live in Southern Yunnan and Indochina; peninsular Thailand and Malaya to Sumatra, Borneo, Java, Nias Island, and Sulawesi.

[[Liquidity preference]]

CATEGORIES: Macroeconomics

In Macroeconomics, the liquidity preference is the demand to hold cash as risk-free wealth. This is also known as Cash preference.  The idea was first developed by John Maynard Keynes in his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (1936).

[[Miroslava Karpovich]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Russian actors, Ukrainian actors

Miroslava Olegovna Karpovich (Миросла́ва Оле́говна Карпо́вич, Мирослава Олегівна Карпович; born on March 1, 1986 in Berdyansk, Ukrainian SSR, USSR) is a Ukraine-born Russian movie, television and theatre actress, comedian, model. Most famous for role of Maria Vasnetsova in sitcom "Daddy's Daughters", where she has been playing since July 13, 2007.

[[Saina Nehwal]]

CATEGORIES: Indian sportspeople, 1990 births, Living people, 2012 Summer Olympics, Indian Olympic bronze medalists, Commonwealth Games medallists, Badminton players

Saina Nehwal  (born March 17, 1990) is an Indian female athlete.  She is best known as a badminton player who competed in the Summer Olympic Games.

Saina won a bronze medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.

[[Laurentophryne parkeri]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Laurentophryne parkeri, also called Parker's tree toad, is a species of toad in the Bufonidae family. It is the only species in the genus Laurentophryne. They live in the Kivu region in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist montane forests.

It is threatened by habitat loss.

[[Leptophryne]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Leptophryne is a small genus of true toads.  There are only two species.  They are found in southeast Asia, in Peninsular Thailand through the Malay Peninsula.

[[Melanophryniscus]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Melanophryniscus (South American Redbelly Toads) is a genus of toads.  There are 25 amphibian species located in Argentina, south of Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay.

[[Mertensophryne]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Mertensophryne or "Snouted Frogs" is a genus of true toads.  They live in eastern and southern Democratic Republic of Congo to Kenya, Tanzania, Malawi, southeastern Zimbabwe and Mozambique. 

[[Sapito Rugoso Del Marahuaka]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The Sapito Rugoso Del Marahuaka (Metaphryniscus sosae) is a species of toad in the Bufonidae family. It is the only species in the genus Metaphryniscus.  It lives in Venezuela. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist montane forests.

[[Nectophryne]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Nectophryne, or African tree toads, is a genus of true toads.  There are only two species.  They live in western Africa - Nigeria, Cameroon, Gabon, northeastern Congo, Bioko and Equatorial Guinea. 

[[Filling Station (ballet)]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets, Compositions

Filling Station is a one-act ballet. The libretto (story) is based on a newspaper report. Virgil Thomson wrote the music. Lew Christensen choreographed (designed) the dances. Christensen performed the role of Mac, the filling station attendant. Paul Cadmus designed the sets and costumes. The ballet was first performed in Hartford, Connecticut by Ballet Caravan in November 1937. A performance was given at the Martin Beck Theater in New York City on May 18, 1939, with Christensen again in the role of the attendant.

Mac is a young, good-looking filling station attendant. His evening solitude is broken by two young and greasy but good-natured truck drivers. The State Trooper (policeman) enters in pursuit. He lectures the boys on their disregard for the speed limit. A brash motorist, his wife, and bratty child interrupt. The Rich Boy and The Rich Girl enter. They are drunken refugees from a country club dance. They rhumba and the others join them. Suddenly, a gangster enters shooting his gun. Mac, the truck drivers, and The State Trooper thwart his attempt to stage a robbery. The Rich Girl however is caught in the gangster's line of fire and dies on the pavement. Her limp body is carried off. The spectators drift away. Mac settles down with his radio and a newspaper to wait for business.

Dance historian Grace Robert praises the ballet in her book The Borzoi Book of Ballets. She singles out the characterizations in particular, noting that they are "definite and well-rounded" and that all of them are seen in terms that are "balletic". She points to the pursuit of the gangster as an especially effective moment. On a darkened stage, several figures with flashlights perform grand jetée (leaps). The beams of light and flying figures create an effect "dramatic out of all proportion to the simplicity of the means employed." The ballet was popular in South America when it was performed there in 1941 by an American company assembled by Lincoln Kirstein. Writing in 1949, Robert noted that only the score survived at that date but a suite arranged from it was heard occasionally in concert or on the radio.

[[Billy the Kid (ballet)]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets, Compositions by Aaron Copland, 1930s works, 1938

Billy the Kid is a one-act ballet. The libretto (story) is attributed to Lincoln Kirstein and is based on the life of Billy the Kid. The music was written by Aaron Copland. Eugene Loring designed the dances. Jared French designed the scenery and costumes. The ballet was first performed in Chicago in October 1938. It was performed in New York City at the Martin Beck Theater on May 24, 1939 with Loring as Billy and Marie-Jeanne in the dual role of Mother and Mexican Sweetheart. During Christmas week 1939, the ballet was presented at the St. James Theater in New York City with Michael Kidd as Billy and Alicia Alonso as Mother and Mexican Sweetheart.

[[Calico]]

Calico may mean:

[[Ballet d'action]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet

Ballet d'action is an 18th-century ballet movement. It was started by French choreographer Jean Georges Noverre in 1760.  The movement focused on character and emotional expression through dancers' bodies and faces, instead of elaborate costumes and props. Noverre started the movement because he was unhappy with the attention focused on technical expertise. He expressed his views in his book Lettres sur la danse et les ballets. He stated there that the purpose of ballet is "to represent characters and express their feelings" through movement rather than costume.

[[Nectophrynoides]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Nectophrynoides is a genus of true toads. They live in Eastern Arc forests and wetlands in Tanzania. All but N. tornieri are threatened. Species of the genus are ovoviviparous: fertilization is internal, and the females give birth to fully developed, small toadlets. Together with the West Africa Nimbaphrynoides, they are the only frogs/toads in the world that do not lay eggs.

[[Nimbaphrynoides]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Nimbaphrynoides is a genus of true toads.  They live in the highlands in the Mount Nimba region of the West African countries of Guinea, Liberia and Côte d'Ivoire. They are Critically Endangered due to habitat loss, and iron and bauxite mining in their small ranges.

The two species are viviparous.  This means they have internal fertilisation. The female gives birth to fully developed, tiny toadlets. Nectophrynoides and Nimbaphrynoides are the only frogs/toads that do not lay eggs.

[[Oreophrynella]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Oreophrynella (bush toads) is a genus of true toads.  They live in southern Venezuela, Guyana and far northern Brazil.

[[Black-knobbed map turtle]]

CATEGORIES: Turtles

The black-knobbed map turtle (Graptemys nigrinoda) is a species of aquatic turtles. Their skin is light gray and have spikes on their shell. They are part of the Graptemys genus and were once called the black-knobbed sawback turtle. They live in rivers in the Mobile Bay in Alabama and Mississippi.

[[Amazonas (Venezuela)]]

CATEGORIES: States of Venezuela

Amazonas is one of the 23 states into which Venezuela is divided. Amazonas State covers a total surface area of 176,899 km² and, in 2007, had a population of 142,200.

The state capital is Puerto Ayacucho. Amazonas has Venezuela's highest proportion of indigenous peoples of Venezuela.

[[Osornophryne]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Osornophryne (Plump Toads) is a genus of true toads.  They live in Colombia and Ecuador.

[[Pedostibes]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Pedostibes (Asian Tree Toads) is a genus of true toads.  They live in South India, Malay Peninsula to Borneo and Sumatra. They have horizontal pupils and webbed fingers and toes.

[[Pelophryne]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Pelophryne (Flathead Toads) is a genus of true toads.  They live in the Philippines, Borneo, Malaya, Singapore and Hainan Island, China.

[[Pseudobufo subasper]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Pseudobufo subasper is a species of toad in the Bufonidae family. It is the only species in the genus Pseudobufo.  They are found in Indonesia and Malaysia.  They live in subtropical or tropical swamps. They are threatened by habitat loss.

This toad can only be found in peat swamps. They have fully webbed back feet.

[[Rhinella]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Rhinella (Beaked Toads or Rio Viejo Toads) is a subgenus of Bufo.  Some people call it its own genus.  It has 71 species of true toads.  They live in Central and South America. 

[[African Red Toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The African red toad or African split-skin toad (Schismaderma carens) is a species of toad in the Bufonidae family. It is the only species in the genus Schismaderma.

It is found in Angola, Botswana, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe, and possibly Lesotho.

It lives in many habitats.  These are dry savanna, moist savanna, subtropical or tropical dry shrubland, subtropical or tropical moist shrubland, subtropical or tropical dry lowland grassland, freshwater marshes, intermittent freshwater marches, arable land, pastureland, urban areas, water storage areas, ponds, canals and ditches, and man-made karsts.

[[Truebella]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Truebella is a genus of true toads.  They live in Peru at the Ayacucho and Junín regions.

[[Werneria]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Werneria (smalltongue toads) is a genus of true toads.  They live in Cameroon and Equatorial Guinea.

[[Wolterstorffina]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

Wolterstorffina (Wolterstorff Toads) is a genus of true toads.  They live in Nigeria and Cameroon.

[[Common toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

The common toad or European toad (Bufo bufo) is an amphibian.  They are found in most of Europe, except for Ireland, Iceland and some Mediterranean islands. The toad usually lies hidden during the day. It becomes active at dusk and spends the night hunting for the invertebrates on which it feeds. It moves with a slow ungainly walk or a short jump.  It has a greyish brown skin covered with wart-like lumps.

The toads in this genus are known as true toads.  They have no teeth, a dry warty skin and horizontal pupils to the eyes.

[[Pelobatidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The European spadefoot toads are a family of frogs, the Pelobatidae.  There is only one living genus, called Pelobates.  It has four species. They live in Europe, the Mediterranean, northwestern Africa and western Asia.

The European spadefoot toads are small to large sized frogs.  They grow up to 10 in length. They burrow in sandy soils. They have a hardened growth on their feet to help in digging. They will come out from the ground during times of rain and breed in pools, which are usually temporary.

All of the species from this family have free-living, aquatic tadpoles. The eggs are laid in temporary ponds that may quickly evaporate.  The tadpole stage is very short.  They grow to adult form in as little as two weeks. To further speed their growth, some of the tadpoles are cannibalistic, eating their brood-mates to increase their supply of protein.

[[Archaeobatrachia]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Archaeobatrachia is a suborder of Anura.  It has various primitive frogs and toads. As the name literally suggests, these are the most primitive frogs. Many of the species (28 in total) show certain body features which are not in other frogs and toads. They are mostly found in Eurasia, New Zealand, the Philippines and Borneo. 

In addition, the family Ascaphidae is found in the Pacific Northwest of the United States.  They are only represented by two species. 

[[Mesobatrachia]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Mesobatrachia is the second largest of the Anura suborders of amphibians. It has 6 families, 20 genera and 168 species. The name suggests they are moderately old.

Mesobatrachia are a newer group.  They were identified in 1993.

[[Tony Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2012 deaths, BAFTA Award winning directors, British cinematographers, British movie editors, Emmy Award winning directors, English movie directors, English movie producers, English screenwriters, English television directors, English television producers, Suicides by jumping in the United States

Anthony David "Tony" Scott (21 June 1944 – 19 August 2012) was a British movie director. He was the younger brother of movie director Ridley Scott.

[[James Gandolfini]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from New Jersey, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Rome, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, People from Park Ridge, New Jersey, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

James Joseph Gandolfini Jr. (September 18, 1961 – June 19, 2013) was an American actor. He was best known for playing Tony Soprano in the HBO television series, The Sopranos. He won three Emmy Awards and a Golden Globe Award for his performance in the role.

[[Sleep hygiene]]

CATEGORIES: Sleep

Sleep hygiene is a set of of practices and changes in behavior that make it easier to get restful sleep. The concept of sleep hygiene was developed in the late 1970s as a method to help people with mild to moderate insomnia. 

Sleep hygiene recommendations include setting up a sleep schedule, using naps with care, not exercising physically or mentally too close to bedtime, reducing stress, reducing nighttime activity, and limiting bed use if not sleeping, to name a few. Other recommendations include avoiding alcohol, nicotine, caffeine, and other stimulants in the hours before bedtime, and having a peaceful, comfortable and dark sleep environment.

Doctors study the sleep hygiene of people who present with insomnia and other conditions, such as depression, and offer recommendations based on the assessment.

[[Parupalli Kashyap]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Indian sportspeople, Hyderabad, India, Badminton players

Parupalli Kashyap (కశ్యప్) (born 8 September 1986), also known as Kashyap Parupalli, is an Indian athlete.  He is best known as a badminton player who competed in the Summer Olympic Games.

[[Sushil Kumar]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Wrestlers, 2008 Summer Olympics, Indian Olympic bronze medalists, 2012 Summer Olympics, Olympic silver medalists, Commonwealth Games medallists

Sushil Kumar is an Indian sportsman.  He is best known as a wrestler who competed in two Summer Olympic Games.

[[Gagan Narang]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, 2012 Summer Olympics, Indian Olympic bronze medalists, Commonwealth Games medallists, Sport shooters, People from Chennai, Hyderabad, India

Gagan Narang (born 6 May 1983) is an Indian sportsman.  His is best known as an shooter (marksman) who competed in three Summer Olympic Games.

[[Zara Tindall]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Exeter, British Olympic silver medalists, Equestrians, Royalty from London, Sportspeople from London

Zara Anne Elizabeth Tindall MBE (née Phillips; born 15 May 1981) is a British equestrian and the second-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.

Tindall is the second child, and only daughter, of Anne, Princess Royal and her first husband, Mark Phillips. She is married to Mike Tindall, who used to be a rugby player for England. She is better known by her maiden (old name before marriage) name. In the line of succession, she is called "Mrs Michael Tindall".

She was given an Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) honour in the 2007 New Year's Honours List, by her grandmother for her services to equestrianism. In 2012, she carried an Olympic flame at a racecourse in Cheltenham.

She won a silver medal at London 2012.

[[Jean-Georges Noverre]]

CATEGORIES: 1727 births, 1810 deaths, French choreographers, French ballet dancers, French writers

Jean-Georges Noverre (29 April 172719 October 1810) was a French dancer and ballet master (choreographer). He is considered the creator of the ballet d'action. He performed or held posts across Europe. His first great success was the ballet Les Fêtes Chinoises. Other ballets include Jason et Médée, La Toilette de Venus, Les Jalousies du sérail, La dour corsaire and Le Jaloux sans rival. He expressed his views on dance in the book Lettres sur la danse et les ballets in 1756 (published in 1760). The French Revolution reduced Noverre to poverty. He died in 1810.

[[Ballet blanc]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet terminology

A ballet blanc (literally, white ballet) is a ballet in the style of the 19th century romantic ballet. The ballerinas and the female members of the corps de ballet wear bell-shaped, calf-length, white ballet tutus. The second acts of La Sylphide and Giselle are representatives of the ballet blanc. Fokine's Les Sylphides is a 20th-century homage to the ballet blanc.

[[Jean-Claude Juncker]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, European Commissioners, Government ministers of Luxembourg, Prime Ministers of Luxembourg

Jean-Claude Juncker (born 9 December 1954) is a politician from Luxembourg. Juncker studied Law. He was one of the people who designed the Maastricht Treaty. Junker was Prime Minister of Luxembourg from 1995 to 2013. In 2014, he was elected President of the European Commission.

[[Outsider art]]

CATEGORIES: Art

Outsider art is art that is non-commercial and that lives outside the usual art galleries.

Usually it is created by people who have little or no artistic training in art schools. Some may have a mental illness like schizophrenia. People who do outsider art are called outsider artists. They create their art from their own inner experience, not caring or knowing what other artists maybe doing. The term outsider art was first used by art critic Roger Casement in 1972. These artists often create buildings with strange architecture they build alone. Some of them also do more conventional arts like painting, sculpture.

Outsider art includes the works of:

[[William Windom (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City, Emmy Award winning actors

William Windom (September 28, 1923 – August 16, 2012) was an American movie, radio, stage, voice, and mostly television actor who's career has lasted for 56 years. Windom is mostly known for his roles in popular television series such as; Matt Decker in Star Trek, as Dr. Seth Hazlitt in Murder, She Wrote, Glen Morley in The Twilight Zone, and is also known for his voice as Puppetino in Pinocchio and the Emperor of the Night. 

[[Asano Nagasato]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Nippon TV Tokyo Verdy Beleza players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players

Asano Nagasato is a former Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team. Her brother Genki Nagasato and sister Yuki Nagasato are footballers.

[[Kōra taisha]]

CATEGORIES: Shinto shrines, Fukuoka Prefecture

Kōra taisha is a Japanese Shinto shrine in Kurume, Fukuoka Prefecture.

[[GamePro]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines, Monthly magazines, 1989 establishments in California, 2015 disestablishments in the United States, 2010s disestablishments in California

Gamepro was an American video game magazine. It focuses on anything to do with video games (such as the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii), PCs and even mobile devices (such as the PlayStation Portable, Nintendo DS, iPhone). Gamepro Media had owned and published the monthly magazine issue and the official website Gamepro.com. The company was also a partly-owned subsidiary of International Data Group (IDG), a technology media, events and research company.

The very first issue of Gamepro was originally published in April 1989. It was a monthly magazine and had its last headquarters based in Oakland, California from June 2002 through May 2015. The official website of the magazine launched in 1998. It was updated daily and had included several game articles, news, previews, reviews, game screenshots and gaming videos on various video games, video game console system platform hardware and video game software development upon in the entertainment gaming industry. The official website also included various user forums, game reviews and other interesting game blogs as well. The official website's headquarters was then and formerly based in San Francisco from May 1998 through May 2002.

Gamepro is currently now-defunct as a magazine and a website.

Gamepro would only then now become part of the PC World website, covering on the latest and most recently developed video games in the entertainment video gaming industry, and to which is now currently being run by the new PC World staff.

[[List of music magazines]]

CATEGORIES: Music magazines, Music-related lists

This is a list of magazines that focuses on music. Topics included in these magazines are about the music industry and news related to musicians, musical instruments, upcoming or newly released albums and songs.

[[List of men's magazines]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines, Lists

This is a list of magazines that are of interest to men. Topics included in these magazines are men's health, fashion and style, new technology and gadgets, sports, and magazines that features women on their cover such as pornographic magazines for men. There are also LGBT-related magazines for gay men.

[[Second derivative]]

CATEGORIES: Calculus

Other notations are used, but the above two are the most commonly used.

[[Horatio Alger, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1832 births, 1899 deaths, 19th-century American children's writers, 19th-century American novelists, 19th-century American poets, Harvard University alumni, Writers from Massachusetts

Horatio Alger, Jr. (January 13, 1832 – July 18, 1899) was an American writer. He wrote magazine stories and poems, a few novels for adults, and 100 plus boys' books. His boys' books were hugely popular.

Alger was born in Massachusetts, and attended Harvard College. He became a Unitarian minister, but his career as a clergyman was brief. It ended when his congregation charged him with child molestation. Criminal charges were not placed against him, but his career in the church was finished.

He moved to New York City to become a professional writer. In 1868, Alger found his place in the literary world with his fourth boys' book, Ragged Dick. This book is about a poor shoe shine boy in New York City who rises to middle class comfort and security through hard work, honesty, and a little luck. The book was a great success.

Alger continued to write boys' books. They were similar to Ragged Dick in theme and other details. Characters such as the poor but honest boy, the snobbish youth, and the greedy lawyer appeared in one book after another.  Details changed from book to book, but the essentials remained the same. Boys loved the books.

By the 1870s, boys' tastes had changed. They wanted cowboys, hunters, and Indians. Alger headed west to gather material for future books. The trip had little impact on his writing however. He wrote four books set in the west called the "Pacific Series", but they were stuck in Alger's rags-to-riches rut.

In the last decades of the 19th century, boys' tastes changed again. They wanted violence, murder, and other sensational themes. Alger gave them what they wanted. Public librarians did not like these books. They wondered whether children should be reading them. They began throwing Alger's books away.

Alger passed his last years quietly. He went to the theatre, visited old friends, and kept in touch with the boys he had helped over the years. He based new books on those of his past. He died at his sister's home in South Natick, Massachusetts, in 1899.

[[Berlin, New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Hampshire, 1820s establishments in New Hampshire

Berlin is a city on the  Androscoggin River in Coos County, New Hampshire. It was first settled in 1823-1824 by William Sessions and Cyrus Wheeler. It was Incorporated as a city in 1897 and ccording to the United States census of 2010, has a population of  10,051.

[[Cryptobranchoidea]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

Cryptobranchoidea is a suborder of salamanders.  They are found in eastern North America, China, Taiwan, and Japan.  They are known as primitive salamanders. This is in contrast to Salamandroidea, or advanced salamander.

[[Salamandroidea]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

Salamandroidea is a suborder of salamanders, the advanced salamanders. The members of the suborder are found worldwide except for Antarctica, Southern Sahara, and Oceania. 

All members use internal fertilization. The female is fertilized by a spermatophore, a sperm-containing cap put by the male in her cloaca. The sperm is stored in on the roof of the cloaca until it is needed at the time of egg laying.

The earliest known salamandroid fossils are from the Tiaojishan Formation.  They are dated to the late Jurassic period about 157 million years ago.

[[Wendy Schaal]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, Actors from Chicago, Comedians from Chicago

Wendy Schaal (born July 2, 1954) is an American actress. She starred in Seth MacFarlane's animated series American Dad! She was born in Chicago, Illinois. She is currently not married. Her father was actor Richard Schaal. Valerie Harper is her former step-mother.

[[Scott Grimes]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American movie actors, American voice actors, American television actors, American musicians, American singer-songwriters, People from Lowell, Massachusetts, Actors from Massachusetts, Singers from Massachusetts, Musicians from Massachusetts

Scott Christopher Richard Grimes (born July 9, 1971) is an American actor and songwriter. He played Archie Morris in ER, Will McCorkle in Party of Five, Donald Malarkey in Band of Brothers, and Steve Smith in American Dad!. Grimes was born in Lowell, Massachusetts. He married Dawn Bailey-Grimes for ten years.

[[Rachael MacFarlane]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American television actors, American voice actors, American video game actors, Actors from Connecticut

Rachael Ann MacFarlane (born March 21, 1976) is an American voice actress best known for her voice roles in Codename: Kids Next Door as supreme leader Numbuh 362, Nutri Ventures, The Powerpuff Girls voicing various characters and Blossom in outside of media series, and the FOX television animated series Family Guy and American Dad!, both created by her brother Seth MacFarlane. She was born in Kent, Connecticut. She has been married to Spencer Laudiero since 2008. They have two daughters. 

[[Caeciliidae]]

CATEGORIES: Caecilians

Caeciliidae is the family of common caecilians.  They are found in Central and South America, equatorial Africa and India.  Like other caecilians, they look like worms or snakes. 

Although they are the most diverse of the caecilian families, the caeciliids do have a number of features in common that make them different from other caecilians. In particular, their skulls have few bones.  The ones tey have are fused to form a solid ram.  This helps in digging through the soil. The mouth is beneath the nose area.  There is no tail.

Many caeciliids lay their eggs in moist soil. The eggs then hatch into aquatic larvae. However, some species do not have a larval stage.  The eggs hatch into juveniles with the same form as the adults.  In some they lack eggs and give birth to live young.

[[Sylvester Weaver (executive)]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 2002 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California, Emmy Award winners

Sylvester Laflin "Pat" Weaver, Jr. (December 21, 1908 – March 15, 2002) was an American radio advertising executive, who became president of NBC between 1953 and 1955. He has been well-known for his commercial broadcasting's format and philosophy as radio gave way to television as America's dominant home entertainment. He was married to Elizabeth Inglis from 1942 until his death in 2002, they had two children; a son Trajan Victor Charles and a daughter Sigourney Weaver.

Weaver was born in Los Angeles, California on December 21, 1908. He was the son of actor/director Sylvester Laflin Weaver, Sr. (1874-1964) and actress Eleanor Isabel Dixon (1879-1966), Sylvester Jr.'s grandfather was Peter Laflin Weaver (1841-1912), a businessman, his great-grandfather was Henry Laflin Weaver (1808-1894), also a businessman, his great-great-grandfather was Charles Laflin Weaver (1708-1816), a manufacturer, Sylvester, Jr. died on March 15, 2002 in his home in Santa Barbara, California from natural causes, he was 93 years old.

[[Elizabeth Inglis]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2007 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors

Elizabeth Inglis (July 10, 1913 - August 25, 2007) was a English movie actress, best known for her role in The Letter, along with actress Bette Davis. She is also known for her role in Alfred Hitchcock's The 39 Steps, she was the last known survivor of the movie before her death in 2007. 

Inglis was born in Colchester, England on July 10, 1913. She was married to Sylvester Weaver from 1942 until his death in 2002, they had two children, Trajan Victor Charles Weaver and Sigourney Weaver. Inglis died on August 25, 2007 in Santa Barbara, California from natural causes, she was 94 years old.

[[Ichthyophiidae]]

CATEGORIES: Caecilians

Ichthyophiidae is the family of Asiatic tailed caecilians or fish caecilians. They are found in south-east Asia.

They are primitive caecilians. They do not have some of the features found in the other families. For example, the mouth is not back underneath the head, they have tails, and have many scales on their body. They have two sets of muscles for closing the jaw.  This is a feature unique to caecilians, but absent in the related family Rhinatrematidae.

They lay their eggs in small holes in moist soil.  The eggs hatch into larvae.  They live in streams or underground seepages.  They the change into adults. There is some evidence that the female may protect the eggs until they hatch.

[[Rhinatrematidae]]

CATEGORIES: Caecilians

Rhinatrematidae is the family of neotropical tailed caecilians or beaked caecilians. They are found in the equatorial countries of South America.

They are usually said to be the most primitive of the caecilian families.  They have many features other groups do not. For example, they still have a tail, and the mouth is not to the back on the underside of the head. They lay their eggs in small holes in the soil. The larvae have external gills.  They live in seepages until they change into adults. The adults live in moist soil and leaf litter.

[[Emily Jacir]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Palestinian people, People from Bethlehem, Photographers

Emily Jacir (املي جاسر, born 1970 in Bethlehem) is a Palestinian artist. She uses movies, photography, video and performance art. Her work was first shown in 1994. Since then, it has been shown in exhibitions around the Americas, Europe and the Middle East. It is held in museums in Italy, Palestine, England, San Francisco, and several museums in New York.

Jacir won the Golden Lion for artists under 40 (Leone d'Oro a un artista under 40) at the Venice Biennale in October 2007. She also won the Prince Claus Award in 2007. In 2008, the won the annual Hugo Boss Prize.

[[Jeff Fischer]]

CATEGORIES: American voice actors, American television actors, 1968 births, Living people

Jeff Fischer (born 1968) is an American voice actor. He is known for his work in commercials, cartoons, and video games. In 2005 he was chosen to announce the Teen Choice Awards. He is mostly known for his role as Jeff Fischer in American Dad!.

[[Meles Zenawi]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Deaths from surgical complications, Prime Ministers of Ethiopia, Presidents of Ethiopia

Meles Zenawi Asres (8 May 1955 – 20 August 2012) was the Prime Minister of Ethiopia since 1995 till his death on 20 August 2012. He was President of Ethiopia from 1991 to 1995. Since 1985, he was the chairman of the Tigrayan Peoples' Liberation Front, and the head of the ruling Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front.

Meles was born in Adwa, Tigray in Northern Ethiopia, to an Ethiopian father from Adwa, Ethiopia, and a mother from Adi Quala, Eritrea. Meles Zenawi was married to Azeb Mesfin and was the father of three children. Meles died on August 20, 2012 in a hospital in Brussels, Belgium after having a brain tumor removed. Zenawi's health was in question for weeks until his death. Meles was admitted to hospital in July 2012. He was 57 years old.

[[Neon Trees]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American new wave bands, American pop music groups, American rock bands, Musical groups from Utah, Provo, Utah, Musical groups established in 2005

Neon Trees is an American alternative rock band from Provo, Utah. Neon Trees has four members in the band; the current band members are Tyler Glenn, Chris Allen, Branden Campbell and Elaine Bradley.

The band was formed in 2005 by band members and neighbours at the time; Tyler Glenn and Chris Allen. The bands name originates from the lighted trees on the In-N-Out Burger signs.

They released an EP titled "Start a Fire" in 2009 and it was limited to one pressing of 600 units and was only available for sale at shows in their late 2009. They released their debut album "Habits" on March 16, 2010, under Mercury and Def Jam Recordings. They are currently signed to Mercury Records and Def Jam Recordings. They released their second studio album "Picture Show" on April 17, 2012. They released their third album, "Pop Psychology", on April 22, 2014. 

[[Victor Ponta]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Romania, 1972 births, Living people, People from Bucharest

Victor Ponta (b. 20 September 1972, Bucharest) is a Romanian politician. He was president of the Social Democratic Party (PSD) from February 2010 until July 2015 when he resigned. On 7 May 2012, he became Prime Minister of Romania. He resigned on 4 November 2015

He studied law in Bucharest, finishing in 1995. He was PSD's candidate for the Romanian presidential elections in 2014, but since then has left the Social Democratic Party and created his own party which he called the Pro Romania Party.

[[Steering]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics, Physics, Vehicles

Steering is the collection of mechanical parts which allow a vessel (ship, boat) or vehicle (truck, car, motorcycle or bicycle) to follow the desired course. Rail transport vehicles (trains and trams or streetcars) are steered by their rail tracks.

In vehicle steering, the person turning the steering wheel directly controls the rate of the turn. Response is immediate. Submarines and ships operate in water, and use control surfaces that work on the fluid. There is a delay between the steering controls and the time it takes for the system to respond.

Some land vehicles such as tanks, and some boats, can use differential steering, in which one side is pushed forward.

[[Game controller]]

CATEGORIES: Video game controllers

A game controller is a device used to play video games.

[[Famitsu]]

CATEGORIES: Monthly magazines

Famitsu is a Japanese language video game magazine. It is published by Enterbrain, Inc. and Tokuma. Currently, there are five Famitsū magazines:  Shūkan Famitsū, Famitsū PS3 + PSP, Famitsū Xbox 360, Famitsū Wii+DS, and Famitsū Wave DVD.  Shūkan Famitsū is the original Famitsū magazine. It is known as the mostly read and respected video game news magazine in Japan.

[[Florin Georgescu]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Romanian politicians, People from Bucharest

Florin Georgescu (born 25 November 1953, in Bucharest) is a Romanian politician. He is the Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finances. He finished the University of Finances in 1976.

[[Crin Antonescu]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Presidents of the Senate of Romania

Crin  Antonescu (b. 21 September 1959, Tulcea) is a Romanian liberal politician. Antonescu was the President of PNL but in 2014 quit the presidency and now is only a member of the party.

On 3 July 2012, he was elected President of the Romanian Senate. In 2014 he resigned and was replaced by Cătălin Popescu Tăriceanu

[[Mihai Răzvan Ungureanu]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Romanian diplomats, Romanian historians, Prime Ministers of Romania

Mihai Răzvan Ungureanu (b. 22 September 1968, Iași) is a Romanian politician, historian and diplomat. He was the Minister of Foreign Affairs from 2004 to 2007 and director of SIE from 2007 to 2012. He was Prime-minister of Romania from 9 February 2012 until 9 May 2012.

[[Magnetostatic loudspeaker]]

CATEGORIES: Audio technology

A magnetostatic loudspeaker is a dipole speaker. It is quite similar than electrostatic loudspeaker but it doesn't use high voltages, it uses high currents.

The impedance of a magnetostatic speaker may be so low that an amplifier has to be ready to feed low impedance. Sound quality about current speaker type is respected.

[[The Pursuit of Happyness]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 movies, American drama movies, American biographical movies, Columbia Pictures movies, Movies set in San Francisco, English-language movies

The Pursuit of Happyness is a 2006 American biographical drama movie. The movie's story was about an entrepreneur, Chris Gardner, and his time while he was homeless. The movie's director was Gabriele Muccino. The movie starred Will Smith. He played Gardner in the movie. Smith's son, Jaden Smith also starred in the movie. He played Gardner's son, Christopher Jr.

[[Constitutional Court of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Courts (law), Constitutional Court of Romania

The Constitutional Court of Romania (CCR) is independent of any other public authority. It has, according to the Romanian Constitution, the guardian of constitutional rule. This means the court has the power to make decisions, if the meaning of official laws is questioned (or challenged). This could happen if the laws are written so that they might harm the rights and freedoms of the Romanian people. 

[[Augustin Zegrean]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Romanian lawyers, Constitutional Court of Romania

Augustin Zegrean (born 29 March 1954, in Sânmartin, Cluj) is a Romanian lawyer. Since 13 July 2007, he has been a judge at the Constitutional Court of Romania. On 17 July 2010 he was chosen as President of the Constitutional Court of Romania. He graduated from the University of law Babeș-Bolyai from Cluj în 1980.

[[CCR]]

CCR might mean:

[[Dwight F. Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1945 deaths, American male tennis players, American military personnel of World War I, American Olympians, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Harvard University alumni, History of tennis, Politicians from Missouri, Sportspeople from St. Louis, Missouri, United States Secretaries of War

Dwight Filley Davis (July 5, 1879 - November 28, 1945) was an American tennis player and politician. He was the founder of the  international tennis competition "Davis Cup".

He served as United States Secretary of War from 1925 to 1929.

Davis died at his home in Washington, D.C. on November 28, 1945, after a six-month illness.

[[Sepp Blatter]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Swiss sportspeople, Valais, Presidents of FIFA

Josef Blatter, mostly known as Sepp Blatter, (born 10 March 1936) is a Swiss association football administrator.  He is best known as the 8th President of FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association). He served as president from 1998 until his resignation in 2016. He replaced the popular João Havelange. His presidency ended when he was banned from FIFA on 21 December 2015. He officially left office after Gianni Infantino replaced him on 26 February 2016.

[[Kieren Perkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, 2000 Summer Olympics, Australian Olympic gold medalists, Australian Olympic silver medalists, Commonwealth Games medallists, Australian swimmers

Kieren John Perkins OAM (born 14 August 1973), is an Australian professional sportsman.  He is best known as a swimmer.

Perkins won two Olympic gold medals in 1992 and 1996 in the 1500-metre freestyle, and a silver medal in 2000.

[[Tracy Austin]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, American female tennis players, Living people, Sportspeople from Los Angeles County, California, US Open (tennis) champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Tracy Austin (born 12 December 1962, in Palos Verdes, California) is a former American tennis player. She is youngest ever US Open female singles champion and the youngest person to become a member in the International Tennis Hall of Fame. 

[[Ally Sheedy]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, Writers from New York City, 1962 births, Living people

Ally Sheedy (born 13 June 1962) is an American movie and television actress who was once tied to the Brat Pack in the 1980s. She was born and raised in New York City. Notable movies in which she starred include: The Breakfast Club, Short Circuit and WarGames. The actress was born in New York City. Her father is of Irish Catholic background; her mother is Jewish. 

[[Royal Mail Ship]]

CATEGORIES: Ships, Postal services in the United Kingdom

Royal Mail Ship (RMS) is the ship prefix used for seagoing vessels that carry mail under contract to the British Royal Mail.

[[Royal Medical Society]]

CATEGORIES: 1737 establishments, Royal Societies of the United Kingdom, 18th century establishments in Great Britain, 1730s establishments in Europe

Royal Medical Society (RMS) is the oldest medical society in the United Kingdom.

The RMS is a British professional society engaged in the moving forward of medical knowledge.

[[Royal Microscopical Society]]

CATEGORIES: 1839 establishments in Europe, Organisations based in the United Kingdom, Royal Societies of the United Kingdom, 1830s establishments in the United Kingdom

Royal Microscopical Society (RMS) is a British and international scientific society.  RMS promotes the scientific field which uses microscopes. 

[[List of Royal Societies]]

CATEGORIES: United Kingdom-related lists, Royal Societies of the United Kingdom

List of Royal Societies includes organizations with a royal charter and permission to use the term "Royal" in the official name.  These include

[[Agnieszka]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Agnieszka is the Polish equivalent of the forename Agnes. It may refer to:

[[Angie Harmon]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American television actors, Models from Texas

Angela Michelle "Angie" Harmon (born August 10, 1972) is a fashion model and actress. She appeared on the covers of ELLE and Esquire magazines. Harmon also acted in television series including Rizzoli & Isles, Law & Order and Baywatch.

[[Novi Sad]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Serbia

Novi Sad (Serbian Cyrillic: Нови Сад, nɔ̝̂v̞iː sâːd) is the second largest city in Serbia. It is the capital of both Vojvodina and the South Bačka District.

[[Subotica]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Serbia

Subotica (Суботица sǔbɔtit͡sa) is a city in northern Serbia. It is in the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. It is the northern most city in Serbia. 

The Serbian language is the most employed language in daily life, but Hungarian is also used by almost one third of the population in their daily conversations. Both languages are also widely employed in commercial and official signage 

[[Contraband (2012 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 crime movies, 2012 thriller movies, 2010s crime thriller movies, 2010s action movies, American crime thriller movies, American action movies, British crime movies, British thriller movies, British action movies, French crime movies, French thriller movies, French action movies, Universal Pictures movies, Movies directed by Baltasar Kormákur

Contraband is an American action crime thriller movie. It was directed by Baltasar Kormákur. It stars Mark Wahlberg and Kate Beckinsale. The movie is a remake of the 2008 Icelandic movie Reykjavík-Rotterdam which starred Kormákur. Contraband was released on January 13, 2012 in the United States by Universal Pictures. Filming took place in New Orleans, Louisiana and Panama City. Contraband was released to DVD on April 24, 2012 with a rating of R.

[[Joyful Noise]]

CATEGORIES: American musical movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies about autism

Joyful Noise is a 2012 musical movie. The movie stars Queen Latifah, Dolly Parton, Keke Palmer, Courtney B. Vance, and Jeremy Jordan. The screenplay was written and directed by Todd Graff. The music was by Mervyn Warren who used gospel music in the movie. Joyful Noise was released in the United States on January 13, 2012.

[[We Need to Talk About Kevin]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 crime movies, 2011 drama movies, 2010s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, Antisocial personality disorder in fiction, British crime drama movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, American independent movies

We Need to Talk About Kevin is a 2011 British-American crime movie. It was directed by Lynne Ramsay. It was based on Lionel Shriver's novel of the same name. The movie was developed in 2005 but due to money problems it was not filmed until April 2010.

Tilda Swinton stars as the mother of Kevin. Throughout the movie she tries to understand why her son is a sociopath and murderer. The movie premiered at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival and was released in the United Kingdom on October 21, 2011. We Need to Talk About Kevin was released on Blu-ray and DVD on May 29, 2012.

[[Haywire]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 movies, American crime thriller movies, American spy movies, American action movies, Irish movies, English-language movies, Martial arts movies, Movies directed by Steven Soderbergh

Haywire is a 2011 action thriller movie. It was directed by Steven Soderbergh. It stars Gina Carano, Antonio Banderas, Michael Douglas, Ewan McGregor, Channing Tatum, and Michael Fassbender.

Haywire was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc on May 1, 2012.

[[Emilio Estevez]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from New York City, 1962 births, Living people

Emilio Estevez (born May 12, 1962) is an actor, director and producer. He was originally part of the Brat Pack in the 1980s. His most notable movies include The Breakfast Club, Repo Man and Men at Work. Estevez' father is actor Martin Sheen. His brother is actor Charlie Sheen.

[[The Fairly OddParents (season 1)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 television series debuts, Nickelodeon television series, American television seasons, 2001 television seasons

The first season of The Fairly OddParents is the first season of the program. It was first shown on television on March 30, 2001 with "The Big Problem / Power Mad".

[[Morgan Paull]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, Deaths from stomach cancer, People from Ashland, Oregon, Actors from Oregon

Morgan Paull (December 15, 1944 – July 17, 2012) was an American actor. He was mostly known for his role as Holden in the Ridley Scott movie Blade Runner. 

[[Jill St. John]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, Actresses who played Bond girls

Jill St. John (born August 19, 1940) is an American actress. She is best known for her acting in the 1971 movie Diamonds are Forever. She has acted in many movies. She has not acted since about 2002. She was born in Los Angeles.

[[Frank Cady]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Disease-related deaths in Oregon, Actors from California, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors

Randolph Cady (September 8, 1915 – June 8, 2012) was an American movie and television actor best known for his recurring and popular role as storekeeper Sam Drucker in three American television series during the 1960s — Petticoat Junction, Green Acres, and The Beverly Hillbillies.

Cady was born on September 8, 1915 in Susanville, California. Cady was married to Shirley Cady from 1940 until her death in 2008. Cady had 2 children. Cady died on June 8, 2012 in his home in Wilsonville, Oregon from natural causes, aged 96.

[[Shiogama Jinja]]

CATEGORIES: Shinto shrines, Miyagi Prefecture, Fukushima Prefecture

Shiogama Jinja is a Japanese Shinto shrine in Shiogama, Miyagi Prefecture, Japan.

[[Ben Gazzara]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City, Emmy Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning directors

Biagio Anthony Gazzarra (August 28, 1930 – February 3, 2012), known as Ben Gazzara, was an American movie, stage, and Emmy Award winning television actor and director. Gazzara has appeared in many movies such as; Capone, Saint Jack, An Early Frost, Road House, Summer Sam, 13, and his final movie Max Rose. 

Gazzara was born on August 28, 1930 in New York City, New York. He was educated at the Actors Studio and at The New School.  Gazzara was married to Loiuse Erickson from 1951 until they divorced in 1957. Secondly he married Janice Rule from 1961 until they divorced in 1979. Gazzara lastly married Elke Krivat from 1982 until his death in 2012. Gazzara died on February 3, 2012 from Pancreatic cancer, he was 81 years old.

[[Timothy Hutton]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Malibu, California, American movie actors, 1960 births, Living people

Timothy Hutton (born August 16, 1960) is an American movie and television actor who starred in the 1980 movie Ordinary People. He also acted in several other movies, including French Kiss and All the Money in the World. He was born around California.

[[Luke Askew]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), People from Macon, Georgia, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from lung cancer

Luke Askew (March 26, 1932 – March 29, 2012) was an American movie and television actor best known for his role in the 1969 film Easy Rider. He had a rare lead role in the spaghetti Western Night of the Serpent (La notte dei serpenti – 1969). Askew began his career in the 1967 Otto Preminger movie Hurry Sundown and his career would last until his retirement in 2005. Askew was born in Macon, Georgia. Askew died on March 29, 2012 from lung cancer in his home in Portland, Oregon, he was 80 years old. Askew was never married. 

[[Lauren Hutton]]

CATEGORIES: American models, Actors from South Carolina, American movie actors, 1943 births, Living people, People from Charleston, South Carolina

Lauren Hutton (born November 17 1943, Charleston, South Carolina) is an American fashion model and actress who appeared on the cover of Vogue magazine more than 20 times. She acted in multiple movies in her career, such as American Gigolo, a movie from 1980.

[[Otto Preminger]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1986 deaths, American movie directors, American movie producers, American voice actors, Austrian Jews, Austrian movie directors, American theatre directors, Austrian stage actors, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Deaths from lung cancer, Golden Globe Award winning directors, Jewish American actors, Jewish businesspeople, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Ukrainian Jews

Otto Ludwig Preminger (5 December 1905 – 23 April 1986) was an Austrian-American movie director and producer, theatre director, and actor.

[[Ian Abercrombie]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from Essex, Deaths from renal failure, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Ian Abercrombie (11 September 1934 – 26 January 2012) was an English actor.

[[Esther Rolle]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American dancers, Emmy Award winning actors, Deaths from diabetes, 1920 births, 1998 deaths

Esther Rolle (November 8 1920 – November 17 1998) was an American actress. She was best known  known for the series Good Times. She died from diabetes.

[[Esther Williams]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Inglewood, California, Businesspeople from Los Angeles County, California, American movie actors, American swimmers, Deaths from natural causes, Sportspeople from Los Angeles County, California, 1921 births, 2013 deaths

Esther Williams (August 8, 1921 – June 6, 2013) was an American former swimmer and actress. She starred in movies in her career. She later became a businesswoman.

[[Anthony Bate]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from Worcestershire, Disease-related deaths in England, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors

Anthony Bate (August 31, 1927 – June 19, 2012) was an English actor.

He is possibly best known for his role as Oliver Lacon in the BBC television adaptations of the John le Carré novels Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy and Smiley's People.

Bate's other credits include: Dixon of Dock Green, The Saint, The Avengers, Prime Suspect, A Touch of Frost and Midsomer Murders.

Bate was born in Stourbridge, Worcestershire, England on August 31, 1927 to Hubert George Cookson Bate and to Cecile Marjorie Canadine. Bate was educated at the King Edward VI School, Stourbridge and at the Central School of Speech and Drama. His career would begin in 1953 and would last until his retirement in 2005.

Bate lived in London, England. Bate was married to Diana Fay from 1954 until his death in 2012, together they had 2 children. Bate died in Newport, Isle of Wight from a short illness, he was 84 years old.

[[Christina Pickles]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from London

Christina Pickles (born 17 February 1935) is an English movie, stage, and television actress, best known for her long-running role of Nurse Helen Rosenthal in the hospital drama St. Elsewhere, for which she was nominated for four Emmy Awards. Pickles is also known as for playing Ross Geller's mother (alongside Elliott Gould) in the hit comedy sitcom Friends. She was born in Yorkshire, England. She is currently not married.

[[Michael York]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Actors from Buckinghamshire, Actors from London, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Officers of the Order of the British Empire

Michael York OBE (born Michael Hugh Johnson; 27 March 1942) is an English actor. York has a career that has spanned for 47 years. York has appeared in many movies such as; Justine, The Guru, Murder on Orient Express, Logan's Run, Fedora, True Women, Leonard 6, Austin Powers Movie Series, and in Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen. 

York was born in Fulmer, Buckinghamshire, England and is a naturalized American citizen. He studied at Bromley Grammar School for Boys and at the University College, Oxford. York has been married to Patricia McCallum since 1965. He has a stepson.

In 2013, York announced he is suffering from amyloidosis and this has affected his voice and face.

[[Emil Boc]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Romanian politicians

Emil Boc (b. 6 September 1966, Răchițele, Cluj) is a Romanian politician. He was the president of the Democratic Liberal Party from 2005 to 2012. He was Prime Minister of Romania from 2008 - February 2012.  Now he is Mayor of Cluj-Napoca.

[[Fukui, Fukui]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Fukui Prefecture

Fukui City (or Fukui-shi; 福井市,) is the capital city of Fukui Prefecture in Japan. It became a core city of Japan in 2019.  As of July 2021, there are 260,254 people living there. The land area is 275,381,842 square kilometers (1 October 2018).  

From the Meiji period, the silk fabrics industry was a big business in Fukui City, but it has decreased after World WarⅡ. Today the main industries of Fukui-shi are for fabrics and chemicals. 

Because Fukui prefecture is famous for dinosaurs, there are monuments of dinosaurs in front of  the JR Fukui station in the downtown of Fukui City. In addition, the building that is called "happiring" was built as part of city planning near the station. There are 186 cultural properties which include historical material, architectures, works of art, ethnic sites, scenic beauties, and cultural landscape.

[[Obama, Fukui]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Fukui Prefecture

Obama is a Japanese city in Fukui Prefecture. The city is on the coast of the Sea of Japan.

[[Ike Turner]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American R&B musicians, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, Singers from Mississippi, 1931 births, 2007 deaths

Ike Turner (November 5, 1931 – December 12, 2007) was an American singer, songwriter and recording artist. He recorded many hit records, most of which were done with his wife Tina Turner. He was born in Clarksdale, Mississippi, although he later moved to St. Louis, Missouri then to California. He died of an accidental cocaine overdose in San Diego.

[[Nicolae Văcăroiu]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Presidents of Romania, Prime Ministers of Romania, Presidents of the Senate of Romania

Nicolae Văcăroiu (born 5 December 1943 in Cetatea Albă, now Bilhorod-Dnistrovskyi in Ukraine) is a Romanian politician. He is a member of the Social Democratic Party. He was the Prime Minister between 1992 and 1996. Before the 1989 Revolution he worked at the Committee for State Planning with Theodor Stolojan.

He was the President of the Senate of Romania for almost eight years.

On 14 October 2008 he was voted by the Parliament as President of the Court of Audit.

[[Galina Bob]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Russian actors

Galina Dmitriyevna Bob (Гали́на Дми́триевна Боб; born 4 November 1984) is a Russian movie, television and theatre actress. She is most famous for role of Maria "Bobylych" Bobylkina in the comedy television series Deffchonki, which she has been playing since 2012.

[[Melissa & Joey]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 American television series debuts, 2015 American television series endings, 2010s American sitcoms, 2010s romance television series, Romantic comedy television series, Television series about families, Television series set in Ohio, English-language television programs

Melissa & Joey is an ABC Family television series. It stars Melissa Joan Hart and Joey Lawrence. It first aired on ABC Family on August 17, 2010. The show follows local politician Mel Burke (Melissa Joan Hart) and Joe Longo (Joey Lawrence). Mel hires him to take care of her niece and nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke.

The show has been renewed by ABC Family for a second season of fifteen episodes. They began airing on May 30, 2012. The show is ranked number one on Cable TV's telecast at 8 o'clock for people ages 18–34, 18-49 and 12-34. On August 17, 2012, ABC Family renewed the show for a third season. It premiered in Spring 2013. The fourth series begins in October 2014.

On May 24, 2011, Shout! Factory released Melissa & Joey: Season One, Part One on DVD in Region 1. It includes special features and a sneak peek of the rest of season one episodes, bloopers and interviews with the cast. On October 4, 2011, Shout! Factory released Melissa & Joey: Season One, Part Two on DVD in Region 1. It included the rest of the episodes of the first season in a 2-disc set.

[[Mario Van Peebles]]

CATEGORIES: African American actors, African American movie directors, African American movie producers, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, Actors from Mexico City, 1957 births, Living people

Mario Van Peebles (born January 15, 1957) is an American movie actor who was born in Mexico City. He directed and starred in numerous movies, including New Jack City. He is son of filmmaker Melvin Van Peebles.

[[Joyce Brothers]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Television personalities from New York City, Writers from New York City, Deaths from respiratory failure, 1927 births, 2013 deaths

Joyce Brothers (October 20, 1927 – May 13, 2013) was an American television personality and actress. She has been on many TV programs. These include The Nanny, Melrose Place and Frasier. She is also a newspaper columnist. Many date of birth related sources say 1927 is her birth year while others claim 1928 or 1929 was her birth year. Brothers died on May 13, 2013 in Fort Lee, New Jersey from respiratory failure, aged 85.

[[Herbert Lom]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from London, Deaths from natural causes, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English radio actors, Czech actors, Czechoslovak people, Entertainers from Prague

Herbert Lom (Herbert Karel Angelo Kuchačevič ze Schluderpacheru, September 11, 1917 – September 27, 2012) was a Czech-English movie, stage, and television actor who was based London, England in the United Kingdom since 1939 until his retirement in 2009.

In a career lasting more than 60 years he appeared in character roles, usually playing villains early in his career and professional men in later years. He is best known for his role as (former) Chief Inspector Charles Dreyfus in the Pink Panther movie series. Lom retired in 2009.

Lom was born in Prague, Austria-Hungary (now Czech Republic) on September 11, 1917 to Karl ze Schluderpacheru and to Olga (née Gottlieb). He was raised in London, England. Lom was married three times. He was married to Dina Shea from 1948 until they divorced in 1971. Lom had three children. Lom was friends with actor Peter Sellers.

Lom died on September 27, 2012 in his sleep in his London, England home from natural causes, aged 95. Lom died just 16 days later from his 95th birthday.

[[The Satanic Bible]]

CATEGORIES: Satanism, Books, Religious texts

The Satanic Bible is a book by Anton LaVey. The Church of Satan considers it their main text. It is a collection of essays that detail the core principles of Satanism. It is not a book about worshiping Satan. Satan in The Satanic Bible is just a symbol of freedom from the restrictive rules of Christianity and other right-hand path religions. The Satanic Bible teaches that God and the Devil do not exist, and encourages people to worship themselves instead.

[[Don Grady]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Actors from San Diego, California, Actors from San Francisco, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American composers, musicians from California

Don Louis Agrati (June 8, 1944 – June 27, 2012), better known as Don Grady, was an American television, and movie actor, composer, and musician. He was best known both as one of Mickey Mouse's original Mouseketeers, and as Robbie Douglas on My Three Sons. His sister was also an actress, billed as Lani O'Grady. Their father was Lou A. Agrati. Their mother was a talent agent, known as Mary Grady. 

Grady was born in San Diego, California on June 8, 1944. Grady was married two times; first to Julie Boonisar from 1976 until they divorced in 1979. Lastly he was married to Virginia Lewsader from 1985 until his death in 2012. Grady died on June 27, 2012 in his home in Thousand Oaks, California from cancer. He was 68 years old.

[[George Murdock]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from cancer, American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, Actors from Kansas

George Murdock (June 25, 1930 – April 30, 2012) was an American television and movie actor.

Among his most famous characters for movies and TV were Lt. Scanlon, the oily Internal Affairs officer in Barney Miller,  Dr. Salik in Battlestar Galactica TV series and his appearance in Star Trek V: The Final Frontier, directed by William Shatner, who called him "a wonderful actor". Murdock career would begin in 1961 until his death in 2012.

Murdock was born on June 25, 1930 in Salina, Kansas. Murdock was never married and had no children. Murdock died on April 30, 2012 in a hospital in Burbank, California from complications from cancer, he was 81 years old.

[[Doris Singleton]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors

Doris Singleton (Dorthea Singleton; September 28, 1919 – June 26, 2012) was an American movie and television actress. She was best known for her role as Carolyn Appleby in I Love Lucy. Her career lasted for 31 years until her retirement in 1986. 

Singleton was born in New York City, New York on September 28, 1919. Singleton was married to Charles Issacs from 1941 until his death in 2002. They had no children. 

Singleton died on June 26, 2012 in her home in Los Angeles, California from natural causes. She was 92 years old.

[[Blake Edwards]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2010 deaths, Writers from Tulsa, Oklahoma, American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, American television actors, Deaths from pneumonia, Actors from Tulsa, Oklahoma

Blake Edwards (July 26, 1922 – December 15, 2010) was an American movie actor, director, screenwriter and producer.

[[Nanny McPhee]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, 2000s fantasy movies, British family movies, British fantasy movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Kirk Jones, Universal Pictures movies

Nanny McPhee is a 2005 British fantasy movie. It was directed by Kirk Jones. The stars of Nanny McPhee are Emma Thompson and Colin Firth. Thompson also wrote the script for the movie. The script is based on Christianna Brand's Nurse Matilda books.

[[Jerry Van Dyke]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2018 deaths, Actors from Illinois, American movie actors, American television actors, Comedians from Illinois, Deaths from heart failure, People from Danville, Illinois, People from Illinois

Jerry McCord Van Dyke (July 27, 1931 – January 5, 2018) was an American actor and comedian. He performed in many television sitcoms and Big Lots commercials. His comedic acting goes back to the 1960s. He was the younger brother of Dick Van Dyke.

[[Alon Abutbul]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Israeli movie actors, Israeli television actors, Jewish Israeli actors

Alon Moni Abutbul (born May 28, 1965) or Alon Aboutboul is an Israeli movie and television actor.

In 2005, he was voted the 158th-greatest Israeli of all time, in a poll by the Israeli news website Ynet to determine who the general public considered the 200 Greatest Israelis. Abutbul has appeared in more than 50 years and have a career of 33 years. Abutbul has recently appeared in Christopher Nolan's 2012 movie The Dark Knight Rises. 

Abutbul was born in Kiryat, Israel on May 28, 1965. Abutbul lives in Los Angeles, California with his partner Shir Bilya. They have four children together.

[[Greg Kinnear]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Actors from Indiana, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors

Gregory "Greg" Kinnear (born June 17, 1963) is an American actor. He starred in over twenty movies, and was nominated for an Academy Award for his role in As Good as It Gets. Other movies including Sabrina, You've Got Mail, Nurse Betty, We Were Soldiers, Little Miss Sunshine, Invincible and Green Zone. His television roles include Friends, and his Emmy Award nominated roles for Soup, The Kennedys and Modern Family.

[[Kristen Bell]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Saturn Award winners

Kristen Anne Bell (born July 18, 1980) is an American actress. She stared in Forgetting Sarah Marshall, Veronica Mars, When in Rome, Spartan, Gossip Girl, Polish Wedding, and in the 2012 comedy Hit and Run.  She was nominated for a Golden Globe and the Critic's Choice Award for The Good Place.

[[Kazutaka Komori]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 1971 deaths, Japanese activists, Political activists, Anti-Communists, People from Tokyo, Murderers

Kazutaka Komori was a Japanese political activist and murderer. In 1960, Komori stabbed the wife of a businessman and killed her 60-year-old maid. He wanted to kill the publisher of a fictional story about the Japanese Imperial family. Instead, he killed the man's wife and a servant.

Komori thought the publisher of the story showed disrespect for the Imperial House of Japan. 

[[Dax Shepard]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Actors from Michigan, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American comedians

Dax Randall Shepard (born January 2, 1975) is an American actor, writer and director. He is also known for his role as Tom Marshall in Without a Paddle.

[[Bradley Cooper]]

CATEGORIES: Satellite Award winners, 1975 births, Living people, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American Roman Catholics, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors

Bradley Charles Cooper (born January 5, 1975) is an American actor, filmmaker, occasional singer and producer. He is best known for his roles in the movies, The Hangover, The A-Team, Wedding Crashers and Limitless. He appeared in the 2012 movie Hit and Run. In 2011, he sang Shallow (Lady Gaga Song)  at the OscarsPeople magazine named Cooper "Sexiest Man Alive".

[[Stephen J. Cannell]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2010 deaths, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, American television producers, American television writers, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles County, California, Deaths from skin cancer, Emmy Award winners, Movie producers from California

Stephen Joseph Cannell (February 5, 1941 – September 30, 2010) was an American television producer, writer, author, and occasional actor, and the founder of Stephen J. Cannell Productions. Cannell is known for creating the popular show The A-Team. 

Cannell was born in Los Angeles, California. He was educated at the University of Oregon and at Sigma Chi. Cannell was married to Marcia Cannell from 1964 until his death in 2010, they had 4 children (one of whom died). Cannell died on September 30, 2010 from skin cancer in his Pasadena, California home, he was 69 years old.

[[August Ludwig von Schlözer]]

CATEGORIES: 1735 births, German historians, 1809 deaths

August Ludwig von Schlözer (5 July 1735 — 9 September 1809) was a German historian. He made many important contributions to the study of the Universal History, and particularly, the History of Russia.

In 1804, Schlözer was ennobled and elected privy councilor by the Russian Tsar Alexander I of Russia

His outlook about the universal history influenced historians as Nikolai Karamzin.

[[George Lopez]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, Organ transplant recipients, Comedians from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Los Angeles, California

George Lopez (born April 23, 1961) is a Mexican-American comedian, actor, and talk show host. He is mostly known for starring in his self-produced ABC sitcom George Lopez.

His stand-up comedy examines race and ethnic relations, including Mexican-American culture. He was the host of the late-night talk show Lopez Tonight on TBS until its cancellation on August 12, 2011.

[[Art Carney]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2003 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, American television personalities, American radio personalities, Comedians from New York, Actors from New York, Best Actor Academy Award winners, People from Mount Vernon, New York

Arthur William Matthew “Art” Carney (November 4, 1918 – November 9, 2003) was an American actor in movies, stage, television and radio. He is best known for playing Ed Norton, alongside with Jackie Gleason's Ralph Kramden in the situation comedy The Honeymooners, and for winning the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Harry and Tonto.

Carney was born on November 4, 1918 in Mount Vernon, New York. Carney was married three times; first to Jean Myers from 1940 until they divorced in 1965. Second, he was married to Barbara Isaac from 1966 until they divorced in 1977. Last, he was remarried to Jean Myers from 1980 until his death in 2003. Carney had three children with Myers.

Carney died on November 9, 2003 in Chester, Connecticut from natural causes. He was 85 years old.

[[Jackie Gleason]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1987 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American television actors, American television producers, American voice actors, Cancer deaths in Florida, Comedians from New York City, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Musicians from New York City, Television personalities from New York City, Tony Award winning actors

Jackie Gleason (John Herbert Gleason; February 26, 1916 – June 24, 1987) was an American comedian, actor, and musician. 

[[David Morris]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2007 deaths, Actors from Kent, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English movie actors, English painters, English stage actors, English television actors, People from Folkestone

David Cedric Morris (11 September 1924 – 29 October 2007) was an English painter and actor. He is best known for his role as Grandpa George in Tim Burton's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005). His career as a professional actor started at the age of 79.

Morris was born in Folkestone, Kent. He was educated at the University of Oxford. Morris was married to Olwen Goowin from 1957 until his death in 2007. They had four children.

Morris died on Ocotber 29, 2007 from a heart attack in his home in Watford, Hertfordshire. He was 83 years old.

[[Mikhail Lomonosov]]

CATEGORIES: 1711 births, 1765 deaths, Russian scientists

Mikhail Vasilyevich Lomonosov (November 19 – April 15) was a Russian polymath, scientist and writer.  Lomonosov made important contributions to literature, education, and science. Among his discoveries was the atmosphere of Venus.

As a scientist, he contributed to the fields of chemistry including principle of conservation of mass, physics, mineralogy, history, art, philology and optics, amongst others. Lomonosov was also a poet, and influenced the development of the modern Russian literary language.

[[4D movie]]

CATEGORIES: Movies

A 4D movie is a combination of a 3D movie with things like smell and touch (physical effects).  These effects happen at the same time the movie is running. (Note: 4D movies are not geometrically 4-dimensional.) Because these physical effects can cost a lot of money, 4D movies are usually shown only at special places, like theme parks and amusement parks.  However, in Thailand, Mexico, Hong Kong, Nepal, South Korea, India and the U.S., some movie theatres can also show 4D movies. The movie Avatar was one of 10 movies that have been changed to 4D. The first was Journey to the Center of the Earth.

Some of the effects used in 4D movies include rain, wind, strobe lights, and vibration. Water sprays and air jets are also often used. A 4D movie is not shown in a motion simulator. However, during a 4D movie, some seats may vibrate or move a few inches during the movie.

[[Glow in the dark]]

Glow-in-the-dark could mean:

[[Yodohime jinja]]

CATEGORIES: Shinto shrines, Saga Prefecture, 6th century establishments in Asia

Yodohime jinja, also known as the Kawakami jinja, is a Japanese Shinto shrine in Saga, Saga Prefecture.

[[Ichinomiya]]

CATEGORIES: Shinto shrines

Ichinomiya is a Japanese term for the chief Shinto shrines in each of the pre-modern provinces.

The ichinomiya are the shrines with the highest shrine rank in an area. Shrines of the lower rank are called ninomiya (二宮, second), sannomiya (三宮, third), shinomiya (四宮, fourth), and so forth.

[[Zapopan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Municipalities of Mexico, Jalisco, 1541 establishments, 1540s establishments in Mexico

Zapopan (saˈpopan) is a city and municipality in Jalisco, Mexico. It is part of the Guadalajara Metropolitan Area.

[[Guayaquil]]

CATEGORIES: Guayaquil

Guayaquil (ɡwaʝaˈkil), officially Santiago de Guayaquil (sanˈtjaɣo ðe ɣwaʝaˈkil), is the largest city in Ecuador.  It has about 3.5 million in the metropolitan area. It is also the nation's main port. The city is the capital of both the Guayas Province and the Guayaquil Canton.

[[Culiacán]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Mexico, Sinaloa, 1530s establishments in Mexico, 1531 establishments

Culiacán (kuljaˈkan) is the capital of Sinaloa. With 675,773 inhabitants, it is the largest city in the state of Sinaloa. The municipality has a total area of 4,758.

[[Toluca Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico (state)

Toluca, is the state capital of both the State of Mexico and its surrounding municipality.

[[Crash Twinsanity]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, Crash Bandicoot games, PlayStation 2 games, Xbox games, 3D platform games

Crash Twinsanity is a video game. It was published by Vivendi Universal Games. It was developed by Traveller's Tales for the PlayStation 2 and the Xbox. It was released in North America on October 1, 2004, in Europe on October 8, 2004 and in Japan on November 9, 2004. A Nintendo GameCube version was planned but it was later canceled.

[[Crash of the Titans]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, 3D platform games, Cooperative video games, Crash Bandicoot games, Game Boy Advance games, Nintendo DS games, Platform games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation Portable games, Wii games, Xbox 360 games

Crash of the Titans is a video game. It was published by Sierra Entertainment. It was developed by Radical Entertainment for the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, Wii and Xbox 360. The Game Boy Advance and Nintendo DS versions of the game were developed by Amaze Entertainment. The game was first released in North America on October 3, 2007, in Europe on October 12, 2007 and in Australia on October 25, 2007. It is the first game in the Crash Bandicoot series not to have a Japanese release.

Crash of the Titans is the fourteenth Crash Bandicoot video game. It is the first "Mutant" Crash game. The game's story is about the discovery of a substance known as "Mojo". The main antagonist of the series, Doctor Neo Cortex, plans to use this and turn the inhabitants of the Wumpa islands into an army of loyal mutants known as "Titans". The protagonist of the game, Crash Bandicoot, must stop Cortex by using the technique of "jacking". He does this to take control and destroy Cortex's Titans.

The game was given a mixed review by video game critics. Critics did not like that the game was very short. They did, however, liked the variety in the game. However, Crash of the Titans was nominated for two awards.

[[Robert Earl Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1910s births, 2006 deaths, American movie actors, Actors from Mississippi

Robert Earl Jones (February 3, c. 1910  - September 7, 2006) was an American actor. One of the movies he was in the 1973 movie The Sting. He also was in the 1984 movie The Cotton Club and the 1983 movie Trading Places. His year of birth is reported as between 1900 and 1911. The most often is 1910 as reported by the Social Security Administration. He was also the father of James Earl Jones. He died in Englewood New Jersey of natural causes.

[[Crash Tag Team Racing]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, Crash Bandicoot games, Nintendo GameCube games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation Portable games, Racing video games, Xbox games

Crash Tag Team Racing is a racing video game published by Sierra Entertainment. It was developed by Radical Entertainment for the PlayStation 2, Nintendo GameCube, Xbox and PlayStation Portable. A Nintendo DS version was cancelled. The reason for this is unknown. The game was released in North America on October 19, 2005 and in Europe on November 4, 2005.

[[Crash Boom Bang!]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, Crash Bandicoot games, Nintendo DS games, Party video games

Crash Boom Bang! (Known in Japan as: Crash Bandicoot Festival) is a party game developed by Dimps. It was published by Sierra Entertainment (Vivendi Universal Games for Japan) for the Nintendo DS. It was released in Japan on July 20, 2006, in North America on October 10, 2006, in Europe on October 27, 2006, and in Australia on November 2, 2006. It is the first and onlu game in the Crash Bandicoot series to be developed by a Japanese company. This was the last Crash Bandicoot game to be released in Japan.

[[Spyro (series)]]

CATEGORIES: 3D platform games, Spyro video games

Spyro the Dragon is a series of video games. The first title was released for Sony's PlayStation. The Spyro series has become very popular since the first release and several sequels and spin offs. The Spyro series has sold more than 20 million units worldwide. The original Spyro series was restarted in 2006 with the release of the Legend of Spyro series. The series was rebooted again in 2011 when Skylanders was released. The first three games got a remake called Spyro Reignited Trilogy (2018).

[[Amanda Anka]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Actors from New York City, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors

Amanda Katherine Anka-Bateman (born on December 10, 1968 in New York City, USA) is an American movie, television, and voice actress. 

[[National Party of South Africa]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in South Africa, Nationalist organizations in South Africa, Conservative parties, 1915 establishments, 1997 disestablishments, 1910s establishments in Africa

National Party of South Africa was an Afrikaner dominated white South African nationalist political party that controlled the South African government from 1948 to 1994. It was founded in 1914 by J.B.M. Hertzog as a result of disagreements between him and the leaders of the South African Party, which he then was a member of. In 1948 its leader Daniel Francois Malan became Prime Minister of South Africa, and the party began instituting apartheid in South Africa. However, apartheid was only one among a variety of issues that helped bring the National Party to power. Most people who voted for the National Party in 1948 were voting more against the previous United Party led by Jan Smuts than for Malan's National Party. This was because of Smuts's support of the United Kingdom in the Second World War, and other issues that irritated Afrikaner voters such as the poverty of Afrikaners, the competition from native Africans for jobs, the urbanization of Afrikaner towns, and the threat of communism, which the Afrikaner voters generally felt Smuts had wrongly handled and felt that the problems were partially his fault. South African President FW de Klerk, the last South African government leader to belong to the party, disbanded apartheid in the 1990s and allowed all adults of all races to vote for the first time in 1994, which resulted in the National Party being voted out of office.

[[Universal Orlando Resort]]

CATEGORIES: Disney - Orlando, 1990 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Florida

Universal Orlando Resort is a resort in Orlando, Florida. It is in a partnership between NBC Universal and The Blackstone Group. The resort consists of two theme parks (Universal Studios Florida and Islands of Adventure), CityWalk (a nighttime entertainment destination), and three Loews hotels. CityWalk includes the 20 screen Loews Universal Cineplex, a lot of restaurants, shops, and clubs. There are eight restaurants, five entertainment areas and 11 shopping stores.

[[Sophie B. Hawkins]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from New York City, Singer-songwriters from New York, 1964 births, Living people, American bloggers

Sophie B. Hawkins (born November 1, 1964 near Manhattan, New York) is an American singer-songwriter and recording artist. She has had many hit records and songs. In particular, she is well known for the single "Damn I Wish I was Your Lover".

[[Kristen Wiig]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from New York, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from New York, 1973 births, Living people

Kristen Wiig (w; born August 22, 1973) is an American actress and comedian. She is best known for acting on the NBC television comedy Saturday Night Live. She also acted in many movies, including Bridesmaids, Adventureland, Paul, and in the Despicable Me franchise.

In 2018, Wiig was cast as the villain Cheetah in the 2019 DC Extended Universe movie Wonder Woman 1984.

[[Arena]]

CATEGORIES: Music venues

An arena is a circular or oval shaped public space. It is similar to a theater, a concert or sporting events. It is made up of a large open space surrounded on all sides by seats or benches for people to sit. The main feature of an arena is that the event space is the lowest point. This allows everyone to see what's going on. Sometimes, an arena is created to have a very large number of people, such as New York City's Madison Square Garden or Pasadena's Rose Bowl. In the United States, the term 'arena', sometimes means an indoor stadium.

[[Arena (disambiguation)]]

An arena is a type of stadium or venue.

Arena may also refer to:

[[Jeff Foxworthy]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Atlanta, Georgia, American game show hosts, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from Georgia (U.S. state), Television personalities from Georgia (U.S. state), 1958 births, Living people

 

Jeffrey Marshall "Jeff" Foxworthy (born September 6, 1958) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, radio and television personality, author, voice artist and comedian. He is known for having "Southern humor" and unusual styles of entertainment. He acted in The Jeff Foxworthy Show during the mid 1990s. He has also hosted game shows, hosting Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader? and The American Bible Challenge. 

[[Gary Barlow]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, English pop musicians, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Cheshire, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Television personalities from Cheshire, English people

Gary William Barlow 100% (born 20 January 1971) is an English singer-songwriter, pianist and record producer. He is frontman, lead singer and main songwriter of the boy band Take That.

[[Príncipe]]

CATEGORIES: São Tomé and Príncipe

Príncipe is the northern and smaller of the two major islands of the country of São Tomé and Príncipe. It is in the sea to the west of Africa. It has an area of 136. Close to 5,000 people live there. The island is a heavily eroded volcano over three million years old. It is surrounded by other smaller islands including Ilheu Bom Bom, Ilhéu Caroço, Tinhosa Grande and Tinhosa Pequena. Príncipe rises in the south to 948 at Pico de Príncipe, in a part of the Obo National Park that is covered with trees. The north and centre of the island were formerly plantations, most of them formed by Portuguese colonialists using slave labor. These concentrated initially on producing sugar and later on cocoa, becoming the world's greatest cocoa producer. Since independence these plantations have since largely gone back to being forest. 

Príncipe was the site where Einstein's Theory of Relativity was experimentally proved successful by Arthur Stanley Eddington and his team during the total solar eclipse of May 29, 1919.

[[Russ Feingold]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American lawyers, Harvard University alumni, Jewish American politicians, Jewish lawyers, United States senators from Wisconsin

Russell Dana "Russ" Feingold (born March 2, 1953) is an American politician and lawyer from the state of Wisconsin. He was a member of the Democratic Party of the United States Senate (1993 to 2011) and a Wisconsin State Senator (1983-1993).

On May 14, 2015 he announced his candidacy for a 2016 U.S. Senate run against the incumbent Senator, Ron Johnson.

[[Chiriku Hachiman-gū]]

CATEGORIES: Shinto shrines, Saga Prefecture, Nagasaki Prefecture

Chiriku Hachiman-gū, also known as Chiriku Hachiman jinja, is a Japanese Shinto shrine in Miyaki, Saga Prefecture.

[[Judith Light]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, People from Trenton, New Jersey, 1949 births, Living people, Actors from New Jersey, Soap opera actors

Judith Ellen Light (February 9 1949 in Trenton, New Jersey) is an American stage and television actress who has been featured in multiple soap operas and sitcoms. She acted in sitcoms such as Who's the Boss?, Ugly Betty and Law & Order: Special Victims Unit.

[[X Factor]]

The X Factor could mean:

[[Samantha Morton]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Actors from Nottinghamshire, British child actors, English movie actors, English television actors, Entertainers from Nottingham, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Samantha Morton (born 13 May 1977) is a English actress. She was born in Nottingham. She has been nominated for many major awards for her acting. She began acting in 1991, although it was 2000 when she received recognition from worldwide. In particular she has been in movies, including Sweet and Lowdown (1999) and Minority Report (2002).

[[Zootaxa]]

CATEGORIES: Science and technology magazines

Zootaxa is a scientific journal that publishes papers of zoology. It is edited by Magnolia Press (Auckland, New Zealand). The magazine was created by Zhi-Qiang Zhang in 2001 and the magazine is issued every week. 

Zootaxa is indexed by BIOSIS, Zoological Record and the Current Contents Agriculture, Biology and Environmental Sciences.

[[Aso Kujū National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Asia, Kumamoto Prefecture, Ōita Prefecture, 1934 establishments

Aso Kujū National Park is a national park of Japan in Kumamoto Prefecture and Ōita Prefecture.

In part, the park's name comes from Mount Aso, which is the largest active volcano in Japan.  The park is also named for Mount Kujū and the Kujū mountains.

[[The Truman Show delusion]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

The ''Truman Show'' delusion is a delusion some people have. It is named after The Truman Show, a movie from 1998. In the movie, the main character discovers that he is living in a constructed reality that is shown on television. All people except the main character of the movie are paid actors. People with this disorder have delusions about being followed. The may also think that they are famous. As of 2012, there were over forty reported cases of this delusion, in the U.S and the United Kingdom. 

One of the patients, an upper-middle class Army veteran who wanted to climb the Statue of Liberty in the belief that doing so would release him from the "show", described his condition this way:

The choice of the name "Truman Show Delusion" by the Golds was influenced by the fact that three of the five patients Joel Gold initially treated for the syndrome explicitly linked their perceived experiences to the film.

[[MobyGames]]

CATEGORIES: Video game websites

MobyGames is an online gaming website for computer and video games. It is also a review site which allows their critics to give their opinion's on any video game. The site has a lot of video game information. Their goal is to be a huge game database.

As of July 17, 2012, the site includes 131 gaming platforms (video game consoles, computers and handheld devices including mobile phones.) They also have more than 67,000 game entries, in 40 years of gaming. GameFly bought the site in 2010.

[[Giant tortoise]]

CATEGORIES: Megafauna, Turtles

Giant tortoises have evolved on a number of tropical islands. They can weigh as much as 3 or 400 kg (660880 lbs) and can grow to be 1.3 to 1.9 m (45.9 ft) long (accounts vary). They live, or lived (some species are recently extinct), in the Seychelles, the Mascarenes and the Galapagos. Today, the world's largest population lives on Aldabra Atoll in Seychelles, where there are about 150,000 individuals.  Although looking similar, the tortoises represent separate branches of evolution.  The Seychelles and Mascarenes tortoises came originally from nearby Madagascar, while the Galapagos tortoises came from nearby Ecuador. Their similarity is an example of convergent evolution.

These tortoises are capable of living over 100 years in the wild. This makes them the longest-living vertebrates. The longest living survivor is 182 years old (probably).

The Madagascar  tortoise "Tu'i Malila" was 188 at death in Tonga in 1965. "Harriet" was reported by the Australia Zoo to be 176 years old when she died in 2006. Also, on 23 March 2006, an Aldabra giant tortoise named "Adwaita" died at Alipore Zoological Gardens in Kolkata. He was brought to the zoo in the 1870s from the estate of Lord Robert Clive. He was around 255 years old when he died.

Around the time of its discovery, they were caught and killed for food in such large quantities that they became virtually extinct by 1900. Giant tortoises are now under strict conservation laws and are categorised as threatened species.

During the 16th and 17th centuries, the Galápagos were frequented by buccaneers preying on Spanish treasure ships. Filling a ship's hold with tortoises was an easy way to stock up on food, a tradition that was continued by whalers in the centuries that followed. "whaling skippers were almost lyrical in their praise of tortoise meat, terming it far more delicious than chicken, pork or beef". They said the meat of the giant tortoise was "succulent meat and the oil from their bodies as pure as butter, but best of all, the giants could hibernate in a ship’s damp for a year or more".

At least five species of the genus Cylindraspis have gone extinct in historic times. They lived in the Mascarene Islands (Mauritius, Rodrigues and Réunion) in the Indian Ocean.

[[John Carter (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 science fiction movies, 2010s action movies, 2012 drama movies, English-language movies, Disney movies, American science fiction movies, American action movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Andrew Stanton

John Carter is a 2012 science fiction and action drama movie. It stars Samantha Morton and Willem Dafoe. The director of John Carter is Andrew Stanton. This action drama received negative reviews and performed poorly at the US box office, though it did well on international terms.

[[Amphiuma]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

Amphiuma is a genus of aquatic salamanders.  They are the only genus still living in the family Amphiumidae. They are sometimes called "conger eels" or "congo snakes", which is not correct. Amphiumas have one of the largest amounts of DNA in the living world, around 25 times more than a human.

[[Leiopelmatidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Leiopelmatidae, or New Zealand and North American primitive frogs, is a family belonging to the suborder Archaeobatrachia.  There are only four Leiopelma and two Ascaphus species alive now. Leiopelma are only found in New Zealand. Ascaphus are only found in North America.

[[Megophryidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Megophryidae are a large family of frogs.  They live in the warm southeast of Asia, from the Himalaya foothills  eastwards, south to Indonesia and the Greater Sunda Islands in Maritime Southeast Asia, and going to the Philippines. There are 70-100 species of frog divided between 12 genera. They are commonly called megophryids.

The megophryids are known for their camouflage, especially those that live in forests.  They often look like dead leaves. They even have some skin folds that look like leaf veins.

Megophryids range in size from 2 to 12.5 in length. The adults' tongue is noticeably paddle-shaped. Their tadpoles can be found in a variety of waters, but especially ponds and streams. The tadpoles are very diverse in form because of the variety of habitats they live in.

[[Parsley frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Parsley frogs or Pelodytidae, is a family of order Anura. The family has just one genus, Pelodytes. These frogs live in southwestern Europe and the Caucasus. 

Parsley frogs are typical looking frogs.  They are closely related to Spadefoot toads and Megophyrids. The parsley frogs are small, smooth skinned frogs.  They reach a length of 5. They are one of the few families of frogs which have more known extinct species and genera (two or three) than living species. 

[[Spadefoot toad]]

Spadefoot  is the name of the following toads:

[[American spadefoot toads]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

An American spadefood toad is one of a family of toads known as Scaphiopodidae. They live in North America, in southern Canada and USA south to southern Mexico. Scaphiopodidae is a small family with only seven species.

The American spadefoot toads are of typical shape to most digging frogs. They are round, with short legs and eyes that stick out. This frog has a hard growth on their feet which helps them to dig. They dig backwards into the ground.

The American spadefoot toads live on land when not under ground. They are dully coloured, usually a grey or dull green or brown. This is to help in camouflage.

[[Notaden]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Notaden is a genus of frogs.  They live in central and northern Australia. They are a digging frog.

[[Mexican Burrowing Toad]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Mexican burrowing toad (Rhinophrynus dorsalis) is a frog.  They are the only species in the genus Rhinophrynus and the family Rhinophrynidae. These frogs live from the southern Texas through Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador to Nicaragua and Costa Rica. They used to live in more places.  There were species going as far north as Canada, but these died out in the Oligocene.

[[Tukeit Hill Frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Tukeit Hill Frog (Allophryne ruthveni) is one of the two described species in the genus Allophryne.  The other one is Allophryne resplendens. It is the only member of the subfamily Allophryninae, a clade recently placed under the family Centrolenidae These frogs live in Guyana, Venezuela, Surinam, Brazil and Bolivia.  The holotype was discovered at Tukeit Hill, below Kaieteur Falls, Guyana.  This is the reason for the common English name.

[[Aromobatidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Aromobatidae are a family of poison dart frogs.  They live in Central and South America. By late 2019, 126 species in three subfamilies and five genera had been described.

[[Arthroleptidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Arthroleptidae is a family of frogs found in sub-Saharan Africa. They are known as squeakers because of their high-pitched call. They are small, less than 4 in length.  They live on land mostly in leaf litter on the forest floor. They do not have tadpoles. They lay their eggs on the ground. 

Some species hatch already completely metamorphosed into the adult form, others still have tails when they hatch.

[[Saddleback toad]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The saddleback toads are the family Brachycephalidae in the order Anura. The family has just one genus, Brachycephalus.  It has 28 species. 

These tiny, often yellow frogs live in  the cool cloud Atlantic forests of south-eastern Brazil. These mountainous areas have even more species (per square km) than the Amazon basin. Each small mountain has its own species.

The saddleback toads are very small frogs.  They are mostly about 1 in length.  They include the smallest frog in the southern hemisphere, the Brazilian golden frog (Brachycephalus didactylus). They have only three toes on each foot, and two fingers on each hand. This is different than the usual five toes and four fingers of most frogs. 

The saddleback toads are active during the day.  They live in the leaf litter on forest floors. The eggs hatch into miniature frogs.  There is no tadpole stage. The eggs are laid on the ground.  They are covered in soil to protect from the heat and predators. 

[[Rhonda Fleming]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Hollywood, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Deaths from pneumonia, 1923 births, 2020 deaths

Rhonda Fleming (August 10, 1923 – October 14, 2020) was an American television and movie actress. She starred in many television programs and lots of movies in the 1940s and 1950s. She was known as one of the most beautiful actors of her time. Fleming was born in Hollywood, California. 

Fleming died on October 14, 2020 in Santa Monica, California from pneumonia at the age of 97.

[[Supervised learning]]

CATEGORIES: Artificial intelligence

In machine learning, supervised learning is the task of inferring a function from labelled training data. The results of the training are known beforehand, the system simply learns how to get to these results correctly. Usually, such systems work with vectors. They get the training data and the result of the training as two vectors and produce a classifier. Usually, the system uses inductive reasoning to generalize the training data.

[[Hasan ibn Zayd]]

CATEGORIES: Mazandaran, History of Islam, Caliphates, 8th century births, 884 deaths

Hasan ibn Zayd, known as Great Dai, (born early 8th century, died 6 January 884) was king of the Tabaristan's Alids. He rebelled in Tabaristan (in 864) and fought with Abbasides, Taherian and the Saffarids dynasty. He created an Alavids dynasty.

Hassan ibn Zayd died in Amol.

[[Don Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Missouri, American movie actors, American television actors, 1949 births, Living people

Don Johnson (born December 15, 1949) is an American movie and television actor. He has been featured in many television programs and movies. In particular, he starred in the police shows Miami Vice and Nash Bridges. He was born in Flat Creek, Missouri.

Johnson was married to Melanie Griffith in 1976 and from 1989 until 1996. His five children include actor Jesse Johnson and actress Dakota Johnson.

[[Tokyo (disambiguation)]]

Tokyo may mean:

[[Corps de ballet]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet terminology

The corps de ballet are a group of dancers in a ballet company who are not soloists. They perform as a group {the Flowers in the "Waltz of the Flowers" from The Nutcracker, for example) and at other times as a backdrop for the soloists (the peasants in the mad scene from Giselle). 

[[Tokyo Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Tokyo Prefecture, 1869 establishments in Japan, 1943 disestablishments, 1940s disestablishments in Japan

Tokyo Prefecture is a former Japanese government entity starting in 1869 and ending in 1943

In 1943, the prefecture's municipalities, including the traditional city of Tokyo, became part of the newly formed Tokyo metropolis or "greater Tokyo metropolian area".

[[Soul Asylum]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American punk bands, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups from Minnesota

Soul Asylum is an American alternative rock band from Minneapolis, Minnesota. Soul Asylum has four members in the band; the current band members are David Pirner, Dan Murphy, Michael Bland and Tommy Stinson.

The band was formed in 1981 and were originally known as Loud Fast Rules. The band was renamed Soul Asylum in 1983. They released their debut album Say What You Will, Clarence...Karl Sold the Truck on August 24, 1984. The song "Runaway Train" from their sixth studio album, "Grave Dancers Union" won a Grammy Award for Best Rock Song in 1994. The bands original bassist Karl Mueller died on June 17, 2005 from a long battle with throat cancer. They released their tenth studio album "Delayed Reaction" on July 17, 2012.

[[Alexandre Benois]]

CATEGORIES: Designers, 1870 births, 1960 deaths

Alexandre Nikolayevich Benois (3 May 18709 February 1960) was an artist, art critic, and historian. He was born in St. Petersburg and died in Paris. He designed several productions for Diaghilev's Ballets Russes including Petrushka.

[[Tokyo, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture, 1869 establishments in Japan

Tokyo was a Japanese city in Tokyo Prefecture in 1889 through 1943.

[[Glass frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The glass frog (or glassfrog) is the common name for the frogs of the amphibian family Centrolenidae. Most glass frogs are a lime green color.  For some glass frogs the skin on the stomach area is transparent. The insides, including the heart, liver, and gastrointestinal tract can be seen through the skin.  This is the reason for the common name.

[[Ceratophryinae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Ceratophryinae, known as common horned frogs, are a subfamily of the leptodactylid frogs. All species live in South America.  

Fossils of the giant Beelzebufo from Cretaceous Madagascar suggest that the subfamily may have once ranged throughout the prehistoric supercontinent of Gondwana. Not all species in the subfamily have the horn-like growth at the eyes. All are carnivorous, terrestrial or semi-aquatic.  They have large heads and mouths. 

Some people enjoy keeping these frogs as pets.

[[Craugastoridae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Craugastoridae is a family of frogs.  There are 2 genera: Craugastor and Haddadus. 

The genus Craugastor has 112 species.  They can be found in the southwestern United States, Mexico, Central America up to northwestern South America. The genus Haddadus has 2 species.  They are only found in south-eastern Brazil. 

[[Cycloramphinae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Cycloramphinae is a subfamily of leptodactylid frogs.  They are found in South America.

[[Eleutherodactylidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Eleutherodactylidae is a family of frogs. They used to be a subfamily of Leptodactylidae.  There are 801 frogs in the family.  

[[Ghost frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The ghost frog is the common name for a family of frogs of the family Heleophrynidae. The family has two genera, Heleophryne and Hadromophryne.  There are seven species. Ghost frogs live in swift-moving mountain streams in South Africa. The common name of "ghost frogs" may be because they live in Skeleton Gorge.

[[Hemiphractidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Hemiphractidae is a family of frogs.  They live in South and Central America.  Previously, this group was classified as a subfamily under family Hylidae.  

[[Ettore Bassi]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Italian actors, Italian television presenters, People from Bari, Living people

Ettore Francesco Maria Bassi (born April 16, 1970) is an Italian actor and television presenter. In 2010, it was announced that he is the successor of Kaspar Capparoni in the German-Austrian-Italian thriller series Inspector Rex.

[[Shovelnose frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The shovelnose frogs are nine species of frog in the genus, Hemisus.  The is the only genus in the Family Hemisotidae. They are found in tropical and subtropical sub-Saharan Africa. 

The shovelnose frogs are medium sized frogs, reaching a length of 8. They are round-bodied, with short legs. Their head is small and narrow, with a hard, upturned nose. 

The shovelnose frogs are digging frogs.  They live most of their life underground. The female will dig underground while it is in amplexus.  It then will lay the eggs in an underground hole. The male will leave through the tunnel, and the female will stay with the eggs. Once enough rain has fallen, the female will dig, with her nose, towards a water source. The tadpoles will stay there until metamorphosis. The tadpoles may stay out of water for up to a few days. 

Unlike most digging frogs, the shovelnose frogs dig head first.  Other frogs dig rear first. 

Some species are kept as pets.

[[Hyperoliidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Hyperoliidae is a family of small to medium sized, brightly colored, frogs.  It has more than 250 species in 19 genera. Seventeen genera live in sub-Saharan Africa. 

Hyperoliids range from 1.5 to 8 in body length. Many species have smooth, brightly patterned, skin that almost looks enameled.

Most hyperoliids live in trees.  Some live on land, including several Kassina species that move by walking or running rather than hopping. Diet varies widely, with examples including Tornierella, who eats snails, and Afrixalus fornasinii, the only land frog known to eat eggs of other species of anurans.

Breeding in this family begins at the start of the rainy season.  Hyperoliids come together at breeding sites. Most hyperoliids lay their eggs in water. Tadpoles are pond type larvae with large dorsal fins on the tail.

No fossil hyperoliids are known.

[[Mantellidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Mantellidae is a family of the order Anura. These frogs are found only in Madagascar and Mayotte.

These frogs are very different from each other. Most species live on land, though some live in trees. Body size ranges from 3 to 10 centimetres in length. The genus Mantella has many similarities with the South American poison dart frogs. 

They are small, aposematically coloured, and secrete alkaloid toxins.

Some members of this group are kept as pets due to their bright colors.

[[Microhylidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Microhylidae is a family of frogs. There are 495 species in 68 genera and nine subfamilies.  This is the largest number of genera of any frog family.

[[Myobatrachidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Myobatrachidae is a family of frogs found in Australia and New Guinea. Members of this family vary greatly in size.  There are species less than 1.5 long.  This family also has the second-largest frog in Australia, the Giant Barred Frog at 12 in length. The entire family either live in land or water.  None of them live in trees.

These frogs do not have the adhesive toe disc cups found in the tree frogs. The family is broken up into three sub-families: Limnodynastinae, Myobatrachinae and Rheobatrachinae. This separation is based mainly on their egg-laying habits. Those of the sub-family Limnodynastinae lay foam nests. The female makes foam with a chemical on her skin. The foam may float on top of water, or be on land. The sub-family Rheobatrachinae has the two species of gastric-brooding frog, and the rest are in the sub-family Myobatrachinae.

[[Julianna Margulies]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from New York, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1966 births, Living people

Julianna Margulies (born June 8, 1966) is an Emmy and Golden Globe award winning actress. She has received more Screen Actors Guild Awards than any other actress or actor. She played Carol in the long-running series ER and Alicia in the CBS legal drama The Good Wife. She also performed in sitcoms and theatrical movies. She was raised in New York.

[[Maya Rudolph]]

CATEGORIES: Comedians from Florida, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Florida, Musicians from Florida, Singers from Los Angeles, California, 1972 births, Living people

Maya Rudolph (born July 27, 1972) is an American actress and comedian. She is the daughter of singer Minnie Riperton and music composer Richard Rudolph. She has acted in numerous sitcoms, in particular NBC's Up all Night. She was a cast member on the NBC television show Saturday Night Live from 2000-2007. 

She was raised in Santa Monica, California. She attended University of California, Santa Cruz.

[[Minnie Riperton]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from breast cancer, Singers from Chicago, 1947 births, 1979 deaths

Minnie Julia Riperton Rudolph (November 8, 1947 - July 12, 1979), known professionally as Minnie Riperton, was an American singer-songwriter best known for her 1975 single "Lovin' You". She was well known for her R&B singing. She was married to songwriter and music producer Richard Rudolph from 1972 until her death in 1979. They had two children: music engineer Marc Rudolph and actress/comedienne Maya Rudolph. She was born in Chicago, Illinois. She died of breast cancer at the age of 31 on July 12, 1979. 

[[Deftones]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Alternative metal bands, American rock bands, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups from California, Sacramento, California, Musical groups established in 1988, 1988 establishments in California

Deftones is an American alternative metal band from Sacramento, California. Deftones has five members in the band; the current band members are Chino Moreno, Stephen Carpenter, Abe Cunningham, Frank Delgado and Sergio Vega.

The band was formed in 1988. They released their debut album Adrenaline on October 3, 1995. The song "Elite" from their third studio album, "White Pony" won a Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance in 2001. The band has been noted for influencing bands like Muse, Linkin Park, Avenged Sevenfold, Seether, System of a Down, Fightstar, 10 Years as well as many other bands.

On November 4, 2008, the band's bassist Chi Cheng was involved in a car accident which seriously injured him. The band brought in another bassist named Sergio Vega to replace him during his absence. Cheng died on April 13, 2013 after his heart stopped.

[[Fatimah bint Sa'd]]

CATEGORIES: 340 births, Arab people, Year of death unknown

Fatimah al-Bariqi. (from Bariq of azdYemen), also known as Bariqiyyah , (born 340 CE)  was the mother of Kilab’s half-brothers Taym and Yaqazah (Ibn Ishaq named her Hind bint Harithah al-Bariqiyyah and also say Asma).

[[Wilby, Norfolk]]

CATEGORIES: Breckland, Villages in Norfolk

[[Minnow]]

CATEGORIES: Fish

Minnow is a general term used for fish which are often used as bait for fishing. Many of these fish belong the Carp family. Fish in the family Leuciscinae are often referred to as True Minnows.

[[Slinky]]

CATEGORIES: Toys

Slinky (also known as Spring) is a toy metal spring that tumbles end over end down stairs and even "walks". It was invented by Richard James in 1943, and quickly became a bestseller. Other Slinky toys were developed such as the Slinky Dog and the Slinky Train. Company president Betty James has always kept the toy's price low so children could buy it. It originally sold for $1. Slinky has received many toy industry awards and honors over the years. Its television jingle is the longest running jingle in advertising history.

[[Sea devil]]

CATEGORIES: Teleosts

Sea devils are deep-sea anglerfish of the family Ceratiidae. They are among the most widespread of the anglerfish, found in all oceans from the tropics to the Antarctic.

The females are large: females of the largest species, Krøyer's deep sea angler fish, Ceratias holboelli, reach 1.2 in length. Males, on the other hand, are dwarfed, only 14 maximum. When these fish were first studied, the males were mistaken for parasites. Females usually have more than one male attached to them, which is a good example of polyandry.

At birth, tiny male ceratiids already have extremely well-developed olfactory organs that detect scents in the water. The male lives solely to find and mate with a female. They are significantly smaller than a female angler fish, and may have trouble finding food in the deep sea. Furthermore, the growth of the gut may stop in some species, preventing them from feeding at all. This means the male must find a female quickly to prevent death. The sensitive olfactory organs help the male detect the pheromones from female anglerfish.

When the male finds a female, he bites into her skin, and releases an enzyme. The enzyme digests the skin of his mouth and her body, fusing the pair down to the blood-vessel level. The male then slowly wastes away, first losing his digestive organs, then his brain, heart, and eyes, and ends as nothing more than a pair of gonads. The gonads release sperm in response to hormones in the female's bloodstream. This extreme sexual dimorphism makes sure that, when the female is ready to spawn, she has a mate right there. Multiple males can be incorporated into a single female.

Ceratiids are the only animals known to become chimaeras  as a normal part of their life-cycle.

[[Chimaera (genetics)]]

CATEGORIES: Developmental biology, Biological reproduction

A chimaera or chimera is a single organism (usually an animal)  made of two kinds of genetically distinct cells. The two types of cells may come from separate fertilised eggs or zygotes.

Chimeras that originate from distinct fertilised eggs fused together are called dispermic chimeras. When, on the other hand, the genetically distinct cell types originate from the same zygote, the organism is called a mosaic.

Dispermic chimaeras are formed from at least two fertilized eggs or early embryos fused together. Each population of cells keeps its own phenotype and the resulting organism is a mixture of the two phenotypes.

Microchimerism is a form of chimerism in which a host harbors a small set of genetically distinct cells. This often happens with blood transfusion or transplants, but also during pregnancy due to the two-way cell trafficking between the mother and the foetus.

Recently, epigenetic chimeras have been discovered in mouse models.

[[Phil Donahue]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, American journalists, American television actors, American television talk show hosts, Writers from Cleveland, Ohio

Phil Donahue (born December 21, 1935 in Cleveland, Ohio) is an American talk show host. He is best known for hosting The Phil Donahue Show (1970 to 1996). He has also hosted other talk shows.

[[Exodus International]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in the United States, 2013 disestablishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Florida, Organizations based in the United States, Christianity in the United States, Christian organizations, Non-profit organizations, LGBT, Orlando, Florida, 2010s disestablishments in Florida

Exodus International was a non profit and ex-gay Christian group seeking to limit homosexual desire. The group was based in Orlando,, Florida. They did not perform or conduct clinical treatment, although it does have a position saying that holistic counseling approaches that can address homosexual behaviors may be beneficial. The techniques involved are abstinence, lessening of homosexual temptations and correcting distorted style of relations to the same or opposite gender. This organization was founded around 1976. It represented over 120 local ministry networks in the United States and Canada and over 150 in another 17 countries. It was closed in 2013.

[[Trainz]]

CATEGORIES: Windows games

Trainz is a computer program that allows you to create your own Railway. It is being developed by the Australian developer Auran. The game comes in 3 areas: Routes, Railyard and Scenarios. Routes Has 3 areas inside it: Surveyor; Where you Can Create and change Routes, Driver; Where you can drive along surveyor routes,and Routes; Where You Can See all the routes. Railyard is Where you can see all your trains. Scenarios Is Where You can earn points by doing missions. They are different versions, The Latest one being Trainz 12. They Work With Windows XP and Up And Mac OS 10.6.8 and Up.       

[[Petropedetinae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Petropedetinae are a subfamily of frogs. 

They are placed in the true frog family (Ranidae) by many authors. Some think at least part of this group are a distinct family Petropedetidae. The Cacosterninae and Phrynobatrachinae are then separated as subfamilies.  They may even be distinct families Cacosternidae and Phrynobatrachidae. Most members of this subfamily are in the genus Phrynobatrachus. 

These frogs mostly live in sub-Saharan Africa.

This group of frogs is made up from the following genera:

[[Pyxicephalidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Pyxicephalidae is a family of frogs.  They are found in Sub-Saharan Africa.

[[Rhacophoridae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Rhacophoridae is a family of frog species.  They live in tropical regions of Asia and Africa. They are commonly known as shrub frogs.  Sometimes they are called '"moss frogs" or "bush frogs". Some Rhacophoridae are called "tree frogs". Among the most spectacular members of this family are numerous "flying frogs".

Most of the species are arboreal. This may include reproducing in trees. Mating frogs, while in amplexus, hold onto a branch, and beat their legs to form a foam. The eggs are laid in the foam.  They are then covered with seminal fluid. Then the foam hardens into a protective casing. In some species, this is done in a large group. The foam is laid above a water source, so the tadpoles fall into the water once they hatch.

The species in this family vary in size, from 1.5 to 12. Like other arboreal frogs, they have toe discs. This family has the Old World flying frogs, including Wallace's flying frogs(Rhacophorus nigropalmatus). These frogs have extensive webbing between their hands and feet.  This lets them glide through the air.

[[Moss frog (disambiguation)]]

Moss frog might mean:

[[Bush frog (disambiguation)]]

A bush frog can be one of two types of frogs.  They are found in sub-Saharan Africa and one also in Asia:

[[Flying frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

A flying frog is a frog that has the ability to glide. Despite its name, it does not have the ability to fly. They live their life in trees, high above the ground.  

Alfred Russel Wallace made one of the earliest reports of a flying frog. The species he observed was later described by George Albert Boulenger as Rhacophorus nigropalmatus.

Flying frogs includes members of the following genera:

[[Connie Britton]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors

Constance Elaine "Connie" Britton (born March 6, 1967) is an American movie, stage and television actress. She was nominated three times for Emmy Awards On television, she is well known for her roles as Nikki Faber on Spin City (1988–1991), (1996-2000), Tami Taylor on  Friday Night Lights (2006-2011), as Vivien Harmon on American Horror Story (2011) and as Rayna James on Nashville.

[[Adrenaline (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 albums, Nu metal albums

Adrenaline is the first studio album by American metal band, Deftones. Adrenaline was released on October 3, 1995. The album was originally known as Communion but was later changed to Adrenaline. The album was ranked as #33 on music critic Piero Scaruffi's list of best metal albums of all times.

[[Hurricane Isaac (2012)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 Atlantic hurricane season, 2012 in the United States, 2010s in Haiti, 2010s in Louisiana, 2010s in Cuba, August events

Hurricane Isaac was an Atlantic tropical cyclone that killed almost two dozen people in Hispaniola in August 2012 and moved over Cuba and Haiti.  Isaac then became a Category One hurricane on August 28 and hit near the southeast tip of Louisiana at 6:44 pm that day.

[[Pothos]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

Pothos is a son of Aphrodite in Greek mythology. He is the god of sexual yearning, longing, and desire. He is was one of the winged love gods, known as Erotes.

[[Sooglossidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Sooglossidae (Seychelles frogs) are a family of frogs.  They are found on the Seychelles Islands and India.

All of the species are small land frogs, about 4 in length.  They hide under fallen leaves or in rock crevices. They lay their eggs on moist ground, rather than in water. One species lacks tadpoles, with the eggs hatching directly into froglets. The others carry the tadpoles on their back until metamorphosis.

[[Strabomantidae]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Strabomantidae is a family of frogs.  They live in South America. These frogs do not have a free-living larval stage.  They hatch directly into miniature "froglets".

[[Purple frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The purple frog (Nasikabatrachus sahyadrensis) is a frog species in the family Sooglossidae. It lives in the Western Ghats in India. Common names for this species are  Indian purple frog, pignose frog or doughnut frog. It was discovered by S.D. Biju and F. Bossyut in October 2003.  

This frog's body is shaped similarly to that of most frogs.  It is somewhat rounded. It has a small head and an unusual pointed snout. Adults are typically dark purple in color. Its cry sounds more like one from a chicken.

The frog spends most of the year underground.  It comes out only for about two weeks, during the monsoon.  This is to mate. 

Unlike many other digging species of frogs that feed above the ground, this species eats underground.  They feed mainly on termites using their tongue. 

The purple frog has one close relative, Bhupathy's purple frog, which also lives in the Western Ghats.

[[Jody Watley]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Singers from Chicago, Grammy Award winners

Jody Vanessa Watley (born 30 January 1959) is an American singer, songwriter and recording artist. Her songs cross multiple genres. She was very popular in the late 1980s. She recorded and performed numerous songs related to dance-pop. She was born in Chicago.

Along with Janet Jackson and Madonna, she is one of MTV Video Music Awards most nominated female artists ever.  She had six nominations for her ‘Real Love’ video. 

Watley has sold over 50 million albums and singles Worldwide. 

In 2008, she received a Lifetime Achievement Award from Billboard magazine.

[[List of cities in El Salvador]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in North America, El Salvador, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of populated places in El Salvador.

[[List of cities in Equatorial Guinea]]

CATEGORIES: Equatorial Guinea, Lists of cities in Africa, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Equatorial Guinea It includes all settlements with a population over 1,000.

[[List of cities in Eritrea]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Africa, Eritrea, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Eritrea by population.  It includes all settlements with a population of over 5,000.

[[List of settlements in Estonia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Estonia, Lists of settlements in Europe

The following is a list of cities and towns in Estonia. Many of these locations have been known, mostly before 1918, by their German or Russian names.  Sometimes these are quite different from the Estonian ones. 

* the town is not its own municipality, but has instead united with a parish.

[[List of settlements in Ethiopia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ethiopia, Lists of settlements in Africa

This is a list of cities and towns in Ethiopia:

[[Kim (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 songs, Eminem songs

"Kim" is a song by Eminem, released in 2000. The song appears on his third studio album, The Marshall Mathers LP.

The song is about Eminem's anger towards his then-wife Kim Mathers. The song portrays Eminem screaming at and then murdering his wife Kim. He also murders her husband and her stepson. The song features the drum sample from the song "When the Levee Breaks" by Led Zeppelin.

Eminem performed the song at a concert in Detroit, Michigan while abusing a blow-up doll that was dressed up to look like her on stage. Kim saw the performance and later after the show ended, she tried to commit suicide by slashing her wrists. She would later sue Eminem for defamation because of the song.

[[List of settlements in Finland]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of settlements in Europe, Settlements in Finland

This is a list of towns in Finland.

[[List of cities in French Polynesia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of settlements in Oceania, French Polynesia, Lists of cities by country

The following is a list of cities in French Polynesia:

By division:

[[List of cities in Gabon]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Africa, Gabon, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities and towns in Gabon:

[[List of cities in The Gambia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Africa, Cities in the Gambia, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Gambia.

[[List of settlements in Georgia (country)]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Georgia (country), Lists of settlements in Asia, Lists of settlements in Europe

The following list of Georgian cities is divided into three separate lists.  There is one for Georgia itself, and the disputed territories of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. 

[[List of settlements in Ghana]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ghana, Lists of settlements in Africa

This is a list of the largest cities and towns in the Republic of Ghana.

[[List of cities in Greece]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Europe, Settlements in Greece, Lists of cities by country, Greece-related lists

The list below is of the municipalities of Greece with more than 10,000 people.  The data is from the 2001 census.      

Explanation of the superscript numbers:

* The settlement (CDP) of Athens is the central district of the Athens Urban Area.

* The settlement (CDP) of Thessaloniki is the central district of the Thessaloniki Urban Area.

[[List of cities in Grenada]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in North America, Grenada, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities and towns in Grenada.

[[List of places in Guatemala]]

CATEGORIES: Geography-related lists, Settlements in Guatemala

This is a list of places in Guatemala.

[[List of cities in Guinea]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Guinea, Lists of cities in Africa, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities and towns in Guinea.

[[List of cities in Guinea-Bissau]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Africa, Guinea-Bissau, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Guinea-Bissau.  All places with a population of over 5,000 are included.

[[List of cities in Haiti]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in North America, Haiti, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Haiti. 

[[List of cities in Honduras]]

CATEGORIES: Honduras, Lists of cities in North America, Lists of cities by country

This a list of cities in Honduras. Population is based on the 2010 estimates.

[[List of towns in Hong Kong]]

CATEGORIES: Hong Kong, Lists of settlements in Asia, China-related lists

The following is a list of cities, towns and new towns in Hong Kong.

[[List of settlements in Hungary]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of settlements in Europe, Settlements in Hungary

Hungary has 3152 localities as of July 1, 2009. 

The largest city is the capital, Budapest. The smallest town is Pálháza with 1038 inhabitants (2010). The largest village is Solymár (population: 10,123 as of 2010). There are more than 100 villages with fewer than 100 people while the smallest villages have fewer than 20 inhabitants.

[[Anastasius]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Anastasius is a male given name.  It is from the Greek ἀνάστασις (anastasis) meaning "resurrection". Its female form is Anastasia.

[[Pope Anastasius I]]

CATEGORIES: 401 deaths, Italian popes

Pope Saint Anastasius I (Anastasius Primus; died 401) was an Italian cleric of the Roman Catholic Church and the 39th Pope from 399 until his death in 401. 

[[Pope Anastasius II]]

CATEGORIES: 498 deaths, Italian popes, Year of birth unknown

Pope Anastasius II (Anastasius Secondus; died 16 November 498) was an Italian cleric of the Roman Catholic Church and the 50th Pope from 496 until his death in 498. 

[[Pope Anastasius III]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, 10th century births, 910s deaths

Pope Anastasius III (Anastasius Tertius; died June 913) was an Italian cleric of the Roman Catholic Church and the 121st Pope from 911 until his death in 913. 

[[Pope Anastasius]]

CATEGORIES: Papal names

Pope Anastasius may mean:

[[Acceleration due to gravity]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Gravitation

The acceleration which is gained by an object because of gravitational force is called its acceleration due to gravity. Its SI unit is m/s2. Acceleration due to gravity is a vector, which means it has both a magnitude and a direction. The acceleration due to gravity at the surface of Earth is represented by the letter g. It has a standard value defined as 9.80665. However, the actual acceleration of a body in free fall varies with location.

[[Pope Anastasius IV]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, 1073 births, 1154 deaths

Pope Anastasius IV (Anastasius Quartus; c.1073–3 December 1154), born Corrado di Suburra, was an Italian cleric of the Roman Catholic Church. He was the 169th Pope from 1153 until his death in 1154.

[[WWE 2K]]

CATEGORIES: Video game series, WWE video game series

WWE 2K series is a series of video games that are developed by Yuke's and Visual Concepts and are published by 2K Sports. The video games are based on the professional wrestling company WWE.

The series was first known as WWF/WWE SmackDown! from 2000 to 2004 and then was changed to WWE SmackDown vs. Raw in 2004. The title was changed to simply WWE in 2011 with the release of WWE '12. The WWE title was used for WWE '12 and WWE '13 and was changed to WWE 2K when Take Two Interactive acquired the publishing rights for the series from THQ. In Japan, the series was known as Exciting Pro Wrestling until 2005. The series has gained positive reviews over the years and is one of the best-selling video game franchises. 

The series was published by THQ from 2000 to 2013 before THQ filed for bankruptcy on December 19, 2012. THQ's assets were auctioned off and the WWE video game's publishing rights were acquired by Take Two Interactive (Parent company of 2K Games).

[[Jerry Nelson]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2012 deaths, Cancer deaths in Massachusetts, Deaths from emphysema, Deaths from prostate cancer, Deaths from COPD, American voice actors, American television actors, Muppets, Actors from Oklahoma

Jerry L. Nelson (July 10, 1934 – August 23, 2012) was an American puppeteer. He was best known for his work with The Muppets. He was known for his wide range of characters and singing abilities. He performed Muppet characters on Sesame Street, The Muppet Show, Fraggle Rock, and various Muppet movies and specials. 

Nelson was born in Tulsa, Oklahoma. He worked as a puppeteer from 1965 until 2011. He died on August 23, 2012 from complications of prostate cancer in Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Nelson also suffered emphysema and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). He was 78 years old.

[[James Cromwell]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, 1940 births, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Actors from New York City, American environmentalists, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American animal rights activists, American political activists

James Oliver Cromwell (born January 27, 1940) is an American movie and television actor. He is mostly known for his roles in Babe, for which he earned a nomination for an Academy Award of Best Supporting Actor, Clear and Present Danger, Star Trek: First Contact, L.A. Confidential, The Green Mile, Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron, The Sum of All Fears, The Queen, The Artist, Big Hero 6 and Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom. Cromwell is also known for his television role in Six Feet Under'' that ran from 2003 until 2005. He has been nominated for an Academy Award, three Emmy Awards, and four Screen Actors Guild Awards during his 39 year career. 

Cromwell is also known for his height which is 6 ft and 7 in., this makes Cromwell the tallest actor to receive an Academy Award nomination. Cromwell won his first Emmy Award in 2013.

Cromwell was born on January 27, 1940 in Los Angeles, California to Kay Johnson and John Cromwell. He was raised in Manhattan, New York. Cromwell was educated at Middlebury College and at Carnegie Mellon University. 

Cromwell was married to Anne Ulvestad from 1976 until they divorced in 1986, they had three children. Lastly he married Julie Cobb from 1986 until they divorced in 2005. He currently lives in Studio City, Los Angeles, California.

He supported the presidential campaign of Bernie Sanders in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.

[[Ralph McQuarrie]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, People from Gary, Indiana, American illustrators, Academy Award winners, People from Billings, Montana, Costume designers

Ralph Angus McQuarrie (June 13, 1929 – March 3, 2012) was an American costume designer and illustrator who designed the original Star Wars trilogy, the original Battlestar Galactica TV series, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial and Cocoon, for which he won an Academy Award. 

McQuarrie was born on June 13, 1929 in Gary, Indiana, a suburb close to Chicago, Illinois. He was raised in Billings, Montana. He was educated at the Art Center School. McQuarrie was married to Joan Benjamin from 1983 until his death in 2012. McQuarrie died on March 3, 2012 in Berkeley, California from Parkinson's disease, he was 82 years old.

[[Bernard Lovell]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2012 deaths, English astronomers, Knights Bachelor, Fellows of the Royal Society, English physicians, People from Bristol

Sir Alfred Charles Bernard Lovell, OBE, FRS (31 August 1913 – 6 August 2012) was an English physicist and radio astronomer. He was the first Director of Jodrell Bank Observatory, from 1945 until 1980. Lovell is mostly known for his works in astronomy. Lovell was knighted in 1961, later becoming "Sir". 

[[Superman Returns]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 movies, Superman movies, English-language movies, Movies composed by John Ottman, Movies directed by Bryan Singer

Superman Returns is a 2006 superhero movie. It is based on the DC Comics superhero Superman and his archenemy Lex Luthor. The movie was directed by Bryan Singer. It was produced by Bryan Singer, Gilbert Adler, and Jon Peters.

The movie stars include Brandon Routh, Kevin Spacey, Kate Bosworth, James Marsden, Parker Posey, Frank Langella, Sam Huntington, Eva Marie Saint, Kal Penn, and James Karen (deleted scenes).

It also includes a computer-generated image scene of Marlon Brando, who died in 2004. Superman Returns was released on June 28, 2006. The movie used John Williams' original score from the original movie.

[[Ba'ath Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Asia, 1943 establishments, Nationalist organizations in Asia

The Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party was an Arab nationalist party with socialist beliefs.  It was established in 1943 by Michel Aflaq and Salah al-Din al-Bitar.

[[Frank Langella]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, People from Bayonne, New Jersey, American movie actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from New Jersey, Tony Award winning actors, Drama Desk Award winners, American television actors

Frank A. Langella, Jr. (born January 1, 1938) is an American stage and movie actor. He won a Tony Award for Best Leading Actor in a Play for his role as Richard Nixon in the play Frost/Nixon (2006), and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role for the same role in the 2008 movie adaptation. 

Langella is also known for his other movie appearances, including Superman Returns, The Caller,The Beast, House of D, The Box, Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps, Unknown and Robot & Frank. 

Langella was born in Bayonne, New Jersey. He attended Syracuse University. He married Ruth Weil from 1977 to 1996. He was partners with Whoopi Goldberg from 1996 to 2001. He had two children.

[[Tuesday Weld]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, 1943 births

Tuesday Weld (born August 27 1943) is an American movie and television actress.  She began her acting career as a child. She has acted in many television programs and movies. 

Weld was born Susan Ker Weld in New York City. After her father died, her mother put her to work as a child model.  Weld's first acting job was on television at age 12.  She was in a movie the same year with a small role in the 1956 Alfred Hitchcock crime drama, The Wrong Man. The pressures of her career, however, resulted in a nervous breakdown at age nine, alcoholism by age 12, and a suicide attempt around the same time.

Weld's mother did not like her teenage daughter's affairs with older men, such as actor John Ireland.  In 1961, she had an off-screen romance with Elvis Presley, her costar in Wild in the Country.  

[[Russell Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Denver, Colorado, People from Enid, Oklahoma, Actors from Oklahoma

Russell Scott (June 30, 1921 - August 27, 2012), also known as Blinky the Clown, was an American clown, stage, and entertainer who starred in a Denver, Colorado television program called Blinky's Fun Club from 1958 until the show was cancelled in 1998. Scott was also a stage actor and performed in the South Broadway theatre in Denver, Colorado.

Scott was born in Enid, Oklahoma on June 30, 1921. Scott was never married and had no children. Scott died on August 27, 2012 in a hospital in Morrison, Colorado from complications of pneumonia, he was 91 years old.

[[Cindy Williams]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, 1947 births

Cynthia Jane "Cindy" Williams (August 22 1947) is an American movie and television actress.  She has starred in many television series and movies. She is best known for starring in the television sitcom Laverne & Shirley (1976 to 1982) and playing Laurie in the 1973 movie American Graffiti. 

[[Takahiko Sumida]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Footballers from Tottori Prefecture

Takahiko Sumida is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Yumi Obe]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Tottori Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Nikko Securities Dream Ladies players, OKI FC Winds players, TEPCO Mareeze players, Footballers at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2004 Summer Olympics, 1991 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 1995 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2003 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 1993 AFC Women's Championship players, 1995 AFC Women's Championship players, 1997 AFC Women's Championship players, 1999 AFC Women's Championship players, 2001 AFC Women's Championship players, 2003 AFC Women's Championship players, Footballers at the 1998 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2002 Asian Games, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games bronze medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 1998 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2002 Asian Games

Yumi Obe is a former Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Takuya Marutani]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Tottori Prefecture

Takuya Marutani is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[List of current United States governors]]

CATEGORIES: State governors of the United States, Lists of governors

[[Michelle Rodriguez]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from San Antonio, Texas, 1978 births, Bisexual people, Living people, American television actors, American voice actors, LGBT actors, LGBT people from Texas

Michelle Rodriguez (born July 12, 1978 near San Antonio, Texas) is an American movie and television actress who has starred in numerous television programs and movies. She began with Girlfight in 2000 and continued with other notable movies, such as Avatar and Machete.

[[Matteo Brancaleoni]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Jazz musicians, Italian singers, Italian television actors

Matteo Brancaleoni  (pronounced branka-leeonee) is an Italian contemporary pop/jazz singer, actor and journalist.

[[Toni D'Alto]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2012 deaths, American movie actors, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Deaths from cancer

Toni Ann D'Alto (May 5, 1964 – August 26, 2012) was an American movie actress. She appeared in the film The Appointment.(1996)

[[Myocheong]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 1135 deaths, Buddhist clergy, Korean philosophers, Korean politicians, Monks, Murder victims, Occultists, People from Pyongyang

Myo Cheong (Hangul: 묘청, Hanja:妙淸, ?-1135) was a Korean  Buddhist monk, politician, and philosopher during the Goryeo Dynasty. His other name was Jungshim. 

Myo cheong was from Pyongyang. Although he was a Buddhist, he performed divination and prophecy.

[[Jason Priestley]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Vancouver, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American voice actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian television directors, Canadian television producers, Canadian voice actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, 1969 births, Living people

Jason Priestley (born August 28, 1969) is a Canadian-American actor, producer and director who has acted in numerous television programs. He played Brandon Walsh in the television series Beverly Hills, 90210. He was born in Vancouver, British Columbia. He became an American citizen in 2007.

[[Papal name]]

CATEGORIES: Papal names

A papal name is a special name (regnal name) which is chosen by the pope when he is elected.  

[[Pope John Paul]]

CATEGORIES: Papal names

Pope John Paul may mean:

[[Richard Jenkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Illinois, Actors from Rhode Island

Richard Dale Jenkins (born May 4, 1947) is an American Academy Award-nominated television, stage, voice, and movie actor who has appeared in many movies such as; The Visitor, The Cabin in the Woods, Eddie, Fun with Dick and Jane, Blue Steel, Wolf, The Mod Squad, Killing Them Softly, Kong: Skull Island and The Shape of Water. In television, he is known for his role in Six Feet Under.

Jenkins was born in DeKalb, Illinois on May 4, 1947. Jenkins was educated at Illinois Wesleyan University. Jenkins is currently married to Sharon R. Friedrick since 1969, they have 2 children together. Jenkins currently lives in Cumberland, Rhode Island.

[[James Fox]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Actors from London, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

James Fox, also known as William Fox (born 19 May 1939) is a British television, stage, and movie actor, who has appeared in over 100 television programmes and over 50 movies in his 62 year career. Fox is best known for his roles in Sexy Beast, The Lost World, and Patriot Games. In the U.S. he is mostly known for his role as Mr. Salt in Tim Burton's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.

Fox was born in London, England on 19 May 1939. Fox has an elder brother, actor Edward Fox, and a younger brother, movie producer Robert Fox. His grandfather was playwright Frederick Lonsdale. 

Fox has been married to Mary Elizabeth Piper since 1973, they have five children - the middle child is actor Laurence Fox. His son-in-law is actor and comedian Richard Ayoade. His daughter-in-law is actress Billie Piper. His sister-in-law is actress Joanna David. His niece is actress Emilia Fox. His nephew is actor Freddie Fox.

[[Vincent Pastore]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, Actors from New York City

Vincent Pastore (born July 14, 1946) is an American television, radio, voice, and movie actor, mostly known for his role as a mobster and also best known for his role as Salvatore "Big Pussy" Bonpensiero in the hit show The Sopranos. He began his career 1988 and had a small part in the 1990 movie Goodfellas.

Pastore was born in The Bronx, New York City, New York on July 14, 1946. Pastore was educated at Pace University. Pastore was married to Nancy Berke until they divorced, they had one child. Pastore currently lives in City Island, New York.

[[Nick Punto]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Los Angeles Dodgers players, Sportspeople from San Diego, California

Nicholas Paul Punto (born November 8, 1977) is an American major league baseball player. He plays for the Los Angeles Dodgers. Punnto was born in San Diego, California. He used to play for the Boston Red Sox.

[[June Foray]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, American voice actors, American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Actors from Massachusetts, People from Springfield, Massachusetts, Annie Award winners

June Foray (born June Lucille Forer; September 18, 1917 – July 26, 2017) was an American television, stage, radio, movie, and voice actress. She was mostly known for making the voice of Rocky the Flying Squirrel and Granny in all of the Looney Tunes shows or movies.

Foray has also made the voice of Cindy Lou Who, Jokey Smurf, Lucifer the cat, and Witch Hazel. She received a Daytime Emmy Award and an Annie Award. She has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for her voice work.

Foray was born in Springfield, Massachusetts on September 18, 1917. She was educated at the Classical High School. She was married to Hobart Donovan from 1954 until his death in 1976. They had no children.

Foray helped create the Best Animated Feature category of the Academy Awards.

On July 26, 2017, Foray died at a hospital in Los Angeles, California of cardiac arrest. She was 99 years old.

[[Terence Stamp]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Actors from London, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, London Borough of Tower Hamlets

Terence Henry Stamp (born 22 July 1938) is a British movie, voice, television, and stage actor who has appeared in over 100 movies such as; The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, Superman II, Get Smart,The Haunted Mansion, Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace, Valkyrie, Yes Man, and Wanted. Stamp has been awarded a Golden Globe Award, Silver Bear Award, and a Satellite Award. He has acted in over 100 films.

Stamp was born in Stepney, London. In the 1960s he and supermodel girlfriend Jean Shrimpton were one of the most photographed couples of the day. Another of his famous girlfriends was Julie Christie. Later, Stamp became a follower of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, and lived for a while at the latter's ashram (~estate) in Poona.

At 64, Stamp married 29 year old Elizabeth O'Rourke in 2002. The couple divorced in 2008.  

[[Jonathan Pryce]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Welsh movie actors, Welsh television actors, Welsh voice actors, Welsh stage actors, Actors from London, Actors who played Bond villains, Tony Award winning actors, Knight Bachelor

Sir Jonathan Pryce, CBE (born John Price on 1 June 1947) is a Welsh movie, television, stage and voice actor. He has appeared in many movie, television programs, and plays during his 42 year career.

Pryce is mostly known for his roles as Elliot Carver in Tomorrow Never Dies, Sam Lowry in Brazil, King James I/VI of England in The New World, Juan Perón in Evita, Govenor Weatherby Swann in the Pirates of the Caribbean Movie Series, U.S. President in both G.I. Joe the Rise of Cobra, and in G.I. Joe Retaliation. In 2019, he played Pope Francis in the Netflix movie The Two Popes, a role which earned him an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.

Pryce was born in Holywell, Flintshire, Wales on 1 June 1947. He studied at the Royal Academy of the Dramatic Arts. He was raised in London, England. Pryce is currently married to Kate Fahy since 1974.

[[Richard Griffiths]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Yorkshire, Deaths from surgical complications, Drama Desk Award winners, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Tony Award winning actors

Richard Thomas Griffiths, OBE (31 July 1947 – 28 March 2013) was a British movie, stage, television, Actor and Voice actor. He appeared in many movies, plays, and television programs.

Griffiths is mostly known for his roles as Harry Potter's Uncle Vernon Dursley in the Harry Potter movie series, Uncle Monty in Withnail and I, Henry Crabbe in Pie in the Sky, and as King George II in Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides. He won a Laurence Olivier Award, a Drama Desk Award, and a Tony Award.

[[Ann Romney]]

CATEGORIES: People from Detroit, Michigan, 1949 births, Living people, People with multiple sclerosis

Ann Lois Romney (née Davies born on April 16, 1949) is the wife of the Republican Presidential Candidate Mitt Romney. She was the First Lady of the State of Massachusetts when he was Governor. She was born in Detroit, Michigan.

[[Jim Nabors]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Actors from Alabama, American comedians, American movie actors, American television actors, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT people from Alabama, LGBT singers, Organ transplant recipients, Singers from Alabama

James Thurston "Jim" Nabors (June 12, 1930 – November 30, 2017) was an American singer, television, and movie actor. He was best known for his role as Gomer Pyle on the TV programs The Andy Griffith Show and Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C. Nabors was the host of two programs. They were The Jim Nabors Hour and The Jim Nabors Show.

Nabors was also a guest star in The Steve Allen Show, The Danny Kaye Show, The Muppet Show and The Carol Burnett Show. He won a Golden Raspberry Award for his role as Lugs Harvey in the movie Stroker Ace.

[[Re'em Ha'Cohen]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Israeli rabbis

Rabbi Re'em Ha'Cohen (רא"ם הכהן, born in March 10, 1957) is an Israeli Rabbi. Ha'Cohen is the rosh yeshiva of Yeshivat Otniel (together with Rabbi Binyamin Kalmanzon). He is a well-known religious zionist. He is also the community rabbi of the town Otniel, which is in South Mount Hebron, in the occupied Palestinian territories.

Ha'Cohen grew up in Jerusalem. He is married to Noa and a father of 9 children.

Ha'Cohen holds that smoking is forbidden by the Jewish religion. He also believes that Jewish law says people should be organ donors.

[[Harp seal]]

CATEGORIES: Pinnipeds

The harp seal (Pagophilus groenlandicus),  also known as the saddleback seal or Greenland seal, is a species of earless seal.  They live in the northernmost Atlantic Ocean and parts of the Arctic Ocean. It now belongs to the monotypic genus Pagophilus. Its scientific name, Pagophilus groenlandicus, means "ice-lover from Greenland".

[[Ringed seal]]

CATEGORIES: Pinnipeds

The ringed seal (Pusa hispida), also known as the jar seal and as netsik or nattiq by the Inuit, is an earless seal.  They live in the Arctic and sub-Arctic areas.  The ringed seal is a small seal.  They are rarely greater than 1.5 m in length.  

They have a distinctive patterning of dark spots surrounded by light grey rings.  It is the most abundant and wide-ranging ice seal in the northern hemisphere.  The live throughout the Arctic Ocean, into the Bering Sea and Okhotsk Sea as far south as the northern coast of Japan in the Pacific, and throughout the North Atlantic coasts of Greenland and Scandinavia as far south as Newfoundland, and include two freshwater subspecies in northern Europe.  Ringed seals are one of the main prey of polar bears.  They have long been a part of the diet of indigenous people of the Arctic.

[[Saffron cod]]

CATEGORIES: Teleosts

The saffron cod (Eleginus gracilis), is a type of fish.  They are closely related to true cods (genus Gadus). It is dark grey-green to brown, with spots on its sides and pale towards the belly. It may grow to 60 cm and weigh up to 1.3 kg.

It lives in the North Pacific, from off the Korean coasts until beyond Bering Straits, off the Alaskan coasts.  It normally is found in shallow coastal waters at less than 60 m depth.  It may also be found at depths up to 200 m. The saffron cod may also enter brackish and even fresh waters, occurring quite far up rivers and streams. 

Saffron cods begin to mature during their third year of life. They feed on fish and small crustaceans. They are commercially fished in many areas of the northwestern Pacific. The country with the largest catch is Russia.  It is used for human's to eat in the Russian Federation and Japan, fresh or frozen.

[[Forbes Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Ice hockey people from New Brunswick, Boston Bruins players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Canadian ice hockey centres, American Hockey League players

Forbes Taylor Kennedy (born August 18, 1935 in Dorchester, New Brunswick) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey centre that played a combined 12 seasons in the NHL. He played 1 season with the Chicago Black Hawks, 4 with the Detroit Red Wings, 2 with the Philadelphia Flyers, 4 with the Boston Bruins and 1 with the Toronto Maple Leafs. He set records for most penalties in a game (eight), most minutes (38), most penalties in a period (six) and most penalty minutes in a period (34).

During the 1969 Stanley Cup playoff opener between the Boston Bruins and Toronto Maple Leafs, Bruins player Pat Quinn delivered a huge hit on Maple Leafs defenceman Bobby Orr which knocked Orr unconscious. Kennedy responded by taking part in four fights and punching a linesman after the last fight. He was fined $1,000 for punching the linesman. He was suspended for a long time and his time with the Maple Leafs ended. It was also the last game he played before he was forced to retire because he never recovered from knee surgery.

[[Rambling Rose]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 drama movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Movies about sexuality, Movies set in Georgia (U.S. state), Movies set in the 1930s

Rambling Rose is a 1991 American drama movie. The movie is set in Georgia during the Great Depression. It stars Laura Dern as the title character. Robert Duvall, Diane Ladd and Lukas Haas play the family she moves in with. It was released in September 1991 in the United States.

[[Gord Fashoway]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba

Gordon "Gordie" Fashoway (June 16, 1926 – May 1, 2012) was a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger that played 13 games for the Chicago Black Hawks during the 1950-51 NHL season. Fashoway also played in the Western Hockey League with the New Westminster Royals, Victoria Cougars, and Portland Buckaroos. He won the Fred J. Hume Cup in 1960 while playing with the Buckaroos. 

After Fashoway retired, he became the head coach of the Oakland Golden Seals in 1968. He coached the Golden Seals for one year before he decided to coach the Portland Buckaroos for five years. In the 1970-71 WHL season, the Buckaroos won their third WCHL championship when Fashoway was coaching them.

[[Anne Archer]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Scientologists

Anne Archer (born August 25, 1947) is an American movie and television actress. She has been in many television programs and movies. She starred in the thrillers Fatal Attraction, Body of Evidence, Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger.

[[Dick Gamble]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2018 deaths, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Montreal Canadiens players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Stanley Cup champions, Ice hockey people from New Brunswick, American Hockey League players

Richard Frank "Dick" Gamble (November 16, 1928 in Moncton, New Brunswick – March 22, 2018 in Pittsford, New York) was a Canadian retired NHL ice hockey left winger that played a combined 9 seasons in the NHL. He played 6 seasons with the Montreal Canadiens, 1 season with the Chicago Black Hawks and 2 seasons with the Toronto Maple Leafs. Gamble won a Stanley Cup with the Canadiens in 1953.

Gamble also played in the American Hockey League with the Rochester Americans. During his time with the Americans, he won 3 Calder Cups and became a player-coach for the Americans in 1968–69. They retired his jersey number (#9). 

[[Lee Lyang]]

CATEGORIES: 1519 births, 1583 deaths, Korean educators, South Korean politicians, Autobiographers

Lee Lyang (이량, 1519 - 1583) was a politician and philosopher during the Korean Joseon Dynasty.

Lee was a member of the royal family of the Joseon Dynasty. He was a descendant of Prince Hyoryeongs and uncle of Queen Insun, wife of Myeongjong of Joseon. In 1546 he passed to Saengwon and Chinsa exam and passed to Imperial examination in 1552.

[[Diane Ladd]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Mississippi, American movie actors, American television actors, 1935 births, Living people

Diane Ladd (born November 29, 1935 in Laurel, Mississippi) is an American movie and television actress. She has been nominated for several major awards. She is the mother of actress Laura Dern.

[[Hiromi Ikeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Tasaki Perule FC players, Footballers at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2003 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 1997 AFC Women's Championship players, 2001 AFC Women's Championship players, 2003 AFC Women's Championship players, 2006 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 1998 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Asian Games bronze medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 1998 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games

Hiromi Ikeda (former name; Hiromi Isozaki, 磯﨑 浩美) is a former Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[BBC World News]]

CATEGORIES: BBC television channels, 1991 establishments

BBC World News  is an international news channel. Unlike other BBC channels, it is  not available in the UK and is not funded by a licence fee. Instead it has advertisements. BBC world news employs more correspondents and reporters than any other news channel. The channel was launched in 1991.

[[Gifu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Gifu Prefecture

Gifu is a city in the Chūbu region of Japan on the island of Honshu.  It is the capital city of Gifu Prefecture.

It has been recognized as a core city since 1996.

[[Sakaiminato, Tottori]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Tottori Prefecture

Sakaiminato is a city in the Chūbu region of Japan on the island of Honshu.

[[Yonago, Tottori]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Tottori Prefecture

Yonago is a city in the Chūbu region of Japan on the island of Honshu.

[[Toyama, Toyama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Toyama Prefecture

Toyama  is a city in the  Chūbu region of Japan on the island of Honshu. It is the capital city of Toyama Prefecture.

It has been recognized as a core city since 1996.

[[Brave and Bold]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books, 1870s books, Books by Horatio Alger, Jr., English-language novels, American novels

Brave and Bold is a boys' book written by Horatio Alger, Jr. It was serialized (published in parts) beginning on August 5, 1872 in the New York Weekly. Also published in the same issue was Alger's poem "Friar Anselmo". Brave and Bold was then published in book form by A. K. Loring of Boston in 1873. The story was serialized in Reader, an English magazine, in 1872, and was one of Alger's few stories to be so published.

Alger had lost some of his steam as the 1870s approached. He had made his literary name in exposing the horrors of life for street children in books such as Ragged Dick (1866).  As the years passed, the government had taken on these horrors, studies were being conducted, and the plight of street children was being relieved. As a result, Alger was left without a literary subject. Boys' tastes were changing. They knew everything they needed to know about street boys from Alger's many novels about the poor. They wanted cowboys and Indians. Alger's publisher and his editor urged him ramp up the excitement in his books. Alger agreed, but let it be known that his moralizing would remain at its usual high level.

Brave and Bold was the first in a new series of Alger novels published by Loring, and the first in which sex rears its head. Before Brave and Bold, the girls of the hero's age were sisters or simply prop figures. In this new book, Hester Paine, the lovely daughter of Millville's most prominent citizen and the reigning village belle, becomes a source of fascination and contention for "factory boy" hero Robert Rushton and his nemesis, the rich, snobbish, kid glove-wearing youth Halbert Davis.

Brave and Bold hit a new high in Alger's work, according Edwin Hoyt, but Hoyt describes the story as a "fiasco". Gary Scharnhorst describes it as "horrifying", and lists a shooting, a stabbing, and a suicide among the book's elements. The book was reviewed by a reader of the children's magazine St. Nicholas; he described it as "of the sensational order" and was glad he did not meet its characters in real life. This was the last review of an Alger work published by the prestigious magazine. The book initiated the controversy over making Alger's works available to the young.

[[Yamagata, Yamagata]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Yamagata Prefecture

Yamagata  is a city in the Tōhoku region of Japan. It is the capital city of Yamagata Prefecture. It is on the island of Honshu. It has been recognized as a special city since 2001.

The sightseeing spot of Yamagata are the peaks of the Zaou, Rissyaku Temple and Yamagata castle. This place is site of Hanagaza festival. This festival is held in August.

Yamagata is hot in summer and cold in winter.

[[Kevin McNally]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, English radio actors, People from Bristol

Kevin McNally (born 27 April 1956) mostly known as Kevin R. McNally is an English movie, television, stage, voice, and radio actor who is mostly known for his role as Joshamee Gibbs in all four of the Pirates of the Caribbean movies. McNally has also appeared in many movies such as; Valkyrie, Scoop, Spice World, Johnny English and The Raven. 

McNally was born in Bristol, England. McNally married Phyllis Logan in 2011. They have a son together.

[[Wakayama, Wakayama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Wakayama Prefecture

Wakayama   is a city in the Kansai region of Japan on the island of Honshu. It is the capital city of Wakayama Prefecture.

It has been recognized as a core city since 1997.

[[Nara, Nara]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nara Prefecture

Nara is a city in Japan on the island of Honshu. It is the capital city of Nara Prefecture.

It has been recognized as a core city since 2002.

[[Tony Jay]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2006 deaths, Actors from London, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from surgical complications, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Tony Jay (2 February 1933 – 13 August 2006) was a British actor who is mostly known for his deep voice and for his voice roles in as Shere Khan in The Jungle Book 2 and as Claude Frollo in The Hunchback of Notre Dame. Jay is also known for playing villain roles in voice and live-action movies.

Jay was born on 2 February 1933 in London, England, and was educated at the Pinner County Grammer School. Jay became a U.S. citizen. 

Jay was married to Marta MacGeraghty from 1974 until his death in 2006. Jay died on 13 August 2006 in Cedars-Sinia Hospital in Los Angeles, California from complications of lung cancer after having surgery to remove the tumor, he was 73 years old.

[[Bob Holness]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2012 deaths, Actors who played James Bond, British television actors, British television presenters, British voice actors, Deaths from dementia, Television personalities from Kent

Robert Wentworth John Holness (November 12, 1928 – January 6, 2012) was a British radio and television presenter who is mostly known for hosting Take a Letter, Blockbusters, Raise the Roof, and in Call My Bluff. Holness has also guest-starred in Ant and Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway. He also played James Bond in a radio program called Moonraker.

Holness was born in Vryheid, Natal, South Africa on November 12, 1928 to British parents and was raised in Ashford, Kent. He was educated at Ashford Grammar School and at Maidstone College of Art.

Holness was married to Mary Holness until his death in 2012, they had 3 children. Holness lived in Pinner, London, England and would die there on January 6, 2012 from dementia, he was 83 years old.

[[Byblos]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lebanon

Byblos is the Greek name of the Phoenician city Gebal (Βύβλος; גְבַל; earlier Gubla/Phoenician:𐤂𐤁𐤋). It is said to be the oldest city in the world (according to the ancient historian Philo of Byblos).

[[Bill Fagerbakke]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, American movie actors, American voice actors, American television actors, American video game actors, Actors from San Bernardino, California

William Mark "Bill" Fagerbakke (born October 4, 1957) is an American actor and voice actor who is mostly known for his role as SpongeBob SquarePants' best friend Patrick Star in SpongeBob SquarePants and as Michael "Dauber" Dybinski in Coach. In movies he is known for his role as Deputy Webb in the 2009 horror movie Halloween II. 

Fagerbakke was born in Fontana, California on October 4, 1957. He was educated at the University of Idaho. He has been married to actress Catherine McClenahan since 1989. Together, the couple have two children, Hannah and Carson. They separated in September 2012.

[[Rodger Bumpass]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American singers, American voice actors, American comedians, American movie actors, American television actors, American video game actors, Actors from Arkansas

Rodger Albert Bumpass (born November 20, 1951) is an American actor and voice actor who is best known for his roles as Squidward Tentacles in SpongeBob SquarePants and Professor Membrane in Invader Zim. He is also known for providing extra voices in Toy Story 2, A Bug's Life, and Tarzan.

[[Carolyn Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American voice actors, American television actors, Actors from Baltimore, Maryland

Carolyn Lawrence (born February 13, 1967) is an American television and voice actress mostly known for her voice role as Sandy Cheeks in Spongebob Squarepants and as Cindy Vortex in The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius, The Powerpuff Girls. Lawrence was born in Baltimore, Maryland on February 13, 1967.

[[Mr. Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American voice actors, Comedians from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey, American artists, American animators, American television directors, Actors from New Jersey

Douglas Lawrence "Doug" Osowski (born January 1, 1969) mostly known as Mr. Lawrence or Doug Lawrence, is an American voice actor, comedian, writer, storyboard artist, animator, and director. He is known for his voice roles such as Plankton, Larry the Lobster, and the Realistic Fish Head in Spongebob Squarepants.

Lawrence was born in East Brunswick Township, New Jersey on January 1, 1969. 

[[Māori people]]

CATEGORIES: Maori

The Māori are the indigenous people of New Zealand. They were the first people to live in the islands. 

The Polynesian ancestors of the Māori came to New Zealand between 800 and 1300 AD. There are many theories about where the Maori came from. They arrived from somewhere in tropical Polynesia, either from the Cook Islands or the Society Islands. In Māori stories, the place they come from is called Hawai'iki. This is not the same as the country Hawai'i. 

Before Europeans came to New Zealand, the Māori did not need a name for themselves as a people. After Europeans came to New Zealand, the indigenous people called themselves Māori. Māori means "normal" or "ordinary". They called other people, especially those who came from Britain, "Pākehā". Today, in New Zealand English "Pākehā" is often used as a name for New Zealand Europeans.

Today, about 600,000 Māori people live in New Zealand. They are an important part of the country's culture. This is why they have received special rights from the Government of New Zealand. Their native language, the Māori language, is an official language of the country along with English. The New Zealand Government support Māori people to keep their culture alive.

[[Walter Breuning]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 2011 deaths, American supercentenarians, Deaths from natural causes, People from Minnesota, People from Great Falls, Montana

Walter Breuning (September 21, 1896 – April 14, 2011) was an American supercentenarian and former railroader, and at the time of his death the oldest living man in the world after the death of British World War I-veteran Henry Allingham (who was 15 weeks, 2 days older) on July 18, 2009, and the oldest living man in the United States since December 27, 2008 upon the death of George Francis (who was born on the same day as Allingham). He was also a colorectal cancer survivor.

Breuning was born on September 21, 1896 in Melrose, Minnesota. Breuning was married to Agnes C. Breuning (née Twokey) from 1922 until her death in 1957. Lastly he married Margaret Breuning (née Vanest) from 1958 until her death in 1975.

From March 31, 2011 (the same day as Shelby Harris, who succeeded Breuning as the oldest living man in the United States, celebrated his 110th birthday), Breuning was hospitalized for an unspecified illness, possibly pneumonia. He died of natural causes at the hospital on April 14, 2011 at 3.30pm aged 114 years, 205 days as the third-youngest of only six men (before Jiroemon Kimura became the oldest man ever in late 2012) who have become at least 114 years old, and was survived by his niece, 3 nephews, and a great niece and nephews. He was succeeded as the oldest living man by Japaneseman Jiroemon Kimura, who was 30 weeks younger and later become the oldest man ever. Breuning and Kimura were, after 110-year-old Japaneseman Tokio Watanabe's death on February 6, 2010, the last two living men born before 1900, as well as the only two men born before 1900 who were still living in the 2nd decade of the 21st century (2011–2020).

[[Deep Roy]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, English movie actors, English voice actors, People from Nairobi

Gurdeep Roy (born 26 January 1949), sometimes credited as Roy Deep, Gordeep Roy, or just Deep Roy, is a Kenyan-born English movie and voice actor, stuntman and puppeteer.

He has appeared in 50 movies including  Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Big Fish, Planet of the Apes, Star Trek, Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, Mafia!, How the Grinch Stole Christmas, Corpse Bride, and in Star Trek. Roy is also known for his small-size.

Roy was born in Nairobi, Kenya on 26 January 1949.

[[Cesar Romero]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1994 deaths, Actors from New Jersey, Actors from New York, Actors who played the Joker, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Deaths from bronchopneumonia, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, Infectious disease deaths in California, LGBT actors, LGBT people from New Jersey, LGBT people from New York

Cesar Julio Romero, Jr. (February 15, 1907 – January 1, 1994) was an American stage, movie and television actor. He was in movies, radio works, and television programs for almost sixty years. His roles included playing lovers, historical people in costume dramas, characters in light comedies, and the Joker in the Batman 1966 TV series.

Romero was born on February 15, 1907 in New York City. He was raised in Bradley Beach, New Jersey. He never married. He was a homosexual. Romero died on January 1, 1994 in Santa Monica, California from complications of a pulmonary embolism caused by bronchopneumonia. He was 86 years old.

[[Dana Reeve]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New Jersey, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from lung cancer, 1961 births, 2006 deaths, People from Teaneck, New Jersey

Dana Reeve (née Morosini; March 17, 1961 - March 6, 2006) was an American actress who starred in many television programs and movies. She was born in Teaneck, New Jersey. She was featured in the television soap opera All My Children. She was the widow of Christopher Reeve. Reeve died of lung cancer in March 2006 in New York City.

[[World News Now]]

CATEGORIES: American television news programs, ABC network shows, English-language television programs

World News Now is a news program which began January 6 1992 on American Broadcasting Company. The overall tone of this show is humorous and irreverent. Numerous famous TV personalities, such as Anderson Cooper, have hosted the show.

[[East Grand Forks, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota

East Grand Forks is a city in Polk County, Minnesota in the United States. The population was 8,601 at the 2010 Census.

It is along the eastern bank of the Red River of the North.  It is directly across from the larger city of Grand Forks, North Dakota.

[[Oświęcim]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Poland

Oświęcim (German name: Auschwitz) is a town in the Lesser Poland province of southern Poland. It is 50 west of Kraków.

During World War II the Auschwitz concentration camp was situated near this town.

[[Dido, Queen of Carthage]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and queens, 9th century BC, People in Greek mythology, Roman mythology

Ancient Greek and Roman writers said that Dido was the founder and first Queen of Carthage. Carthage was a city in the country now known as Tunisia. Dido lived in the 9th century BC (about 3000 years ago). Some parts of her life may be true. Other parts are myths. She is best known from the story about her in the Aeneid by the Roman poet Virgil. In some writings about her, she is called Alyssa or Elissa. She was also worshipped as a goddess in ancient Carthage.

[[Fachhochschule Mainz]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 establishments in Germany, Colleges and universities in Germany, Mainz

The Hochschule Mainz is a so called Hochschule (university of applied sciences), that means a special kind of college, with technical, design and business subjects in Mainz.

It was founded in 1971.

[[Anita Tsoy]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Russian singers, Entertainers from Moscow, Mezzo-sopranos, Russian television presenters

Anita "Anna" Sergeyevna Tsoy (Анита "Анна" Сергеевна Цой; born 7 February 1971, Moscow) is a Russian singer-songwriter of Korean descent.

[[Tsu, Mie]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Mie Prefecture

Tsu is a city in the Kansai region of Japan on the island of Honshu.  It is the capital city of Mie Prefecture.

[[List of ornamental aquatic plants in Venezuela]]

CATEGORIES: Aquariums, Venezuela, Lists of plants, Geography-related lists

This is a list of ornamental aquatic plants commonly used in aquariums in Venezuela.

This listing is a partial list and sorted by families and genera in alphabetical form.

[[Masters Home Improvement]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 establishments in Australia, Companies of Australia

Masters Home Improvement was the name of a series of hardware retail outlets in Australia. The chain was operated by both the Australian corporation, Woolworths Limited, and the United States-based hardware chain Lowe's. The first Masters Home Improvement store opened on 31 August 2011 to tradespeople and 1 September 2011 to the general public in Braybrook, a suburb in Melbourne. 

Masters was the main competitor of Bunnings Warehouse, which is another chain of hardware outlets operated by Wesfarmers. Masters Home Improvement stores however had many differences to Bunnings Warehouse stores, including McDonald's and McCafe outlets in some of their stores, push-buttons for customer assistance and whitegoods (refrigerators, dishwashers, washers and dryers) departments.

[[Alex Clare]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Singers from London

Alexander George "Alex" Clare (14 September 1985, London, England) is a British recording artist, musician and singer. His first album The Lateness of the Hour was put out in 2011. He adopted his stage identity, Alex Clare around 2010.

In 2014, Clare and Jim Duguid won Songwriter of the Year at the ASCAP Awards Night. This was for the song "Too Close".

[[Rigidly rotating disk paradox]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

In theoretical physics, a branch of physics, the rigidly rotating disk paradox, sometimes called the Ehrenfest paradox, is a paradox concerning a rotating disk. Basically, the paradox says that when a disk (or any circular object in general) is rotated, it will have a smaller circumference than 2πr, because the radius will remain the same, but the circumference is shortened due to the Lorentz contraction. For a more detailed explanation, see below.

[[Elizabeth Ashley]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Tony Award winning actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Florida, 1939 births, Living people

Elizabeth Cole (better known as Elizabeth Ashley; August 30 1939) is an American stage, television series and movie actress. She received the Tony Award for "Best Featured Actress in a Play". She has performed in many Broadway plays and movies. She was in the television sitcom Evening Shade in the 1990s. She is originally from Ocala, Florida.

[[Fukuoka Art Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Art museums in Japan, Fukuoka Prefecture

Fukuoka Art Museum is a Japanese art museum in Fukuoka Prefecture

[[Steven Franken]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American video game actors, Comedians from New York City, Actors from New York City

Stephen Robert "Steven" Franken (May 27, 1932 – August 24, 2012) mostly known as Steve Franken was an American movie, voice, stage, television actor, and comedian who is mostly known for his role as Chatsworth Osborne, Jr. in The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis. He was also in The Lieutenant. He played several different characters in Bewitched. Franken was also in the 1986 movie The Party. Franken was a second cousin of senator and actor Al Franken.

Franken was born on May 27, 1932 in Brooklyn, New York. Franken was married to Julia Carter until they divorced. Then he was married to Jean Franken up until his death in 2012. He had three daughters. Franken died on August 24, 2012 in Canoga Park, California from cancer, aged 80.

[[Robert Hughes (critic)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2012 deaths, Writers from Sydney, Art critics

Robert Studley Forrest Hughes, AO (28 July 1938 – 6 August 2012) was an Australian-born art critic, writer and maker of television documentaries. 

[[Steve Harvey]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1957 births, African American comedians, American game show hosts, American television talk show hosts, Actors from West Virginia

Steve Harvey (born January 17, 1957) is an American stand-up comedian and game show host. He is currently the host on Family Feud. He also hosted his other program Steve Harvey's Big Time.

He currently hosts the talk show Steve Harvey, which started on September 3, 2012.

[[Mr. Freeze]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics supervillains, Fictional characters introduced in the 1950s

Mr. Freeze or Dr. Victor freeze  is one of many of Batman's foes. Arnold Schwarzenegger played the role in one of the Batman movies.

[[Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe]]

CATEGORIES: Crossover video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Fighting games, 2008 video games, Mortal Kombat series, Video games based on DC Comics

Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe is an Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 fighting game released in 2008. It is a crossover video game where Mortal Kombat characters fight DC Comics ones. It has an arcade mode, story mode, and practice. Players can go online with opponents worldwide.

[[Gangnam Style]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 songs, Dances

"Gangnam Style" (강남스타일) is a song by PSY. The music video has been watched over 3.2 billion times on YouTube 2018. It is the first video in the website's history that more than 1 billion people have seen. It has made people make many videos like it but in other locations, named "parodies". Barack Obama, David Cameron, and Ban Ki-moon tried the song's dance moves.

Gangnam Style continued to be the most viewed YouTube video until August 4th 2017, months since the music video for Despacito was first released.

[[Kocaeli University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey

Kocaeli University is a university in Turkey. It is in İzmit,Kocaeli. The university has many campuses in Umuttepe, Anıtpark and other places. It is a public university.

[[Colin McFarlane]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Actors from London, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Colin McFarlane (born 15 September 1961) is a British actor. He is known for his role as Commissioner Gillian B. Loeb in Batman Begins and The Dark Knight. In television he has appeared in Jonathan's Creek, The Fast Show, and the Black Books. He has starred in animated movies or television programs. He is also known for providing the voice of God in Testament: The Bible in Animation. McFarlane was born in Upper Clapton, London, England on 15 September 1961. He is married to Kate McFarlane. They have one son named Josh.

[[Peggy Lipton]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2019 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from colorectal cancer

Margaret Ann "Peggy" Lipton (August 30, 1946 – May 11, 2019) was an American television actress. She played Julie Barnes in the series The Mod Squad in the late 1960s and early 1970s. She also played Norma Jennings in Twin Peaks. Some sources mention that she was born in 1946 while others say 1947. She was born in New York City. She was married to Quincy Jones from 1974 until they divorced in 1990. The couple had two daughters, actresses Kidada and Rashida Jones.

Lipton died of colon cancer on May 11, 2019 in Los Angeles, California. She was 72.

[[Mary Landrieu]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, American Roman Catholics, People from Arlington, Virginia, Politicians from Virginia, United States senators from Louisiana, US Democratic Party politicians, 21st-century American politicians, 20th-century American politicians

Mary Loretta Landrieu (ˈ LAN; born November 23, 1955) is an American politician. She served as a U.S. Senator of Louisiana from 1997 to 2015. Landrieu is a member of the United States Democratic Party. She was raised in New Orleans. Her brother Mitch Landrieu is the current Mayor of New Orleans. Her father Moon Landrieu also served as Mayor of New Orleans. She is considered a conservative Democrat, often opposed to the views of many others within her party. She lost re-election in 2014 to Republican U.S. Representative Bill Cassidy.

[[Nightswimming (Awake)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 television episodes

"Nightswimming" is the eighth episode of the American crime fantasy television series Awake, that first aired on the National Broadcasting Company (NBC) on April 19, 2012. Leonard Chang and co-executive producer Davey Holmes wrote "Nightswimming". 2.80 million watched when it was first broadcast on television in the United States. Executive producer Jeffrey Reiner directed the episode, and critics liked the episode.

Awake's main character is Michael Britten (Jason Isaacs), a detective living in two different realities after a car crash. In one reality, where he wears a red wristband, his wife Hannah Britten (Laura Allen) survived the accident, and in another reality, where he wears a green wristband, his son Rex Britten (Dylan Minnette) survived. In the "green reality", Michael helps Accountant Marcus Ananyev (Elijah Alexander) and his wife Alina (Ayelet Zurer) start a new life in the Witness Protection Program after a gang member tried to kill Marcus. In the "red reality", Michael and Hannah prepare for a new life in Oregon after deciding to move there. They go swimming at a college pool because they love each other.

Many reviewers praised the story of the "red reality", but did not enjoy the arcs of the "green reality". This episode marked the first time Rex had not of appear in an episode of the series, the show's two therapists: Dr. Jonathan Lee (BD Wong) and Dr. Judith Evans (Cherry Jones) also did not appear in it. Even though it was the eighth episode, it was supposed to be the fifth episode. The music featured in it was "Pain in My Heart" by Otis Redding. Michael is seen shirtless in two scenes of the episode, one of those scenes was filmed at an actual campus swimming pool. During filming, a woman saw Isaacs naked, and questioned it. Many critics commented on the themes of "Nightswimming". It was filmed in Los Angeles, California, and eight guest actors were in it.

[[Virginia Dwyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2012 deaths, American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Omaha, Nebraska

Virginia Dwyer Gorman (December 19, 1919 – August 20, 2012) was an American movie and television actress. She was born in Omaha, Nebraska. She was married to Walter Gorman. She died on August 20, 2012 in her home in Manhattan, New York from natural causes. She was 92 years old.

[[Chris Lighty]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2012 deaths, African-American people, People from New York City, Suicides by firearm

Chris Lighty (May 8, 1968 – August 30, 2012) was an American music executive and a talent agent. He helped many artists and musicians during his career. Lighty was "one of the most powerful figures in the hip-hop business". Lighty was also the founder of Violator, a record label. 

Lighty was born in The Bronx, New York City on May 8, 1968. He committed suicide by shooting himself on August 30, 2012 in his home in The Bronx. He was 44 years old.

[[Victor Garber]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian entertainers, LGBT actors, LGBT musicians, Canadian LGBT people, Gay men, Actors from London (Ontario)

Victor Joseph Garber (born March 16, 1949) is a Canadian movie, television, voice, and stage actor. He has appeared in many movies. He played Thomas Andrews in James Cameron's 1997 movie Titanic. He also played San Francisco Mayor George Moscone in Milk.

Garber was born in London, Ontario, Canada on March 16, 1949. Garber came out gay in January 2013. He lives in New York with his husband, Rainer Andreesen, whom he was married since 2015.

[[Jonathan Hyde]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Actors from Queensland, Australian movie actors, Australian stage actors, Australian television actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, People from Brisbane

Jonathan Stephen Geoffrey King (born 21 May 1948), better known as Jonathan Hyde, is an Australian-born actor. He has lived in the United Kingdom since 1969. He is known for roles such as Herbert Cadbury in Richie Rich (1994), Sam Parrish and Van Pelt in Jumanji (1995), J. Bruce Ismay in Titanic (1997) and Warren Westridge in Anaconda (1997). His TV credits include roles such as Culverton Smith in The Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes and  Eldritch Palmer in The Strain.

King was born in Brisbane, Queensland. He moved to London in 1969. He married Scottish soprano Isobel Buchanan in 1980. The couple have two daughters, including actress Georgia King.

[[Billy Zane]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American video game actors, Movie producers from Chicago, Actors from Chicago

William George "Billy" Zane, Jr. (born February 24, 1966), mostly known as Billy Zane or Bill Zane, is an American television, voice, stage, video game, and movie actor, music executive, and movie producer. He has appeared in over 100 movies. He played Caledon N. "Cal" Hockley in the 1997 James Cameron's blockbuster movie Titanic.

Zane was born on February 24, 1966 in Chicago, Illinois. He was married to Lisa Collins from 1989 until they divorced in 1995.

[[Ioan Gruffudd]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors, British voice actors

Ioan Gruffudd (born October 6, 1973) is a Welsh television, stage, and movie Actor. He is known for his roles as Harold Lowe in Titanic, Lt. John Beales in Black Hawk Down, and his role as Reed Richards in Fantastic Four and Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer.

Gruffudd was born on October 6, 1973 in Llwydcoed, Aberdare, Cynon Valley, Wales. He has been married to Alice Evans since 2007. They have two children and currently live in Los Angeles, California.

[[Rashida Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, African-American movie actors, African-American television actors, Jewish American actors, American voice actors, Movie producers from Los Angeles, California, Screenwriters from Los Angeles, California, Harvard University alumni

Rashida Jones (born February 25, 1976 in Los Angeles) is an American actress, producer and writer who has starred in many movies and television programs. She starred in the shows Boston Public, The Office, Angie Tribeca and the movie Our Idiot Brother. She wrote the screenplay for Toy Story 4.

Jones sung on the songs  "Tangled", "Secret" and "Not Coming Home" on Maroon 5's first album. In 2013 Jones directed the music video for "Brave" by Sara Bareilles.

[[Anal stage]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

The anal stage is the second stage in Sigmund Freud's psychosexual development theory. Freud believed the personality developed through several stages during childhood. These stages focused on the erogenous zones. The anal stage occurs between ages 18 months to three years. This is the period when a child toilet trains. According to Freud, pleasure is derived from controlling the anus (the primary erogenous zone) and the bladder. A toilet training conflict or fixation results in a rigid or disordered personality. 

[[Pyre]]

CATEGORIES: Death customs, Fire, Burial monuments and structures

A pyre, also known as a funeral pyre, is a structure used for burning a body. The word pyre comes from the Greek word for fire. Pyres are built outdoors. They are usually made from wood. The body is placed on top of the pyre or under it. Then the pyre is set on fire. Pyres are still used for funerals in some parts of the world. They are also used for other types of ceremonies. In those ceremonies, there is a big fire, but a body is not burned. Historically, pyres have also been used to kill people by burning them alive.

[[Queen Munjeong]]

CATEGORIES: 1501 births, 1565 deaths, Korean politicians, Autobiographers

Queen Munjeong (문정왕후, 1 February 1502 – 29 December 1565) was Queen of Korean Joseon Dynastys and wife of 11th King Jungjong. mother of 13th King Myeongjong. regent of 1545 to 1563.

[[Quidenham]]

CATEGORIES: Breckland, Villages in Norfolk

Quidenham is a village and civil parish in Breckland, Norfolk, England. In 2001, there were 576 people living in Quidenham.

[[Ōtsu, Shiga]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Shiga Prefecture

Ōtsu  is a city in the Kansai region of Japan on the island of Honshu. It is the capital city of Shiga Prefecture.

It has been recognized as a core city since 2009.

[[Hosoya Jūdayū]]

CATEGORIES: 1840 births, 1907 deaths, People from Sendai

Hosoya Jūdayū was a Japanese samurai  of the late Edo period.  He is known for his role in the Boshin War.

[[Nicholas and Alexandra]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 movies, British movies, Biographical movies, Academy Award winning movies, Movies set in Russia, Movies directed by Franklin J. Schaffner

Nicholas and Alexandra is a 1971 biographical movie.  It tells the story of the last Russian monarch, Tsar Nicholas II of Russia, and his wife, Tsarina Alexandra.

The movie was made from the book by Robert K. Massie. It was directed by Franklin J. Schaffner.

It won Academy Awards for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration (John Box, Ernest Archer, Jack Maxsted, Gil Parrondo, Vernon Dixon) and Best Costume Design.  It was nominated for Best Actress in a Leading Role (Janet Suzman), Best Cinematography, Best Music, Original Dramatic Score and Best Picture.

[[The Canterbury Tales (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Italian movies, 1972 movies, Movies composed by Ennio Morricone, Movies directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini

The Canterbury Tales is a 1972 Italian movie directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini.  It is based on the medieval poem The Canterbury Tales by Geoffrey Chaucer.  It is the second movie in Pasolini's 'Trilogy of Life'. It won the Golden Bear at the 22nd Berlin International Film Festival.

The movie has eight of the 24 tales.  It has much nudity, sex, and slapstick humor. Many of these scenes are present or at least alluded to in the original.  Some are Pasolini's own additions.

This movie featured Tom Baker in a small role.  He was one of the husbands of the Wife of Bath.

[[The Vault of Horror (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 horror movies, British horror movies, Movies directed by Roy Ward Baker

The Vault of Horror (also called Vault of Horror, Further Tales from the Crypt and Tales from the Crypt II) is a British anthology horror movie.  It was made in 1973 by Amicus Productions. Like the 1972 Amicus movie Tales from the Crypt, it is based on stories from the EC Comics series written by Al Feldstein and Bill Gaines. The movie was directed by Roy Ward Baker.

None of the movie's stories are actually from Vault of Horror comics. All but one were in Tales from the Crypt.  The one that wasn't is Shock SuspenStories. The movie does not have the Vault Keeper character from the comics.

[[The Golden Voyage of Sinbad]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 movies, 1970s fantasy movies, British fantasy movies, American fantasy movies, Movies directed by Gordon Hessler

The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is a fantasy movie released in 1974.  It stars John Phillip Law as Sinbad. It includes a score by composer Miklós Rózsa.  It is known mostly for the stop-motion effects by Ray Harryhausen. The movie is the second of three Sinbad movies that Harryhausen made for Columbia.  The others are The 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958) and Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger (1977).

It won the first Saturn Award for Best Fantasy Film.

[[The Mutations]]

CATEGORIES: British horror movies, American horror movies, 1974 horror movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Jack Cardiff

The Mutations is a 1974 British horror movie. It was directed by Jack Cardiff. The movie was also released under the title, The Freakmaker.

In the movie a scientist takes college students to use as human guinea pigs. He uses them in his experiments in crossbreeding plants with humans. The failed experimental mutants are then given to a cruel circus freakshow owner.

[[The Curse of King Tut's Tomb (1980 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s mystery movies, 1980 horror movies, British movies, American movies

The Curse of King Tut's Tomb is a 1980 British-American mystery thriller movie.  It was directed by Philip Leacock.  The movie is based on the book "Behind the Mask of Tutankhamen" by Barry Wynne. It was shot in Egypt and in England.

It was released as two-part movie on 8 May and 9 May 1980. The score was made by American jazz musician Gil Melle.

[[The Passionate Pilgrim (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 movies, 1980s comedy movies, British movies, English-language movies

The Passionate Pilgrim is a short 1984 feature movie.  It starred Eric Morecambe, Tom Baker and Madeline Smith.  It was Morecambe's last work.  It was one of few that did not have his long-term partner Ernie Wise.

The movie takes the setting of a silent movie.  Narration was done by John Le Mesurier of Dad's Army fame.

The movie is about a lord who lives in a castle, and his lady.  The lady attracts the amorous attentions of the passionate pilgrim.  The pilgrim tries to gain entry to the castle by any means possible.  The lord tries many things in order to stop him.

The movie was made entirely on location at Hever Castle.

[[The Zany Adventures of Robin Hood]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 movies, 1980s comedy movies, Robin Hood

The Zany Adventures of Robin Hood (1984) is a parody movie of the story of Robin Hood.

[[Dungeons & Dragons (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 movies, American movies

Dungeons & Dragons is a 2000 American fantasy movie.  It was directed by Courtney Solomon.  It was based on the Dungeons & Dragons role-playing game. Parts of the movie were made on location at Sedlec Ossuary.   Richard O'Brien and Tom Baker made cameo appearances.

Even though it did not do well in movie theaters, a made-for-TV sequel, Dungeons & Dragons: Wrath of the Dragon God was released in 2005. It did not directly continue on the storyline of the previous movie.  A third movie, Dungeons & Dragons: The Book of Vile Darkness, was shot in 2011. It was released as direct-to-DVD in the United Kingdom on August 9, 2012.

[[Jacqueline Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1993 deaths, English actors

Jacqueline Hill (17 December 1929 – 18 February 1993) was an English actress.  She was best known for her role as Barbara Wright in the BBC science fiction television series Doctor Who.  Hill returned for an appearance in the 1980 Doctor Who story Meglos, as the priestess Lexa.

[[Ellen Barkin]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, 1954 births, Living people

Ellen Barkin (April 16, 1954) is an American actress. She is a versatile actress who has been in many movies and television series. Barkin has played many lead roles as well as been a supporting actor. She also performs on the Broadway stage. She was born in the Bronx, New York City.

From 1988 to 1999, she was married to Irish actor Gabriel Byrne. 

[[Morioka, Iwate]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Iwate Prefecture

Morioka  is a city in the Tōhoku region of Japan on the island of Honshu. It is the capital city of Iwate Prefecture.

It has been recognized as a core city since 2008.

[[Dixon of Dock Green]]

CATEGORIES: Television series set in London, Crime television series, English-language television programs

Dixon of Dock Green was a popular BBC television series.  It ran from 1955 to 1976.  Later it was a radio series. Even though it is a drama series, it was first produced by the BBC's light entertainment department.

[[Market in Honey Lane]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1969 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1960s British television series, British soap operas, Television series set in London, English-language television programs

Market in Honey Lane was an ATV television soap opera.  It was broadcast between 1967 and March 1969.

This cockney drama set was in an East London street market.  It was created by Louis Marks. At first it was shown weekly. In September 1968, it became a twice weekly afternoon show.  Also the name was shortened to just Honey Lane.

Main characters were played by John Bennett, Michael Golden, Ray Lonnen, Peter Birrel, Brian Rawlinson, Pat Nye, Basil Henson and Anna Wing.

[[Z-Cars]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1978 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1960s British television series, 1970s British television series, British crime television series, Police television series, English-language television programs

Z-Cars (pronounced "Zed Cars", sometimes written as Z Cars) is a British television drama series.  It is centred on the work of police in the fictional town of Newtown.  Newtown is based on Kirkby, near Liverpool. It was produced by the BBC.  It ran from January 1962 until September 1978.

[[Softly, Softly (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 television series debuts, 1969 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1960s British television series, British crime television series, British drama television series, Police television series, 1966 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1969 television series endings, English-language television programs

Softly, Softly is a British television drama series. It was produced by the BBC and screened on BBC 1. It ran from January 1966 to November 1969.

It revolved around the work of regional crime squads, plain-clothes CID officers based in the fictional region of Wyvern. It was about characters from the popular police series Z-Cars.

In 1969, to match the BBC's move to colour broadcasting on BBC 1, the series changed. The main characters were promoted and moved to the South East of England. The series was going to change its name to Taskforce. The BBC did not want to drop a popular brand and it became Softly, Softly: Taskforce.

[[Play of the Month]]

CATEGORIES: BBC Television programmes

Play of the Month is a BBC television anthology series.  It showed classic and contemporary stage plays (or adaptations).  They were usually broadcast on BBC1. Each production had a different work, often with well known British stage actors in the leading roles. The series ran from October 1965 to September 1983. 121 episodes were made. 

[[Gregory Hines]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from New York City, Actors from New York City, American dancers, American movie actors, American television actors, 1946 births

Gregory Oliver Hines (February 14 1946-August 9th 2003) was an American singer, dancer and actor. He has acted in many movies and television programs. He also did Broadway plays. He died due to liver cancer. He was born in New York City.

[[Lemon (color)]]

CATEGORIES: Shades of yellow

Lemon is a color that resembles the color of the lemon fruit.

The first written use of lemon as a color name in English was in 1598.

[[Arthur of the Britons]]

CATEGORIES: British television series, 1972 television series debuts, 1972 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1973 television series endings, 1970s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, English-language television programs

Arthur of the Britons is a British television show about the historical King Arthur. There were two series, released between 1972 and 1973. This King Arthur shows greatness by making peace between the two foremost peoples in the England of his era. The looks of King Arthur and his brother-in-arms Kai are similar to contemporary rockstars. Arthur of the Britons was broadcast repeatedly on many local ITV stations during the 1970s and 1980s.

[[Jim'll Fix It]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 television series debuts, 1970s British television series, 1980s British television series, 1990s British television series, BBC Television programmes, English-language television programs

Jim'll Fix It was a long-running British television show.  It was broadcast by the BBC between 1975 and 1994. In 2007 it was shown on UKTVGold.  It was presented by the late Jimmy Savile. It was produced by Roger Ordish, who also worked on other BBC shows, including A Bit of Fry & Laurie. When Saville was knighted, the book for the 1991 series of the comedy sketch show had a statement that in future Jim'll Fix It would be known as: Sir James will bring his influence to bear in arranging matters to your satisfaction.

[[The Book Tower]]

CATEGORIES: British television series, Children's television series

The Book Tower is a British television series for children.  It was produced by Yorkshire Television.  The programme ran for 11 series from 3 January 1979 to 30 May 1989.

It was first presented by Doctor Who star Tom Baker (1979–81). Each episode explored one or more books, using dramatic presentations.  The aim was to get children interested in reading.

Later presenters included Stephen Moore (1982–83), Alun Armstrong (1984), Neil Innes (1985), Roger McGough (1986), Bernard Bresslaw (1987),  and Timmy Mallett.

[[The Hound of the Baskervilles (1982 TV serial)]]

CATEGORIES: British television series

The Hound of the Baskervilles (1982) is a British television programme.  It was directed by Peter Duguid and starred Tom Baker as Sherlock Holmes and Terence Rigby as Doctor Watson. It is based on Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes novel The Hound of the Baskervilles.

[[Jemima Shore]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters, English-language television programs

Jemima Shore is a fictional character created by Antonia Fraser. She is portrayed as TV's professional investigative journalist. She is in a series of crime novels.

[[Remington Steele]]

CATEGORIES: American crime television series

Remington Steele is an American television series co-created by Robert Butler and Michael Gleason. The series starred Stephanie Zimbalist and Pierce Brosnan.  It was produced by MTM Enterprises. The first broadcast was on the NBC network from 1982 to 1987. The series blended the genres of romantic comedy, drama, and detective procedural. Remington Steele is best known for starting the career of Pierce Brosnan.  It also was a forerunner of the similar series  Moonlighting, and was also an influential part of television history in its own right.

Remington Steele's premise is that Laura Holt, a licensed private detective, opened a detective agency under her own name.  She then found that potential clients would not hire a woman. To solve the problem, Laura invents a fake male superior whom she names Remington Steele. Through a series of events in the first episode a former thief and con man takes the identity of Remington Steele. Behind the scenes, Laura stays firmly in charge.

[[Jackanory]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 television series debuts, 1996 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1960s British television series, 1970s British television series, 1980s British television series, 1990s British television series, British children's television series, 1965 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1996 television series endings, English-language television programs

Jackanory is a long-running BBC children's television series. It was made to interest children in reading. The show began on 13 December 1965. The first story was the fairy-tale Cap-o'-Rushes read by Lee Montague. Jackanory continued to be broadcast until 1996. They made around 3,500 episodes in its 30-year run. The final story, The House at Pooh Corner by A. A. Milne, was read by Alan Bennett. It was broadcast on 24 March 1996. The show returned on 27 November 2006 for two stories.

The show's format had an actor read from children's novels or folk tales, usually while seated in an armchair. From time to time the scene being read would be illustrated by a specially made still drawing.  They were often done by Quentin Blake. Usually a single book would take five daily fifteen-minute episodes, from Monday to Friday.

A few Jackanory stories took the form of a play rather than stories being read.  These were made in a series of fully cast and dressed for costume dramas. These were named Jackanory Playhouse and were thirty minutes in length. These included a dramatisation by Philip Glassborow of the comical A. A. Milne story "The Princess Who Couldn't Laugh."

[[The Life and Loves of a She-Devil]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 books, British television series, BAFTA Award winners

The Life and Loves of a She-Devil is a 1983 novel by British feminist author Fay Weldon.  It is about a highly unattractive woman who goes to great lengths to take revenge on her husband and his attractive lover. The book, Weldon says, is about envy, rather than revenge.

The novel was made into two movies.  In 1986 it was as an award-winning BBC television serial.  It starred Patricia Hodge as Mary Fisher, Dennis Waterman as Bobbo and Julie T. Wallace as Ruth.  In 1989 it was made as She-Devil.  This version starred Roseanne Barr as the "she-devil" and Meryl Streep as her adversary, Mary Fisher.

[[Blackadder II]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 television series debuts, 1986 television series endings, 1980s British sitcoms, BBC television sitcoms, Fiction set in the past, Television series set in London, English-language television programs

Blackadder II is the second series of the BBC sitcom Blackadder.  It was written by Richard Curtis and Ben Elton.  It aired from 9 January to 20 February 1986. The series is set in England during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I (1558–1603).  The main character, Edmund, Lord Blackadder is a Tudor courtier trying to win the favour of the Queen while avoiding the fate of many of her suitors.

The series had several from the format of The Black Adder.  These changes were: Ben Elton replaced Rowan Atkinson as the second writer, it was made in studio sets, rather than on location, the introduction of the more familiar Machiavellian "Blackadder" character and a less intelligent Baldrick.

[[Kenny Everett]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 1995 deaths, British radio personalities, British television writers, Comedians from Lancashire, Deaths from AIDS, English LGBT people, Gay men, LGBT broadcasters, LGBT comedians, Infectious disease deaths in England, Writers from Lancashire

Kenny Everett (25 December 1944 – 4 April 1995) was a British comedian, radio DJ and television entertainer. Born Maurice James Christopher Cole, Everett is best known for his career as a radio DJ and for The Kenny Everett Video Show.

[[Pilica (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Poland

Pilica is a river in central Poland. It has a length of 319 kilometres (8th longest) and an area of 9,273 km2 (all in Poland).

[[Csiribpuszta]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Hungary

Csiribpuszta was a village, it is now part of Gárdony, Hungary. The postal code is 2484.

[[Onam]]

CATEGORIES: Kerala, Indian culture

Onam is the most popular festival in the state of Kerala, India. Onam is the official state festival of Kerala. It is celebrated with joy and enthusiasm all over the state by Malayalees regardless of religion, caste or creed. According to a popular legend, the festival is celebrated to welcome King Mahabali, whose spirit is said to visit Kerala at the time of Onam.        

Onam is a 10 day long festival celebrated in the beginning of the month of Chingam, the first month of the Malayalam Calendar (Kollavarsham). This corresponds with the month of August to September according to the Gregorian Calendar. Of the 10 days, the first day, Atham and tenth day, Thiruvonam are most important of all.

[[Yu Hyeong-won]]

CATEGORIES: 1622 births, 1673 deaths, Korean educators, Korean politicians

Yu Hyeong-won (유형원 柳馨遠, 1622-1673) was a Korean politicians, writer, and scholar in the Joseon Dynasty.  He is best known as a Neo-Confucian scholar and as an early Silhak scholar.

[[Bak Jega]]

CATEGORIES: 1750 births, 1805 deaths, Korean educators, Korean politicians

Bak Jega (박제가; 1750 - 1805) was a Korean politician, writer, and scholar in the Joseon Dynasty.  He is best known as a Neo-Confucian scholar and as an early Silhak scholar.

[[List of national museums]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of museums, National museums

A national museum is a museum that is kept by a nation.

The following is a list of national museums:

[[List of deserts]]

CATEGORIES: Geography-related lists, Deserts

This is a list of deserts.  It is sorted by the region of the world where the desert is at.

[[List of largest lakes of Europe]]

CATEGORIES: Europe-related lists, Lakes of Europe, Lists of lakes

[[Roland Rat]]

CATEGORIES: Children's television series, Television characters, Puppets, Fictional mice and rats

Roland Rat (birthday 12 March) is a British television puppet character. He was created, operated and voiced by David Claridge.

Roland lived beneath King's Cross railway station in The Ratcave . He had an infant brother called Little Reggie, and a girlfriend: Glenis the Guinea Pig. Friends included Errol the Hamster and Kevin the Gerbil. Claridge did the voice for all three main characters: Roland Rat, Errol the Hamster and Kevin The Gerbil.  They were often on screen together. Roland Rat's car 'the Ratmobile' is a bright pink 1953 Ford Anglia.

[[The Silver Chair (1990)]]

CATEGORIES: The Chronicles of Narnia, Children's television series

The Silver Chair was on BBC television in 1990. It was the third and final series of The Chronicles of Narnia that ran from 1988 to 1990.

The six-part series followed the book in great detail.  It included all key features. It was filmed in several locations including Peak Cavern, Derbyshire.

[[States of Venezuela]]

CATEGORIES: States of Venezuela

Venezuela is divided into 23 states (estados), 1 capital district  and the federal dependencies  that consist of a large number of Venezuelan islands. Venezuela also claims the Guayana Esequiba territory which is made up of six districts in the independent nation of Guyana.

[[Hande Yener]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Musicians from Istanbul, Pop singers, Turkish singers

Hande Yener (born January 12, 1973 in Istanbul, Turkey) is a Turkish pop singer. Over the past decade, she has introduced different styles to the ever-expanding Turkish pop music scene. Each one of her albums has generated a lot of interest as well as anticipation due to the different styles, genres and rhythms that she incorporates into her music. Besides the different experiments Hande tackles with music, her looks and image are also going through a constant change which blends with the sort of music she releases at the time. Hande Yener has a soprano vocal range. She has got thirteen studio album and three ep.

[[Lily Tomlin]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Detroit, Michigan, American LGBT people, American movie actors, American television actors, American television producers, American television writers, Comedians from Michigan, Drama Desk Award winners, Emmy Award winning actors, Grammy Award winners, Lesbians, LGBT actors, LGBT comedians, LGBT writers, Mark Twain Prize recipients, Tony Award winning actors, Writers from Detroit, Michigan, 1939 births, Living people

Mary Jean "Lily" Tomlin (born September 1, 1939) is an American actress, writer and a comedian. She has had a large effect on American comedy since the late 1960s. Her career has involved movies, Broadway stage acts and television. She has won many awards, including an Emmy, a Grammy and a Tony Award. Tomlin was born in Detroit, Michigan. She is openly lesbian and has been with her partner Jane Wagner for over 40 years.

[[Hyperland]]

CATEGORIES: BBC Television programmes

Hyperland is a 50-minute long documentary movie about hypertext and surrounding technologies. It was written by Douglas Adams and produced and directed by Max Whitby. It ran on BBC Two in 1990. It stars Douglas Adams as a computer user and Tom Baker as a personification of a software agent.

In the show Adams has a dream where he is browsing through various media. While Adams is browsing, many people and projects related to the general theme of hypertext and multimedia are presented:

The dream (and the documentary) ends with a vision of how information might be accessed in 2005. Hyperland does describe a number of features of the modern web. This is especially noteworthy because it predates the public release of the first Web browser by about a year.

[[Cluedo (game show)]]

CATEGORIES: British television game shows, English-language television programs

Cluedo was a UK television game show.  It was based on the Cluedo board game. Each week, a reenactment of the murder of a visiting guest at the home Arlington Grange was played. Questions would be asked of the suspects.  Only the murderer could lie.  Using deduction, celebrity guests had to discover who committed the murder, which of six weapons was used and in which room it was committed. Viewers were invited to play along at home.

The show's six suspects were the original from the board game. The show's six weapons were different between episodes. The show's six rooms were: the Drawing Room, the Kitchen, the Dining Room, the Billiard Room, the Library and the Study.

[[Screen Two]]

CATEGORIES: British drama television series, English-language television programs

Screen Two is a British television anthology drama series. It was produced by the BBC and transmitted on BBC2 between 1985 to 1994. 

It was developed by producer Kenith Trodd.  It was popular enough with viewers for a BBC1 equivalent, Screen One, which was launched in 1989.

However, the mid-1990s saw a change for BBC drama.  They went away from single dramas toward drama series and serials. Screen One ended in 1993 and Screen Two in 1994. Movies from both strands are occasionally repeated on BBC Four.

[[Danger triangle of the face]]

CATEGORIES: Face

The danger triangle of the face is a triangle with two corners at both corners of the mouth and one corner in the middle of the nose between the eyes. The way the blood flows to the human nose is special, so it is possible (but very unlikely) for infections to spread directly to the brain from a cut, scratch or a popped pimple.

Almost all people have valves in the veins of the face. But even with one-way valves, blood flow between the facial vein and cavernous sinus can spread infection from the face. It is the direction of blood flow that is important. Infection may possibly lead to cavernous sinus thrombosis, meningitis or brain abscess.

[[The Duchess (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, British movies, English-language movies, Epic movies, 2000s romantic drama movies

The Duchess is a 2008 drama movie directed by Saul Dibb. It is about the 18th-century English noblewoman Georgiana Cavendish, Duchess of Devonshire. It stars actors Keira Knightley and Ralph Fiennes. The movie was based on a book by Amanda Foreman.

The costume designer Michael O'Connor was nominated for, and won the Academy Award for Best Costume Design, the BAFTA Award for Best Costume Design and the Satellite Award for Best Costume Design.

[[Notepad++]]

CATEGORIES: Word processors

Notepad++ is a text editor and source code editor for Microsoft Windows.

Notepad++ is distributed as free software and licensed under the GNU General Public License.

[[Medics (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: British television series, English-language television programs

Medics was a British medical drama series.  It was first broadcast on ITV on 14 November 1990. The show ran for five series with a total of 40 episodes. The show came to end on 24 November 1995. It follows the everyday lives and loves, trials and troubles of the doctors, nurses, patients and staff of a large teaching hospital.  It is set in the north-west of England near the city of Manchester.

[[The Imaginatively Titled Punt & Dennis Show]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 British television series debuts, 1995 British television series endings, 1990s British comedy television series, BBC television comedy, British comedy television series, Television sketch shows, English-language television programs

The Imaginatively Titled Punt & Dennis Show is a British stand-up and sketch show by comedians Steve Punt and Hugh Dennis. There are two series: the first was shown in 1994; the second in 1995.

Alistair McGowan and Ronni Ancona were among the regular guests on the show. It only ran for two series. The second was more simply titled Punt and Dennis.

There were several character inventions in the sketches.  Some of these were "The Gullibles", who were always falling for scams, as well as a number of Punt and Dennis's characters from The Mary Whitehouse Experience, such as the milk-obsessed "Mr Strange". There were also spoofs from TV programs such as Baywatch and The X-Files.

The second series also had performances by tribute bands.  They impersonated bands including The Beatles and The Rolling Stones.

[[This Is Your Life (UK TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: BBC Television programmes, ITV television programmes, English-language television programs

This is Your Life is a British biographical television documentary. It is based on the 1952 American show of the same name. It was hosted by Eamonn Andrews from 1955 until 1964. Then from 1969 until his death in 1987 aged 64. Michael Aspel then took up the role of host until the show ended in 2003.

In the show the host surprises a special guest, before taking them through their life with the assistance of the 'big red book'. Both celebrities and non-celebrities have been 'victims' of the show. The show was first broadcast live. Over its run it has changed between being broadcast on the BBC and on ITV.

[[List of settlements in Iceland]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Iceland, Lists of settlements in Europe

This is a list of cities and towns in Iceland. 

[[List of settlements in India]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in India, Lists of settlements in Asia, India-related lists

This is a list of cities and towns in India.  This article is based on "Census of India". 

According to the data from the Census of 2011, cities and towns can be broadly classified as: 

[[List of cities in Indonesia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Asia, Cities in Indonesia, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of official cities in Indonesia.  They are organized by major island or region. The population numbers are based on data from 2005.

[[List of cities in Iraq]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iraq, Lists of cities in Asia, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Iraq.

[[List of cities in Israel]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Israel, Israel-related lists, Lists of cities in Asia, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of the cities in Israel.

[[List of settlements in Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of settlements in North America, Settlements in Jamaica

This is a list of cities and towns in Jamaica.

[[List of cities in Jordan]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Asia, Settlements in Jordan, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities and towns in the country of Jordan.

[[List of cities in Kazakhstan]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Asia, Cities in Kazakhstan, Lists of cities by country, Lists of cities in Europe

This is a list of cities with more than 50,000 people in Kazakhstan. The names of many places have been changed during the last century, sometimes more than once. Wherever possible, the old names have been included and linked to the new ones.

[[List of settlements in Kiribati]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of settlements in Oceania, Settlements in Kiribati

This is a list of cities and villages in Kiribati

[[List of cities in North Korea]]

CATEGORIES: North Korea, Lists of cities in Asia, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of ten cities in North Korea with the most people.

[[List of cities in Lebanon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lebanon, Lists of cities in Asia, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of the ten largest cities in Lebanon.  There are 851 cities and towns in Lebanon.

[[Max Bygraves]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2012 deaths, Actors from London, Comedians from London, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Queensland, English movie actors, English singers, English television actors, English television presenters, Television personalities from London

Max Bygraves (Walter William Bygraves, October 16, 1922 – August 31, 2012) was a British talk show host, singer, movie and television actor, and comedian. He hosted Family Fortunes from 1983 to 1985. 

He was born in Rotherhithe, London, England, on October 16, 1922. He was married to Gladys Murray from 1942 until her death in 2011; they had a daughter. Bygraves died on August 31, 2012, in Hope Island, Queensland, Australia, from Alzheimer's disease; he was 89 years old.

[[List of cities in Liberia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Africa, Liberia, Lists of cities by country

This is an incomplete list of cities in Liberia:

[[List of cities in Libya]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Libya, Lists of cities in Africa, Lists of cities by country

This a list of the 100 largest places in Libya.  

Source:Amraja M. el Khajkhaj, "Noumou al Mudon as Sagheera fi Libia", Dar as Saqia, Benghazi-2008, pp. 118-123.

[[List of cities in Lithuania]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lithuania, Lists of cities in Europe, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Lithuania. There are 103 cities.

[[List of cities in Luxembourg]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Europe, Settlements in Luxembourg, Lists of cities by country

There are twelve cities in Luxembourg.  This is a list of the cities.

[[List of cities in North Macedonia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Macedonia, Lists of cities in Europe, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in the Republic of North Macedonia. In the country there are 34 cities. 5 have a population of over 50,000 and 12 towns have a population of under 10,000 people. The capital city, Skopje, is home to around 30% of the total population of the country.

[[List of cities in Madagascar]]

CATEGORIES: Madagascar, Lists of cities in Africa, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Madagascar.

[[List of cities in Malawi]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Africa, Settlements in Malawi, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of towns in Malawi.

[[List of cities in Mali]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Africa, Cities in Mali, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Mali. 

The next table lists all the remaining urban communes with under 50,000 population from the 1 April 2009 census.

Note that * signifies an entity within the self-declared Republic of Azawad.

[[List of cities in Mauritania]]

CATEGORIES: Mauritania, Lists of cities in Africa, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Mauritania.  All settlements with a population over 10,000 are listed.

[[List of settlements in Mauritius]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Mauritius, Lists of settlements in Africa

This is a list of cities, towns and villages in Mauritius.

[[List of cities in Moldova]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Europe, Cities in Moldova, Lists of cities by country

There are 65 cities in Moldova.

[[List of cities in Mongolia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Asia, Mongolia, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Mongolia.

In the table a light pink color means the number of people went down.  Light green means a growth of 1 to 2 percent.  Dark green means growth of more than 2 percent

* - city proper, Nalaikh, Baganuur, Bagakhangai not included in this figure, they are separated in the table.

[[Academy Award for Best Costume Design]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

The Academy Award for Best Costume Design is one of the Academy Awards of Merit.  It is given each year by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) for achievement in movie costume design.

It was first given for movies made in 1948.  This was when separate awards were given for black-and-white and color movies. Since the merger of the two categories in 1967, the academy has not given out the award to contemporary movies very often.

[[Satellite Award for Best Costume Design]]

CATEGORIES: Movie awards

The Satellite Award for Best Costume Design is one of the Satellite Awards.  It is given each year by the International Press Academy.

[[Duchess (disambiguation)]]

Duchess is a rank of nobility.  It is the female equivalent of Duke.

Duchess may also be:

[[Duke (disambiguation)]]

A Duke or Grand Duke is a title for nobility of very high rank.

Duke or Dukes may also be:

[[Dutchess (disambiguation)]]

Dutchess may be:

[[Duchess lorikeet]]

CATEGORIES: Lorikeets

The duchess lorikeet (Charmosyna margarethae) is a species of parrot in the Psittaculidae family.

They are found on Bougainville Island in Papua New Guinea, and in the Solomon Islands. They live in subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests, subtropical or tropical moist montane forests, and plantations. They are threatened by habitat loss.

[[Academy Award for Best Actor]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

Performance by an Actor in a Leading Role is one of the Academy Awards of Merit.  It is presented each year by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).  It is to recognize an actor with an outstanding performance in a movie. Before 1976, this award was called the Academy Award of Merit for Performance by an Actor. Since the beginning the award has commonly been called the Oscar for Best Actor. 

Actors are nominated for this award by Academy members who are actors and actresses themselves.  The winner is selected by the Academy membership as a whole.

[[Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role is one of the Academy Awards of Merit.  It is presented each year by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).  It is to recognize an actor with an outstanding performance in a movie. Since the beginning, the award has commonly been called the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor. 

Actors are nominated for this award by Academy members who are actors and actresses themselves. Winners are selected by the Academy membership as a whole.

[[Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role is one of the Academy Awards of Merit.  It is presented each year by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).  It is to recognize an actress with an outstanding performance in a movie. Since the beginning, the award has commonly been called the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. 

Actresses are nominated for this award by Academy members who are actors and actresses themselves. Winners are selected by the Academy membership as a whole. 

[[Academy Award for Best Animated Feature]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

The Academy Award for Best Animated Feature is awards for the best animated movie.  It is given each year by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. The Academy Awards, or Oscars, are the oldest award for movies.  This award for animation was started in 2001.

Only movies at least 40 minutes long are eligible for the award.

The Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards have followed the Academy's example.  Both now present similar awards.

[[Academy Award for Best Production Design]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

The Academy Awards are the oldest awards ceremony for achievements in movies. The Academy Award for Best Production Design recognizes achievement in art direction on a movie. The category's first name was Best Art Direction.  It was changed to its current name for the 85th Academy Awards. The Art Director's category was renamed the Designer's category.

In the lists below, the winner of the award for each year is shown first, followed by the other nominees.

[[Academy Award for Best Assistant Director]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

The Academy Award for Best Assistant Director is one of the Academy Awards. It was given from 1933 to 1937.  In the first year of this award it was not given for a specific movie.

[[Julie Nixon Eisenhower]]

CATEGORIES: Children of Presidents of the United States, Living people, 1948 births, People from Washington, D.C.

Julie Nixon Eisenhower (born July 5, 1948) in Washington, D.C. is the youngest daughter of former President of the United States Richard Nixon and former First Lady of the United States Pat Nixon. She married David Eisenhower, grandson of Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1968. She is the younger sister of Tricia Nixon Cox.

The Eisenhowers have two daughters and one son:

[[Choi Ik-hyun]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 births, 1906 deaths, Korean educators, Korean politicians, People who committed suicide

Choi Ik-hyun(최익현, December 5, 1833 - November 5, 1906) was a Neo-Confucianism philosopher and politician in the Korean Joseon Dynastys.

His realname was Ginam(기남 奇男) and his Penname was Myonam(면암 勉庵).

[[Yi Ik]]

CATEGORIES: 1681 births, 1763 deaths, Korean educators, Korean politicians

Yi Ik (이익, 1681–1763) was a Korean Joseon dynasty politician.  He was also an economist and Neoconfucianism philosopher.

His nickname was Seongho(성호 星湖).  His Courtesy name was Jashin(자신 子新).

[[Yi Seo-woo]]

CATEGORIES: 1633 births, 1709 deaths, Korean educators, Korean politicians

Yi Seo-woo (이서우, 1633–1709) was a Korean Joseon dynastys politician.  He was also a writer, poet, economist, Neoconfucianism philosopher, and artist.

His nickname was Songgok (송곡 松谷), Songpha(송파 松坡), Gyeong(구계 癯溪).  His Courtesy name was Yunbo (윤보  潤甫), Hyujing(휴징 休徵).

[[Rachel Corrie]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2003 deaths, American human rights activists, Arab–Israeli conflict, Gaza Strip, People from Olympia, Washington, Rachel Corrie

Rachel Aliene Corrie (10 April 1979 in Olympia, Washington – 16 March 2003 in Rafah) was an American human rights activist, peace activist and a member of the International Solidarity Movement (ISM), who was crushed to death by an armored bulldozer belonging to the Israel Defense Forces, while she was protesting against the destruction of Palestinian homes in Gaza. The eyewitnesses said that the Israeli soldier operating the bulldozer on purpose ran over Corrie, and the Israeli government claims it was an accident.

Her life has been the focus of several tributes, including the play My Name Is Rachel Corrie, the cantata The Skies are Weeping and more than 30 songs. Her collected writings were published in 2008 under the title Let Me Stand Alone, opening "a window on the maturation of a young woman seeking to make the world a better place." The Rachel Corrie Foundation for Peace and Justice has been established to continue her work.

She has been compared to Anne Frank.

[[Lesley Gore]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from New Jersey, Actors from New York City, American feminists, American pop singers, American television actors, Cancer deaths in New York City, Jewish American actors, Jewish American LGBT people, Jewish American musicians, Jewish feminists, Lesbian feminists, Lesbian Jews, LGBT people from New Jersey, LGBT people from New York, LGBT singers, Musicians from Brooklyn, Singers from New Jersey, Singers from New York City

Lesley Gore (May 2, 1946 – February 16, 2015) was an American singer, actress, and feminist. She has had many hit songs. She is especially known for her hit single "It's My Party". Gore was also an actress and she appeared as a Catwoman sidekick in the 1960s television series Batman. During her career, she was nominated for a Grammy Award and an Academy Award.

Gore was born in Brooklyn, New York City. She raised in Tenafly, New Jersey. She studied at Dwight School for Girls. Gore was a lesbian and was in a 33-year relationship with Lois Sasson. Gore was Jewish.

Gore died of lung cancer at the age of 68 in Manhattan, New York City. Her death was confirmed by her partner Lois Sasson.

[[Louis Oosthuizen]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Afrikaner people, South African golfers

Lodewicus Theodorus "Louis" Oosthuizen (born October 19, 1982) is a PGA Tour golfer. He is from South Africa. He is currently leading the Deutsche Bank championship. He won the 2010 Open Championship and was runner-up in the 2012 Masters Tournament.

[[Maria Menounos]]

CATEGORIES: American journalists, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Massachusetts, 1978 births, Living people

Maria Menounos (born June 8, 1978) is an American/Greek actress, television host, and journalist. 

She has worked for news programs. These include Extra and Access Hollywood. She has also been in many movies. Menounos was born in Massachusetts.

In 2017, she underwent surgery for a brain tumor.

[[The Miracles]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B bands

The Miracles are an R&B music group that are notable as the first successful act for Berry Gordy's Motown Records. Their 1960 single, Shop Around, became Motown's first million selling record, and they went on to become Motown's signature acts in the 1960s. The group were founded around 1955 under Smokey Robinson, Warren "Pete" Moore and Ronald "Ronnie" White. They carried over 50 hit songs between 1959 and 1978. In particular, their songs Shop Around, The Tears of a Clown and Love Machine hit #1 on several music charts. The group were formed in Detroit.

[[This Means War]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 comedy movies, 2012 romance movies, 2010s action movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010s spy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American spy movies, English-language movies

This Means War is a 2012 American action romantic comedy movie. Reese Witherspoon stars. The subject involves romances and CIA agents. This comedy was released February 17, 2012 in the United States. It received negative reviews, though performed well at the box office.

[[Alan Arkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American movie directors, American television actors, American stage actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Drama Desk Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Jewish American actors, Musicians from New York City, Singers from New York City, Tony Award winning actors

Alan Wolf Arkin (born March 26, 1934) is an American actor, director, musician, and singer with a career that had last for 55 years. He is mostly known for his Academy Award winning role as Edwin Hoover in Little Miss Sunshine (2006) and for his award-nominated role as Lester Siegel in Argo (2012).

Arkin has also appeared in small-roles or cameo appearances such as in The Muppets (2011). He has won a BAFTA Award, a Golden Globe Award, a Genie Award, a Drama Desk Award, and a Tony Award.

In 2019, he will star in the Disney movie Dumbo as J. Griffin Remington.

Arkin was born in Brooklyn, New York City on March 26, 1934. He was educated at Bennington College and The Second City.

Arkin was married to Jeremy Yaffe from 1955 until they divorced in 1961, later he married Barbara Dana from 1964 until they divorced during the 1990s, and is currently married to Suzanne Newlander since 1996. He has two sons with Yaffe including actor Adam Arkin, and 1 with Dana. He has lived in Carlsbad, California since 2007.

[[Mae Laborde]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American television actors, American movie actors, American centenarians, Actors from Fresno County, California, People from Fresno, California

Mae Laborde (Mae Shamlin May 13, 1909 – January 9, 2012) was an Americans movie and television actress, and an entertainer. She was born in Fresno, California on May 13, 1909. She was married to Nicholas Laborde until his death. They had one daughter. Laborde started her career at the age of 93 in 2002, up until her death in 2012 at the age of 102. Laborde died on January 9, 2012 in Santa Monica, California from natural causes. She was 102 years old.

Laborde is mostly known for her role as Mrs. Mendelson in Pineapple Express (2008).  She also played Gladys on It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia.

[[Rachel Corrie Foundation for Peace and Justice]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments in the United States, Arab–Israeli conflict, Human rights organizations in the United States, Olympia, Washington, Rachel Corrie, 2000s establishments in Washington (state)

Rachel Corrie Foundation for Peace and Justice is an American human rights organization located in Olympia, Washington. It is named for Rachel Corrie, and was founded by her parents in 2003 to promote grassroots efforts that advance human rights, peace and social, economic and environmental justice in the spirit of Rachel Corrie. It has a particular emphasis on Palestine and Israel.

[[List of cities in Montenegro]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Montenegro, Lists of cities in Europe, Lists of cities by country

This is the list of cities and towns in Montenegro. 

[[List of cities in Morocco]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Morocco, Lists of cities in Africa, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Morocco.  

[[Lloyd Bridges]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1998 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Actors from Alameda County, California, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors

Lloyd Vernet Bridges, Jr. (January 15, 1913 – March 10, 1998) was an American television, radio, voice, stage, and movie actor who is mostly known for his role as Mike Nelson in Sea Hunt and for being the father of Jeff Bridges and Beau Bridges. 

He was born on January 15, 1913 in San Leandro, California. His career stated in 1936 and would last until his death in 1998. Bridges was married to Dorothy Simpson from 1938 until his death in 1998, they had 4 children (including Jeff Bridges and Beau Bridges) one son died at birth. He has a grandson Jordan Bridges (the son of Beau Bridges). Bridges died on March 10, 1998 in Los Angeles, California from natural causes, he was 85 years old. He was cremated. 

[[Martin Short]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Actors from Hamilton, Actors from Ontario, Canadian comedians, Canadian movie actors, Canadian singers, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Comedians from Ontario, Emmy Award winning actors, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Order of Canada, Singers from Ontario, Tony Award winning actors

Martin Hayter Short OC (born March 26, 1950) is a Canadian actor, comedian, singer and writer. He is mostly known for hosting Second City Television and Saturday Night Live and for making the voice of Cat in the animated series The Cat in the Hat. He won three Emmy Awards and a Tony Award.

More recently, Short is known for his live comedic performance with friend and fellow comedian Steve Martin.

Short was born and raised in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. He was educated at Westdale Secondary School and at McMaster University. He married Nancy Dolman from 1980 to 2010. They had three children. Short lives in Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles, California and Lake Rosseau.

[[List of cities in Nepal]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Asia, Cities in Nepal, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Nepal.

==Municipalities by Population== 

[[Albert Finney]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from respiratory tract infection, Actors from Lancashire, Actors from Greater Manchester, BAFTA Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, English movie actors, English movie directors, English movie producers, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, People with cancer, Golden Globe Award winning actors, People from Salford, Greater Manchester, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Albert Finney (9 May 1936 – 7 February 2019) was a British movie, television and stage actor. His career lasted 60 years. Finney was mostly known for his role in Tom Jones, for his role as Hercule Poirot in Murder on the Orient Express and for his role as Edward Bloom in Big Fish. He won a Golden Globe Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, an Emmy Award, and a BAFTA Award. He was also the voice of Finis Everglot in Tim Burton's Corpse Bride.

[[The Tragically Hip]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s music groups, 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Canadian rock bands

The Tragically Hip are a Canadian rock band from Kingston, Ontario. The Tragically Hip have four members in the band; the current band members are Rob Baker, Gord Sinclair, Johnny Fay and Paul Langlois. Singer Gord Downie was in the band until he died in 2017.

The band was formed in 1983. They released a self-titled EP in 1987 and released their debut album Up to Here on August 30, 1989. The band released their eleventh studio album, Now for Plan A, in 2012. The band was given a star on Canada's Walk of Fame in 2002 and was inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame in 2005. They have won many Juno Awards as well.

[[John Huston]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1987 deaths, Academy Award winning directors, Actors who played M, American movie actors, Deaths from emphysema, Deaths from pneumonia, Golden Globe Award winning directors, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, James Bond movie directors, Movie directors from Missouri, Movie producers from Missouri, Screenwriters from Missouri

John Marcellus Huston (August 5, 1906 – August 28, 1987) was an American movie director, producer, screenwriter and actor.

He wrote the screenplays for 37 movie he directed, many of which are today known as classics such as; The Maltese Falcon (1941), The Treasure of the Sierra Madre (1948), Key Largo (1948), The Asphalt Jungle (1950), The African Queen (1951), Moulin Rouge (1952), The Misfits (1961), and The Man Who Would Be King (1975).

During his 46-year career, Huston was nominated for 15 Academy Awards, for which he won only two. He was the father of actress Anjelica Huston and actor Danny Huston.

He was born in Nevada, Missouri on August 5, 1906.

He was married to Dorothy Harvey from 1925 until they divorced in 1926. Then he married Lesley Black from 1937 until they divorced in 1945. Thirdly he married Enrica Soma from 1950 until her death in 1969. Lastly he married Celeste Shane from 1972 until they divorced in 1977. He was partners with Zoe Sallis. Huston had 5 children (one is adopted), including Anjelica Huston.

Huston died August 28, 1987 in Middletown, Rhode Island from pneumonia caused by his emphysema, he was 81 years old.

[[Mike Hagerty]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, People from Chicago, Actors from Chicago, American movie actors, American television actors, Living people

Michael Gerard Hagerty (born May 10, 1954) is an American movie and television actor. He is best known for his role as Mr. Treeger in the hit comedy-sitcom Friends. He was born on May 10, 1954 in Chicago, Illinois.

[[June Gable]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City

June Gable (born June 5, 1945) is a retired American television, stage, and a movie actress who is known for her role has as Estelle Leonard in the hit-comedy series Friends. She was nominated for a Tony Award. She was born on June 5, 1945 in New York City, New York.

[[Cosimo Fusco]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, Italian voice actors, Actors from Rome

Cosimo Massimo Fusco (born 23 September 1962) is an Italian movie and television actor. He is known for his role as Paolo in Friends. He was born in Matera, Italy on September 23, 1962. He lives in Rome, Italy. 

[[Academy Award for Best Cinematography]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

The Academy Award for Best Cinematography is an Academy Award.  It is given each year to a cinematographer for work in one particular movie.

[[Maggie Wheeler]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors

Maggie Wheeler (born Margaret Emily Jakobson, August 7, 1961) is an American movie and television actress. She is best known for her role as Janice Litman Goralnik on the sitcom Friends. She was born in Manhattan, New York on August 7, 1961.

Wheeler is married to Daniel Wheeler. They have two children together.

[[Saitō Makoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 births, 1936 deaths, Admirals, Anti-Communists, Autobiographers, Japanese military people, Japanese writers, Murder victims, People from Iwate Prefecture, Prime Ministers of Japan

Saitō Makoto was a Japanese naval officer and politician.

[[Academy Award for Best Director]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

The Academy Award for Best Directing (Best Director), usually known as the Best Director Oscar, is one of the Awards of Merit presented by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).  It is given to directors for a movie.  

Nominations for Best Director are made by members in the Academy's Directing branch. The award winners are selected by the Academy membership as a whole.

[[Trimurti]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu gods and goddesses

The Hindu trinity of three gods (Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva) may be referred to as Trimurti.

[[Academy Award for Best Dance Direction]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

The Academy Awards for Best Dance Direction is an Academy Award.  It was given between 1935 and 1937 only.

[[Bonnie Hunt]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, American movie actors, Screenwriters from Illinois, American stage actors, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American television writers, American voice actors, Television personalities from Chicago, Comedians from Chicago, Saturn Award winners

Bonnie Lynne Hunt (born September 21, 1961) is an American comedian, actress, writer, director, television producer, and daytime television hosts. She starred in The Bonnie Hunt Show in late 2000s.

[[Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories, 1944 establishments, Academy Awards

The Academy Award for Documentary Feature is one of the most important awards for documentary movies.

[[Academy Award for Best Documentary (Short Subject)]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

This is a list of movies by year that they received an Oscar.  Also listed are the other nominations for best documentary short subject. 

[[1st Academy Awards]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Awards

The 1st Academy Awards ceremony was presented by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).  It was to honor the best movies of 1927 and 1928.  It took place on May 16, 1929 in Los Angeles, California. AMPAS president Douglas Fairbanks hosted the show.

Tickets cost five dollars, 270 people attended the event and the ceremony lasted fifteen minutes. Awards were made by Louis B. Mayer. It is the only Academy Awards ceremony not to be broadcast either on radio or television.

During the ceremony, the AMPAS gave Academy Awards (now commonly called Oscars) in twelve categories. Winners were announced three months before the live event. Some nominations were announced without reference to a specific movie.  Examples were Ralph Hammeras and Nugent Slaughter, who received nominations in the now defunct category of Engineering Effects. Unlike later ceremonies, an actor or director could be awarded for multiple works in a year. Emil Jannings, for example, was given the Best Actor award for his work in both The Way of All Flesh and The Last Command. Moreover, Charlie Chaplin and Warner Brothers each received an Honorary Award.

[[Max von Sydow]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, Swedish television actors, Swedish movie actors, Swedish stage actors, Swedish voice actors, French movie actors, French television actors, French stage actors, French voice actors, Actors who played Bond villains

Carl Adolf "Max" von Sydow (10 April 1929 – 8 March 2020) was a Swedish-born French television, stage and movie actor. He was nominated for an Academy Award in 2012 for his role as The Renter in Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close (2011). 

He also played Ernst Stavro Blofeld in Never Say Never Again (1983). His career started in 1949. His other best known roles were Father Lankester Merrin in The Exorcist (1971) and as Emperor Ming the Merciless in Flash Gordon (1980).

He was born in Lund, Skåne, Sweden on 10 April 1929. He was educated at Cathedral School and at the Royal Dramatic Theatre. He was married to Kerstin Olin from 1951 until they divorced in 1979, they had two children. He is currently married to Catherine Brelet since 1997, they have 2 children. He currently lives in Los Angeles, California.

Von Sydow was one of the favourite actors of the Swedish movie director Ingmar Bergman. He appeared in twelve Bergman films, most notably as the knight in The Seventh Seal. This film is typical of the existentialist films of the mid-20th century. The knight plays a game of chess with death against the background crisis of the 13th century, with the Black Death and famine ongoing.

He acted in over 100 movies. His height and manner lent itself to authority figures, and "evil villain" roles. Von Sydow's second marriage to a French lady led to his becoming a French citizen and giving up his Swedish nationality. His family were originally of German/Polish extraction.

Von Sydow died on 8 March 2020 in Provence, France at the age of 90.

[[Gwangjong of Goryeo]]

CATEGORIES: 900s births, 975 deaths, Korean monarchs

Gwangjong of Goryeo (Korean: 고려 광종; Hanja: 高麗光宗, 925–975) was a Korean ruler. His real name was Wang So (왕소, 王昭), and his Chinese style name was Ilhwa (일화 日華). He was the 4th King and Emperor of the Goryeo Dynasty from 947 to 975.

[[Joseon]]

CATEGORIES: 1890s disestablishments in Asia, States and territories disestablished in the 19th century, 1392 establishments, 1897 disestablishments, 14th century establishments in Asia

Joseon (조선; 朝鮮; July 1392 – October 1897) (also Chosŏn, Choson, Chosun, Cho-sen), was a Korean state started by Taejo Yi Seong-gye. It began after the end of the Goryeo Dynasty at what is today the city of Kaesong. It ended with the assassination of Empress Myeongseong. Joseon was the last dynasty of Korean history and the longest Confucian dynasty.

Today, some Koreans use the word "Joseon" to mean something bad because they think of the Joseon Dynasty as something that failed.  Young Koreans use the expression "Hell Joseon" to talk about how hard it is to find a good job in South Korea today.

[[Freshwater crab]]

CATEGORIES: Crabs

Freshwater crabs are crabs that live in fresh water, mostly in the tropics and subtropics. About 1300 species of freshwater crab have been described. In total, there are about 6700 species of crab.  It is thought that there are many undescribed species of freshwater crab; there may be up to 2155 such species. Freshwater crabs show different behaviour than other crabs. Other crabs release a large number of larvae into the environment. These larvae need to cope on their own. In contrast, freshwater crabs care for the young. Many freshwater crabs are endemic to small areas. This means there if there is a threat of the area disappearing, this also applies to the crab, which becomes threatened with extinction.

[[Domenico Sarro]]

CATEGORIES: 1679 births, 1744 deaths, Opera, Italian composers, Baroque composers, People from Apulia

Domenico Natale Sarro, also called Domenico Sarri, (24 December 1679 – 25 January 1744) was a composer from Italy. He composed 18 operas. He also composed, cantatas, oratorios, and music for flutes and other musical instruments. His operas placed great importance on the music for the singers. They are not often performed today, but they were very popular in Naples in the 1700s. Sarro was born in Trani, a city in southern Italy. He died in Naples.

[[Subtropics]]

CATEGORIES: Regions, Climate

The subtropics are a climatic region of the world. They lie between the tropics and temperate zones. The temperate zones are more towards the geographical poles, the tropics are more towards the equator. Very often, subtropics are defined through the climate: In general, the mean temperature year round is above 20, the coldest month of the year has a temperature below this mark. Humid subtropical areas have hot summers and mild to warm winters with abundant rainfall. Mediterranean climates with their warm to hot dry summers and cool to mild wet winters are often considered subtropical. Subtropical deserts have very hot summers and warm winters, with little rain. Different subtropical areas have different types of plants. Humid subtropical areas have evergreen and deciduous trees, Mediterranean areas have scrub, and deserts have cacti.

[[Ideogram]]

CATEGORIES: Graphics, Non-verbal communication

An ideogram or ideograph is a graphical symbol that represents an idea or concept. Some ideograms can be understood because they resemble an image; they are known as Pictograms. Others rely on convention to be understandable. 

[[My Name Is Rachel Corrie]]

CATEGORIES: Plays, Rachel Corrie

My Name is Rachel Corrie is a play based on the diaries and emails of Rachel Corrie. They were edited by Alan Rickman, who directed the play, and journalist Katharine Viner also helped editing. Rachel Corrie was an American peace activist and student, who travelled to the Gaza Strip. She was killed by an Israeli bulldozer while she was protesting against the destruction of Palestinian homes. The play was first shown in London, at the Royal Court Theatre, in April 2005.

[[MV Rachel Corrie]]

CATEGORIES: Arab–Israeli conflict, Gaza Strip, Rachel Corrie, Ships

MV ''Rachel Corrie is a ship that is owned and operated by the Free Gaza Movement. The ship is named in honour of Rachel Corrie, a former member of the International Solidarity Movement. It was built by J.J. Sietas in Hamburg in 1967, and was originally named Carsten. it has also carried the names Norasia Attika, Manya and more recently Linda''.

In June 2010, the ship was boarded by Israeli Defence Forces while it was trying to deliver humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip.

[[Bad Teacher]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 comedy movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about educators, Movies set in Illinois, Movies directed by Jake Kasdan

Bad Teacher is a 2011 American comedy movie. It stars Cameron Diaz, Jason Segel, Lucy Punch and Justin Timberlake. Diaz plays Elizabeth Halsey, a teacher at a fictional Cook County, Illinois middle school. She drinks heavily, uses marijuana and strong language.

[[Let Me Stand Alone]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 books, Rachel Corrie

Let Me Stand Alone is a book, containing collected writings, including diaries and letters, of Rachel Corrie. It was published by W. W. Norton & Company in 2008. Corrie was killed in 2003 by an armored bulldozer belonging to the Israel Defense Forces, while she was protesting against the destruction of Palestinian homes.

The "collection of her journal entries opens a window on the maturation of a young woman seeking to make the world a better place."

[[Ving Rhames]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, 1958 births, Living people

Ving Rhames (born May 12, 1959) is an American actor. He has performed in many movies. His notable movies include Pulp Fiction (1994) and Baby Boy (2001). He was born near Harlem, New York.

[[List of cities in Norway]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Europe, Cities in Norway, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities and towns in Norway.

[[List of cities in Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan, Lists of cities in Asia, Pakistan-related lists, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Pakistan.  They each have at least 100,000 people. 

[[List of cities in Panama]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in North America, Settlements in Panama, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Panama.

[[List of settlements in Papua New Guinea]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Papua New Guinea, Lists of settlements in Oceania

This is a list of the largest cities and towns in Papua New Guinea.

[[List of cities in Paraguay]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraguay, Lists of cities in South America, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of towns and cities in Paraguay.

[[List of cities in Peru]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Peru, Lists of cities in South America, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Peru

[[List of cities in Portugal]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in Europe, Cities in Portugal, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Portugal.

[[Jackie Stallone]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2020 deaths, American esotericists, Astrologers, Scientists from Washington, D.C.

Jacqueline France "Jackie" Stallone (born Jacqueline France Labofish November 29, 1921 – September 21 2020) was an American astrologer who was mostly known for being the mother of Sylvester Stallone, Frank Stallone, Jr., and her late daughter Toni D'Alto.

She was born in Washington, D.C., United States on November 29, 1921. She was married to Frank Stallone, Sr. from 1945 until they divorced in 1957. Second she married Anthony Filti from 1959 until they divorced in 1980. She was married to Stephen Lavine from 1998 until her death. She was also the grandmother of late actor Sage Stallone.

Stallone died on September 21, 2020 in Los Angeles at the age of 98.

[[List of settlements in Russia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of settlements in Asia, Settlements in Russia, Lists of settlements in Europe, Russia-related lists

This is a list of cities and towns in Russia. According to the data of the 2002 Russian Census, there are 1,108 cities and towns in Russia.

[[Anne Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Pennsylvania

Anne June Jackson (September 3, 1925 – April 12, 2016), also known as Anne Wallach, was an American movie, television, and stage actress. She was mostly known for her role as a doctor in The Shinning (1980). She was born on September 3, 1926 in Milvale, Pennsylvania. She was educated at the Actors Studio. She was married to Eli Wallach from 1948 until his death in 2014. They had 3 children. 

Jackson died on April 12, 2016 at her apartment in Manhattan, New York, aged 90.

[[Paul Whitehouse]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Actors from Glamorgan, Actors from London, British television producers, British television writers, Comedians from London, Welsh movie actors, Welsh stage actors, Welsh television actors, Welsh voice actors, Writers from Glamorgan, Writers from London

Paul Whitehouse (born 17 May 1958) is a Welsh movie, television, stage, and voice actor, comedian, and writer. Whitehouse is known for his roles in The Fast Show, as William van Dort in Tim Burton's Corpse Bride, and as The March Hare in the 2010 Tim Burton's version of Alice in Wonderland.

Whitehouse was born on May 17, 1958 in Stanleytown, Glamorgan, Wales and was raised in London, England. Whitehouse was educated at the University of East Anglia. He is divorced and he has 3 children. He is friends with fellow actor Johnny Depp, who has called Whitehouse "one of the greatest actors of all time". He currently lives in Islington, London.

[[Danfeng County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of China, Shaanxi

Danfeng County (丹凤县, pinyin: Dānfèng Xiàn) is a county of Shangluo Municipality, Shaanxi Province, China. It is in the middle-east part of Shangluo. Its name is from Dan River and Feng Mountain. It covers 2407.58. As of November 2010, 295,349 people lived here.

[[Strait of Tartary]]

CATEGORIES: Straits, Pacific Ocean

Strait of Tartary (Gulf of Tartary, Gulf of Tatary, Tatar Strait, Tartar Strait, Strait of Tartar) is a strait in the Pacific Ocean.  It divides the Russian island of Sakhalin from mainland Asia.  It connects the Sea of Okhotsk on the north with the Sea of Japan on the south. It is 900 km long, 4–20 m deep, and 7.3 km wide at the narrowest point.

[[Tsugaru Strait]]

CATEGORIES: Straits, Bodies of water of Japan

The Tsugaru Strait is a channel that is between the islands of Honshu and Hokkaido in northern Japan.  It connects the Sea of Japan with the Pacific Ocean. It was named after the western part of Aomori Prefecture.

[[William van der Gouwen]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch artists, Flemish artists, 1640s births, 1720s deaths, Engravers

Gilliam van der Gouwen (ca. 1657, Antwerp - buried on 15 March 1716, Amsterdam)  was a Flemish engraver. He worked most of his life in the Dutch Republic. 

He made many title pages, maps and book illustrations for books published in Amsterdam. A print of a Putto blowing bubbles is one of his artworks.  The meaning of the bubbles is that life is short.

[[Bungo Channel]]

CATEGORIES: Straits, Bodies of water of Japan

The Bungo Channel is a strait separating the Japanese islands of Kyūshū and Shikoku. It connects the Pacific Ocean and Seto Inland Sea. The narrowest part of this channel is the Hōyo Strait.

The Bungo Strait is featured in the 1958 World War II submarine film Run Silent, Run Deep.  The movie is based upon the 1955 novel by Edward L. Beach, Jr.

[[MC Lyte]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from New York, American rap musicians, 1970 births, Living people

MC Lyte (born Lana Michelle Moorer; October 11 1970) is an American rap musician. She first became famous in the late 1980s by being the first solo female rap recording artist to release a whole record, starting with 1988's critically acclaimed Lyte as a Rock. She has carried many hit singles over the years. She was born near Brooklyn, New York.

[[Spotted eagle ray]]

CATEGORIES: Rays

The spotted eagle ray, (Aetobatus narinari), is a species of cartilaginous fish, in the eagle ray group. It can be found in tropical waters, including Hawaii, the Gulf of Mexico, off the coast of west Africa, Oceania, and the Indian Ocean.

[[Hecht]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames

Hecht is a surname. Some people with this surname are:

[[Tsushima Strait]]

CATEGORIES: Straits, Bodies of water of Japan, Geography of South Korea

Tsushima Strait, also known as the Korea Strait, is a narrow body of water between Japan and South Korea.  The name is used in two ways.   It is used generally to describe the ocean area between Korea and Japan; and it also identifies the sea passage between the islands of Kyushu and Tsushima.

The strait links the East China Sea and the Sea of Japan in the northwest Pacific Ocean.  Tsushima Island is between the western channel (Korea Strait) and the eastern channel (Tsushima Strait). 

[[Palenquero]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Colombia, Spanish language, Pidgins and creoles

Palenquero is a Spanish-African Creole language spoken in Colombia. Is it spoken primarily in the Northern and the Caribbean parts of Colombia; the palenque villages and their diasporas.

[[Tsushima Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Japan

Tsushima Island (対馬, Tsushima) is a Japanese island in the waters between South Korea and Japan.

[[Murder on the Orient Express]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 books, English-language novels, English novels, Murder in fiction, Crime fiction books

Murder in the Orient Express is a book by Agatha Christie. The book was published in 1934. In the book, the detective Hercule Poirot has to solve a murder that happens onboard the Orient Express train.

[[Charlie Rose]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American television talk show hosts, American journalists, People from North Carolina

Charles Peete "Charlie" Rose, Jr. (born January 5, 1942) is an American talk show host and journalist. He hosted his own show Charlie Rose from 1991 to 2017. He was born in Henderson, North Carolina, on January 5, 1942. Rose went to Duke University. He married Mary King in 1962. They divorced in 1980. He currently lives in New York City, New York.

In November 2017, CBS fired Rose and PBS cancelled his program after eight women accused him of sexual harassment.

[[Dominique Swain]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Malibu, California, American movie actors, 1980 births, Living people

Dominique Swain (born August 12 1980 in Malibu, California) is an American actress. She has been in many movies. She is best known for her role as the title character in the 1997 drama Lolita. Swain also played Jamie Archer in the movie Face/Off.

[[Charlie Daniels]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Musicians from North Carolina, American voice actors, Singers from North Carolina, Writers from North Carolina, American country guitarists, Actors from North Carolina, American country musicians, American bluegrass musicians, Fiddlers

Charles Edward "Charlie" Daniels (October 28, 1936 – July 6, 2020) was an American country singer-songwriter and musician. He played a fiddle and country rock music. His best known song was "The Devil Went Down to Georgia".

He was honored into the Cheyenne Frontier Days Hall of Fame in 2002, the Grand Ole Opry in 2008, the Musicians Hall of Fame and Museum in 2009, and the Country Music Hall of Fame in 2016.

Daniels was born in Wilmington, North Carolina. Daniels was married to Hazel Daniels from 1963 until his death. They had a son, Charlie Daniels, Jr., and three grandchildren. 

Daniels died from a stroke on July 6, 2020 in Nashville, Tennessee at the age of 83.

[[Michael Jeter]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2003 deaths, Actors from Tennessee, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from epilepsy, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Emmy Award winning actors, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT people from Tennessee, People with HIV/AIDS, Tony Award winning actors

Michael Robert Jeter (August 26, 1952 – March 30, 2003) was an American character actor of film, stage, and television. His television roles included Herman Stiles on the sitcom Evening Shade from 1990 until 1994 and Mr. Noodle's brother, Mister Noodle on the Elmo's World segments of Sesame Street from 2000 until 2003. Jeter's film roles include Zelig, Tango & Cash, The Fisher King, Sister Act 2: Back in the Habit, 

Waterworld, Air Bud, Patch Adams, The Green Mile, Mousehunt, Jurassic Park III, Welcome to Collinwood, Open Range, and The Polar Express.

[[Cayo District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Belize

Cayo District is a district in the west of the nation of Belize.  The District capital is the town of San Ignacio.

[[Corozal District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Belize

Corozal District is the northernmost district of the nation of Belize. The population was 33,335 as of 2000. The district capital is Corozal Town.

The island of Ambergris Caye is close to Corozal District, but it is a part of Belize District.

Pre-Columbian Maya ruins are found in Corozal at Santa Rita near Corozal Town, and at Cerros.

Spanish is the most spoken language in Corozal, followed by English. 80% speak Spanish very well and 60% speak English very well.

[[Orange Walk District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Belize

Orange Walk District is a district in the northwest of the nation of Belize.  The district capital is Orange Walk Town. The population was 45,419 persons in 2010.

The Rio Bravo Conservation and Management Area, a large private nature reserve in the Yalbac Hills, is in this district. The land is highly cultivated with sugar cane, sorghum, rice, corn and vegetables. A lot of this agriculture is done by Mennonite farmers. 

The district is home to mostly Maya mestizo descendants of Mexican refugees who fled from the 1840 Caste War.

Tourism  is growing.  This is due to healthy populations of tropical wildlife and the rich archaeological sites. There are over 400 recorded bird species in the district. The district has two rivers, the Rio Hondo and the New River.

[[Stann Creek District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Belize

Stann Creek District is a district in the south east region of Belize. According to the 2010 census, the district had a population of 32,166 people. Its capital is the city of Dangriga.  Dangriga used to be called "Stann Creek Town." Stann comes from "stanns," or safe havens used by colonialists coming from the "old world" to the "new world."

The Stann Creek District is home to the Cockscomb Basin Wildlife Sanctuary. In the sanctuary is Victoria Peak, the highest point in Belize, at 1120 meters (3,675 feet) above sea level.

[[Toledo District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Belize

Toledo District is the southernmost district in Belize. Punta Gorda is the district capital. It is the least developed region in the country.  It has some of the most clean rainforests, many caves, coastal lowland plains, and offshore cays. Toledo is home to a wide range of cultures—from Mopan and Kekchi Maya, to Creole, the Garifuna, East Indians, Mennonites, Mestizos, and descendants of US Confederate settlers.

According to the 2010 census, Toledo District had a population of 30,538 people.

The economy of Toledo relies heavily on agriculture. Crops grown include beans and corn, as well as rice. Cacao is grown for the renowned Maya Gold chocolate. The District’s ancient and modern-day links with chocolate are celebrated each year in May.

[[Vietnamese alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Vietnam, Alphabets, Austro-Asiatic languages

The Vietnamese alphabet (chữ Quốc ngữ in Vietnamese) is a version of the Latin alphabet used to write the Vietnamese language. It uses all of the letters of the ISO Basic Latin Alphabet except for F, J, W, and Z (which are only found in loanwords). However, the alphabet has been changed heavily in order to accurately show Vietnamese pronunciation. Some letters and digraphs make very different sounds than what most readers of the Latin alphabet expect, such as D, R, and GI. One letter has been added, Đ, to show it is a completely different sound from D. Vowel markers are added in order to distinguish different vowel sounds like A, Â, and Ǎ. Tone markers are also added, because Vietnamese is a tonal language, such as Á, Ả, Ã, Ạ, and À. Some vowels have both a vowel marker and a tone marker. For example, the vowel Ǎ can be written as Ắ, Ẳ, Ẵ, Ặ, and Ằ. Sometimes, even non-speakers of Vietnamese can tell something is written in Vietnamese simply based on how many markings a word can have.

[[Trani]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Apulia, Capital cities in Italy

Trani is a seaport city in the Apulia region of southern Italy. It is on the Adriatic Sea. Its main industries are wine-making, fishing, and mining. The number of people living in Trani in 2011 was 53,940.

[[Provincial city (Vietnam)]]

CATEGORIES: Vietnam

A province in Vietnam (Tỉnh) is the region of authority. If the province is in the city (Thành phố trực thuộc trung ương), then it will have districts (Quận). If the city has some country districts attached, then they are separated as counties (Huyện).

Inside the city, the districts break down into smaller divisions called city wards (Phường). If the county is outside the city, or in a country province, then that county will be broken down into smaller divisional areas (Khu).

There are more divisions in every province:

[[Containerization]]

CATEGORIES: Transport

Containerization is a system of freight transport based on a range of steel containers ("shipping containers", "ISO containers" etc.). Containers are built to standardized sizes. They can be loaded and unloaded, stacked, transported over long distances. They can be transferred from one mode of transport to another—ships, rail and semi-trailer trucks—without being opened. The system developed after World War II. It led to greatly reduced transport costs, and supported a great increase in international trade.

[[Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Savoie, Subprefectures in France

Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne is a French commune in the Savoie department. Its population is about 8,507 (2008 census).

[[Zoe Saldana]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Actors from New Jersey, African-American movie actors, American television actors, American television producers, People from Passaic, New Jersey

Zoe Saldana (born 19 June 1978) is an American actress. She has been in many movies. She had her breakthrough roles in Center Stage (2000) and Crossroads (2002). She was born in Passaic, New Jersey.

[[List of freight ship companies]]

CATEGORIES: Transport lists, Containers, Water transport

This is a list of freighter shipping fleets.  The largest shipping companies are European and Asian.

[[Nippon Yusen]]

CATEGORIES: Transport companies of Japan

Nippon Yusen,  also known as NYK Line, is one of the largest shipping companies in the world. It is a core Mitsubishi company. The company has its headquarters in Chiyoda, Tokyo, Japan.

[[Elizabeth Warren]]

CATEGORIES: US Democratic Party politicians, American progressives, United States senators from Massachusetts, 1949 births, Living people, 2020 United States presidential candidates

Elizabeth Ann Warren (née Herring; born June 22, 1949) is an American politician and Senior United States Senator of Massachusetts since January 3, 2013. She is a Democrat and a bankruptcy law expert. She was also an assistant to President Barack Obama. She supports student loan forgiveness, banking regulation, and consumer protection regulations. 

Warren was an unsuccessful candidate for the 2020 Democratic nomination. Warren was seen as a possible running mate pick for Joe Biden's campaign.

[[ENCODE]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Medicine, Humans

ENCODE is the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements. Encode was launched in 2003 to identify all the functional elements (working bits) in the human genome. The work was done by over 400 scientists in 32 laboratories in the US, UK, Spain, Singapore and Japan. Their findings were published in 30 open-access papers in three journals, Nature, Genome Biology and Genome Research. It is the most detailed analysis to date of the human genome.

A simplified account of their main findings is as follows:

The methods used for the work included:

News items connected with this work are:

[[Kid Kash]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Former WWE wrestlers, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Virginia, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

David Cash (born July 31, 1969 in Waynesboro, Virginia) better known by his ring name, Kid Kash, is an American professional wrestler and former mixed martial artist who is currently signed to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. Kash has also wrestled for ECW, WCW and WWE.

[[Park Geun-hye]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1952 births, Anti-Communists, Current national leaders, Presidents of South Korea

Park Geunhye (born February 2, 1952) is a South Korean politician. She served as the President of South Korea from 2013 until her impeachment in 2017. She is the second daughter of Park Chung-hee, former President of South Korea.  On December 19, 2012, she was elected president of 

the country. She was the first woman president of South Korea, having taken office on February 25, 2013.

In 2013 and 2014, Park was named the world's 11th most powerful woman and the most powerful woman in East Asia by Forbes magazine.

Park was impeached on 10 March 2017 and was replaced by Prime Minister of South Korea Hwang Kyo-ahn.

[[Lee San-hae]]

CATEGORIES: 1539 births, 1609 deaths, Korean educators, Korean politicians, Autobiographers, Korean writers

Lee San-hae(이산해 李山海, July 20, 1539-July 20, 1609), also known as Yi Sanhae, was a Korean Joseon Dynasty politician, writer, and philosopher. A penname was Ahgye (아계 鵝溪), Jongnamsuong (종남수옹 終南睡翁).

[[Călin Popescu-Tăriceanu]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Romania, People from Bucharest, Presidents of the Senate of Romania, Romanian politicians

Călin Constantin Anton Popescu-Tăriceanu (b. 14 January 1952, Bucharest) is a Romanian politician. On 28 December 2004, he was prime minister of Romania.

He was president of PNL and vice-president of PLD.

He founded Radio Contact Romania. He is president of Automotive Trading Services (ATS), which represents Citroen in Romania.

[[Upsilon Andromedae d]]

CATEGORIES: Exoplanets

Upsilon Andromedae d is an extrasolar planet. It orbits the Sun-like star Upsilon Andromedae A.

Upsilon Andromedae A was the third star known to host a multiple-planet planetary system, the others are the Sun and the pulsar PSR 1257+12.

In 1999, two groups of astronomers independently concluded that a three-planet model best fit the data. The two new planets were designated Upsilon Andromedae C and Upsilon Andromedae D.

[[Dinosaur Provincial Park]]

CATEGORIES: Alberta, World Heritage Sites in Canada, Lagerstätten, Badlands, 1955 establishments, 1950s establishments in Canada

Dinosaur Provincial Park is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is about two and a half hours drive southeast of Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

The park is in the valley of the Red Deer River, which is noted for its badland topography. The park is one of the richest dinosaur fossil locales in the world. Forty dinosaur species have been discovered at the park and more than 500 specimens have been removed and exhibited in museums across the globe. The fossil assemblage of nearly 500 species, from microscopic fern spores to large carnivorous dinosaurs, justified it becoming a World Heritage Site in 1979.

[[Kerman]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran

Kerman is a city in and capital of Kerman Province, Iran. At the 2011 census, 621,374 people lived there. This city is 1036 south of Tehran, the capital of Iran.

[[Mule (footwear)]]

CATEGORIES: Footwear

Mule shoes are shoes that are backless and almost always closed-toed. They can be any heel height (flat to high). The shoes are almost always worn by females. High heeled mule shoes were a popular indoor shoe in the 18th century. By the early twentieth century, the shoes were very often associated with prostitutes. However, in the early 1950s, Marilyn Monroe popularized the shoes and helped to break their poor reputations. Similar shoes, called slides, were introduced in the early 1990s, except that slides are open-toed versions of mules.

[[Christiaan Barnard]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2001 deaths, Afrikaner people, Deaths from asthma, South African scientists, Surgeons

Christiaan Neethling Barnard (8 November 1922 – 2 September 2001) was a South African heart surgeon. He was born in Beaufort West, Cape Province, Union of South Africa. He did the first successful heart transplant from human to human. He died of asthma in Paphos, Cyprus. His brother was Marius Barnard.

[[Slip-on shoe]]

CATEGORIES: Footwear

Slip-on shoes are laceless shoes. The style most commonly seen is called a loafer or slipper, with a moccasin construction. They began appearing in mid 1930s Norway as casual shoes, though they have increased in popularity to the point of being worn with lounge suits. They are worn mostly by females, though men wear the shoes, also.

[[Ring of Honor]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 establishments in the United States, American entertainment companies, Professional wrestling promotions, Sports in Pennsylvania, 2000s establishments in Pennsylvania

Ring of Honor (ROH) is a professional wrestling company founded in 2002 by Rob Feinstein and Gabe Sapolsky. The president of the company is Cary Silkin. Their headquarters are in Bristol, Pennsylvania. Matches for the company airs on The Fight Network in Canada and on Samurai TV in Japan. The company also aired matches in the United Kingdom and Ireland. 

[[Thai basil]]

CATEGORIES: Herbs, Lamiaceae, Plants of Asia

Thai basil, or Asian basil is a type of sweet basil.  It is found in Southeast Asia. Thai basil has small, narrow leaves and purple stems.  The flower is a mauve (pink-purple) color. One cultivar commonly grown in the United States is 'Queen of Siam'.

Thai basil is an important ingredient in the very popular Taiwanese dish, sanbeiji (three cup chicken). Used as a condiment, a plate of raw Thai basil leaves is often served with phở (Vietnamese-style noodle soup) so each customer can season it to taste with the anise-flavored leaves.

[[Bolivian coriander]]

CATEGORIES: Herbs, Asteraceae

Bolivian coriander (Porophyllum ruderale) is an annual plant.  Its leaves can be used for seasoning food. The taste has been described as "somewhere between arugula, cilantro and rue." The plant is commonly grown in Mexico and South America.  There it is used in salsas. When fully grown, this plant grows to about 5 feet in height and 3 feet in diameter.

This herb is known by many names, including quillquiña (also spelled quirquiña or quilquiña), killi, papalo, tepegua and pápaloquelite. 

Also, even though the name is "Bolivian coriander", this plant is not botanically related to the coriander.

[[Exploitation movie]]

CATEGORIES: Genres, Movies

Exploitation movie is a label that is applied to certain movies: These usually have a low budget, and focus on showing either violence or sex. Very often, they try to be successful by following a trend. Sometimes they are produced for a niche of the market. In almost all cases, exploitation movies fall in the category B-movies. Sometimes, exploitation movies attract a cult following they get the attention of the movie critics. Some of these movies set trends, and become important. An example of such a movie is Night of the Living Dead, of 1968.  

The term exploitation is defined very loosely: it is more about the viewers' impression that this exploitation happens, than the people actually being exploited. The first exploitation movies appeared in the 1920s. Exploitation movies only became popular after the 1960s and 1970s, when there was less censorship. Very often, exploitation movies use  recent news events to base their story on. Major film studios ofen avoid such events, because producing the movie takes a long time and a lot of money.  

In 1938, Orson Welles produced War of the Worlds to be broadcast on radio, as a Halloween special. When it was aired, this shocked many Americans. As a result, Universal Pictures edited one of their Flash Gordon serials into a short movie  which it released ot movie theatres one week after Welles' boradcast. The movie was called Mars Attacks the World.

[[Kim Hyo-won]]

CATEGORIES: 1532 births, 1590 deaths, Korean writers, Korean politicians, Korean philosophers

Kim Hyo-won (김효원, Hanja 金孝元, 1532 - 1590), also known as Gim Hyeo-Wyeong or Söng'am, was a Korean scholar, writer, politician, and Neo-Confucian philosopher of the  Joseon period.

[[Human genome]]

CATEGORIES: DNA, Humans

The human genome is stored on 23 chromosome pairs in the cell nucleus and in the small mitochondrial DNA. A great deal is now known about the sequences of DNA which are on our chromosomes. What the DNA actually does is now partly known. Applying this knowledge in practice has only just begun.

The Human Genome Project (HGP) produced a reference sequence which is used worldwide in biology and medicine. Nature published the publicly funded project's report, and Science  published Celera's paper. These papers described how the draft sequence was produced, and gave an analysis of the sequence. Improved drafts were announced in 2003 and 2005, filling in to ≈92% of the sequence.

The latest project ENCODE studies the way the genes are controlled.

[[Sucralose]]

CATEGORIES: Sweeteners

Sucralose is an artificial sweetener, most of which, if ingested, will not be broken down by the body and is thereby non-caloric (doesn't contribute to calorie intake). Sucralose is almost 600 times as sweet as sucrose, twice as sweet as saccharin and 3 times as sweet as aspartame. It is stable under heat and over a broad range of pH condition, meaning it can be used in baking or products which require longer shelf lives. It was first discovered and patented in 1976.

[[Richard Farnsworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2000 deaths, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Suicides by firearm

Richard W. Farnsworth (September 1, 1920 – October 6, 2000) was an American television, stage, radio, voice, and movie actor, and a stuntman. He was previously known as Dick Farnsworth. He was nominated for two Academy Awards. 

Farnsworth was known for his role as Sheriff Buster in the 1990 movie Misery. Farnsworth is the oldest person to receive an Academy Award nominated for Best Actor in a Leading role. He was 79 years old when he was nominated.

He was born in Los Angeles, California on September 1, 1920. He was married to Margaret Hill from 1947 until her death in 1985. They had one child. 

Farnsworth never liked using four-lettered words. He was once asked by Roger Ebert what he was most proud of in regards to his acting career, he replied that it was the fact that in over 60 movies he never says one cuss word.  

Farnsworth committed suicide on October 6, 2000 at his ranch in Lincoln, New Mexico by shooting himself. He was 80 years old.

He was added into the Hall of Great Western Performers of the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum in 1997. 

[[Ty Law]]

CATEGORIES: New England Patriots players, New York Jets players, Kansas City Chiefs players, Denver Broncos players, American football players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania, Living people, 1974 births

Ty Law (b. 10 February 1974) is a retired American football player. He played as a safety in the NFL. Law was drafted by the New England Patriots in 1995. He also played for the New York Jets (2005, 2008), Kansas City Chiefs (2006-2007) and Denver Broncos (2009). He retired after the 2009 season. Law was born in Aliquippa, Pennsylvania.

[[Lawyer Milloy]]

CATEGORIES: New England Patriots players, Buffalo Bills players, Atlanta Falcons players, Seattle Seahawks players, American football players, Sportspeople from St. Louis, Missouri, Living people, 1973 births

Lawyer Marzell Milloy (born November 14, 1973 ) is a retired American football player. He was drafted by the New England Patriots of the National Football League in 1996. He last played in 2010. Milloy also played for the Buffalo Bills, Atlanta Falcons and Seattle Seahawks.

[[Black January]]

CATEGORIES: Massacres, Politics, 1990s in Azerbaijan, Anti-Azerbaijani sentiment, 1990s in the Soviet Union, 1990

Black January (Qara Yanvar), also known as Black Saturday or the January Massacre, was a massacre by the Soviet Red Army and the KGB secret police agency of peaceful Azerbaijani protesters of the Azerbaijani independence movement. It happened in Baku, Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic on 19–20 January 1990, during the last years of the Soviet Union. Between 133-137 people were killed, when the Red Army and the KGB shot the protesters. As a result, the Azerbaijanis became totally opposed to stay a part of the Soviet Union and started to plan the independence of Azerbaijan. This happened with the end of the Soviet Union in December 1991.

It was one of the rare events during the liberal reform era of glasnost (reform of the government) and perestroika (reform of the economy) in which the Soviet Union used force against peaceful protesters. Before this era, the Soviet Union did not allow any protests of its population and stopped them violently if they did protest. 

The reason for using violence, was that powerful conservative people in the Communist Party, the Red Army and the KGB did not like these reforms and feared that the ethnic groups and republics of the Soviet Union were getting out of their control with the rise of nationalism. 

However, the use of violence angered the people in Azerbaijan and the rest of the Soviet Union. It had the opposite effect, because the liberal Soviet leaders  and their reforms were too popular and powerful in the end. Neither the use of force against protesters nor the reforms prevented the republics becoming independent.

[[Jenilee Harrison]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American television actors, 1959 births, Living people

Jenilee Harrison (born June 12 1959) is an American actress. She has starred in many television programs. She played Cindy Snow in the sitcom Three's Company and Jamie Ewing in the soap Dallas. She was born near Los Angeles, California.

[[Sandra Fluke]]

CATEGORIES: People from Pennsylvania, 1981 births, Living people

Sandra Fluke (born April 17 1981) is an activist for women's rights. She demanded birth control and contraceptives be paid for by taxpayers. She was a supporter for Barack Obama's re-election. She was born near Saxton, Pennsylvania.

[[Bachman–Turner Overdrive]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s music groups, 1980s music groups, 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Canadian hard rock bands, Canadian rock bands, Winnipeg, Musical groups established in 1973, 1973 establishments in Canada, Musical groups disestablished in the 1970s, 20th century disestablishments in Canada, Musical groups established in 1983, Musical groups disestablished in 2005, 2000s disestablishments in Canada, Musical groups disestablished in 2004

Bachman–Turner Overdrive are a Canadian rock band from Winnipeg, Manitoba. Bachman–Turner Overdrive have five members in the band; the current band members are Fred Turner, Randy Bachman, Mick Dalla Vee, Marc LaFrance and Brent Howard. Two of the band's best known songs are "You Ain't Seen Nothing Yet" and "Takin' Care of Business". Their song "Takin' Care of Business" was ranked #10 in top 100 most covered songs by Guitar Magazine.

The band was formed in 1971. They released their self-titled first album on August 30, 1989. Fans of the bands are usually known as "gearheads". They have won many Juno Awards as well.

[[Camilla Belle]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, 1986 births, Living people

Camilla Belle (born October 2, 1986) is an American actress. She has acted in many movies. She starred in the movies Practical Magic and Push. The actress was born in Los Angeles, California.

[[Mary Harris Jones]]

CATEGORIES: Industrial Workers of the World, 1837 births, 1930 deaths, People from Cork (city)

Mary Harris Jones (1837-November 30, 1930) was an American schoolteacher and tailor. In 1867 her husband and their four children died of yellow fever during an epidemic. There was a fire in Chicago, in 1871. Harris Jones' workshop was destroyed in that fire; she lost everything she had. She turned towards the Knights of Labor. The Knights of Labour was an association of workers who also accepted black people and women. From this point on, Harris Jones became active in the labour movement, fighting for better working conditions and better pay of the workers. In 1905, she was a founding member of Industrial Workers of the World, a trade union.  

She was an amazing speaker because she was able to use stories as examples in her speeches, and she could also make the audience participate. In 1897, she got the title "Mother Jones". She was 60 at the time. In 1903, she was upset about the bad working conditions of children. For this reason, she organised a march where children marched from Philadelphia to the home of President Roosevelt in New York. In 1992 she was inducted into the Hall of Honor by the United States Department of Labor.

[[Yun Jeung]]

CATEGORIES: 1629 births, 1714 deaths, Korean writers, Korean politicians, Korean philosophers

Yun Jeung (윤증 Hanja 尹拯, 1629-1714), also known as Yun Chŭng, was a Korean scholar, writer, politician, and Neo-Confucian philosopher of the  Joseon period. The name he used for writing was Myeongjae.

[[Great hammerhead shark]]

CATEGORIES: Sharks

The great hammerhead shark (Sphyrna mokarran), is the largest species of the Hammerhead shark group. It can be identified by the shape of its "hammer" (called the "cephalofoil"), which is wide and has an almost straight margin at the front, and by its first dorsal fin which is tall, and is sickle-shaped.

[[Space Needle]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Washington, 1961 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Washington (state)

The Space Needle is a tower in Seattle, Washington. It is at the Seattle Center. The Space Needle was built for the 1962 World's Fair. During this time, almost 20,000 people used the elevators every day. Over 2.3 million visitors came to the World Fair overall. The Space Needle is 605 high and 138 wide. It weighs 9,550 tons.  When it was completed it was the tallest building to the west of the Mississippi River.  It is built not to fall in wind up to 200 and earthquakes of up to 9.1 magnitude. This gives protection against an earthquake as powerful as the 1700 Cascadia earthquake. The tower also has 25 lightning rods on its roof to protect it against lightning.

The Space Needle has a deck at 520, where people can look down and look at the view around them. It also has a gift shop with a rotating SkyCity restaurant at 500.  From the top of the Needle, the Downtown Seattle skyline, the Olympic and Cascade Mountains, Mount Rainier, Mount Baker, Elliott Bay and islands around it can be seen.  Photographs of the Seattle skyline often show the Space Needle.

Visitors can reach the top of the Space Needle by using elevators. These elevators travel at 10. The trip to the top takes 41 seconds. Some tourists wait in hour-long lines so that they can go to the top of the tower. On windy days, the elevators are slowed down to a 5. The Space Needle was made a historic landmark on April 19, 1999, by the City's Landmarks Preservation Board.

[[Sapeornis]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous birds

Sapeornis is a genus of primitive bird which lived during the Lower Cretaceous about 125120 million years ago (mya). Only one species is known: Sapeornis chaoyangensis. The fossils are from the Jiufotang Formation and Yixian Formation rocks in the People's Republic of China. Several nearly complete skeletons have been found.

Sapeornis is named after SAPE, the Society of Avian Paleontology and Evolution, added to the Ancient Greek όρνις (ornis), meaning "bird". chaoyangensis is Latin for "from Chaoyang".

This animal was about 30–33 cm long. The skull has a handful of teeth in the upper jawtip only. A single tail feather has been found on one of the specimens.  It may have been a glider or soarer rather than an active flier.

[[Municipality of Acapulco]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico, Guerrero (state)

Acapulco de Juárez is one of the municipalities of Guerrero in Mexico, the capital is Acapulco. In 2010, the municipality had a total population of 789,971 being the capital Acapulco, the most populous city

[[True owl]]

CATEGORIES: Strigiformes

True owls (or 'Typical owls') are owls of the family Strigidae.

They are one of the two families of owls, with 189 living species in 25 genera. The other family is the barn owls. True owls are found on every continent except Antarctica.

The division of owls into these two groups is quite ancient. The relationships of the owls in general are still unresolved.

[[Jean Reno]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, French movie actors, French television actors, People from Casablanca, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors, Spanish stage actors, Spanish voice actors, French stage actors, French voice actors, Moroccan actors

Jean Reno (born Juan Moreno y Herrera-Jiménez on July 30, 1948) is a French-Spanish actor, he has appeared in many successful movies such as Crimson Rivers, Godzilla, The Da Vinci Code, Mission: Impossible, Ronin, The Pink Panther, and Léon: The Professional. 

He was born in Casablanca, Morocco on July 30, 1948. He was married to Genevieve Reno from 1977 until they divorced in 1995. Then he married Nathalie Dyszkiewicz from 1996 until they divorced in 2001. He is currently married to Zofia Borucka since 2006. His career began in 1979.

[[Vinson Massif]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Antarctica

Vinson Massif is the highest mountain of Antarctica. It is in the Sentinel Range of the Ellsworth Mountains. The massif is about 1200 from the South Pole.  It is about 21 long and 13 wide. At 4892 the highest point is Mount Vinson.  It was named in 2006 after Carl Vinson, long-time member of the U.S. Congress from the state of Georgia. 

Vinson Massif was first seen in 1958 and first climbed in 1966. 

Though the yearly snowfall on Vinson is low, high winds can cause base camp accumulations up to 46 in a year. During the summer season, November through January, there are 24 hours of sunlight. The average temperature during these months is -30.

[[Tytonidae]]

CATEGORIES: Strigiformes

Barn-owls (family Tytonidae) are one of the two families of owls.  The other is the true owls, Strigidae. They are medium to large sized owls with large heads and heart-shaped faces. They have long, strong legs with powerful talons.

The barn owls are a wide ranging family.  They are not found in northern North America, Saharan Africa and large areas of Asia. They live in a wide range of habitats from deserts to forests, and from temperate latitudes to the tropics.

The barn-owls' main characteristic is the heart-shaped facial disc, formed by stiff feathers. The feathers help to amplify and locate the source of sounds when the bird hunts. Adaptations to the wing feathers eliminate sound caused by flying. This helps both the owl's hearing, and keeps the prey unaware of the owl. To summarise: the owl hunts mainly at dusk and night-time. Its uses sound to detect prey movement: its hearing is sensitive, and its wings are almost silent.

[[Alexander Island]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Antarctica

Alexander Island is also known as Alexander I Island, Alexander I Land, Alexander Land, lexander I Archipelago, and Zemlja Alexandra I. It is near the South Pole.

It is the largest island of Antarctica. It is in the Bellingshausen Sea west of Palmer Land. It is separated from Antarctic Peninsula by Marguerite Bay and George VI Sound. George VI Sound is filled with ice and connects Alexander Island to Palmer Land. The island partly surrounds Wilkins Sound, which is to its west.

Alexander Island is about 240 long.  It is 50 wide in the north and 150 wide in the south. Alexander Island is the second largest uninhabited island in the world, Devon Island is the largest.

Alexander Island was discovered on January 28, 1821. It was named for the reigning Tsar Alexander I of Russia. It was believed to be part of the Antarctic mainland until 1940.

A notable feature of Alexander Island is Hodgson Lake. It is a former subglacial lake that has come out from under an ice sheet that covered it. It is 2 km (1.2 mi) long by 1.5 km (0.93 mi). It has a 93.4 m (306 ft) deep water column that is sealed beneath 3.6 to 4.0 m (12 to 13 ft) thick lake ice.

[[Mount Logan]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Canada, Yukon

Mount Logan is the highest mountain in Canada.  It is the second-highest mountain in North America, after Mount McKinley (Denali). The mountain was named after Sir William Edmond Logan. He was a Canadian geologist and the founder of the Geological Survey of Canada (GSC). Mount Logan is in Kluane National Park and Reserve in southwestern Yukon. People think that Logan has the largest base circumference of any non-volcanic mountain on Earth.  The massif has eleven peaks over 5000.

Temperatures are extremely low on and near Mount Logan. On the 5,000 m high plateau, air temperature stays around -45 in the winter.  It reaches near freezing in summer.  Little snow melt leads to a large ice cap, reaching almost 300 in certain spots.

[[Mount Parnassus]]

CATEGORIES: Balkan Mountains, Mountains of Greece, Greek mythology

Mount Parnassus, also Parnassos, is a mountain of limestone in central Greece.  It is north of the Gulf of Corinth. According to Greek mythology, this mountain was sacred to Apollo and the home of the Muses.

[[Shenyang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Shenyang or Mukden is the capital and largest city of Liaoning Province in northeast China. Shenyang was first used by the Manchu people as their capital in the 17th century. Today it is the biggest city in the Northeast.

Shenyang is the transport and commercial hub of China's northeast–particularly with Japan, Russia, and Korea.  Shenyang is the railway hub of northeast China. Eight railways connect Shenyang with Beijing, Dalian, Changchun, Harbin and Fushun.  

The city’s name means "the city to the north of Shen River".  It comes from the Hun River on the city’s south side, which used to be called the Shen River. People started living here 7,200 years ago.

[[Anobiidae]]

CATEGORIES: Polyphaga

Anobiidae is a family of beetles. The larvae of a number of species bore into wood.  This gave them the name "woodworm" or "wood borer". A few species are pests.  They cause damage to wooden furniture and houses, notably the death watch beetle and the common furniture beetle.

[[Mousebird]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

A mousebird is one of a small group of birds. They are not closely related to other groups of birds. Though they and the parrots and cockatoos (Psittaciformes) may be closer to each other than to other birds. The mousebirds are given order status as Coliiformes. This group only lives in sub-Saharan Africa.  They had a wider range in prehistoric times and apparently evolved in Europe.

[[Aimee Mann]]

CATEGORIES: American singer-songwriters, People from Richmond, Virginia, Singers from Virginia, 1960 births, Living people

Aimee Mann (September 8 1960, Richmond, Virginia) is an American singer-songwriter. She has teamed up with many pop rock bands. She is known for singing with the group 'Til Tuesday in the 1980s, with many hit songs.

Mann married musician Michael Penn in 1997.

[[Nikki Reed]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American child actors, Jewish American actors, Native American people, 1988 births, Living people

Nicole "Nikki" Reed (born May 17 1988) is an American movie actress. She has been featured mostly in independent movies. She was first brought to fame in 2003 with Thirteen.

Reed was born in Los Angeles, California. She is of Ashkenazi Jewish, Cherokee Native American, English, French, German, Irish, Italian, Scottish, Swiss and Welsh descent.

[[Celera]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area, Alameda, California, 1998 establishments in California

Celera is a corporation registered in California, U.S.A. It was founded to discover and sell information about DNA sequence analysis, especially the human genome. The company is now wholly owned by Quest Diagnostics, a corporation which runs clinical laboratory services.

Celera's first president, Craig Venter and Hamilton Smith were in charge of the original science. There was competition between Celera and the publicly funded Human Genome Project, which got much comment. Eventually, they agreed on a certain amount of co-operation.

[[Genomics]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics

Genomics is the part of genetics which studies the genomes of organisms. This includes the entire DNA sequence of organisms and fine-scale genetic mapping. The field also includes studies of genes working together. Examples are heterosis, epistasis, pleiotropy and other interactions between loci and alleles within the genome.

Genomics applies recombinant DNA, DNA sequencing methods, and bioinformatics to sequence, assemble, and analyze the function and structure of genomes. This is the complete set of DNA within a single cell of an organism).  In contrast, the investigation of the roles and functions of single genes is a primary focus of molecular biology or genetics and is a common topic of modern medical and biological research. Research of single genes unless it involves the entire genome.

The United States Environmental Protection Agency has a somewhat broader definition:

[[Warrior (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2014 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Bodybuilders, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Sportspeople from Indiana, WWE Hall of Fame

Warrior (born James Brian Hellwig; June 16, 1959May 2013 – April 8, 2014)) was an American professional wrestler. Hellshaw legally changed his name to Warrior in 2002. He was the biggest star of the 1990s.May 2013 His career had a boost when he defeated Hulk Hogan at WrestleMania VI, and it was also Hulk Hogan's first Wrestlemania loss, firstly before defeated by The Rock at WrestleMania X8.

Warrior died of a heart attack on the afternoon of April 8, 2014 at 54 years old, 3 days after being inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame and less than a day after cutting a promo on Raw.

Less than 24 hours before he died, Warrior gave a speech to the fans and wrestlers, past and present, in his Ultimate Warrior character. During the speech he said:

[[Carcharhiniformes]]

CATEGORIES: Sharks

Carcharhiniformes is the largest order of sharks. Also known as Ground sharks or Whaler sharks, this group contains over 270 species of shark. It includes some common ones like the Blue shark, Bull shark, Tiger shark and the hammerhead sharks.

Ground sharks have a special membrane which protects their eyes when needed. They have two dorsal fins, an anal fin, and five gill slits.

Ground sharks are found in open oceans, seas, estuaries, and brackish waters.

[[2012 Summer Paralympics]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 Summer Paralympics, 2012 in sports, 2012 in London

The 2012 Summer Paralympic Games, the fourteenth Summer Paralympic Games, took place in London, England, United Kingdom. 4,237 athletes from 164 were at the Games.  People with these types of disabilities competed at the games: spinal injury, amputee, blindness, cerebral palsy, intellectual disability, and Les Autres. It is the second sport event held in the United Kingdom after the 2012 Summer Olympics.  Growing interest in Paralympic sport worldwide and Great Britain's success during the recent Summer Olympics made more people want tickets than ever before, breaking many sales records.

[[The Feminine Mystique]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 books, Feminism, History of the United States, Pulitzer Prize winners

The Feminine Mystique is a book by Betty Friedan first published in 1963. It is often credited with starting the second-wave feminism in the United States. In the book, Friedan conducts a number of interviews with classmates, and finds that many of them were unhappy with their lives as housewives. Friedan had wanted to publish an article about housewives who were unhappy with their role, but no magazine would publish the article. The book has sold more than three million copies.

[[Abdullah of Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Saudi Arabia, Kings of Saudi Arabia, Knights of the Golden Fleece, Recipients of the Order of the White Eagle (Poland), Honorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath

Abdullah bin Abdulaziz al Saud, (Arab ar) (1  August 1924 – 23 January 2015) was the King of Saudi Arabia from 1 August 2005 until his death in 23 January 2015. He became king upon the death of his half-brother, King Fahd. He was the tenth son of Ibn Saud.

Abdullah died from complications of pneumonia at the age of 90. His half-brother Salman took his place as king.

[[George Martin (American actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2010 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City

George Martin (August 15, 1929 – June 1, 2010) was an American television, stage, and movie actor who is known for his role as the hotel receptionest in Léon: The Professional. 

Martin was nominated for a Tony Award in 1983. He has also founded the Air-Edel Recording Studios in 1969. He was born on August 15, 1929 in New York City, New York. Martin died on June 1, 2010 in his home in Providence, Rhode Island, aged 80.

[[George Martin (Spanish actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Entertainers from Barcelona, Spanish movie actors, Spanish movie directors, Spanish movie producers, Spanish screenwriters, Writers from Barcelona

George Martin (born 1937 in Barcelona, Spain) is a Spanish director, producer, and movie actor. He is known for his roles in the Italian 3 Supermen series and for other parts in Spaghetti Westerns and Italian exploitation movies.

[[Jorge Lavat]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Mexican television actors, Mexican movie actors, Mexican voice actors, Mexican stage actors, Mexican radio actors, Actors from Mexico City

Jorge Lavat Bayona (August 3, 1933 – September 14, 2011) was a Mexican movie and television actor. He is mostly known for his last role as Don Julio in the soap opera Eva Luna. 

He was born in Mexico City, Mexico on August 3, 1933. He was married first to Ana María Torres until they divorced. Then he married Silvia Burgos. Again he was married to Ana María Torres and lastly to Rebeca Martínez until his death. He had four children. 

Lavat died on September 14, 2011 in Mexico City, Mexico after a lung infection after surgery. He was 78 years old.

[[Gary Cole]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, People from Park Ridge, Illinois

Gary Michael Cole (born September 20, 1956) is an American actor and voice actor. 

Cole was born in Park Ridge, Illinois on September 20, 1956. He graduated at Illinois State University.

Cole began his acting career on stage with the Steppenwolf Theatre Company in 1985. In television, Cole had starring roles in the series Midnight Caller, American Gothic, and Crusade. In movies, Cole appeared in supporting roles in The Brady Bunch Movie, Office Space, Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story, and Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby. He provided the voice of Mayor Jones in Scooby-Doo! Mystery Incorporated. 

[[Charles Wright (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, African-American wrestlers, American professional wrestlers, Businesspeople from California, Businesspeople from Las Vegas, Nevada, People from Palo Alto, California, Sportspeople from California, Sportspeople from Las Vegas, Nevada

Charles Wright (born May 16, 1961) is an American former professional wrestler and businessman. He is best known for his time in the World Wrestling Federation from the 1990s and early 2000s. During his time there, he wrestled under the ring names Papa Shango, Kama, Kama Mustafa, The Godfather, and The Goodfather.

[[James Tissot]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 births, 1902 deaths, French painters

James Tissot (real name:Jacques Joseph Tissot, 18 October 1836 – 8 August 1902) was a French painter. He is mostly known for the portraits he painted in the 1870s, in Victorian style. In later life, he often painted religious motifs.

[[Dadu]]

Dadu may be:

[[WASP-12b]]

CATEGORIES: Exoplanets

WASP-12b is an extrasolar planet orbiting the star WASP-12. It is said by NASA one of the hottest planet known, much hotter than Venus. It is extremely close to its star, about 2 million miles away from it. It is a gas giant and is bigger than Jupiter. The average temperature

there can get up to 1500 degrees Celsius. For comparison, Mercury in our solar system's average temperature is around 427 degrees Celsius. WASP-12b is so close to its star, that the star pulls mass from the planet creating a comet-like trail behind it.

[[Legendary Pictures]]

CATEGORIES: American entertainment companies, Burbank, California, Companies based in California

Legendary Pictures, Inc. (also called Legendary Entertainment) is an American movie production company.  The parent company is based in Burbank, California and was founded by Thomas Tull in 2000. In 2005 the company made a 40-picture agreement to co-produce and co-finance with Warner Bros.

By 2011 the company was reported to have been valued at more than $1 billion. In September 2011, Chief Creative Officer Jon Jashni was appointed to the new position of President.

[[Blue Sky Studios]]

CATEGORIES: American animation studios, American entertainment companies, Greenwich, Connecticut

Blue Sky Studios was an American CGI-animation studio. It is owned by Pixar locating in Greenwich, Connecticut. In addition to their feature-length animated movies, Blue Sky has worked on many high-profile movies, primarily in combining live-action with computer-generated animation.

[[Walt Disney Animation Studios]]

CATEGORIES: American animation studios, American entertainment companies, Burbank, California, Companies based in California, Disney companies, 1923 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in California

Walt Disney Animation Studios is an American animation studio headquartered in Burbank, California. It was started in 1923 under the name, Disney Brothers Cartoon Studio. In 1929 it re-established as Walt Disney Productions. In 1986, after Disney had moved into making mostly live-action movies, it was re-established as Walt Disney Feature Animation, taking on its current name in 2007. It has been known for making animated feature movies in association with Walt Disney Pictures.

[[Oscilloscope Laboratories]]

CATEGORIES: American entertainment companies

Oscilloscope Laboratories is an independent movie distribution company.  It was started by Beastie Boys member Adam Yauch and former THINKFilm executive David Fenkel. It has a recording studio and movie production facilities. 

Fenkel will be returning to the company according to a statement made by an Oscilloscope spokeswoman on May 4, 2012 following Yauch's death. 

[[Relativity Media]]

CATEGORIES: American entertainment companies, Movie studios, West Hollywood, California, Companies based in California

Relativity Media (sometimes written as RelativityMedia and Relativity) is an American movie studio in West Hollywood, California.  It acquires, develops, produces, and distributes movies and produces television programming. It was founded in 2004 by Ryan Kavanaugh.

On January 4, 2009, Relativity Media acquired the genre label Rogue Pictures from Universal, for a $150 million.

On July 6, 2010, Relativity and Netflix announced a five-year-plus Pay-TV deal. The first two movies to stream on Netflix were The Fighter and Skyline.

On July 23, 2010 Relativity acquired the 45-person marketing and distribution staff of Starz’ Overture Films. On May 20, 2012, it was reported that Relativity and EuropaCorp signed a co-production and co-financing deal on two movies and Relativity will distribute in U.S. Relativity also has co-production deals with Atlas Entertainment and Virgin Produced.

[[Text to speech]]

CATEGORIES: Software, Language

JärDa-utrop.oggText to speech (TTS) is the use of software to create an audio output in the form of a spoken voice.  The program that is used by programs to change text on the page to an audio output of the spoken voice is normally a text to speech engine. TTS engines are needed for an audio output of machine translation results.

[[Aristarchus of Samos]]

CATEGORIES: 310 BC births, 3rd century BC deaths, Ancient Greek astronomers, Ancient Greek writers

Aristarchus (310 BC – about 230 BC), was an ancient Greek astronomer and mathematician. His is the first known model that put the Sun at the center of the known universe with the Earth revolving around it (see Solar system).

Aristarchus was influenced by Philolaus of Croton, but he identified the "central fire" with the Sun, and put the other planets in their correct order of distance around the Sun.  His astronomical ideas were often rejected in favour of the geocentric theories of Aristotle and Ptolemy.

[[Abergavenny fireworks display]]

CATEGORIES: Welsh culture, Pyrotechnics

The Abergavenny fireworks display is an annual organized fireworks display. It is held each year on Guy Fawkes Night (November 5) in Abergavenny, Wales.

The event takes place in Belgrave Park. It has been running each year since about 1968.

The event is run and organized by the local social networking group Abergavenny and District Round Table, which is one of the hundreds of branches in the UK of the Round Table (club). It is a non profit event with all proceeds being distributed to charity’s and good courses, primarily in and around the Abergavenny area. Some of the those to have benefited from monies raised from the Abergavenny fireworks display include:  Abergavenny Scouts, Crickhowell Scouts, Jigsaw community project, Llanbedr Village Thai Boxing, Mardy Juniors Football, RTB Ebbw Vale Junior AFC Club, a fuller list is on the Abergavenny and District web site.

[[Leszek Drogosz]]

CATEGORIES: Boxers, Medalists at the 1960 Summer Olympics, Olympic bronze medalists, Polish movie actors, Polish sportspeople, 1933 births, 2012 deaths

Leszek Melchior Drogosz (January 6, 1933 – September 7, 2012) was a Polish boxer and actor. He won a bronze medal at the 1960 Summer Olympics.

[[Saigon River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Vietnam

The Saigon River (Sông Sài Gòn) is a river in Vietnam. It begins at Lake Dau Tieng (in its water-catchment area) near the country of Cambodia.

The river flows south and south-southeast for about 150. Most of the rivers in the Mekong Delta region have a water-table and canal connection. The system of rivers and canals for southern Vietnam help with water transport for commercial activities. The water supplies many businesses and agricultural (farm) operations.

The Saigon River has a river port at Ho Chi Minh City. It ends just after the Phu My Bridge (Cầu Phú Mỹ). The Saigon River ends by meeting another two rivers, the Nha Be and Dong Nai rivers. The lower end of the river is on the flood plain, and is therefore subject to tide change from the sea and delta. Ho Chi Minh City regularly floods (in  areas that get a lot of floods) with either tidewater or rainwater.

The river system has many fish. Recently the government released native fish to improve the population. Fish, shrimp, and snails are popular for farming.

[[Avemetatarsalia]]

CATEGORIES: Archosaurs

Avemetatarsalia (meaning "bird toes") is a clade name established in 1999 for all crown group archosaurs that are closer to birds than to crocodiles. An alternate name is Panaves, or "all birds", meaning all animals, living or extinct, which are more closely related to birds than to crocodiles.

Members of this group are basically the dinosaurs (including birds), the pterosaurs, and some earlier animals which are a bit difficult to place. They are one wing of the Archosaurs, the other being the Crurotarsi.

[[Sphyrna]]

CATEGORIES: Sharks

Sphyrna is one of the two genera in the Hammerhead shark group, and is the largest genera out of the two, with eight members in it. The word Sphyrna is a Greek word meaning "hammer", which refers to the shape of the shark's head.

[[Mito, Ibaraki]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Ibaraki Prefecture

Mito is the capital city of Ibaraki Prefecture in Japan.

It has been recognized as a special city since 2001.

[[Michael Tolan]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Detroit, Michigan

Michael Tolan (born Seymour Tuchow; November 27, 1925 – January 31, 2011) was an American movie, stage, and television actor. His first role was in The Enforcer. He appeared in Fort Worth, The Greatest Story Ever Told, Presumed Innocent, and Decoy. 

Tolan was born in Detroit, Michigan on November 27, 1925. He was educated at Wayne State University and at Staford University. He was married to Carol Hume until they divorced. He was married to Rosemary Forsyth from 1966 until they divorced in 1975. He was partners with Donna Peck until his death. He had two children with Hume and one with Forsyth. 

He died on January 31, 2011 in Hudson, New York from kidney failure. He was 85 years old.

[[Utsunomiya, Tochigi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Tochigi Prefecture

Utsunomiya is a Japanese city in Tochigi Prefecture on the island of Honshu It is the capital city of the prefecture. It has been recognized as a core city since 1996.

[[Frances Bay]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from Alberta, Actors from Manitoba, Canadian movie actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in the United States

Frances Bay (Frances Goffman January 23, 1919 – September 15, 2011) was a Canadian movie, television, and stage actress who started her career when she was 50 and is known for her role as Grandma Gilmore in Happy Gilmore.

She was born in Mannville, Alberta, Canada on January 23, 1919. Her father was a Ukrainian Jewish immigrant. She was raised in Dauphin, Manitoba, Canada. She was married to Charles Bay from 1946 until his death in 2002. They had a son Eli Joshua Bay who died before them. Bay was in a car crash and had a leg amputated in 2002, after her husband's death.

Bay died on September 15, 2011 in Tarzana, California by her home in Los Angeles, California from pneumonia, she was 92 years old.

[[Jack Mercer]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1984 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

Jack Mercer (January 13, 1910 – December 4, 1984) was an American movie, television, voice, and stage actor, storyman, and animator who is known for his voice role as Popeye.

He was born in New York City, New York on January 13, 1910. He was married to Margie Hines from 1939 to 1942. Then to Virginia Mercer until his death in 1984, he had no children.

He died in Queens, New York from stomach cancer on December 4, 1984, he was 74 years old.

[[Margie Hines]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American centenarians, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

Margie Hines (Margret Hines October 1, 1909 – February 4, 2011) was an American movie, stage, voice, and television actress. She is known for her voice role as Olive Oyl in Popeye and as Betty Boop. She was born in New York City, New York on October 1, 1909. She was married to Jack Mercer from 1939 until they divorced in 1942. She died on February 4, 2011 from natural causes, she was 101 years old.

[[Shinjuku]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture, 1947 establishments in Japan

Shinjuku is one of the 23 special wards of Tokyo, Japan. The administration center of the government of Tokyo Prefecture is in Shinjuku. Also in Shinjuku is the biggest railway station in the world, Shinjuku Station.

[[Mae Questel]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1998 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in New York

Mae Questel (Mae Kwestel September 13, 1908 – January 4, 1998) was an American movie, television, stage, and voice actress who is known for her voice role as Betty Boop. And as Aunt Bethany in the Comedy/Slapstick show National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation 

She was born in New York City, New York and was educated at Columbia University. She was married to Leo Balkin from 1930 until they divorced. Then she married Jack E. Shelby from 1970 until his death. She had 2 children. She died in Manhattan, New York City, from Alzheimer's disease, she was 89 years old.

[[Nikkō, Tochigi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Tochigi Prefecture, World Heritage Sites in Japan

Nikkō is a Japanese city in the mountains of Tochigi Prefecture.  

[[Methyl benzoate]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Methyl benzoate is an organic compound.  It has the chemical formula C6H5CO2CH3.  It is a colorless liquid that is poorly soluble in water, but miscible with organic solvents.

[[Gottlob Frege]]

CATEGORIES: 1848 births, 1925 deaths, German mathematicians, German philosophers

Friedrich Ludwig Gottlob Frege (8 November 1848 – 26 July 1925) was a German mathematician and philosopher. Today, he is remembered for the work he did in mathematical logic and the foundations of mathematics. He is generally considered to be the father of analytic philosophy, for his writings on the philosophy of language and mathematics.  When he published his works, they were mostly ignored by others of his time.  Giuseppe Peano (1858–1932) and Bertrand Russell (1872–1970) introduced his work to later generations of logicians and philosophers.

[[Quad Cities]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iowa, Cities in Illinois

The Quad Cities is a group of five cities along the Mississippi River in the states of Iowa and Illinois. The five cities are Davenport, Iowa, Bettendorf, Iowa, Moline, Illinois, East Moline, Illinois, and Rock Island, Illinois. The largest of these cities is Davenport. Nearly 400,000 people live in the area.

[[PSY]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Pop musicians, Rap musicians, South Korean singers, People from Seoul

Park Jae-Sang (Hangul: 박재상; born December 31, 1977) is a South Korean rapper. He is mainly known by his stage name, Psy (Hangul: 싸이). His 2012 single "Gangnam Style" was a surprise viral hit. Before its popularity he was little known outside South Korea. Psy performed "Gangnam Style" on the American show Saturday Night Live.

[[Night Riviera]]

CATEGORIES: Train operating companies

The Night Riviera is a sleeper train operated by First Great Western. It is one of only two sleeper trains on the railway in Great Britain (the other being the Caledonian Sleeper). It runs two trains per night, six days a week (Sun-Fri) between London Paddington and Penzance, with one train departing in each direction.

[[John Nolan (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, Christopher Nolan, Actors from London

John Nolan (born May 22, 1938) is a British movie and television actor who is known for his role as a Wayne Enterprises board member Douglas Fredericks in Batman Begins and The Dark Knight Rises. He was born in London, England and is married to Kim Hartman since 1975. He has two sons and a daughter. He is the uncle to Christopher Nolan and Jonathan Nolan.

[[Mark Boone Junior]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Ohio, Actors from Chicago

Mark Boone Junior (born Mark Heidrich March 17, 1956) is an American television and movie actor. He is known for his roles in Memento and in Batman Begins as Detective Flass. He played Bobby Munson in Sons of Anarchy. He was born in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois.

[[Eric Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Mississippi, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia, People from Biloxi, Mississippi

Eric Anthony Roberts (born April 18, 1956) is an American movie, television, stage, and voice actor. He is known for his roles in King of the Gypsies and Paul's Case. He is also known for playing a Gotham Gangster Salvator Maroni in The Dark Knight. He was nominated for two Golden Globe Awards and one Academy Award.

[[Lisa Roberts Gillan]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, American movie actors, American movie producers, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia, People from Decatur, Georgia

Lisa Roberts Gillan (born Lisa Roberts; January 1, 1965) is an American actress. She is the sister of actors Eric Roberts and Julia Roberts, and the aunt of actress Emma Roberts.

She is married to Tony Gillan. 

[[Charles Cyphers]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York

Charles Cyphers (born July 28, 1939) is an American movie, television, and stage actor who is known for his role as Sheriff Leigh Brackett in Halloween. He was born Niagara Falls, New York on July 28, 1939. His career started in the 1970s.

[[Brad Dourif]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Child's Play (franchise), American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from West Virginia, BAFTA Award winning actors

Bradford Claude Thomas Dourif (ˈ; born March 18, 1950) is an American character actor. He was nominated for an Oscar, and won a Golden Globe and a BAFTA Award for his supporting role as Billy Bibbit in the film One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975). He is also known for his roles as Charles Lee Ray and the voice of Chucky in the Child's Play franchise (1988–2017), and Gríma Wormtongue in The Lord of the Rings series (2002–2003).

Dourif's other film roles include Wise Blood (1979), Dune (1984), Blue Velvet (1986), Mississippi Burning (1988), The Exorcist III (1990) and Alien Resurrection (1997). He also appeared in many television series, notably Deadwood (2004–2006, 2019), for which he received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination.

[[Guillermo del Toro]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning directors, Golden Globe Award winning directors, BAFTA Award winning directors, Satellite Award winners, 1964 births, Living people, People from Guadalajara, Mexican screenwriters, Mexican movie directors, Mexican movie producers, Saturn Award winners

Guillermo del Toro (born October 9, 1964) is a Mexican movie director, screenwriter, author, and producer who is known for directing Pan's Labyrinth, Hellboy II: The Golden Army and The Shape of Water. He known for his fiction or fantasy movies. He is also known for his monster movies. He won a Golden Globe, BAFTA Award, Satellite Award and an Academy Award in 2018.

He is also close friends with fellow Mexican filmmakers Alfonso Cuarón and Alejandro G. Iñárritu, collectively known as "The Three Amigos of Cinema".

He was born on October 9, 1964 in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.  He was married to Lorenza Newton from 1986 until they divorced in 2017 and they have two children. He lives in Agoura Hills, California. He has won a British Academy Film Award and a Saturn Award.

