[[Anne Wiazemsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, French movie actors, French television actors, French novelists, Writers from Berlin

Anne Wiazemsky (14 May 1947 – 5 October 2017) was a French actress and novelist. She appeared in Robert Bresson's Au Hasard Balthazar (1966) and in Jean-Luc Godard's movies La Chinoise (1967), Week End (1967) and One Plus One (1968). She and Godard were married from 1967 to 1979.

[[Gene Stallings]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, American football coaches, American football players, Sportspeople from Texas, People from Paris, Texas

Eugene Clifton "Gene" Stallings, Jr. (born March 2, 1935) is an American football player and coach.  He played college football at Texas A&M University (1954–1956) and later served as the head coach at his alma mater from 1965 to 1971. He was born in Paris, Texas.

Stallings was also the head coach of the St. Louis/Phoenix Cardinals of the National Football League (1986–1989) and at the University of Alabama (1990–1996). 

Stallings' 1992 Alabama team completed a 13–0 season with a win in the Sugar Bowl over Miami and was named the consensus national champion.  Stallings was also a member of the Board of Regents of the Texas A&M University System.  

Stallings was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame as a coach on July 16, 2011.

[[Command-line interface]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

A means of interacting with a computer program where the user (or client) issues commands to the program in the form of successive lines of text (command lines).

[[Romantic friendship]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology, Emotions, Relationships

A romantic friendship, passionate friendship or affectionate friendship is a close but non-sexual relationship between friends that often has some physical and emotional closeness.

[[Feroz]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish movies, Fantasy movies, Drama movies, 1984 movies

Feroz is a Spanish fantasy movie. It was directed by Manuel Gutiérrez Aragón. It was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1984 Cannes Film Festival.

[[Dwarkanath Sanzgiri]]

CATEGORIES: Living people

Dwarkanath Sanzgiri (born 15 November) is a journalist and author. He has written more that 25 books. 

[[Vikram Singh Puar]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people

Vikram Singh Rao II Puar (born 3 May 1989), is the present titular and the 10th Maharaja of Dewas State (Senior). He is a descendant of the Maratha Rajput Puar (Pawar/Parmar) dynasty. He was crowned as the Maharaja of Dewas State (Senior) after the death of his father late HH Maharaja Tukoji Rao IV Puar at the Anand Bhawan Palace, Dewas.

[[Alappuzha district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Alappuzha (Alappuzha.ogg) is one of the 14 districts in the state of Kerala in India. It was formed as Alleppey District on August 17, 1957. The name of the district was officially changed to Alappuzha in 1990.

Alappuzha is well connected by waterways to various other parts of Kerala, including the famous tourist destination of Kumarakom; and the district is itself a well known tourist destination. The district is known for its Coir factories, as most of Kerala's coir industries are in and around Alappuzha.

The district is also known for its communist traditions. It is home to the Punnapra-Vayalar uprising against the British and also the revolt against the Feudal raj.

[[Ernakulam district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Ernakulam is a district of Kerala, India in the central part of that state. Spanning an area of about 3,068 km2, Ernakulam district is home to over 12% of Kerala’s population. Its headquarters is located at Kakkanad, a suburb of Kochi city. Ernakulam is known as the commercial capital of Kerala. The district is famous for its ancient temples, churches, and mosques. The district includes the largest metropolitan region of the state, Greater Cochin. Ernakulam district is the highest revenue yielding district in the state. It is the third most populous district in Kerala, after Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram (out of 14). Ernakulam district also hosts the highest number of international and domestic tourists in Kerala state.

The language spoken in Ernakulam is Malayalam which is the mother-tongue of Kerala. English is widely used, especially in business circles. Ernakulam became India's first district having 100 percent banking or full 'meaningful financial inclusion' in 2012.

From ancient times Ernakulam district has played a part in the political history of south India. The Jews, Syrians, Arabs, Chinese, Dutch, British and Portuguese seafarers followed the sea route to Kingdom of Cochin and left their impressions in the town. In 1896, the Maharaja of Cochin initiated local administration by forming a town council in Ernakulam. Initially Ernakulam district's headquarters was at Ernakulam, which gave the district its name; the headquarters was later shifted to Kakkanad.

[[Malappuram district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Malappuram district is a district in the state of Kerala, India. The headquarters at Malappuram.

The district was formed on 16 June 1969. Malappuram district is composed of portions of the former Palakkad and Kozhikode districts: Ernad taluk and portions of Tirur taluk in Kozhikode district, and portions of Perinthalmannna and Ponnani taluks in Palakkad district. In 1921 the present-day Malappuram district was part of the Moplah rebellions, followed by decades of stagnant economic, social and political development. In the early years of Communist rule in Kerala, Malappuram experienced land reform under the Land Reform Ordinance. During the 1970s Persian Gulf oil reserves were opened to commercial extraction, and thousands of unskilled workers migrated to the Gulf. They sent money home, supporting the rural economy, and by the late 20th century the region had First World health standards and near-universal literacy.

Malappuram district contains abundant wildlife and a number of small hills, forests, rivers and streams flowing to the west, backwaters and paddy, arecanut, cashew nut, pepper, ginger, pulses, coconut, banana, tapioca, and rubber plantations. Malappuram is one of two Muslim-majority districts in south India. The Hindu temples and Moplah mosques of the region are known for their colorful festivals, and it is the most populous district in Kerala. Religions practised in the district include Hinduism, Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, Sikhism, Jainism and tribal religions.

[[Idukki district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Idukki is one of the 14 districts of Kerala state, India, created on 26nbspJanuary 1972. At that time, the district headquarters was at Kottayam. In June 1976 it was moved to Painavu. Idukki which lies in the Western Ghats of Kerala. Idukki is the second largest district in area but has the lowest population density. Idukki has a vast forest reserve area; more than a half of the district is covered by forests. The urban areas are densely populated whereas villages are sparsely populated. Idukki is also known as the spice garden of Kerala.

[[Reich Chancellor]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of prime ministers, Germany-related lists, Reich Chancellors

The Reich Chancellor (German: Reichskanzler) was the chancellor of Germany during the German Reich.

German Empire (all but one were no party members):

Weimar Republic:

Nazi Germany:

[[Thiruvananthapuram district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Thiruvananthapuram District is the southernmost district of the coastal state of Kerala. It is the largest city in Kerala. It came into existence in the year 1957. The headquarters is the city of Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum) which is also the capital city of Kerala.

The district has an area of 2192 and a population of 3,307,284 (as per the 2011 census), the second-most populous district in Kerala after Malappuram district. It is the densest district in Kerala with 1,509. It is divided into six taluks: Thiruvananthapuram, Chirayinkeezhu, Neyyattinkara, Nedumangadu, Varkala and Kattakada. The urban bodies in the district are the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Varkala, Neyyattinkara, Attingal and Nedumangad municipalities.

[[Kollam district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Kollam district (formerly Quilon) is one of 14 districts of the state of Kerala, India. The district has a cross-section of Kerala's natural attributes; it is endowed with a long coastline, a major Laccadive Sea seaport and an inland lake (Ashtamudi Lake). The district has many source of waterbodies. Kallada river is one among it and the east side land of river is EastKallada and the west side land is WestKallada. Kallada Boat race is one among the famous festival events of district. Even though it is a competition between two land sides of river many boat clubs from various places even beyond the district use to participate in the event. Kollam is the capital of Kerala's cashew industry. Plains, mountains, lakes, lagoons and backwaters, forests, farmland and rivers make up the topography of the district. The area had trading relationships with Phoenicia and Ancient Rome.

[[Kasaragod district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Kasaragod District is one of the 14 districts in the state of Kerala, India. Kasaragod became part of Kannur district following the reorganisation of states and formation of Kerala in November 1, 1956. Kasaragod was declared as a district on 24 May 1984.

[[Kannur district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Kannur District  is one of the 14 districts along the west coast in the state of Kerala, India.  The town of Kannur is the district headquarters and gives the district its name. The old name, Cannanore is the anglicised form of the Malayalam name "Kannur". Kannur district is bounded by Kasaragod District to the north, Kozhikode district to the south and Wayanad District to the southeast. To the east the district is bounded by the Western Ghats, which forms the border with the state of Karnataka (Kodagu district). The Arabian Sea is to the west. The district was established in 1957.

Kannur is the sixth-most urbanized district in Kerala, with more than 50% of its residents living in urban areas. Kannur has an urban population of 1,212,898, which is the second largest in Kerala after Ernakulam district.

Kannur District is known as the land of looms and lores, because of the loom industries and ritualistic festivals held here in temples. The district is a major centre of Theyyam, a ritual dance of northern Kerala. Small shrines known as kavus, associated with the Theyyam, dot the district.

The proposed Kannur International Airport will be the fourth international airport in Kerala and is in Mattannur, 26-km away from Kannur.

[[Kottayam district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Kottayam District is one of the 14 districts in the state of Kerala, India. Though the district is 157 km south to Kunnamkulam, the center of Kerala. It is located in an area with biggest diameter and population. It is the only district having no border with either the Western Ghats or Arabian Sea. The Kerala government and Central govt both agreed to built an airport near Sabarimala. Cheruvally Estate in Erumeli may be the site. Given it is a plain plateau with strong soil, Aviation ministry estimated that the airport could be completed in just six months. The district has its headquarters at Kottayam town, located at 9.36° N and 76.17° E. Pala or Kidangoor may be the center point of district. Rubber Board campus located in Puthuppally with head office in Kottayam town is the only central govt organization in the district. Kottayam is known as city of three 'L's - Literacy, Lakes and Latex. Kottayam is the first town to achieve 100% literacy rate in India. On 27 September 2008, Kottayam district also became the first tobacco free districts in India.

Kottayam City is also known as Akshara Nagari (City of Letters) and Chuvar Chitra Nagari (City of Mural).

Bordered by hills on the east and the Vembanad Lake and paddy fields of Kuttanad on the west, Kottayam has many unique characteristics. Panoramic backwater stretches, lush paddy fields, highlands, hills and hillocks, rubber plantations and places associated with many legends gives Kottayam District the enviable title: The land of letters, legends, latex and lakes. The district is 15.35% urbanised.

The headquarters of 2 significant religious communities in Kerala are located in Kottayam District: Nair Service Society and Indian Orthodox Church

[[Pathanamthitta district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Pathanamthitta District is a district in the southern part of Kerala, India. The district headquarters is in the town of Pathanamthitta. There are four municipalities in Pathanamthitta: Tiruvalla, Adoor, Pathanamthitta and Pandalam.

According to the 2001 Census of India, the population was 1,231,577, making it the third least populous district in Kerala (out of 14), after Wayanad and Idukki. Pathanamthitta has been declared the first polio-free district in India. The district is 10.03% urbanised. Pathanamthitta is one of the Richestt districts in India with just 1.17% poverty as of 2013, which places the district among top 5 districts in India with least poverty.

[[Palakkad district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Palakkad District is one of the 14 districts of the Indian state of Kerala. Also, it is the largest district in kerala from 2006. The city of Palakkad is the district headquarters. Palakkad is bordered on the northwest by the Malappuram District, on the southwest by the Thrissur District, on the northeast by The Nilgiris District and on the east by Coimbatore district of Tamil Nadu. The district is 24.4% urbanised according to the census of 2011. The district is nicknamed "the granary of Kerala" and "Rice bowl of Kerala".

[[Thrissur district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Thrissur (also Trichur, Trissur) is a revenue district of Kerala in the central part of that state. Spanning an area of about 3,032 km2, Thrissur district is home to over 10% of Kerala’s population. Thrissur district was formed on July 1, 1949, with the headquarters at Thrissur City. Thrissur is known as the cultural capital of Kerala, and the land of Poorams. The district is famous for its ancient temples, churches, and mosques. Thrissur Pooram is the most colourful and spectacular temple festival in Kerala. The district was formed on July 1, 1949.

[[Wayanad district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Wayanad District is a district in the northeast of Kerala state, India with headquarters at the town of Kalpetta. The district was formed on 1 November 1980 as the 12th district in Kerala by carving out areas from Kozhikode and Kannur districts. The district is 3.79% urbanised, with three municipal towns Kalpetta, Mananthavady and Sulthan Bathery.

Pulpally in Wayanad boasts of the only Luv Kush Temple in Kerala and Vythiri has the only mirror temple in Kerala which is a Jain temple. The edicts and caves of Ambukuthimala and other evidences state that the place is as old as the beginning of the New Age Civilisation.

[[North Goa district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Goa

North Goa is one of the two districts that make up the state of Goa, India. The district has an area of 1736 km².

It is bounded by Sindhudurg district of Maharashtra state to the north and by Belgaum district of Karnataka to the east, by South Goa District to the south, and by the Arabian Sea to the west.

[[South Goa district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Goa

South Goa is one of two districts that comprises the state of Goa in West India, within the region known as the Konkan. It is bounded by the district of North Goa to the north, the  Uttara Kannada district of Karnataka state to the east and south, while the Arabian Sea forms its western coast.

[[List of states and union territories of India by area]]

CATEGORIES: States and territories of India-related lists

The following is a list of states and territories of The Republic of India by area according to the census of 2011. India consists of 28 states and Ten union territories.

[[List of state and union territory capitals in India]]

CATEGORIES: States and territories of India-related lists

India is a country in southern Asia. With [[Demographics of India|over 

1.3 billion people]], India is the most populous democracy in the world. It is a federal constitutional republic governed under a parliamentary system consisting of [[States and territories of India|28 

states and 8 union territories]]. All states, as well as the union territories of Puducherry and the National Capital Territory of Delhi, have elected legislatures and governments, both patterned on the Westminster model. The remaining five union territories are directly ruled by the centre through appointed administrators. In 1956, under the States Reorganisation Act, states were reorganised on a linguistic basis. Since then, their structure has remained largely unchanged. Each state or union territory is further divided into administrative districts.

The state and union territory capitals are sorted according to no legislative and judicial capitals. The administrative capital is where the executive government offices are located, the legislative capital is where the state assembly convenes, and the judicial capital is the location of the state or territorial High Courts. Union territories are marked with a dagger (dagger).

[[Indian states ranked by unemployment]]

CATEGORIES: States and territories of India-related lists

This is a list of states of India ranked according to unemployment. List may be vary.The list is compiled from the Report on Fifth Annual Employment-Unemployment Survey (2015-16) from Ministry of Labour and Employment, Government of India.

Tripura has the highest unemployment rate and ranks worst. National average stands at 50. Interactive map of below data is available here.

[[Eberhard van der Laan]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Dutch councillors, Dutch lawyers, Dutch mayors, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Labour Party (Netherlands) politicians, People from Leiden, Politicians from Amsterdam, Politicians from South Holland

Eberhard Edzard van der Laan (June 28, 1955 in Leiden - October 5, 2017 in Amsterdam) was a Dutch lawyer and politician. He was a member of the Labour Party (PvdA).

Van der Laan was born in a Reformed family, and studied law at the Free University Amsterdam.

He was a member of the city council of Amsterdam from 1990 to 1998 (partly also group leader), minister of Housing, Residential Areas and Social Integration in the Fourth Balkenende cabinet from 2008 to 2010, and mayor of Amsterdam from 2010 till his death in 2017.

He died of lung cancer at the age of 62.

[[Central Los Angeles]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Los Angeles, California

Central Los Angeles is  region of Los Angeles County, California. There are twenty-three neighborhoodsin the Central Los Angeles region as well as Griffith Park, the city's largest public park. It covers an area of 57.87-square-mile (149.88 km²).

[[Alain Bui]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1969 births, French educators, Presidents of the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines University faculty

Alain Bui, born in 1969, is a French doctor, specialized in information technology. He is President of the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines since October 2017.

Graduate from the Paris Diderot University in information technology, he starts his career at University of Picardie Jules Verne in 1995. He moved to CNRS in 2003.

He worked on simulation technology.

On October 2017, he is elected President of the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, succeeding Didier Guillemot.

[[Sechs Kies]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean boy bands, 1997 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in South Korea, 2000 disestablishments, 2016 establishments in South Korea, 2000s disestablishments in Asia, Disestablishments in South Korea

Sechs Kies is a South Korean band formed in 1997 with six members by Daesung Enterprise (DSP Media) in order to top H.O.T. The group is known today as one of the founding groups of K-pop and for being the first major groups to break up.

In 2016, the members (excluding Jiyong,) joined YG Entertainment, and released the song, Three Words. After a series of Collection Albums, the group released the album, Another Light, in 2017, nearly 17 years since breaking up.

[[2AM]]

CATEGORIES: K-pop music groups

2AM is a four-member ballad group formed under JYP Entertainment as a counterpart to 2PM. The group rose to fame with their song, "Can't Let You Go, Even If I Die" in 2010. In 2015, Seulong and Jinwoon announced they were leaving JYP. Changmin later made the same announcement in August 2015, though JYP announced soon after that 2AM was not disbanded. They are currently in hiatus.

In September 2017, Jo Kwon left JYP.

[[NRG]]

NRG is a South Korean K-pop band formed in 1997 by Music Factory Entertainment. The group rose to fame with their debut song, "I Can Do It."

In 1999, members Myunghoon and Sungjin left the group, while the other three released the album "NRG 003." After member Hwansung tragically died of pnemonia in 2000, Myunghoon and Sungjin rejoined the group for their memorial album, "Sorrow." 

The group made an official come back with "Hit Song" in 2003, which ranked #1 on the music charts.

Following the departure of Sunghoon, the 3 remaining members released 1 more album before disbandment. In 2017, NRG announced a new album would be released on the 20th anniversary of debut.

[[Red Velvet (group)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s establishments in South Korea, 2014 establishments in Asia, K-pop music groups, South Korean girl groups

Red Velvet is a South Korean girl group that debuted in 2014 with 4 members: Wendy, Irene, Joy, and Seulgi. Their debut song, "Happiness," was released in August 2014. In 2015, SM added Yeri to the group.

[[Blackpink]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in South Korea, South Korean girl groups, K-pop music groups, Musical quartets

Blackpink is a South Korean girl group that debuted on 8 August 2016. The members are Jisoo, Jennie, Rosé, and Lisa.

They are the highest-charting female K-pop act on both Billboard Hot 100 and Billboard 200. They are also the first and only K-pop girl group to enter and top the Billboard's Emerging Artists chart. They are also the first female K-pop group to have four number-one singles on Billboard's World Digital Song Sales chart. Their song "Ddu-Du Ddu-Du" was the most-viewed Korean music video in the first 24 hours on YouTube. In January 2019, it became the most viewed music video by a K-pop group on YouTube. Blackpink was also the first female K-pop group to perform at Coachella.

[[Steve Baker (illusionist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, American magicians, Comedians from California, People from Oakland, California

Steve "Mr. Escape" Baker (July 26, 1938 – September 17, 2017) was an American comedian and magician. He was best known as an escape artist. He was born in Oakland, California. 

[[Günter Halm]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, German military personnel of World War II, SS officers, People from Hanover

Günter Halm (27 August 1922 – 26 September 2017) was a German Nazi infantryman and lieutenant. He was born in Elize, Germany. He was raised in Hanover, Germany. He was the youngest member of the Afrika Korps to be awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross for his bravery in action. He was active in the military from 1941 through 1945.

Halm died in Bad Münder, Germany on 26 September 2017 at the age of 95.

[[Vladimir Voevodsky]]

CATEGORIES: Fields Medalists, 1966 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from aortic aneurysm, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New Jersey, Russian mathematicians, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American mathematicians, Writers from Moscow, Writers from New Jersey

Vladimir Alexandrovich Voevodsky (v; Влади́мир Алекса́ндрович Воево́дский, 4 June 1966 – 30 September 2017) was a Russian-American mathematician. He was born in Moscow.

His work in developing a homotopy theory for algebraic varieties and formulating motivic cohomology led to the award of a Fields Medal in 2002. He was also known for the proof of the Milnor conjecture and motivic Bloch-Kato conjectures and for the univalent foundations of mathematics and homotopy type theory.

Voevodsky died on September 30, 2017 at his home in Princeton, New Jersey of an aortic aneurysm at the age of 51.

[[Terry Downes]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, British boxers, British movie actors, Sportspeople from London, Actors from London

Terry Downes, BEM (9 May 1936 – 6 October 2017) was a British middleweight boxer, and occasional movie actor. He was nicknamed the "Paddington Express" for his aggressive fighting style.  As of 2008, Downes was Britain’s oldest surviving former world champion. He held the world middleweight title for ten months from 1961-62. He was born in London.

One of his best known roles was in Roman Polanski's 1967 movie The Fearless Vampire Killers, in which he played "Koukol", a hunchbacked servant. His other movie credits included appearances in A Study in Terror (1965), Five Ashore in Singapore (1967), The Golden Lady (1979), If You Go Down in the Woods Today (1981), and the Derek Jarman movie Caravaggio (1986).

Downes died on 6 October 2017 in London, aged 81.

[[Toon Geurts]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch Olympic silver medalists, Sportspeople from North Brabant

Antonius "Toon" Geurts (29 February 1932 – 6 October 2017) was a Dutch sprint canoer. He was most successful in the K-2 1000 m event, in which he finished in seventh, second and fourth place at the 1960, 1964 and 1968 Olympics, respectively. He won silver at the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo. He was born in Veldhoven, the Netherlands.

Geurts died in The Hague, the Netherlands on 6 October 2017 at the age of 85.

[[Ralphie May]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from pneumonia, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, American television actors, American movie actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, American comedians, Actors from Tennessee, Actors from Arkansas

Ralph Oliver "Ralphie" May (February 17, 1972 – October 6, 2017) was an American stand-up comedian and actor. He was born in Chattanooga, Tennessee, but raised in Clarksville, Arkansas. His jokes were mainly about observational comedy, wit, word play, satire, sexuality, race, religion, family life and obesity. 

May was influenced by Sam Kinison, Lenny Bruce, Buddy Hackett, and Richard Pryor. In 2003, May was chosen to participate in the first season of Last Comic Standing. He finished in second place in the competition. After that, he appeared in comedy shows like The Wayne Brady Show and The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. In 2005, he was the only white comedian on The Big Black Comedy Show, which also featured Mo'Nique, Rodman, and Vince Morris.

May was married to Lahna Turner from 2005 until they separated in 2015. They had two children. 

May died of a pneumonia-related heart attack at his home in Las Vegas, Nevada on October 6, 2017 at the age of 45.

[[John Herrnstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Cancer deaths in Ohio, American football players, Philadelphia Phillies players, Chicago Cubs players, Atlanta Braves players, Sportspeople from Virginia, Sportspeople from Michigan, Sportspeople from Ohio

John Ellett Herrnstein (March 31, 1938 – October 3, 2017) was an American baseball and football player. He played Major League Baseball from 1962 to 1966 for the Philadelphia Phillies, Chicago Cubs, and Atlanta Braves. He also played college baseball and football at the University of Michigan from 1956 to 1959. He was born in Hampton, Virginia.

Herrnstein died at his home in Chillicothe, Ohio on October 3, 2017 of complications from leukemia, at the age of 79.

[[Jon Huntsman Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from Idaho, Businesspeople from Utah, Politicians from Idaho, Politicians from Utah

Jon Meade Huntsman Sr. (June 21, 1937 – February 2, 2018) was an American businessman and philanthropist. He was the founder and executive chairman of Huntsman Corporation, a global manufacturer and marketer of specialty chemicals. Huntsman plastics are used in a wide variety of familiar objects, including (formerly) McDonald's clamshell burger containers.

From 1971 to 1972, he was the White House Staff Secretary during the Richard Nixon presidency.

Huntsman Sr. died of prostate cancer in Salt Lake City, Utah on February 2, 2018 at the age of 80.

[[Rainer Weiss]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Astrophysicists, American academics, American astronomers, American Nobel Prize winners, American physicists, Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Refugees from Nazism, Scientists from Berlin

Rainer "Rai" Weiss (w; vaɪs; born September 29, 1932) is a German-born American physicist of partly Jewish descent (his father was Jewish).

He is known for his works in gravitational physics and astrophysics. He is a professor of physics emeritus at MIT. He is best known for inventing the laser interferometric technique which is the basic operation of LIGO. 

Weiss was Chair of the COBE Science Working Group. 

In 2017, Weiss was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics, along  with Kip Thorne and Barry Barish, "for decisive contributions to the LIGO detector and the observation of gravitational waves".

[[Barry Barish]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, American Nobel Prize winners, American physicists, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Omaha, Nebraska, California Institute of Technology faculty

Barry Clark Barish (born January 27, 1936) is an American experimental physicist and Nobel Laureate. He is a Linde Professor of Physics, emeritus at California Institute of Technology. He is a leading expert on gravitational waves, and is of Jewish descent.

In 2017, Barish was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics along with Rainer Weiss and Kip Thorne "for decisive contributions to the LIGO detector and the observation of gravitational waves".

[[Kip Thorne]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, American academics, American astronomers, American atheists, American Nobel Prize winners, American physicists, Astrophysicists, Scientists from Utah, Princeton University alumni, Theoretical physicists

PhysicsKip Stephen Thorne (born June 1, 1940) is an American theoretical physicist and Nobel laureate. He is known for his contributions in gravitational physics and astrophysics. 

In 2017, Thorne was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics along with Rainer Weiss and Barry C. Barish "for decisive contributions to the LIGO detector and the observation of gravitational waves".

[[Daisaku Ikeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Buddhists, Philosophers, Japanese educators, Writers from Tokyo, Activists, Heads of state, Politicians from Tokyo, Presidents (organizations)

Daisaku Ikeda is a Buddhist philosopher, educator, author, and anti-nuclear activist. He has served as the third president and then honorary president of the Soka Gakkai, the largest of Japan's new religious movements. Ikeda is the founding president of the Soka Gakkai International (SGI).

[[AKMU]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s music groups, Folk music groups, K-pop music groups, Musical duos, Musical groups established in 2012, Sibling musical duos, South Korean musical groups

AKMU (also known as Akdong Musician) is a duo consisting of brother and sister, Lee Chanhyuk and Lee Suhyun. The duo performed together for the 1st time at an audition for LOEN in 2012, and eventually signed under YG Entertainnment. The group officially debuted in 2014 with their album PLAY. In 2017, Chanhyuk enlisted for the military, thus putting the group on hiatus until his return.

[[Santiago Tequixquiac]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Mexico (state), 1520s establishments in Mexico, 1522 establishments

Santiago Tequixquiac (or Tequixquiac) is a city in the state of México in Mexico. About 22,000 people live there.

[[Malinalco Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico (state)

Malinalco is a municipality of the state of Mexico.

[[Apaxco Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico (state)

Apaxco is a municipality of the state of Mexico.

[[Atlacomulco Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico (state)

Atlacomulco is a municipality of the state of Mexico.

[[Lydie Polfer]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Former MEPs, Government ministers of Luxembourg, Luxembourgian mayors, People from Luxembourg City

Lydie Catherine Polfer (born November 22, 1952 in Luxembourg City) is a Luxembourgian politician of the Democratic Party (DP). She is the current mayor of Luxembourg City.

Polfer was Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, an MEP, and a member of the Chamber of Deputies.

She was mayor of Luxembourg City from 1982 to 1999, and has been again since 2013.

Her father Camille Polfer was also mayor of Luxembourg City.

[[Cantons of the Allier department]]

CATEGORIES: Cantons of France

This is a list of cantons of the Allier department:

[[Camille Polfer]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1983 deaths, Luxembourgian mayors, Luxembourgian sportspeople, People from Namur, Teachers

Camille Polfer (November 21, 1924 in Namur - March 19, 1983 in Luxembourg City) was a Luxembourgian sports teacher and politician of the Democratic Party (DP).

He was mayor of Luxembourg City from 1980 to 1981, and was succeeded by his daughter Lydie Polfer due to his poor health.

[[Kruth]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Kruth is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Kunheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Kunheim is a French commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Bronisław Chromy]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, Living people, Polish painters, Polish sculptors, Polish educators

Bronisław Chromy (June 3, 1925 – October 4, 2017) was a Polish sculptor, painter, and a professor at the Academy of Fine Arts in Cracow. Chromy was a member of the Polish Academy of Learning. He was born at Leńcze near Lanckorona.

Chromy died in Kraków, Poland on October 4, 2017 at the age of 92.

[[Konstantin Sarsania]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2017 deaths, Russian footballers, Russian football managers, Sportspeople from Moscow

Konstantin Sergeyevich Sarsania (Константи́н Серге́евич Сарса́ния; 11 June 1968, Moscow – 7 October 2017, Moscow) was a Russian professional football coach and a former player and agent. 

At the time of his death he worked as director of sports for FC Zenit Saint Petersburg.

He made his debut as a player in the Soviet Second League in 1988 for FC Dynamo-2 Moscow.

[[Darsi Ferrer Ramírez]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2017 deaths, Physicians, Journalists, People from Havana

Darsi Ferrer Ramírez (2 November 1969 – 6 October 2017), was a Cuban doctor, journalist, director of Juan Bruno Zayas Health and Human Rights Center, and a dissident. He put in jail by President Fidel Castro.

He organized protests at the UNESCO headquarters in Havana and published about poverty in Cuba. He was arrested and went on a hunger strike. Ferrer was facing up to 8 years in prison. He was released on 22 June 2010.

Ramírez in Havana on 6 October 2017 at the age of 47.

[[Howie Mandel]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Canadian comedians, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Canadian television presenters, Actors from Toronto

Howard Michael Mandel (born November 29, 1955) is a Canadian comedian, actor, television host, and voice actor. He is known as host of the game show Deal or No Deal from 2005-2019.

Before his career as a game show host, Mandel was best known for his role as rowdy ER intern Dr. Wayne Fiscus on the NBC medical drama St. Elsewhere. He is also well known for being the creator and star of the children's cartoon Bobby's World, as well as a judge on NBC's America's Got Talent.

[[Louis Walsh]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Irish television presenters

Michael Louis Vincent Walsh (born 5 August 1952) known as  Louis Walsh  is an Irish entertainment manager and judge on British television talent show The X Factor.

[[Marek Gołąb]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Weightlifters, Polish Olympic medalists, Olympic bronze medalists

Marek Gołąb (7 May 1940 – 6 October 2017) was a Polish weightlifter who competed in the 1968 Summer Olympics at which he won a bronze medal in the middle-heavyweight division. He was born in Zakliczyn, Poland.

Gołąb died in Warsaw, Poland on 6 October 2017 at the age of 77.

[[Canton of Bellerive-sur-Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Cantons of France

The canton of Bellerive-sur-Allier is an administrative division of the Allier department in central France. The central government decided to reorganize the regions of the country. As a result, Bellerive-sur-Allier was created in 2015.

There are several communes:

[[Jinusean]]

Jinusean is a South Korean hip-hop duo formed by YG Entertainment in 1997, and is known as YG Entertainments 1st major k-pop group. The group's debut song, "Tell Me" brought the group instant fame. After their album Nora Bossa, in 2004, the group became inactive until 2015 when they returned with the single, "Tell Me One More Time," performed with (then) YG trainee, Jang Hana.

[[National Day of the People's Republic of China]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays of the People's Republic of China, National Days

National Day is a yearly holiday in the People's Republic of China. It celebrates the beginning of its new government on Octobernbsp1, 1949. It is one of two Golden Weeks in the country, along with the Chinese New Year.

[[Hollow structural section]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A hollow structural section (HSS) is a type of metal profile with a hollow tubular cross section. The term is used predominantly in USA, or other countries which follow US construction or engineering terminology. In the UK, or other countries which follow British construction or engineering terminology, the term HSS is not used. Rather, the three basic shapes are referenced as CHS, SHS, and RHS, being circular, square, and rectangular hollow sections. Typically, these designations will also relate to metric sizes, thus the dimensions and tolerances differ slightly from HSS.

[[Structural pipe fitting]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

Structural pipe fitting is a pipe used for various structures.

A Structural pipe fitting, also known as a slip on pipe fitting, clamp or pipe clamp is used to build structures such as handrails, guardrails, and other types of pipe or tubular structure. They can also be used to build furniture and theatrical riggings. The fittings slip on the pipe and are usually locked down with a set screw. The set screw can then be tightened with a simple hex wench. Because of the modular design of standard fittings, assembly is easy, only simple hand tools are required, and risks from welding a structure are eliminated.

Other advantages of using structural pipe fittings are easy installation and reconfigurable design. Since there are no permanent welds in the structure, the set screws of the fittings can simply be loosened, allowing them to be repositioned. The project can be disassembled and stored if needed, or even taken apart with fittings and pipe recycled into a new project.

Fittings used for strong structures are galvanised malleable iron castings, and come in many styles such as elbows, tees, crosses, reducers and flanges. The fittings are not threaded; they simply lock onto the pipe with the supplied hex set screws.

[[Arrondissements of the Isère department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Isère department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The 3 arrondissements of Isère are:

[[Perforated pipe]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

Perforated pipe is a pipe fitting that is made from perforated sheet and is often used as filter tubes but also used for various installments. It comes in various forms, mostly round and square sections.

[[Connie Hawkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Phoenix Suns players, Los Angeles Lakers players, Atlanta Hawks players, Sportspeople from New York City, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers

Cornelius Lance Hawkins (July 17, 1942 – October 6, 2017) was an American American Basketball League, National Basketball Association and American Basketball Association player, Harlem Globetrotter, Harlem Wizard and New York City playground legend. It was on the New York City courts that he earned his nickname The Hawk.

Hawkins was born in Brooklyn, New York. He studied at Iowa State University.

[[Jim Landis]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Chicago Cubs players, Kansas City Athletics players, Cleveland Indians players, Detroit Tigers players, Houston Astros players, Boston Red Sox players, Sportspeople from California, People from Richmond, California

James Henry Landis (March 9, 1934 – October 7, 2017) was an American professional baseball player. Landis played in Major League Baseball (MLB) as a center fielder on six teams from 1957 through 1967. 

Landis was born in Fresno, California. He was raised in Richmond, California. Landis studied at Contra Costa College.

While playing eight seasons for the Chicago White Sox, he was an American League (AL) All-Star in 1962 and an AL Gold Glove Award winner five consecutive seasons. Landis also played for the Kansas City Athletics, the Cleveland Indians, the Detroit Tigers, the Houston Astros, and for the Boston Red Sox.

Landis died at his Napa, California home on October 7, 2017 at the age of 83.

[[Harold Bloom]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, American educators, American novelists, American historians, American literary critics, Writers from New York City

Harold Bloom (July 11, 1930 – October 14, 2019) was an American literary critic and Sterling Professor of Humanities at Yale University. 

Since the publication of his first book in 1959, Bloom has written more than forty books, including twenty books of literary criticism, several books talking about religion, and a novel. He has edited hundreds of anthologies about many literary and philosophical figures for the Chelsea House publishing firm. Bloom's books have been translated into more than 40 languages.

Bloom came to public attention in the United States as a commentator during the canon wars of the early 1990s.

Bloom died at a hospital in New Haven, Connecticut on October 14, 2019 at the age of 89.

[[Geoffrey Chater]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Hertfordshire, 1921 births, Living people, English poets

Geoffrey Chater (born 23 March 1921) is an English actor who was born as Geoffrey Michael Chater Robinson in Barnet, Hertfordshire. He has starred in both film and television projects. His television credits include appearances in The Champions, Dad's Army, Callan, Mapp and Lucia, Heartbeat, Foyle's War, One Foot in the Grave, and Midsomer Murders.

[[Charles Harris (photographer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1998 deaths, American photographers

Charles "Teenie" Harris (July 2, 1908–June 12, 1998) was a talented and well known photographer. The main things that he took pictures of were people in the city of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, US.

[[Inma Cuesta]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors, Spanish stage actors

Inma Cuesta is a Spanish actress. 

[[Robotboy]]

CATEGORIES: Cartoon Network series, English-language television programs, 2005 television series debuts, 2008 television series endings

Robotboy is an American-British-French animated television series produced by Alphanim, LuxAnimation, King Rollo Films and Cartoon Network Studios. The series premiered airs at 9AM ET/PT times on December 28, 2005 on Cartoon Network in the United States. 

[[Vijayanagara architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Indian culture, Architecture

The Vijayanagara Empire built all of their buildings, monuments, shrines and statues out of stone which were very intricately and elaborately carved with designs of gods and stories of famous heroes. All these were built in Dravidian style which was a common style of building then

[[Wilhelm Mohnke]]

CATEGORIES: German generals of World War II

Wilhelm Mohnke (1911 in Lübeck – 2001 in Damp near Eckernförde) was a German officer of the Waffen-SS with the rank of SS-Brigadeführer (equivalent to Brigadier).

He was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross for service in the German retreat from France in 1944. He was the commander of the defense of the central government area in the Battle of Berlin, 1945. 

Mohnke led the 5th company of the 2nd Battalion of the Infanterie-Regiment Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler, at the outset of the Battle of France in 1940. He took command of the 2nd Battalion on 28 May after the battalion commander was wounded. It was around this time that Mohnke was allegedly involved in the murder of 80 British prisoners of war (POWs) of the 48th South Midland Infantry Division.

Mohnke was noted to be one of the last commanders to act upon orders issued by Hitler himself prior to his suicide.

[[Aziz Sancar]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Turkish Nobel Prize winners, Living people, Turkish scientists

Aziz Sancar (born September 8, 1946) is a Turkish chemist. He received the 2015 Nobel Prize in Chemistry together with Tomas Lindahl and Paul Modrich for mechanistic studies of DNA repair.

He was born in Savur, Turkey.

[[Arrondissement of Grenoble]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Grenoble is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Isère département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and the prefecture of the department, is the city of Grenoble.

[[Washington SyCip]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Accountants, American philanthropists, American military personnel of World War II, People from Manila

Washington Z. SyCip,  PLH BOLk RNO1kl  (30 June 1921 – 7 October 2017) was a Filipino-American accountant. He was the founder of the Asian Institute of Management and the accounting firm SGV & Company. He was born in Manila, Philippines. 

SyCip fought in World War II. He became a United States citizen in 1943.

SyCip died of a heart attack on 7 October 2017 near New York City while on a flight traveling from Montreal to Manila at the age of 96.

[[Slim Chaker]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Tunisian politicians, Civil servants

Slim Chaker (24 August 1961 – 8 October 2017) was a Tunisian politician. He was born in Sfax, Tunisia. He was a member of the Nidaa Tounes party.

Chaker served on the cabinet of Moncef Marzouki and Beji Caid Essebsi. He served as Minister of Public Health for a few months in 2017. He also served as Minister of Finance from 2015 to 2016 and Minister of Youth and Sports for a few months in 2011.

Chaker died in Tunis, Tunisia from a heart attack after taking part at a marathon on 8 October 2017 at the age of 56.

[[Birgitta Ulfsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Finnish actors, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish stage actors, People from Helsinki

Birgitta Margaretha Ulfsson, (1 July 1928 – 8 October 2017) was a Finnish actress and theater director. She was born in Helsinki. She started her career at Svenska Teatern, a theater in Helsinki for Swedish-language theater productions. She later moved on to Lilla teatern.

Between 1952 and 1984 she was married to actor Lasse Pöysti.   She was known for her narrator role for the television series Rederiet.

Ulfsson died in Helsinki on 8 October 2017 at the age of 89.

[[Milano Golf Club Le Rovedine]]

CATEGORIES: Golf, Sport in Italy, 1976 establishments in Europe, 1970s establishments in Italy

Milano Golf Club Le Rovedine, located in Milan (Opera area), is a country club. It is 7 km far from the Center of the city of Milan.

Golf Club Le Rovedine is a 650,000 square meters park, with 9-hole of difficult level 3. The 18 hole championships are open to every level of players. The 52nd Open of Italy and the 22nd Ladies Italian Open has been played there.

[[Tiananmen]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols, Buildings and structures in Beijing, 1420 establishments, Establishments in China

The Tiananmen is a monument in Beijing, China. It is widely used as a national symbol of China. It was built during the Ming dynasty in 1420. Tiananmen was the entrance to the Imperial City, within which the Forbidden City was located. Tiananmen is located to the north of Tiananmen Square, separated from the plaza by Chang'an Avenue.

[[Abacab]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 albums

Abacab is the eleventh studio album by Genesis. The album was released on September 24, 1981 through Atlantic Records.

[[Neustrelitz]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern

Neustrelitz is a town in the south of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and the old capital city of the grand duchy Mecklenburg-Strelitz. Neustrelitz is 30 kilometers away from Neubrandenburg.

About 21,000 people were living there in 2016.

[[Alan Hawkins (athlete)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s births, Living people, Australian athletes, British athletes, People from Geelong, Sportspeople from Victoria (Australia)

Alan Hawkins (born 1964/65) is an English Australian Masters athletics javelin thrower and an AA2 javelin coach. Hawkins represents track and field club Athletics Chilwell in the Victorian Athletic League affiliated with Athletics Australia. In the 2015 World Masters Athletics Rankings, Hawkins was placed at number 1 in Australia and number 1 continentally (Oceania), as well as number 34 in the world.

[[Hamish Nelson]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s births, Living people, People from Geelong, Sportspeople from Victoria (Australia)

Hamish Nelson (born 31 October 1988) is an Australian Track and Field athlete specializing in Decathlon. His Athletics club is Geelong Guild Athletics club. He represented Australia at Youth level at the 2005 World Youth Championships in Morocco, as well as Open Men's level at the 2007 Melanesian Championships in Athletics in Australia. Nelson is a multi-sport athlete, being a member of Geelong Hockey Club.

[[Martin Jackson (athlete)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, People from Geelong, Sportspeople from Victoria (Australia)

Martin Jackson also known as Marty Jackson (born 18 February 1978) is an Australian Paralympic Shot Put and Discus Thrower. He is coached by former New Zealand Paralympian John Eden. Jackson competes for Athletics Chilwell in the Victorian Athletic League. He is a multi-sport athlete, having previously played Grid Iron. Whilst playing, he sustained an injury during a misguided tackle, which caused a knee dislocation. It led to sensory ataxia/loss of proprioception and partial paralysis lower left leg. He represented Australia at the 2016 Oceania/Melanesian Championships in Fiji and the  2017 World Para Athletics Championships in London. Jackson competed in the F38 classified Shot Put event at the 2017 World Para Athletics Championships. He competed in the event alongside compatriot Cameron Crombie, Iran's Javad Hardani and Sweden's Victor Svanesohn, finishing in 4th place behind the three of them with a throw of 13.31 metres. On 7 October 2017, Jackson increased his Personal Best from 13.47m to 13.49m during a regional competition in at John Landy Athletics Field in Geelong.

[[Runcorn]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cheshire

Runcorn is a town in Cheshire, England. It is located within the Borough of Halton. In 2010 about 61,000 people lived there. It is on the southern bank of the River Mersey.

Halton Castle is the main landmark of the town. The Norton Priory is an important historical site in the town.

[[Dragon Boat Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays of the People's Republic of China

The Dragon Boat Festival is a yearly holiday in the People's Republic of China. It celebrates Qu Yuan, a writer and a government leader who lived a long time ago and died because he loved his country very much. The Dragon Boat Festival is always on the 5th day of the 5th month of China's old calendar, but—because that calendar is based on changes in the moon and not the sun—it is not always on the same day of the new calendar. The old calendar adds a 13th month when it is very different from the seasons, though, so the Dragon Boat Festival is always in late spring.

[[Wacław Józef Świerzawski]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Polish Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops

Wacław Józef Swierzawski (14 May 1927 – 7 October 2017) was a Polish Roman Catholic bishop. He was ordained to the priesthood in 1949, Swierzawski served as bishop of the Diocese of Sandomierz, Poland, from 1992 to 2002.

Swierzawski died on 7 October 2017 in Zawichost, Poland at the age of 90.

[[Obudu]]

Obudu is a tourist location that has several resorts in Cross River State, Nigeria.

[[Malans]]

CATEGORIES: Malans, Municipalities of Graubünden

Malans is a municipality of the district of Landquart in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Labaroche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Labaroche is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Kadayam]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in India, Settlements in Tamil Nadu, Tirunelveli District

Kadayam is a small town located in the Tirunelveli district of Tamil Nadu (India).

[[Das Kapital]]

CATEGORIES: Marxism

Das Kapital is a written work created by philosopher Karl Marx first published on 14 September 1867 explaining capitalism and its issues such as values, exploitation and colonization.

[[Rem Koolhaas]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Architects, Dutch academics, Dutch artists, People from Rotterdam, Pritzker Prize winners

Remment Lucas "Rem" Koolhaas (rɛm koːlɦaːs; born as Remko L. Olhaas, 17 November 1944 in Rotterdam) is a Dutch architect, architectural theorist, urbanist and Professor in Practice of Architecture and Urban Design at the Graduate School of Design at Harvard University. Koolhaas went to the Architectural Association School of Architecture in London and the Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. Koolhaas is the founding partner of OMA, and of its research-oriented counterpart AMO based in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. In 2005, he co-founded Volume Magazine together with Mark Wigley and Ole Bouman.

He is thought of as one of the most important architectural thinkers and urbanists of his generation. In 2000, Rem Koolhaas won the Pritzker Prize. In 2008, Time put him in their top 100 of The World's Most Influential People.

[[Richard Thaler]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American economists, American Nobel Prize winners, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, People from East Orange, New Jersey, Scientists from New Jersey, University of Rochester alumni

Richard H.  Thaler (ˈ; born September 12, 1945) is an  American economist of Jewish descent.

He is best known for being a theorist in behavioral finance.  He was awarded the 2017 Nobel Prize in Economics for improving behavioral economics.

[[Chinese National Day]]

Chinese National Day is the national day of China. It may mean:

In old China, it may also refer to the emperor's birthday.

[[Vettabbia Canal]]

CATEGORIES: Canals, Bodies of water of Europe, Geography of Italy

The Vettabbia Canal, known in Italian as the Naviglio Vettabbia, is a canal in the southern part of Milan, a city in northern Italy.

The ancient Romans built the canal to bring water to the city. Today farmers use it to irrigate their crops. Part of the canal is now underground. There are two large parks along the banks of the canal where it comes above the ground. One park is called the Parco della Vettabbia. Near the park is a famous  abbey called the Abbazia di Chiaravalle. The abbey was built in the 12th century. The other park is called the Parco Ripamonti.

[[Arrondissement of La Tour-du-Pin]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of La Tour-du-Pin is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Isère département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of La Tour-du-Pin.

[[Sylke Tempel]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2017 deaths, German journalists, German novelists, Writers from Berlin

Sylke Tempel (30 May 1963 – 5 October 2017) was a German author and journalist. 

At the time of her death, she had been the editor-in-chief of the foreign policy magazine Internationale Politik since 2008. She was born in Bayreuth. She covered a range of events such as the Oslo I Accord, the Intifada and the assassination of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in 1995. In 2003, she was a recipient of the Quadriga award.

Tempel was a reporter for the publications Profil, Facts and Der Tagesspiegel, among others. She also wrote a number of young adult novels, published by Rowohlt Berlin, a part of Rowohlt Verlag.

On 5 October 2017, she died in Tegel, a neighborhood of Berlin, during Storm Xavier when she was struck by a tree and died from her injuries. She was 54.

[[Armando Calderón Sol]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in Texas, Presidents of El Salvador

Armando Calderón Sol (June 24, 1948 – October 9, 2017) was a Salvadorian politician. He served as President of El Salvador from June 1, 1994 to June 1, 1999, representing the Nationalist Republican Alliance (ARENA).

Calderón Sol died on 9 October 2017 of lung cancer at a Houston, Texas hospital at the age of 69.

[[Savur]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Turkey

Savur is a district of Mardin Province in Turkey. It is also the name of a town in that district.

Nobel laureate Aziz Sancar was born in this district in 1946.

[[Rafe Mair]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Canadian lawyers, Politicians from British Columbia, Canadian radio personalities, Columnists, Political commentators, People from Vancouver, Writers from British Columbia

Rafe Mair (31 December 1931 – 9 October 2017) was a Canadian lawyer, political commentator and former radio personality and politician in British Columbia, Canada. He served as member of the British Columbia Legislative Assembly for Kamloops from 1975 through 1983. He served as a member of the British Columbia Social Credit Party.

Mair died on 9 October 2017 in Vancouver at the age of 85.

[[Arrondissement of Vienne]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Vienne is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Isère département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Vienne.

[[Avril Lavigne (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums, Avril Lavigne albums

Avril Lavigne is the fifth studio album by Canadian singer-songwriter Avril Lavigne. It was released on November 1, 2013 by Sony Music Entertainment. Lavigne worked with many producers including Martin Johnson, Peter Svensson, David Hodges, Matt Squire and Chad Kroeger. The album represents a difference in both music and lyrics from the acoustic-based production of her previous album Goodbye Lullaby. It features a more pop and upbeat sound along with power and piano ballads. It also includes electronic music, industrial rock and punk rock. The album features vocals from Kroeger and Marilyn Manson. This was her first and only album released by Epic Records.

[[Atherton, California]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in California, Settlements in San Mateo County, California

Atherton is an incorporated town in San Mateo County, California, United States. Its population was 7,159 as of 2013. Atherton is one of the richest cities in the United States, and is regularly ranked among the most expensive ZIP codes in the country. It was founded in 1923.

[[San Mateo County, California]]

CATEGORIES: San Mateo County, California, 1856 establishments in California

San Mateo County (ˌ SAN mə; Spanish for "Saint Matthew") is a county in the U.S. state of California. As of the 2010 census, the population was 718,451. The county seat is Redwood City. The county is in the San Francisco Bay region.

[[Riigikogu]]

CATEGORIES: Estonia

The Riigikogu is the parliament of Estonia. Today the Riigikogu has 101 seats.

The Estonian word riigikogu is cognate to the German word Reichstag.

[[Blade Runner 2049]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 science fiction movies, Warner Bros. movies, American science fiction movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Denis Villeneuve, Dystopian movies

Blade Runner 2049 is a 2017 American neo-noir science fiction movie directed by Denis Villeneuve and written by Hampton Fancher and Michael Green. A sequel to Blade Runner (1982), the movie stars Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford, with Ana de Armas, Sylvia Hoeks, Robin Wright, Mackenzie Davis, Carla Juri, Lennie James, Dave Bautista and Jared Leto in supporting roles. 

[[Hans Fallada]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1947 deaths, Beekeepers, German mayors, German novelists, Politicians from Mecklenburg-Vorpommern

Hans Fallada, born as Rudolf Wilhelm Friedrich Ditzen, (July 21, 1893 in Greifswald - February 5, 1947 in Berlin) was a German writer and politician.

Famous works from him are Kleiner Mann - was nun? (Little Man, What Now?), Jeder stirbt für sich allein (Every man dies alone), Wolf unter Wölfen (Wolf Among Wolves) and Der Alpdruck (Nightmare in Berlin).

In 1945 (after the Surrender of Germany) he was mayor of the village of Feldberg in the south of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.

He was also a beekeeper.

He had 3 children. The name of his first wife was Anna Ditzen, while the name of his second wife was Ulla Losch.

There is a Hans-Fallada-Haus in the village of Carwitz.

[[Scriptio continua]]

CATEGORIES: Language, Writing systems

italic titleScriptio continua (Latin for "continuous script") is a style of writing that does not use spaces, different letter cases, or punctuation to tell apart words, phrases, or sentences. It was a common way of writing for texts in Ancient Greek and Classical Latin. Even though Greek and Latin speakers already created punctuation to tell words apart, scriptio continua was often used to save space. This was because writing materials were expensive and the boundaries between words, clauses, and sentences are not so clear in spoken language. 

Use of scriptio continua became less common after the fall of the Roman Empire, and spaces began to appear between words. The first known documents that used spacing were Irish and Anglo-Saxon Bibles and Gospels. However, scriptio continua is still used for the writing systems for several modern languages, including Southeast Asian abugidas like Thai, Lao, Khmer, Burmese, Javanese, Balinese, and Tibetan. Languages that use the Chinese character system like Chinese and Japanese sometimes use scriptio continua, even though modern Chinese and Japanese stopped using it when they adopted punctuation during the 19th and 20th centuries.

[[Pennant Hills, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of New South Wales, Sydney

Pennant Hills is a suburb located in the Northern Suburbs of Sydney, Australia.

[[École nationale supérieure des mines de Paris]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Paris, 1783 establishments, 18th century establishments in France, 1780s establishments in Europe

École nationale supérieure des mines de Paris is a graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the PSL Reseach University (Northern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at Mines ParisTech.

[[Wikimedia Bangladesh]]

CATEGORIES: Wikimedia, Bangladesh

Wikimedia Bangladesh Foundation (aka Wikimedia Bangladesh or WikimediaBD) is a registered charity established in Bangladesh who work to support volunteers on Wikimedia projects such as Wikipedia. It is a Wikimedia chapter  approved by the Wikimedia Foundation. It has a temporary office in Dhaka, Bangladesh.

[[South Luzon Expressway]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in the Philippines

The South Luzon Expressway, more commonly known by its abbreviation SLEx or SLEX, is a controlled-access highway in the Philippines. It connects the National Capital Region (or Metro Manila) to the provinces of the southern part of Luzon, the main island in the country. Measuring 51 kilometers or 32 miles long, it starts at an intersection with Quirino Avenue in the district of Paco in Manila. It then passes through the settlements of Makati, Pasay, Parañaque, Taguig, and Valenzuela in the capital area and the provinces of Cavite and Laguna in Southern Luzon. It ends at an exit in the settlement of Santo Tomas in the province of Batangas, where it continues as Southern Tagalog Arterial Road (or better known as STAR Tollway).

[[Pulilan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Philippines, 1749 establishments, Establishments in the Philippines

Pulilan is a municipality (or a town) in the province of Bulacan, Philippines. It lies 50 kilometers northwest of Manila and is located at the west-central part of the province. It is surrounded by the settlements of Apalit in Pampanga; by Baliuag in the north; by Plaridel in the south; and by Calumpit in the west.

According to the 2015 national census (a total count of the country's population) of the Philippines, it has 97,323 people.

The town is famous for its Carabao Festival, which happens once a year in May. This is where the carabaos (a kind of water buffalo in the Philippines) are walked together on the streets and kneel as they pass in front of San Isidro Labrador Parish Church, in honor to Saint Isidore the Laborer, the town's patron saint.

[[Yamato kotoba]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese language

Yamato kotoba (kanji: 大和言葉, hiragana: やまとことば) are words that are native to the Japanese language. The word itself is also a native Japanese word, interestingly enough. Yamato kotoba can also be called by its Chinese based name, wago (kanji: 和語, hiragana: わご). It is one of the three main sources of Japanese words, along with kango (kanji: 漢語, hiragana: かんご), or Chinese loanwords, and gairaigo (kanji: 外来語, hiragana: がいらいご), or loanwords borrowed from languages other than Chinese (especially English since the post-WWII era).

Yamato kotoba in Japanese has much in common with native English words in that most of the everyday vocabulary comes from yamato kotoba, while Chinese loanwords words (much like Latin and French loanwords in English) are used for more formal situations (usually writing) and for specialized terms.

[[YG Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean record labels

YG Entertainment is an entertainment label founded in 1996 by former Seo Taiji and Boys member, Yang Hyun-suk. 

[[2PM]]

CATEGORIES: K-pop music groups

2PM is a 6-member K-pop group formed under JYP Entertainment as the counterpart to 2AM. The group debuted in 2008 with the song, "10 out of 10." After two singles, member Jay Park left the group due to growing controversy over his opinions on the 2PM fans. The members began their military service in 2017.

[[Cheyenne people]]

CATEGORIES: Native American people

The Cheyenne lived in earth lodges with wood frames packed with dirt. They also lived in teepees made from wood poles and buffalo hides.

[[Mitchell County, Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: 1851 establishments in Iowa

Mitchell County is a county located in Iowa.

[[List of Provinces of Turkey]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Turkey, Geography-related lists, Turkey-related lists

Turkey is divided into seven regions which are further divided into provinces. The following is an alphabetical list of the eighty one Provinces of Turkey:

[[Kazys Almenas]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Lithuanian writers, Essayists, Novelists, Physicists

Kazys Almenas (11 April 1935 – 7 October 2017) was a Lithuanian physicist, writer, essayist, and publisher. He was born in Gruzdžiai, Šiauliai County, Lithuania. Almenas wrote the novels Upė į Rytus, upė į Šiaurę (1964), Šienapjūtė (1970), Sauja skatikų (1977), and Lietingos dienos Palangoje (1988) and the collections of short stories Bėgiai (1965) and Gyvenimas tai kekė vyšnių (1967), Vaivos juosta (2014).

Almenas studied at the University of Nebraska and Northwestern University.

Almenas died on 7 October 2017 in Vilnius, Lithuania at the age of 82.

[[Ole Krarup]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Danish academics, Danish politicians, Former MEPs, Aarhus

Ole Krarup (17 March 1935 – 7 October 2017) was a Danish EU politician. He was a former professor of law at the University of Copenhagen. He was born in Aarhus, Denmark.

From 1994 through 2006, he was Member of the European Parliament with the Folkebevægelsen mod EU (People's Movement against the EU), a member of the Bureau of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left and sat on the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and its Committee on Budgetary Control.

Krarup resigned as an MEP on 1 January 2007 due to medical consequences after a traffic accident while riding his bicycle in Strasbourg in 2006.

Krarup died on 7 October 2017 in Copenhagen, Denmark from complications of pneumonia at the age of 82.

[[László Aradszky]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Hungarian entertainers, Pop singers, People from Budapest

László Aradszky (20 September 1935 – 8 October 2017) was a Hungarian pop singer. He became successful in the 1960s after participation in the talent show Táncdalfesztivál. He was born in Budapest, Hungary.

Aradszky died in Budapest on 8 October 2017 at the age of 82.

[[Sidhi]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Madhya Pradesh, Cities in India

Sidhi is a city and a municipality in Sidhi district in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. It is the headquarters of the Sidhi district. In 2001, 45,664 people lived there.

[[Jerry Kleczka]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Wisconsin, United States representatives from Wisconsin, Accountants, Politicians from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, US Democratic Party politicians

Gerald Daniel "Jerry" Kleczka (November 26, 1943 – October 8, 2017), was an American politician. He was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He was the Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives from 1984 to 2005, representing Wisconsin. Before entering politics, he was an accountant.

Kleczka died in Madison, Wisconsin on October 8, 2017 from complications of Parkinson's disease at the age of 73.

[[Gianni Bonagura]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, Italian voice actors, Radio actors, Actors from Milan

Gianni Bonagura (27 October 1925 – 8 October 2017) was an Italian movie, stage, television, radio star, and a voice actor. He appeared in 40 movies between 1950 and 2001. He was born in Milan, Italy. He was known for his role of Dr. Watson in the 1968 RAI television series Sherlock Holmes.

Bonagura died in Milan on 8 October 2017 at the age of 91.

[[Sociological imagination]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology, Theory

The sociological imagination is seeing the relationship between individual experiences and society. American sociologist C. Wright Mills made this term in his 1959 book The Sociological Imagination. The term is used in introductory sociology textbooks to explain what sociology is and why it is important in daily life. Sociological imagination is the ability to change from one way of looking at the world to another.

[[Grady Tate]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, American drummers, American jazz musicians, American soul musicians, Musicians from North Carolina, Singers from North Carolina, People from Durham, North Carolina

Grady Tate (January 14, 1932 – October 8, 2017) was an American hard bop and soul-jazz drummer and singer. He was born in Durham, North Carolina. He was known with a distinctive baritone voice. In addition to his work as sideman, Tate has released many albums as leader and vocalist as well as lent his voice to a number of songs in the animated Schoolhouse Rock! series.

Tate died on October 8, 2017 at his Manhattan, New York home at the age of 85.

[[Manuel Busto]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, French cyclists

Manuel Busto (1 October 1932 – 9 October 2017) was a French professional racing cyclist. He rode in six editions of the Tour de France. He was born in Cransac, France.

Busto died on 9 October 2017 in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, France at the age of 85.

[[Allan Chumak]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, People from Moscow

Allan Vladimirovich Chumak (Russian: А́ллан Влади́мирович Чума́к, 26 May 1935 – 9 October 2017) was a Russian faith healer. He was born in Moscow.

Chumak became well known at the height of Gorbachev's Perestroika.  When he appeared on television, his fans would hold jars of water next to their televisions in the hope that the water would be able to cure disease.  At the height of his fame, he had a regular early morning television spot.

Chumak died in Moscow on 9 October 2017 at the age of 82.

[[Fernando de Szyszlo]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Peruvian painters, Sculptors, Peruvian educators, People from Lima

Fernando de Szyszlo Valdelomar (5 July 1925 – 9 October 2017) was a Peruvian painter, sculptor, printmaker, and teacher. He was a key figure in advancing abstract art in Latin America since the mid-1950s, and one of the leading plastic artists in Peru.

Szyszlo became a major force for artistic renewal in his country breaking new ground by expressing a Peruvian subject matter in a non-representational style. In 1962, he became a professor of art at Cornell University. In 1965 he became a visiting lecturer at Yale University.

Szyszlo was awarded the Order of the Sun of Peru in 2011.

Szyszlo died of complications from a fall at his home in Lima, Peru on 9 October 2017 at the age of 92.

[[Bob Schiller]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2017 deaths, American television writers, Writers from San Francisco, Emmy Award winning actors, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles

Robert Schiller (November 8, 1918 – October 10, 2017) was an American writer. He worked with fellow producer / screenwriter Bob Weiskopf on many television series in the United States, including I Love Lucy (1955–1957) and All in the Family (1977–1979) on the CBS network. For his work, Schiller received an Emmy Award in 1971 and in 1978.

Schiller died on October 10, 2017 at his home in Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles from congestive heart failure at the age of 98.

[[List of oldest living state leaders]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of politicians

This article lists the 100 Oldest Living current or former heads of state or heads of government of sovereign states (often a president, prime minister, or monarch) whose age Can be proven beyond reasonable doubt. Leaders are not included if no reliable secondary sources have confirmed that the leader is alive within the last 10 years. The distinction of the Eldest living State leader is currently held by Mustafa Ben Halim of Libya who is 1921 and among those currently in office the distinction  is held by Queen Elizabeth II who is 1926. 

[[Shandong]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of China

Shandong (山东) is a province on the east coast of China. It borders Hebei in its northwest, Henan in its west, and Anhui and Jiangsu in its south. Across the Bohai Strait to its north is Liaodong Peninsula, and across the Yellow Sea to the east is Korean Peninsula. Its capital is Jinan, and its largest city is Qingdao.

[[Eric Hargan]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American lawyers, Politicians from Illinois, US Republican Party politicians

Eric David Hargan (born June 3, 1968) is an American lawyer. From October 2017 to January 2018, he was the acting United States Secretary of Health and Human Services. He is the current United States Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services, assuming office on October 6, 2017. Hargan previously acted in this role from 2003 to 2007 in the George W. Bush administration.

On October 10, 2017, President Donald Trump appointed Hargan as acting United States Secretary of Health and Human Services.

[[Gabrielle Blunt]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2014 deaths, British actors

Gabrielle Hilda Blunt (8 January 1919 – 10 June 2014) was a British actress. 

Blunt's first significant role was as Catriona Macroon in the film Whisky Galore! and she played the same role in the 1958 follow-up Rockets Galore. Blunt also appeared as Mrs. Bulstrode in the Wilt (film), a 1989 adaptation of Tom Sharpe's novel. She became best known for her roles in British sitcoms, appearing over the years in Happy Ever After, Shine on Harvey Moon, Roll Over Beethoven (TV series), One Foot in the Grave, Drop the Dead Donkey The Fast Show, Harry Enfield's Television Programme and Paul Merton: The Series and The Thin Blue Line.

[[2016 United States presidential election in Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: History of Wyoming, 2016 United States presidential election by state

The 2016 United States presidential election in Wyoming was held on 8 November 2016. It was part of the 2016 United States presidential election, in which all other states plus the District of Columbia voted.

In the presidential election, Donald Trump easily defeated Hillary Clinton and received 3 electoral votes.

[[List of Bollywood actors]]

CATEGORIES: Indian actors, Lists of entertainers, Lists of Indian people

[[Landser, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Landser is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

==Population== 

[[Jhajjar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Settlements in Haryana, Cities and towns in Haryana

Jhajjar is a city in Jhajjar district in the Indian state of Haryana. It was split off of the Rohtak district on July 15, 1997.

[[Lapoutroie]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Lapoutroie is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Largitzen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Largitzen is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. The church was built in 1788.

[[Lautenbach, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Lautenbach is a commune. It is in the Haut-Rhin department. This in the east of France. It is about 30 km southwest of Colmar.

[[Lautenbachzell]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Lautenbachzell is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Rixheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Rixheim is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hamhung]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Korea

Hamhung is a city in North Korea. It is the capital of South Hamgyong Province. It is the second largest city in North Korea and has the population of 768,551 2008.

[[Kirstjen Nielsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Homeland Security, Politicians from Colorado, Politicians from Florida, Politicians from Virginia, People from Colorado Springs, Colorado

Kirstjen Michele Nielsen (born May 14, 1972) is an American government official and national security expert. Nielsen was the 6th United States Secretary of Homeland Security from December 6, 2017 to April 10, 2019. Before, she served as Principal Deputy White House Chief of Staff to President Donald Trump from September 6, 2017 to December 5, 2017. She has informally performed the role of Deputy Chief of Staff since John F. Kelly became White House Chief of Staff on July 31, 2017.

Nielsen is the founder and former President of Sunesis Consulting.

On October 11, 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Nielsen to be the new United States Secretary of Homeland Security. On December 5, 2017, the Senate confirmed her nomination, by a 62-37 vote. She resigned on April 7, 2019.

[[Michel Diefenbacher]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, French politicians, People from Grand Est

Michel Diefenbacher (15 July 1947 – 9 October 2017) was a French politician. He was a member of the National Assembly of France. He represented the Lot-et-Garonne department,  and was a member of the Union for a Popular Movement. He was born in Sarrebourg, France.

Diefenbacher died in Paris on 9 October 2017 at the age of 70.

[[Cho Jin-ho]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers

Cho Jin-ho (August 2, 1973 – October 10, 2017) was a South Korean football player. He was born in Daegu, South Korea. He played as a midfielder or striker for the South Korea national team. Cho also played for Pohang Steelers and Seongnam. He served as manager for Daejeon Citizen, Sangju Sangmu and for Busan IPark.

Cho died of a heart attack on October 10, 2017 in Busan, South Korea at the age of 44.

[[James R. Ford]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Florida, American educators, American mayors, American activists, Businesspeople from Florida, Politicians from Florida, US Democratic Party politicians

James Robert Ford (December 1, 1925 – October 11, 2017) was an American educator, politician, businessman and community activist. In 1972, Ford became the first African-American Mayor of Tallahassee, Florida, and the first black mayor of a U.S. state capital city. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He retired as mayor in 1986.

Ford was born in Leon County, Florida. He studied at Florida A&M University. Ford died on October 11, 2017 in Tallahassee, Florida of complications from Alzheimer's disease at the age of 91.

[[Arrondissements of the Loire department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Loire department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The 3 arrondissements of Loire are:

[[Andy Hopkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2017 deaths, Tennessee Titans players, Sportspeople from Texas

Andrew Preston "Andy" Hopkins Sr. (October 19, 1949 – October 1, 2017) was an all-star American Canadian Football League (CFL) running back. He was born in Crockett, Texas. 

From 1971 through 1973, Hopkins played for the Houston Oilers. From 1973 through 1975, he played for the Hamilton Tiger-Cats. In 1976, he began playing for the Montreal Alouettes until retiring in 1977.

Hopkins died on October 1, 2017 in Sugar Land, Texas at the age of 67.

[[IDS Center]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Minnesota

The IDS Center in Minneapolis Minnesota, is the tallest building in Minnesota. The building is 910 tall.

[[Liberland]]

CATEGORIES: Libertarianism, Croatia, Territorial disputes, Serbia, 2015 establishments in Europe

Liberland, officially called the Free Republic of Liberland, is a micronation that started on an unclaimed piece of land on the western part of the Danube River between Croatia and Serbia. Liberland was founded on 13 April 2015 by Czech libertarian activist Vít Jedlička.

The official Liberland website says the nation was created on no-man's land ((terra nullius) that emerged because Croatia and Serbia have not agreed on common borders for over 25 years. This border dispute includes some areas to the east of the Danube which are claimed by both Serbia and Croatia. Croatia considers some areas on the west side of the river, including Liberland, to be part of Serbia, although Serbia no longer claims that land.

The land is under de facto administration by Croatia since the Croatian War of Independence but Croatia has blocked people's access to Liberland since shortly after its founding. Croatia has also prevented Croatian citizens and other EU citizens from visiting the area. Before that, just about anyone could visit the area.

No country that is a member of the United Nations has given full diplomatic recognition to Liberland, although Liberland has opened official relations with Somaliland and Haiti as well as other partially recognized and unrecognized states and micronations.

[[Paramount Animation]]

CATEGORIES: Animation studios, American entertainment companies

[[The Carolinas]]

CATEGORIES: Divided regions, Geography of North Carolina, Geography of South Carolina

The Carolinas are the U.S. states of North Carolina and South Carolina, considered collectively. They were both part of the original Thirteen Colonies, which gained independence from the British Empire in 1783 (while the Declaration of Independence was signed in 1776, the fighting ceased in 1781 and the countries of France, the United States and the British Empire signed the Treaty of Paris (1783)). During the colonial period, the southern portion of the Carolinas was primarily a support for the British West Indies; where thousands upon thousands of slaves were brought in to feed the growing trade. The same could not be said about the northern part of the region, which was a sparsely populated area, mostly inhabited by decommissioned servants from the Chesapeake area, many of whom set up small tobacco farms.

[[Jean-Baptiste Donatien de Vimeur, comte de Rochambeau]]

CATEGORIES: French nobility

Jean-Baptiste Donatien de Vimeur, comte de Rochambeau (1 July 1725 – 10 May 1807) was a French nobleman. He served as a general under Louis XIV, and took part in the War of the Austrian Succession (1740-48). He was present at the siege of Antwerp and Namur. With an army of 6,000 people, he helped George Washington in the American Revolutionary War (1775-83). During the Reign of Terror, he was sentenced, but not executed on the guillotine. He was freed after the fall of Maximilien de Robespierre. Napoleon awarded him a title of the Legion of Honor, in 1803.

[[Operation Nickel Grass]]

Operation Nickel Grass was a US military mission to help Israel during the Yom Kippur War in 1973. The Soviet Union helped the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Syrian Arab Republic begin a surprise attack against Israel on October 6, 1973. Between October 14 and November 14 that year, the US flew 22,325 tons of weapons, tanks, and other supplies to Israel in C-141 Starlifter and C-5 Galaxy cargo planes.

[[Palazzo Vigo]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces in Italy

Palazzo Vigo (formerly known as Palazzo Natoli or Palace of the Princes Natoli) is a palace in Torre Archirafi, Italy. Torre Archirafi is a small village  on the island of Sicily. It is part of the Comune of Riposto in the Province of Catania. The palace was built in the 18th century by Giovanni Natoli Ruffo. He was the Prince of Sperlinga. King Charles V of Sicily also made him the Duke of Archirafi in 1741. Giovanni Natoli Ruffo built a small chapel next to the palace in 1743. By 1900, the palace and its lands belonged to the Vigo di Gallodoro family. Today the palace belongs to the Comune of Riposto. It is used for art exhibitions, conferences, and lectures.

[[Philippe de Nanteuil]]

CATEGORIES: Knights, French poets, 13th century deaths

Philippe de Nanteuil was a French knight and troubadour. He was a vassal of Thibaut de Champagne, the King of Navarre. and became Thibaut's friend. Philippe de Nanteuil inherited the seigneurie of Nanteuil-le-Haudouin in northern France from his father. His father was also called Philippe de Nanteuil.

Philippe de Nanteuil fought with other French knights in the Crusades. In 1239 he and many other French knights lost a battle against the Ayyubids at Gaza. They were taken prisoner by the Ayyubids and put in a prison in Cairo. Philippe de Nanteuil wrote a famous song while he was in prison. It was called  En chantant veil mon duel faire. The song was about the defeat of the Christian knights. It criticized the leaders of the three main military orders, the Knights Templar, the Knights Hospitaller, and the Teutonic Order.

[[Gairaigo]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese language, Words

Gairaigo (kanji: 外来語, hiragana: がいらいご) are loanwords in the Japanese language from languages other than Old or Middle Chinese. The word itself literally means "loan word". Most gairaigo come from European languages, and especially English since the post-WWII era, though Modern Chinese and Modern Korean are also popular sources for loanwords. Most gairaigo nowadays are written in katakana, with some older ones being written in ateji (kanji used only to show a word's pronunciation and not its meaning) or even in hiragana. For example, while America, or Amerika in Japanese, can be written as 亜米利加 in ateji, it is rare to do so these days, and instead it is almost always written in katakana as アメリカ.

Gairaigo is one of the three main sources of Japanese words, along with kango (kanji: 漢語, hiragana: かんご), or Chinese loanwords, and yamato kotoba (kanji: 大和言葉, hiragana: やまとことば), or native Japanese words.

[[Tupper Lake (town), New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York, 1844 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in New York (state)

Tupper Lake is a town in Franklin County, New York. In 2010, 5,971 people lived in the town.

The settlement began around 1844. The village was settled during the town's lumber production period and grew after it gained railroad service. The early village was composed of two parts, Tupper Lake proper and Faust. The town for a time held the distinction as the top lumber producer in the state.June 2020

The great fire of 1899 burned more than 169 structures in the village, two-thirds of them being homes. The modern village grew out of this destruction and added all the amenities of a modern community earlier than many other villages in the state. Tupper had its own department store and synagogue, and its sprawling railway yards, driven by the lumber trade, made it a hub for the surrounding Adirondack communities.June 2020

[[Milo of Nanteuil]]

CATEGORIES: 1230s deaths, French Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops

Milo de Nanteuil (? – 6 September 1234) was a soldier, crusader, and the Bishop of Beauvais from 1218 to 1234. From 1207 to 1217 he was the priest in charge of the Notre-Dame de Reims Cathedral. He was the fourth son of Gaucher I of the Châtillon family who lived in Nanteuil-la-Fosse.  He took part in the Fifth Crusade and the building of Beauvais Cathedral. He was also the patron of the poet, Jean Renart.

[[Doreen Mantle]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, South African actors, English movie actors, English radio actors, English television actors, People from Cape Town

Doreen Mantle (born 1926) is a South African-born English actress who is probably best known for her role as Jean Warboys in One Foot in the Grave (1990–2000).

She has appeared in many British television series from the 1960s to the present, such as The Duchess of Duke Street, The Wild House, Sam Saturday, Chalk, Casualty, The Bill, Doctors, Holby City and Jonathan Creek. She played lollipop lady Queenie in Jam & Jerusalem (2006–09). She appeared in episode 63 of Father Brown in January 2018.

Mantle has worked extensively on the stage in such productions as My Fair Lady, Keep It in the Family, The Seagull and Hamlet. She also toured Britain in Billy Liar in the role of Florence Boothroyd and performed at the National Theatre in The Voysey Inheritance. In 1979 she was awarded the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for her performance in Death of a Salesman. She has also done a great deal of radio work for BBC Radio 3 and BBC World Service. Mantle played the long suffering wife of the rabbi in BBC Radio 4's comedy series The Attractive Young Rabbi.

In 1983 Mantle played "Mrs Shaemen" in Yentl. In 2011, Mantle appeared in Coronation Street as the mother of Colin Fishwick whose identity was taken by John Stape.

[[Margaret Barton]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, English movie actors, Actors from London

Margaret Barton (born 27 May 1926 in Finsbury Park, London) is a British actress. She is best known for her role in the 1945 David Lean movie Brief Encounter in which she played Beryl Walters, a girl who works in the train station cafe.

[[Sue Wallace]]

CATEGORIES: English television actors, Living people

Sue Wallace is a British character actress.

Wallace studied Drama and English at the University of Birmingham, where she met Victoria Wood, with whom she later would go on to work in acting.

She was a teacher originally but went on to have a lengthy career on television and the stage since the early 1980s in among others, Juliet Bravo, Bergerac, Making Out, The Bill, Common as Muck, Heartbeat and Doctors.

She appeared in different roles in various television works by Victoria Wood, including Screenplay: Happy Since I Met You in 1981, Victoria Wood as Seen on TV in the mid-1980s, the television film Pat and Margaret in 1994, one episode of Dinnerladies in 1998 and finally in Wood's television historical drama film Housewife, 49 in 2006.

Film roles include Is There Anybody There?  and as Janet in I Give It a Year.

[[Gerard Monaco]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Alumni of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, British movie actors, British stage actors, British television actors

Gerard Monaco is a British actor, born Daniel Gerard Monaco, in London, England in 1975, who trained at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art.

Monaco’s first film was Mike Leigh’s Vera Drake. He has since had roles in movies including Starter for Ten, Jane Campion’s Bright Star and Jerry Bruckheimer’s Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides, directed by Rob Marshall.

Monaco's theatre career includes Lindsay Posner’s 2009 revival of Arthur Miller’s A View From the Bridge, in which Monaco made his West End debut playing Marco, opposite Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, Ken Stott and Hayley Atwell.

He has also appeared in a number of plays at London's National Theatre, including Steven Pimlott’s final production, Tennessee Williams's The Rose Tattoo starring Zoë Wanamaker (Pimlott died in the second week of rehearsals and artistic director Nicholas Hytner took over as director). He has also played opposite Lesley Manville in the premier of Rebecca Lenkiewicz’s play, Her Naked Skin (directed by Howard Davis) and Fiona Shaw in Deborah Warner’s production of Mother Courage and Her Children.

Monaco has also performed at various other theatres around the country, notable at the Finborough Theatre where he played opposite Victor Spinetti in a two-hander production of Albert’s Boy by James Graham.

Monaco television work includes roles in As If, Eastenders, The Bill, Holby City, Rome, The Passion, Ashes to Ashes, Any Human Heart and Episodes.

In 2007, Monaco was nominated for the BBC New Talent New Filmmaker Award for his short film The Crusader, which he wrote and directed.

[[Harold Goodwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2004 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, Alumni of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, Actors from Yorkshire

Harold Goodwin (22 October 1917 – 3 June 2004) was an English actor. He was born in Wombwell, West Riding of Yorkshire, England.

Goodwin trained at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. He was a stage actor at Liverpool repertory theatre for 3 years. He appeared in many British movies of the 1950s and 1960s. He usually played 'flat cap' wearing working class characters from Northern England or low ranks in the military.

Goodwin had significant parts in the war movies The Dam Busters (playing Guy Gibson's batman, 'Crosby'), Bridge on the River Kwai and The Longest Day. He was also in The Ladykillers, Sea of Sand, Angels One Five and The Cruel Sea (in which he was the ASDIC operator). 

He also made hundreds of British TV appearances. He was in Minder (as "Dunning", episode "Get Daley!", 1984) and a notable role in All Creatures Great and Small. Goodwin was also in the popular 1980s sitcom That's My Boy. 

Goodwin's last major television appearance was in the ITV soap opera Coronation Street in the early 1990s. He played Joss Shackleton, father to Vera Duckworth, His last television role was in an episode of One Foot in the Grave in the 1990s, playing a window cleaner. 

[[Zoe Cramond]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, New Zealand actors

Zoe Cramond (born 8 October 1984) is a New Zealand actress. After graduating from Unitec Institute of Technology, Cramond appeared in many theatre productions and television commercials. She was in Outrageous Fortune and Shortland Street, before deciding to give up her acting career to study graphic design. She returned to acting after being cast in the television film Panic at Rock Island and Go Girls.

In 2011, Cramond joined the cast of comedy-drama Packed to the Rafters as Emma Mackey, marking her first major role. She relocated to Sydney for filming. Cramond competed in the 12th Season of Dancing with the Stars in 2012. She and her dance partner Aric Yegudkin came in third place. The following year, Cramond filmed a guest appearance in Fat Tony & Co.. She joined the cast of Neighbours in 2015 as Amy Williams.

[[Arrondissement of Montbrison]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Montbrison is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Loire département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Montbrison.

[[Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, Living people, Educators, People from Dakar

Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, GCIH (born March 20, 1921)  is a Senegalese educator. He was born in Dakar.

M'bow served in France and North Africa during World War II after volunteering for the French army. After the end of the war he studied geography at the Sorbonne University in Paris.

M'bow began working for UNESCO in 1953 and was the director-general from 1974 to 1987, being the first black African to head a United Nations support organisation.

[[Federico Mayor Zaragoza]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Spanish diplomats, Spanish poets, Spanish scientists, Politicians from Barcelona, Writers from Barcelona

Federico Mayor Zaragoza (born 27 January 1934) is a Spanish scientist, scholar, politician, diplomat, and poet. He served as Director-General of UNESCO from 1987 to 1999. He was born in Barcelona.

Mayor Zaragoza is the Chairman of the Foundation for a Culture of Peace and member of the Honorary Board of the International Decade for the Promotion of a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World as well as the Honorary Chairman of the Académie de la Paix.

[[Hessie]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, French artists, People from Santiago

Carmen Lydia Djuric (17 April 1936 – 9 October 2017), known by her artist name Hessie, was a Cuban textile artist. She lived in France from 1962 until her death. Her creative work was mainly focused on using fabrics, although she also used the technique of collage with waste materials.

Hessie did not attend any art school and developed her own creative technique as early as 1956 with materials that were both affordable and easily available. Fabrics and textile cuts were materials she used from the beginning.

Hessie died in Pontoise, France on 9 October 2017 at the age of 81.

[[Arrondissement of Roanne]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Roanne is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Loire département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Roanne.

[[Pentti Holappa]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Poets, Finnish politicians

Pentti Vihtori Holappa (11 August 1927 – 10 October 2017) was a Finnish poet, writer and politician. He was born in Ylikiiminki.

Holappa held many jobs before becoming a political journalist and eventually obtaining a government post.  He was self-educated, but produced around fifteen volumes of poetry, as well as several novels and essays.  He also worked as a translator; among the poets and authors whose work he translated into Finnish are Charles Baudelaire, Pierre Reverdy, and J. M. G. Le Clézio.  He received the Finlandia Prize in 1998 for his novel Ystävän muotokuva: Portrait of a Friend.

Between February and October 1972, Holappa was Minister of Culture and Education in Finland's Ministry of Education, representing the Social Democratic Party of Finland.

Holappa died in Helsinki, Finland, on 10 October 2017 of breathing problems at the age of 90.

[[Stauroteuthis syrtensis]]

CATEGORIES: Cephalopods

Stauroteuthis syrtensis is a species of small pelagic octopus. It is also known as the glowing sucker octopus. The octopus is found at great depths in the north Atlantic Ocean. It is one of a very small number of octopuses to have bioluminescence, meaning it can create light.

The mantle length of Stauroteuthis syrtensis is about 5 and its width about 4. The fins are some 4 in width. The eight arms are of unequal length, the longest extending to about 35.

[[Arrondissement of Saint-Étienne]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Saint-Étienne is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Loire département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and the prefecture of the department, is the city of Saint-Étienne.

[[Bencoolen MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Bencoolen MRT Station (DT21) is a MRT station located in Singapore. It opened on 21 October 2017 and is on the Downtown line. It is the deepest MRT station, surpassing Promenade, at 43 meters deep. It reduces congestion at Bras Basah MRT Station, which is a minute walk away.

[[Cross-sex friendship]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions, Relationships

A cross-sex friendship is a friendship between an unrelated male and female. The term is neutral as regards to sexual implications. There may or may not be any kind of sexual feelings in one or both parties.

[[Eve Poole]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1992 deaths, British military personnel of World War II, Deputy mayors, German Jews, Jewish women politicians, Mayors, New Zealand politicians, Oceanic Jews, People from Dunedin, Refugees from Nazism, Teachers

Eve Poole (December 29, 1924 - December 26, 1992) was a New Zealand politician of Jewish descent.

[[Sino-Japanese vocabulary]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese language, Japanese language

Sino-Japanese vocabulary, Chinese-based Japanese words, or kango (kanji: 漢語, hiragana: かんご), are Chinese loanwords in the Japanese language. The two languages are unrelated to each other, since Chinese is a Sino-Tibetan language while Japanese is a language isolate (meaning that no known languages are related to it). However, Chinese has had a major influence on Japanese and has effected many parts of it, including its phonology (how it organizes sounds) and its vocabulary. Including Chinese words into Japanese lead to allowing words to have closed syllables (syllables ending in a consonant), like the words san (kanji: 三, hiragana: さん, meaning: three) and udon (kanji:饂飩, hiragana: うどん) and for words to have long vowels and long consonants, like nō (kanji:能, hiragana: のう) and gakkō (kanji: 学校, hiragana: がっこう). Before Chinese words came into the Japanese language syllables in Japanese words only had open syllables (words that end in a vowel) like katana (kanji:刀, hiragana: かたな) and shinobi (kanji and hiragana: 忍び, hiragana only: しのび).

It is one of the three main sources of Japanese words, along with yamato kotoba (kanji: 大和言葉, hiragana: やまとことば), also known as wago (kanji: 和語, hiragana: わご), or native Japanese words, and gairaigo (kanji: 外来語, hiragana: がいらいご), or loanwords borrowed from languages other than Chinese (especially English since the post-WWII era).

[[Tomils]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Switzerland, 2015 disestablishments in Switzerland, Former municipalities of Graubünden

Tomils is a former municipality of the district Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. It was formed on 1 January 2009 through the merger of Feldis/Veulden, Scheid, Trans and Tumegl/Tomils. On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Almens, Paspels, Pratval, Rodels and Tomils merged to form the new municipality of Domleschg.

[[Domleschg]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Graubünden

Domleschg is a new municipality of the district Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Almens, Paspels, Pratval, Rodels and Tomils merged into the new municipality of Domleschg.

[[Venkatraman Ramakrishnan]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, American academics, American biochemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Biophysicists, British academics, British Nobel Prize winners, British scientists, Indian Nobel Prize winners, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Tamil Nadu

Venkatraman "Venki" Ramakrishnan (born 1952) is an Indian-born-American-British structural biologist. He received the 2009 Nobel Prize in Chemistry together with Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for studies of the structure and function of the ribosome.

He was born in Chidambaram, Tamil Nadu, India.

[[Ei-ichi Negishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Japanese chemists, Japanese Nobel Prize winners, University of Tokyo alumni

Ei-ichi Negishi was a Japanese chemist. He was best known for his discovery of the Negishi coupling. He was awarded the 2010 Nobel Prize in Chemistry "for palladium catalyzed cross couplings in organic synthesis" together with Richard F. Heck and Akira Suzuki.

Negishi died in Indianapolis, Indiana on June 6, 2021 at the age of 85.

[[Ningxia]]

CATEGORIES: Autonomous regions of China

Ningxia is an autonomous region of China. It used to be a province. It was merged into Gansu in 1954. It was later separated and made an autonomous region for the Hui people, one of the 56 officially recognised nationalities of China. Twenty percent of China's Hui population lives in Ningxia.

[[Cam Clarke]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Actors from Burbank, California, American singers, American voice actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American video game actors

Cameron Arthur "Cam" Clarke (born November 6, 1957) is an American voice actor and singer. He was born in Burbank, California. He is known for his voice-work in animation and video games. He is best known for providing the voices of Leonardo and Rocksteady in the original Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles animated series and Shotaro Kaneda in the 1989 original English dub of Akira.

[[Muntaka Connmassie]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Judges, Nigerian people

Muntaka Connmassie, CON (10 February 1946 – 12 October 2017) was a Nigerian jurist. He was born in Kaduna State, Nigeria. He served as a Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria from 2008 through 2016.

/ref Before to joining the Supreme Court of Nigeria in 2008, he was a Judge at the Court of Appeal, serving in Port Harcourt, Jos, Abuja, Ilorin, and Benin divisions.

Connmassie died on 12 October 2017 in Abuja, Nigeria at the age of 71.

[[Edward B. Giller]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, People with Alzheimer's disease, Military people from Illinois

Edward Bonfoy Giller (July 8, 1918 – October 1, 2017) was an American Air Force (USAF) Major General. He was the assistant general manager for military application, United States Atomic Energy Commission, Germantown, Maryland. He was born in Jacksonville, Illinois

Giller was assistant director and then director of the Research Directorate for the Air Force Special Weapons Center at Kirtland Air Force Base in the 1950s and 60s.

Giller died in Bernalillo, New Mexico on October 1, 2017 of pneumonia complicated by Alzheimer's disease at the age of 99.

[[Montbrison, Loire]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Loire, Subprefectures in France

Montbrison is a French commune, a subprefecture in the Loire department in central France. It is in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. It is also the capital of the arrondissement of Montbrison.

[[Downey Studios]]

CATEGORIES: Companies based in California

Downey Studios was a production studio in Downey, California.

[[Pierre Hanon]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Belgian footballers, Sportspeople from Brussels

Pierre Hanon (29 December 1936 in Brussels - 13 October 2017) was a footballer who played mainly for R.S.C. Anderlecht and the national team. He played in the match Belgium-Netherlands in 1964 with 10 fellows from the Anderlecht team after the substitution of goalkeeper Delhasse by Jean Trappeniers. In total, Hanon collected 48 caps.

[[William Lombardy]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American chess players, American educators, Writers from New York City

William James Lombardy (December 4, 1937 – October 13, 2017) was an American chess grandmaster, chess writer, teacher, and a former Catholic priest. 

Lombardy was one of the leading American chess players during the 1950s and 1960s, and a contemporary of Bobby Fischer, whom he coached from the time Fischer was age 11½ through the World Chess Championship 1972. Lombardy led the U.S. Student Team to Gold in the 1960 World Student Team Championship in Leningrad. He was the only World Junior Champion to win with a perfect score.

[[Bo Holmström]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from gangrene, Swedish journalists, Writers from Stockholm

Bo Erik Holmström (18 October 1938 – 13 October 2017) was a Swedish journalist, reporter and author. He worked as a reporter both for SVT and TV4. He was the Swedish reporter covering the  Norrmalmstorg robbery in 1973 and the West German Embassy siege in 1975.

In 2007 he was awarded the Stora journalistpriset for his journalism work.  In 2015 he was awarded an honorary Kristallen at the Kristallen awards. 

In 2016, gangrene in his leg led to its amputation. He spent his last year at a nursing home in Vagnhärad and died on 13 October 2017.

[[Anna Lindh]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2003 deaths, Assassinated people, Crime victims, Swedish politicians

Ylva Anna Maria Lindh (19 June 1957 – 11 September 2003) was a Swedish Social Democratic politician, chairman of the Social Democratic Youth League from 1984 to 1990 and a member of parliament from 1982 to 1985 and 1998 to 2003.  

[[Satish Chandra]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Indian writers, Indian historians, People from Uttar Pradesh

Satish Chandra (20 November 1922 – 13 October 2017) was an Indian historian whose main area of specialisation was medieval Indian history.

Chandra has been described as of India's leading scholars of the Moghul period and as one of India's most influential historians. His book, Medieval India, has been widely used as a textbook in schools and colleges around India.

[[Billy Green Bush]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from Montgomery, Alabama

William Warren Bush (born November 7, 1935) is an American actor, usually credited as Billy "Green" Bush and sometimes as Billy Greenbush.

His movie roles include The Savage Seven (1968), Five Easy Pieces (1970), Monte Walsh (1970), The Jesus Trip (1971), The Organization (1971), Welcome Home, Soldier Boys (1972), The Culpepper Cattle Co. (1972), 40 Carats (1973), Electra Glide in Blue (1973), Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore (1974), Mackintosh and T.J. (1975), The Call of the Wild (1976), The Beasts Are on the Streets (1978), The Jericho Mile (1979), Tom Horn (1980), The River (1984), The Hitcher (1986), Critters (1986), Rampage (1987) and Jason Goes to Hell: The Final Friday (1993).

[[Willi Gerdau]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2011 deaths, German footballers, German Olympians, Sportspeople from Schleswig-Holstein

Willi "Ille" Gerdau (February 12, 1929 in Heide – February 11, 2011 in Uetersen) was a German footballer.

Gerdau was a midfielder, who played for Heider SV.

He participated in the 1956 Summer Olympics in Australia, and also in the national football team of West Germany in 1957.

Willi Gerdau died the day before his 82th birthday.

[[Our Perfect Wedding]]

CATEGORIES: Television series

Our Perfect Wedding is a South African wedding television show on Mzansi Magic.  The show is well known for giving non-celebrities to give themselves a chance to showcase their weddings on television across Africa and international. 

[[Music of Africa]]

CATEGORIES: African culture, Music

The traditional music of Africa, given the vastness of the continent, is historically ancient, rich and diverse, with different regions and nations of Africa having many distinct musical traditions. Music in Africa is very important when it comes to religion. Songs and music are used in rituals and religious ceremonies, to pass down stories from generation to generation, as well as to sing and dance to.

[[President of Liberia]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Liberia

The President of the Republic of Liberia is the head of state and government of Liberia. The president serves as the leader of the executive branch and as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of Liberia.

The current President is George Weah since January 22, 2018.

[[2017 Liberian general election]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 elections, Liberia, October 2017 events

General elections were held in Liberia on 10 October 2017, electing the President and House of Representatives.  No candidate won a majority in the first round of the presidential vote, so a run-off was held.

The elections are overseen by the National Elections Commission (NEC).

The run-off was held on 26 December. George Weah won the election with 62% of the vote.

[[Joseph Boakai]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Liberian people, African politicians, Vice presidents

Joseph Nyumah Boakai, Sr. (born 30 November 1944) is a Liberian politician. He has been Vice President of Liberia since January 2006, serving under President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf.

in 2016, Boakai announced his intention to run for the Liberian presidency in the 2017 general election. He is viewed by many as a safe and uncorrupt candidate. He faced Senator and football star George Weah in the second round, but lost the round to Weah.

[[Oh Na Na Na]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 songs, Songs about sexuality, 2015 songs

"Oh Na Na Na" is a song by Nigerian recording artist Slim Burna. It was released on 1 October 2013 in celebration of Nigeria's 53rd Independence Day Anniversary. The song was produced, mixed and mastered by Slim Burna with co-production by P Jaydino. It premiered on Rhythm 93.7 FM on 28 September 2013.

The song became the first radio top ten hit of Slim Burna's career, entering the TGIF Chart at number ten, and eventually reaching the number two position. Burna had initially thought about Nigeria turning 53 on 1 October and wanted to make that day a special one for himself and his fans. After he had recorded "Oh Na Na Na" in September 2013, he thought the song was special and eventually decided to release it on Independence day to celebrate Nigeria at 53. The lyrics compare a Nigerian woman's beauty to that of an Indian and a Brazilian woman. Burna performed the song, as well as "Claro" (from I'm on Fire), at the Pre-Carniriv concert on 6 December 2013, at the Liberation Stadium.

On 6 January 2015, a remix of "Oh Na Na Na" featuring Ghanaian rapper Edem was released, in the Portugese language as said from experts.  In an interview, Burna said that he "wanted a completely different sound for the remix, and having Edem, Ayzed back me up with their unique contributions just did it for me. They really gave it their best shot and I don't think it would have come out the way it did if I had chose sic differently."

[[Handjob]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual acts, Sexual slang

A handjob is the sexual stimulation or arousal of a male partner's penis by another partner using the hands. It is similar to male masturbation but is done by someone else instead of by one's self. It is usually done by grabbing the middle of the penis with one hand and while grabbing slightly above from the middle towards the testicles then up and down a few times, repeatedly retracting the penis until the male reaches orgasm. Stimulation of the scrotum may also be accompanied. It is like fingering which is the sexual stimulation of a female's genitals using the hands and fingers.

[[Malix]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden, Villages in Graubünden

Malix was a municipality of the district of Plessur of the Swiss canton of Graubünden.

On 1 January 2010 the former municipalities of Malix and Parpan merged into the municipality of Churwalden.

[[Ventilator]]

CATEGORIES: Medical procedures

A ventilator is a machine which artificially moves air in and out of the lungs of a patient in order to help them breathe if that patient cannot breathe on their own or breathe properly. Some ventilators can also be used in order give patients anesthesia and can be part of an anesthetic machine.

[[The Killing of a Sacred Deer]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 horror movies, 2010s horror thriller movies, British thriller movies, British horror movies, Irish movies

The Killing of a Sacred Deer is a 2017 psychological thriller and horror movie. The movie was directed by Yorgos Lanthimos. It tells the story of a surgeon having a familial bond with an evil and sinister teenage boy. The results are disastrous. Lanthimos and Efthymis Filippou won a Best Screenplay award at the Cannes Film Festival.

[[Kim Wall]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, 2017 deaths, Swedish journalists, 2017 crimes, Alumni of the London School of Economics, Columbia University alumni, Journalists from New York City, Murder victims

Kim Isabel Fredrika Wall, (23 March 1987 - 10 August 2017) was a Swedish journalist. She worked mostly in other countries and was murdered during work, writing a report about Peter Madsen and his submarine UC3 Nautilus in Køge Bugt Denmark. At the time of her death she lived in Gislöv in Trelleborg.

After school she continued her studies at Lunds University in Sweden. In 2011 she graduated in studies of international relations at London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE). During her years of studies she also studied at Beijing University. She also graduated from studies in international affairs from Columbia University in New York, there she also studied journalism.

During her time as a freelance journalist her work was published in The Guardian, New York Times, Harper's Magazine, Vice, Slate. And for her work at Exodus in writing the reportage on neuclear tests and climate changes at the Marshall islands she in 2016 was awarded the Hansel Meith award for Best Digital reportage.

In April 2018 Madsen was found guilty of killing Kim Wall and sentenced to prison for the rest of his life.

[[2016 United States presidential election in Maine]]

CATEGORIES: History of Maine, 2016 United States presidential election by state

The 2016 United States presidential election in Maine was held on 8 November 2016. It was part of the 2016 United States presidential election, in which all other states plus the District of Columbia voted.

[[Bandi Chhor Divas]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals, Sikhism

Bandi chhod diwas ("Day of Liberation") is a festival of Sikhs celebrated on Deepavali. As per the name bandi means "prisoners" and chhod refers to "independent". On this day 6th guru of Sikhs Sri Guru Hargobind Ji had got success in giving freedom to the prisoner kings who were living in the jail of Gwalior fort. On this day Sikh people go to gurudwara and listen kirtan and eat langar there. They celebrate this day very happily and clean their houses, shops and decorate them with lamp, candles. They distribute sweets to neighbours and poor people. Bandi Chhor Diwas is usually celebrated in October or November, depending on the lunar calendar, or the 'Desi months'.

[[Tagus]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Spain

The Tagus (no ˈtaxo; no ˈtɛʒu; Tagus; Ancient Greek: Τάγος Tagos) is the longest river in the Iberian Peninsula. 

[[Automated external defibrillator]]

CATEGORIES: Medical equipment, Emergency medicine

An automated external defibrillator is a special type of defibrillator which can be used by people without medical education. A defibrillator is used to treat certain kinds of heart problems using controlled electric shocks. Almost all heart problems are medical emergencies. For each minute, that such a heart problem is left untreated, the chance of survival drops by about ten percent. Even if they are alerted immediately, emergency teams take some time to arrive. For this reason automated external defibrillator have been placed in locations where they are easily accessible, such as airports, and railway stations.

In many cases, using such a defibrillator will alert emergency services. Very often, the defibrillator will guide the person helping through its use. In some countries such as the United Kingdom, regional public ambulance services provide lists for people to show where all the publicly accessible defibrillators are located in their region (East of England Ambulance Services TrustJanuary 2021 for example).  In some open public locations, defibrillators are secured in special cases which need a code to open them (see the example on the right).  When you call for an ambulance, you tell the operator the location code on the case, and they give you the code to unlock it to get the defibrillator out.

Studies where conducted to see the survival rates of cardiac arrest. They showed that when  public access defibrillators were used, the patient had a median chance of survival of forty percent. When operated by non-dispatched lay first responders they have the highest likelihood of leading to survival.

[[Commodity substitution bias]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

to purchase inexpensive items as a substitution for expensive items when price's change. Occurs when 2 or more items experience a change of price relative to each other. The CPI ( Consumer Price Index) ignores the substitution of the inexpensive item for the expensive item. So CPI  says the price of the expensive item had increased,

[[Tissue paper]]

CATEGORIES: Hygiene, Paper

Tissue paper or simply tissue is a lightweight paper or crêpe paper mainly used for personal hygiene.

[[Sasha Clements]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Canadian child actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, People from Toronto, Actors from Toronto

Sasha Clements (born March 14, 1990) is a Canadian actress. She was born in Toronto, Ontario. She grew up in Toronto.

Cuthbert played Kiki Kincaid in Majority Rules!. She starred as the title character in The Snow Queen. She played one of the main characters in the sitcom Open Heart.

[[Lekh Tandon]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Indian movie directors, Indian movie actors, Television directors

Lekh Tandon (13 February 1929 – 15 October 2017) was an Indian actor and movie director. His best known directorial works were Professor, Prince, Ek Baar Kaho and Agar Tum Na Hote. In the 2000s, he began his acting career with movies such as Swades, Rang De Basanti,  Chennai Express, and Chaarfutiya Chhokare.

He shared the 1978 Filmfare Best Screenplay Award for his movie, Dulhan Wahi Jo Piya Man Bhaye, with Vrajendra Gaur and Madhusudan Kalekar.

[[Wolfgang Bötsch]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Former members of the German Bundestag, Government ministers of Germany, Politicians from Rhineland-Palatinate, Politicians of the Christian Social Union of Bavaria

Wolfgang Bötsch (8 September 1938 – 14 October 2017) was a German politician. He was born in Bad Kreuznach. He was a representative of the Christian Social Union of Bavaria. Between 1974 and 1976 he represented the Landtag of Bavaria. From 1976 to 2005 he was a member of the Bundestag, and between 1993 and 1997 he was the last Minister of Post and Telecommunications. 

Bötsch died on 14 October 2017 in Würzburg, Germany at the age of 79.

[[Rhins]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The Rhins or Reins is a river in central France in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. It is a right tributary of the Loire river.

[[Cinemax]]

CATEGORIES: American television channels

Cinemax (Max in short) is an American pay cable television and satellite television network. It is owned by the Home Box Office division of Time Warner. The network usually broadcasts theatrically released feature movies, original series and softcore pornographic series and movies.

As of July 2015, Cinemax and its channels are available to more than 21 million subscribers in the United States.

Cinemax began on August 1, 1980.

The channel and its other channels play a variety of movies and television series, such as Erotic Confessions, the Lethal Weapon franchise and some adult programming.

Channels of Cinemax include Action, Vanguard, Comedy, Suspense and Classic. 

[[Viva Piñata]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 television series debuts

Viva Piñata is an animated television series. Released in 2006. based on the Xbox video game of the same name.                                                                                                          

==Main Characters==                                                                                                                                                                

Hudson Horstachio, a horse piñata with a green teal body.                                                                                                                        

Franklin Flizzybear, a brown bear.                                                                                                                                                  

Fergy Fudgehog, a green hedgehog.                                                                                                                                                  

Paulie Pretzetail, a red fox with a pretzel-tail.                                                                                                                                   

tv-stub                                                                                                                                                               Category:2006 television series debuts

[[Harvey Weinstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, American Jews, American people convicted of assault, American rapists, Businesspeople from Connecticut, Criminals from New York City, Democrats (United States), Jewish businesspeople, Movie producers from New York City

Harvey Weinstein (born March 19, 1952) is an American movie producer, movie studio executive and convicted rapist. He and his brother Bob Weinstein co-founded Miramax, which produced several popular independent movies including Pulp Fiction, Clerks, The Crying Game, and Sex, Lies, and Videotape.

[[Ryan White]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 1990 deaths, Deaths from AIDS, Disease-related deaths in Indiana, People from Indiana

Ryan Wayne White (December 6, 1971 – April 8, 1990) was an American teenager from Kokomo, Indiana, who became a national poster child for HIV/AIDS in the United States after failing to be readmitted to school following an AIDS diagnosis. As a hemophiliac, he became infected with HIV from a contaminated blood treatment (Factor VIII) and, when diagnosed in December 1984, was given six months to live.

A lengthy administrative appeal process ensued, and news of the conflict turned Ryan into a popular celebrity and advocate for AIDS research and public education. Surprising his doctors, Ryan White lived five years longer than predicted but died in April 1990, one month before his high school graduation.

The United States Congress passed a major piece of AIDS legislation, the Ryan White CARE Act, shortly after White's death. The Act has been reauthorized twice; Ryan White Programs are the largest provider of services for people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States.

[[Dawn Brancheau]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths by drowning, Entertainers from Indiana, Entertainers from Illinois

Dawn Therese Brancheau (née LoVerde, April 16, 1969 – February 24, 2010) was an American senior animal trainer at SeaWorld. She worked with orcas at SeaWorld Orlando for fifteen years, including a leading role in revamping the Shamu show, and was SeaWorld's poster girl.

Brancheau was killed by an orca, Tilikum, becoming the only SeaWorld trainer killed by an animal. However, her death was the third fatality associated with Tilikum, and many other trainers have been seriously injured by orcas.

[[Paul F. Tompkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American stand-up comedians, American voice actors, American comedians, American movie actors, American television actors, American video game actors, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Paul Francis Tompkins (born September 12, 1968) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, screenwriter, television producer, and comedian.

He was born in Mount Airy, Pennsylvania. He is known for his work in television on such programs as Mr. Show with Bob and David, Real Time with Bill Maher and Best Week Ever, later renamed Best Week Ever with Paul F. Tompkins.

[[The War]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 albums, Exo albums

The War is the fourth studio album of the South Korean boy band EXO. It was digitally published on July 18, 2017 and physically on July 19 by S.M. Entertainment under the distribution of Genie Music. The album includes a total of nine songs including the lead single "Ko Ko Bop". The War got the highest number of pre-orders at that time for a K-pop album, with more than 800,000 physical copies. Twenty-four days later to be released, The War became EXO's fourth consecutive studio album to have sold more than a million copies. On September 5, 2017, the group released the reissue of the album under the name of The War: The Power of Music.

[[Medina, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Medina is a city located in the Eastside, a region of King County, Washington, United States. Surrounded on the north, west, and south by Lake Washington, opposite Seattle. Medina is bordered by Clyde Hill and Hunts Point, as well as the satellite city of Bellevue. The city's population was 2,969 at the 2010 census. The city is mostly residential and includes Bill Gates's house.

[[Mlondi Dlamini]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, 2017 deaths, South African footballers, Road accident deaths

Mlondi Edward Dlamini (3 March 1997 – 8 October 2017) was a South African professional footballer. He played for Maritzburg United. He played as a midfielder. He was born in Howick, South Africa.

Dlamini died in a car accident on 8 October 2017.

[[El Ranco Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The El Ranco Province (Provincia del Ranco) is one of two provinces of the Chilean region of Los Ríos (XIV). The provincial capital is the city of La Unión.

The El Ranco province, as Ranco province, was created with the creation of the Los Ríos region in 2007. The name of the province was changed from Ranco to El Ranco in 2008.

[[Ninozca Vasquez]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Venezuelan models

Ninoska Vásquez Álvarez (born August 25, 1992 in Barquisimeto, Venezuela) is a Venezuelan model and beauty queen. She won the titles of Miss Tourism Universe 2014 and Miss Earth Venezuela 2017. She will represent Venezuela in Miss Earth 2017.

[[Valdivia Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Valdivia Province (Provincia de Valdivia) is one of the two provinces in the Chilean region of Los Ríos (XIV). The capital of the province, and of the region, is the city of Valdivia.

[[Isnilon Hapilon]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2017 deaths, Filipino military people, Islamic State people

Isnilon Totoni Hapilon (March 18, 1966 – October 16, 2017), also known by the nom de guerre Abu Abdullah al-Filipini ("Abu Abdullah the Filipino"), was a Filipino Islamist militant affiliated with ISIS. 

He was formerly leader of Abu Sayyaf Group before its battalions pledged their allegiance to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. 

An April 2016 issue of ISIS' weekly newsletter Al Naba said that Hapilon had been appointed as "emir of all Islamic State forces in the Philippines". 

In the early morning of October 16, 2017, he was killed at the age of 51 by the Philippine military in the Battle of Marawi along with Omar Maute.

[[Sean Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cirrhosis, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Cardiovascular disease deaths in London, Irish movie actors, Irish television actors, Irish comedians, Comedians from London

Sean Hughes (born John Hughes; 10 November 1965 – 16 October 2017) was an English-born Irish stand-up comedian, writer and actor. He starred in his own Channel 4 television show Sean's Show and was one of the regular team captains on the BBC Two musical panel game Never Mind the Buzzcocks. He was born in London.

Hughes died on 16 October 2017 from cardiac arrest complicated by cirrhosis of the liver in London, aged 51.

[[Daphne Caruana Galizia]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2017 deaths, Assassinated people, Maltese writers, Journalists

Daphne Anne Caruana Galizia (Vella; 26 August 1964 – 16 October 2017) was a Maltese journalist and blogger. She was known for her work as an investigative journalist and revealing controversial sensitive information, including reports and allegations related to the Panama Papers. 

Caruana Galizia was born as Daphne Anne Vella on 26 August 1964 in Sliema, Crown Colony of Malta. She studied at University of Malta. Her career began in 1987. She was married to Peter Caruana Galizia from 1985 until her death in 2017. They had three children.

Caruana Galizia was murdered by a car bomb explosion close to her home in Bidnija on 16 October 2017. The perpetrator is currently unknown. She was 53 years old.

The Life and Work of Daphne Caruana Galizia''January 2021

[[Bastian Obermayer]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, German journalists, People from Munich, Pulitzer Prize winners, Writers from Bavaria

Bastian Obermayer (born 1977 in Rosenheim) is a Pulitzer Prize-winning German investigative journalist with the Munich-based newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung (SZ), and the reporter who received the Panama Papers from an anonymous source. 

Obermayer is also author of several books, among them the best selling account of the Panama Papers: The Panama Papers: Breaking the Story of How the Rich and Powerful Hide Their Money - co-authored by his colleague Frederik Obermaier.

[[Floodplain restoration]]

CATEGORIES: Flood control

Flood plain restoration is the process of returning a flood plain to its condition before people modified the landscape for development or agriculture.

[[Abdul Ali Mazari]]

CATEGORIES: Hazara politicians, Hazara people

Abdul Ali Mazari (عبدالعلی مزاری) was an ethnic Hazara politician and leader of the Hezbe Wahdat political party in Afghanistan.

[[John Dunsworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Canada, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, People from Nova Scotia

John Francis Dunsworth (April 12, 1946 – October 16, 2017) was a Canadian actor. He was best known for playing the always drunk trailer park supervisor Jim Lahey on the comedy series Trailer Park Boys and the mysterious reporter Dave Teagues on the supernatural drama series Haven. He also appeared in Shattered City: The Halifax Explosion, a CBC movie.

Dunsworth died on October 16, 2017 in Halifax, Nova Scotia at the age of 71. In a statement to CBC News, Dunsworth's daughter Sarah described the illness as "short and unexpected" and stated that her father was an "amazing husband, father and grandfather".

[[Phonetic transcription]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation, Language transcription

Words can be written down the way they sound using phonetic transcription, for example by using the International Phonetic Alphabet. This is helpful because in many languages, there is often a difference in the way a word is written, and how it is pronounced. In addition, different languages use different scripts. Someone who grew up with the Latin script might not be able to read the Arabic one. 

[[Don Pedro Colley]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in the United States, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Oregon

Don Pedro Colley (August 30, 1938 – October 11, 2017) was an American actor. Some of his best known roles include Gideon on Daniel Boone, Ongaro in Beneath the Planet of the Apes, SRT in George Lucas' THX 1138, Joshua in The Legend of Nigger Charley and Sheriff Little in the 1980s TV series The Dukes of Hazzard.

Colley was born in Klamath Falls, Oregon. He studied at the University of Oregon. He played American football and track and field (athletics), which led to an unsuccessful try-out for the 1960 Summer Olympics. Colley died on October 11, 2017 in Klamath Falls after a battle with cancer at the age of 79.

[[Samara Weaving]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, Australian child actors, Australian models, Actors from Adelaide

Samara Weaving (born 23 February 1992) is an Australian actress and model. Her first role was Kirsten Mulroney in the Australian-produced BBC TV series Out of the Blue. From 2009 to 2013, she played Indi Walker in Home and Away. For her role of Indi, Weaving was nominated for the Audience Choice Award for Best Female Performance in a Television Drama at the 1st AACTA Awards in 2012.

Weaving had a recurring role as Heather in the first season of Ash vs Evil Dead in 2015.

[[Almost Heroes]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 comedy movies, English-language movies, American comedy movies

Almost Heroes is an American 1998 comedy movie directed by Christopher Guest and it starred Chris Farley in his final movie role, Matthew Perry, Harry Shearer and Hank Azaria. It was distributed by Warner Bros.

[[Winnie Couture]]

Winnie Couture is a California-based fashion clothing and apparel brand, established in 2001. Winnie Couture designs a broad range of luxury attires and is internationally distributed through its portfolio of retail stores.This brand is said to be one of the fastest growing bridal collections across the USA.

[[History of organizational changes in the NHL]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League

In 1917, games started to be played in the National Hockey League. In the first two seasons, there were only three teams, but now, there are thirty-one. Over the time that it has been around the NHL has added and lost teams many times. This is the complete history of organizational changes in the NHL. 

[[Kingdom of France]]

CATEGORIES: History of France

The Kingdom of France (royaume de France) is the name given to various political entities of France in the Middle Ages and modern times.  According to historians, three major events started the Kingdom of France: the advent of Clovis I in 481, the Treaty of Verdun and the election of Hugues Capet in 987.  The kingdom lasted until 1792 and was briefly restored in 1814 to 1815 and then from 1815 to 1848.

The King of the Franks, Clovis I, sealed the alliance of Frankish Kingdoms with the Catholic Church at his baptism.  That alliance was perpetuated in the Kingdom of France by the crowning of kings at Reims, which made them monarchs by divine right.  The first Capetians were anxious to crown their eldest son in their lifetime because their authority was limited in reality to the Ile de France.  It was not until Philippe Auguste that their official acts called it the Kingdom of France and that they are able to make a real act of authority throughout the kingdom.  Their territory was the feudal fiefs of which king of Western France had been the suzerain since the 843 division of the Carolingian Empire.

The gradual integration of the feudal fiefs into the royal domain required the establishment of a royal administration.  Louis IX attached the main importance to its role as justiciary.  The parlement, the high court of justice, was put in place.  The Hundred Years' War allowed Charles VII to establish an army and permanent taxes.  Richelieu and Louis XIV strengthened the royal authority in the provinces by bringing the local governors of the nobility under their stewardship and by delegating to them stewards appointed by the king.

The tendency of royalty to exercise more and more absolute power could be challenged in times of turmoil, civil wars and the reigns of minor kings.  The dispute took a more pronounced character on the occasion of the diffusion of the philosophy of enlightenment and of the values that it carried: government of reason, separation of powers, individual liberties.  The French Revolution led to the establishment of a French constitutional monarchy.  However, the different formulas experienced failure in 1792, 1830 and 1848, which ended the French monarchy.

[[Wamego, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pottawatomie County, Kansas, 1866 establishments in Kansas

Wamego is a city in Pottawatomie County, Kansas, United States. 4,372 people lived there in the 2010 census. and an estimated 4,715 in 2016.

The Kansas River flows along the southern edge of the city.

[[Aylesford railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Kent, 1856 establishments in Europe, 1850s establishments in England

Aylesford railway station is a railway station in Aylesford in Kent. The station is 30 minutes away from South Aylesford Retail Park. The station is on the Medway Valley Line.

[[Schnaus]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Schnaus is a former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Schnaus, Castrisch, Ilanz, Ladir, Luven, Pitasch, Riein, Ruschein, Sevgein, Duvin, Pigniu, Rueun and Siat merged into the new municipality of Ilanz/Glion.

[[Modernist music]]

CATEGORIES: Musical movements

Modernist music is the name of a movement in classical music, which was common in the early 20th century.

[[Palm Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Dubai

Palm Islands is the name of a project to build three artificial archipelagos on the coast of Dubai.

[[Dine and dash]]

CATEGORIES: Theft, Deception

Dine and dash is eating or drinking in a restaurant or similar places without paying or unable to pay. It is often treated as a crime if someone do it willfully.

There are many slang variations for this act.

[[Aylesford, Kent]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Kent

Aylesford is a village and civil parish on the River Medway in Kent, It is 4 miles northwest of Maidstone in England.

It has a railway station, Aylesford railway station and it has a retail park, South Aylesford Retail Park.

[[Aylesford]]

Aylesford may mean:

[[Particularly Dangerous Situation]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology

A Particularly Dangerous Situation (PDS) is a type of enhanced wording first used by the Storm Prediction Center (SPC), a national guidance center of the United States National Weather Service, for tornado watches and eventually expanded to use for other severe weather watches and warnings. It is issued at the discretion of the forecaster composing the watch or warning and implies that there is an enhanced risk of very severe and life-threatening weather, usually a major tornado outbreak or (much less often) a long-lived, extreme derecho event, but possibly another weather hazard such as an exceptional landslides.

[[Panama Papers]]

CATEGORIES: History of Panama, 2016

The Panama Papers are 11.5 million leaked documents that talked about financial and attorney–client information for more than 214,488 offshore tax accounts. The documents, some traced back to the 1970s, were created by, and taken from, Panamanian law firm and corporate service provider Mossack Fonseca, and were leaked in 2015 by an anonymous source to German journalist Bastian Obermayer.  

The documents contain personal financial information about wealthy individuals and public officials that had been kept private. While offshore business tax activities are legal, reporters found that some of the Mossack Fonseca shell corporations were used for illegal purposes, including fraud, tax evasion, and evading international sanctions.

[[Mychael Knight]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2017 deaths, American fashion designers, American television personalities, People from Nuremberg

Michael Anthony Knight Jr. (April 11, 1978 – October 17, 2017) was an American fashion designer. He was born in Nuremberg, Germany to Pamela and Michael Anthony Knight, Sr..

In 2005, Knight auditioned for the second season of the Bravo network reality television series, Project Runway, but he was not accepted as a season two contestant. In 2006, Knight reauditioned for Project Runway, and this time he was accepted as a contestant for season three. Knight went on to win season three's Fan Favorite award and to place fourth in the overall competition.

In 2007, Knight introduced his label, Mychael Knight, on BET's Rip the Runway  and he designed a line of custom tees for the Starbucks Corporation.

Knight died on October 17, 2017 in Atlanta, Georgia at the age of 39. His death was possibly related to recent treatments for intestinal infection.

[[Ricardo Vidal]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Deaths from sepsis, Filipino educators, Filipino Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic archbishops

Ricardo Tito Jamin Vidal (Ricardus Vidal; 6 February 1931 – 18 October 2017) was a Filipino cardinal-priest and the Archbishop-Emeritus of Cebu in the Roman Catholic Church. On 15 October 2010 his resignation as Archbishop of Cebu was accepted by Pope Benedict XVI; he was replaced by Jose S. Palma, formerly Archbishop of Palo, on 13 January 2011. He was born in Mogpog, Marinduque.

Vidal was President of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) from 1986 to 1987, and became Chairman of the  CBCP-Episcopal Commission on the Clergy in 1989. He was appointed as the  Federation of Asian Bishops' Conferences's Convenor of the Standing Committee (1985 to 1994).

Vidal died on 18 October 2017 in Cebu City, Philippines from sepsis at the age of 86.

[[Winnie Chlomin Lee]]

CATEGORIES: American fashion designers, 1977 births

Winnie Chlomin Lee (born August 25th , 1977, Hong Kong) is a Chinese-American fashion and wedding dress designer. She is the co-founder and creative director of the Winnie Couture, wedding attire brand, based in Beverly Hills, California.

[[I'm on Fire]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums, Mixtape albums, Hip hop albums, Pop albums

I'm on Fire is the début mixtape album by recording artist Slim Burna. It was released as a free digital download for fans on Burna's 25th birthday, 11 April 2013. It features guest appearances from a wide range of artists such as Attitude (of Dem Mama Soldiers), Squeeze, Bukwild Da Ikwerrian, P.I. Piego (of Ruud Boiz), Knowledge, and many more. Music critics gave I'm on Fire good reviews. It became the most successful mixtape ever released by a Port Harcourt artist. As of 26 May 2014, it has been downloaded more than 50,000 times.

[[Maidstone Barracks railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Kent

Maidstone Barracks railway station is one of three railway stations which serve Maidstone in Kent. It is on the Medway Valley Line. It is in walking distance from the high street.

[[Mauser 1918 T-Gewehr]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles

The Mauser 1918 T-Gewehr was an anti-tank rifle, of German production, used towards the end of World War I. At the Battle of the Somme, the British first used tanks. The Germans were surprised, and had no weapons (rifles) that could be used against tanks.  For this reason, they developed one: The Mauser anti-tank rifle was the first rifle that was able to penetrate the larger shell of a tank. It was used towards the end of WWI. It was able to penetrate 20-25mm of tank shell, at a distance of 100.

[[Vauxhall (disambiguation)]]

Vauxhall is a district in the London Borough of Lambeth. it may also refer to:

[[MIMO]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

MIMO (Multiple Input, Multiple Output) is a technology which allows an antenna or multiple antennas to communicate with multiple devices, which minimizes errors and maximize efficiency. The most commonly used MIMO variant is MU-MIMO, which stands for Multiple User-Multiple Input, Multiple Output. In layman's terms, imagine a classroom with one teacher and many students who need help. Since there is only one teacher, it will take the teacher a while to fully help all the students. But if there are multiple teachers, students will get help much faster and better. The same way, a router with MU-MIMO technology will be able to communicate with multiple devices with increased speed and minimal errors.

MIMO technologies are most commonly found in routers, smartphones, laptops, TVs, etc.

[[Issam Zahreddine]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2017 deaths, Assassinated people, Military people, Syrian people

Issam Jad'aan Zahreddine (Arabic: عصام جدعان زهر الدين‎‎;  1961 – 18 October 2017) sometimes called as Issam Zaher Eldin or Issam Zaher al-Deen, was a Major General of the Syrian Republican Guard. He played a major role in the Syrian Civil War, leading Syrian government forces on several fronts. His most prominent role was the leadership of the surrounded Syrian forces during the over three-year long Siege of Deir ez-Zor.  

Syrian news agencies reported on 18 October 2017, that Zahreddine was killed by a land mine explosion during operations against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant on Saqr island in Deir ez-Zor.

[[Beverly Reid O'Connell]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from intracranial aneurysm, American judges, Politicians from California, Women judges

Beverly Reid O'Connell (May 12, 1965 – October 8, 2017) was an American judge. She served as United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Central District of California from April 30, 2013 until her death on October 8, 2017. She was nominated by President Barack Obama. She was born in Ventura, California.

O'Connell died on October 8, 2017 at a hospital in Santa Monica, California while being in a coma after suffering from a brain aneurysm at the age of 52.

[[Kowalczyk brothers]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, 1942 births, Living people, Activists, Polish educators, People from Warsaw

Ryszard Kowalczyk (20 February 1937 – 18 October 2017) and Jerzy Kowalczyk (born 1942) are Polish brothers who planted a bomb as a protest against the communist rule in Poland. The Kowalczyk brothers were scientists at Opole University. They were born in Warsaw.

[[Yeoh Tiong Lay]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Malaysian businesspeople

Tan Sri Yeoh Tiong Lay (s=楊忠禮; 18 December 1929 – 18 October 2017) was a Malaysian business tycoon. He founded YTL Corporation, Malaysia's largest conglomerate, with interests in construction, utilities, hotels, property development and technology.

YTL is based primarily in Malaysia but has extensive operations in Asia, Australia and the United Kingdom, where it owns the utility Wessex Water.

Yeoh was one of the richest individuals in Malaysia; his family is estimated to have a net worth of US$2.96 billion as of October 2017. Yeoh was honored with the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold Rays with Neck Ribbon by the Emperor of Japan.

Yeoh died of a heart attack on 18 October 2017 at the age of 87.

[[Cannabidiol]]

CATEGORIES: Cannabis, Organic compounds, Pharmacology

Cannabidiol (CBD) is one of the 150+ naturally occurring phytocannabinoids found in certain strains of hemp and in all cannabis plant strains.

It is legal in many places and is used in the management and treatment of chronic pain, PTSD, anxiety, anxiety disorder, depression, diabetes type 1, diabetes type 2, seizures, and in conjunction with allopathic approaches to diseases including cancer chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Anecdotally CBD is being used with claimed positive results by patients for almost every illness.

[[Eamonn Campbell]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Irish guitarists, Musicians from Dublin

Eamonn Campbell (29 November 1946 – 18 October 2017) was an Irish musician. He was known for being a member of The Dubliners from 1987 until his death in 2017. He was born in Drogheda, County Louth, Ireland. 

Campbell was known as a guitarist and has a rough voice similar to the late Dubliner founding member Ronnie Drew. He produced all of the Dubliners' albums from 1987 onwards, as well as albums for many other Irish artists, including Foster and Allen, Brendan Shine, Daniel O'Donnell and Paddy Reilly. 

Campbell died on 18 October 2017 in Dublin of heart failure at the age of 70.

[[Ingvar Lidholm]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Swedish writers, Composers

Ingvar Natanael Lidholm (24 February 1921 – 17 October 2017) was a Swedish composer. He was born in Jönköping, Sweden. Lidholm completed a number of new works: the piano pieces Sonatin (“Sonatina”), (10) Miniatyrer (“Ten Miniatures”), and Lätta pianostyken (“Easy Piano Pieces”). In 1956, Lidholm left his conducting post in Örebro to assume the head of the Chamber Music Department at Swedish Radio.

Lindholm was awarded the Rolf Schock Prize in 1993.

Lidholm died in Stockholm, Sweden on 17 October 2017 at the age of 96.

[[Middlemarch]]

Middlemarch, A Study of Provincial Life is the best-known book written by English author George Eliot, first published in eight volumes during 1871–72. The novel is set in the fictional Midlands town of Middlemarch during 1829–32.

[[Building design]]

CATEGORIES: Architecture

This article is about Sustainable Building Design in Australia. It explains the services offered by a Building Designer. The article outlines what a sustanable building designer does for their clients and explains specialties of sustainable building design. For Architecture see this entry.

[[Yongle Emperor]]

CATEGORIES: 1360 births, 1424 deaths, Emperors and Empresses of China

The Yongle Emperor (May 2, 1360nbsp– August 12, 1424), known in China as Zhu Di, was the 3rd emperor of the Ming part of China's history. He was the emperor of China from 1402 to 1424. He is important because he moved China's capital to Beijing, built its Forbidden City, and sent Zheng He on trips to Indonesia, India, Arabia, and eastern Africa.

[[Sphere Fluidics]]

Sphere Fluidics is an England-based Life Sciences Research and Development company specializing in developing novel tools for biopharmaceutical discovery and development, cell therapy engineering, analysis and isolation. Sphere Fluidics has been named one of the UK's top 50 disruptive SMEs by Real Business in 2015.

[[Mountain weasel]]

CATEGORIES: IUCN Red List near threatened species, Mammals of Pakistan

The mountain weasel (Mustela altaica), is a type of weasel. It is also called the pale weasel, Altai weasel or solongoi.

[[Yoweri Museveni]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Anti-LGBT rights activists, Commonwealth Chairpersons-in-Office, Current national leaders, Evangelicals, Presidents of Uganda

Yoweri Kaguta Museveni (born September 15, 1944 in Ntungamo) is an Ugandan politician.

Museveni has been President of Uganda since January 29, 1986, succeeding Tito Okello. He is also presiding the National Resistance Movement.

He studied economics and political science at the University of Dar es Salaam.

In the 1970s and 1980s Museveni rebelled against president-dictator Idi Amin and president Milton Obote.

Since 2005 the constitution has been allowing him to be president forever. Because of this and his negative attitude against opponents Uganda faces internal political difficulties.

He also faces internal problems caused by the rebellion of the Lord's Resistance Army in the north.

Furthermore he has also external problems because of his participation in the civil war in the neighbouring Democratic Republic of the Congo and in the conflicts of other neighbouring countries.

Museveni is an Evangelical  and known for his opposition against homosexuality.

[[Instaknow Software]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Instaknow is a New Jersey-based organization that offers computer programming and system automation services. This technology integrates business processes and information across internal and external systems of various business organizations. Instaknow started deploying Process Automation Solutions in 2003.

[[History of genetic engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic engineering

The history of genetic engineering started around 12,000 BC. At the time, humans tried to domesticate animals. 

The first artificial genetic engineering occurred in 1972. Two scientists named Herbert Norman Cohen transferred DNA then. In 1983, the first tobacco plant was created using genetic engineering. A gene that resisted antibiotics was introduced to the pl ant. 

[[Trevor Noah]]

CATEGORIES: Comedy Central personalities

Trevor Noah (born 20 February 1984) is a South African comedian and television and radio host. He has been the host of The Daily Show on the American network Comedy Central since September 2015.

Noah worked as an actor, presenter, and comedian in South Africa. He appeared in television roles on the South African Broadcasting Corporation and was the runner-up in the fourth season of Strictly Come Dancing in 2008. From 2010 to 2011, he hosted the late-night show Tonight with Trevor Noah. During this time his stand-up comedy became famous in South Africa and got him invited to American and British television shows.

In December 2014, Noah appeared as a contributor on the American satirical news show The Daily Show. He took over from Jon Stewart as host of The Daily Show on 28 September, 2015. His hosting style has more pop culture references and comic impersonations than Stewart’s. As a foreign observer, he comments humorously on American politics and race relations.

[[Arrondissements of the Puy-de-Dôme department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 5 arrondissements in the Puy-de-Dôme department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The 5 arrondissements of Puy-de-Dôme are:

[[Hurricane Ophelia]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in Europe, Hurricanes, October 2017 events, 2017 in weather

Hurricane Ophelia (known as Storm Ophelia in the United Kingdom) was an Atlantic tropical cyclone in October 2017. The storm affected the United Kingdom, Ireland and France. Ophelia was the 10th consecutive hurricane and the 6th major hurricane of 2017.

The storm formed on 9 October. She peaked at Category 3 status.

Ophelia took three lives directly and another 45 lives indirectly.

Damage from the storm was more than $70 million USD.

The storm also affected Russia, Norway and Finland.

[[Arrondissement of Ambert]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Ambert is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Puy-de-Dôme département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Ambert.

[[Arrondissement of Clermont-Ferrand]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Clermont-Ferrand is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Puy-de-Dôme département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and the prefecture of the department, is the city of Clermont-Ferrand.

[[Miguel Ángel Loayza]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Peruvian footballers, People from Buenos Aires

Miguel Ángel Loayza Ríos (21 June 1940 – 19 October 2017) was a football midfielder from Peru. He played for several clubs, notably Argentine clubs Huracán, Boca Juniors and River Plate as well as Colombian club Deportivo Cali. He was famous for his short passing, creativity and excellent dribbling ability, nicknamed "El Maestrito" (The Teacher small) in Argentina and "El Mago" (The magician) in Colombia.

[[Umberto Lenzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Italian movie directors, Italian screenwriters

Umberto Lenzi (6 August 1931 – 19 October 2017) was an Italian movie director and screenwriter. He was best known for his movies Cannibal Ferox, Nightmare City, and Ghosthouse. 

Lenzi died on 19 October 2017 in Rome at the age of 86.

[[Venantino Venantini]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Italian movie actors

Venantino Venantini (17 April 1930 – 8 October 2018) was an Italian movie actor. He has appeared in over 140 movies from 1954 until his retirement in 2016. He was born in Fabriano, Italy.

Venantini was known for No Sun in Venice (1957), The Agony and the Ecstasy (1965), Le Grand Restaurant (1966), Erotissimo (1969), The Priest's Wife (1971), Seven Deaths in the Cat's Eye (1973), Black Emanuelle (1975), The Concorde Affair (1979), Cannibal Ferox (1981), and Le bon roi Dagobert (1984).

Venantini died on 8 October 2018 in Viterbo, Italy from heart surgery complications at the age of 88.

[[Sebastian Kurz]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Chancellors of Austria, Current national leaders, Government ministers of Austria, Politicians from Vienna

Sebastian Kurz (born 27 August 1986) is an Austrian politician. He was the Chancellor of Austria from 18 December 2017 to 28 May 2019. He was elected to the position again on 7 January 2020. He was the world's youngest chancellor. 

He was Austria's Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration from 2013 to 2017. He became Europe's youngest Foreign Minister at the age of 27. In May 2017 he became the chairman of the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP). 

Following the 2017 legislative election, the ÖVP led by Kurz secured the most seats in the National Council, leaving it in a position to lead the next government.

As Chancellor he has been leading the federal government consisting of a coalition of the ÖVP and FPÖ parties since December 18, 2017. He was removed from office on 28 May 2019 by President Alexander Van der Bellen following a political scandal.

[[Gastrodon]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon monsters

Gastrodon is one of the fictional species of Pokémon from the Pokémon media franchise owned by Nintendo and Game Freak.

It is a Water/Ground Pokémon from the fifth generation of games; Diamond, Pearl and Platinum. It has two forms, named east sea and west sea. Whilst they are the same statistically, they have completely different designs. Their pre-evolution, Shellos, also has varying forms.

[[The Little Red Hen]]

CATEGORIES: Fables

The Little Red Hen is a folk tale, probably of Russian origin. It is in the form of a fable to teach young listeners and readers a lesson: the virtues of work and taking personal initiative to get good results. All the characters in the tale are animals.

[[British cuisine]]

CATEGORIES: British food

British cuisine is the traditional food and drink popular with the people of the United Kingdom. Some of the most popular dishes include fish and chips, Yorkshire pudding, sausage roll, among others.  There are many differences between the traditional food and drink in Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and in the numerous regions of England. There are also many differences in the food and drink found in different classes of society. 

[[Networking hardware]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Computer networking

Networking hardware is the computer equipment used in systems connected as a network.

[[Artemisia annua]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Asia

Artemisia annua, also known as sweet wormwood, sweet annie, sweet sagewort, annual mugwort or annual wormwood (黄花蒿), is a common type of wormwood native to temperate Asia, but naturalized in many countries including scattered parts of North America.

[[Next of kin]]

CATEGORIES: Law

A person's next of kin (NOK) is that person's closest living blood relative or relatives. Some countries, such as the United States, have a legal definition of "next of kin". In other countries, such as the United Kingdom, "next of kin" may have no legal definition and may not necessarily refer to blood relatives at all.

In some legal systems, rights regarding inheritance (which imply a decision-making capacity such as in a medical emergency in which no clear will or instructions have been given, and the person has no spouse) flow to the closest relative (regardless of the age, with a representative appointed if a minor), usually a child, a parent or a sibling. However, there are people without any close adult relatives and, in such a case, decision-making power often flows to a niece or nephew, first cousin, aunt or uncle, or grandparent.

For example, if a person dies intestate, the laws of some jurisdictions require distribution of the estate to the deceased's spouse or children. However, if there are none of them, the estate can often be distributed to the next closest group of living relatives, whether they are parents, grandparents, first cousins, aunts and uncles, or second cousins in extreme cases. If a person dies intestate with no identifiable next of kin, the person's estate generally escheats (i.e., legally reverts) to the government.

In cases of medical emergency, if a person is incapable (because of age or mental infirmity, or they are unconscious) of making decisions for themselves and they have no spouse or children, the next of kin may participate in medical decisions made by medical personnel, subject to the specific laws of the jurisdiction.

The inability of persons who are not in a legal marriage to make decisions with respect to the care of a live-in partner has resulted in many jurisdictions giving live-in partners rights equivalent to a spouse in such situations, even though most jurisdictions still do not require non-spouses to be made beneficiaries of estates (it is improper in most jurisdictions to disinherit a spouse). The inability of same-sex partners to have rights with respect to a partner's medical care or funeral arrangements over and above those of the next-of-kin is one of the main reasons behind litigation to require same-sex marriage or its equivalent.

For the purposes of next of kin, adopted children are treated as blood relatives. However, relatives by marriage are never considered next of kin.

[[Letter case]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabet, Typography

Letter case is the difference between uppercase/capital letters and lowercase letters for certain writing systems. The name comes from letters on a printing press, where uppercase letters were stored on top of the lowercase letters in a drawer. Their formal names are "majuscule" and "minuscule" in the same order. Writing systems that have letter case include the Latin alphabet, the Greek alphabet, and the Cyrillic alphabet.

When the first alphabets were made, they only had capital letters. Overtime, especially during the Middle Ages, lowercase letters were made to write more quickly. Other than Greek and Latin, European languages made no clear differences between capital and lowercase letters until the year 1300.

Different languages have different rules for when to capitalize or not to capitalize letters. For example, German always capitalizes nouns, while English only capitalizes proper nouns, so while German would write "the automobile" as "das Auto", English would not do the same. However, nearly all languages with letter case capitalize the first letter of the first word of every sentence.

[[2016 United States presidential election in Hawaii]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Hawaii, 2016 United States presidential election by state

The 2016 United States presidential election in Hawaii was held on 8 November 2016. It was part of the 2016 United States presidential election, in which all other states plus the District of Columbia voted.

In the presidential election, Hillary Clinton easily defeated Donald Trump and received 3 electoral votes.

[[October 2017 Northern California wildfires]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 California wildfires, October 2017 events

The October 2017 Northern California wildfires were a series of fires in California. The fires started on October 8 and 9 across Sonoma, Mendocino, Napa, Solano, Lake and Butte counties in the state.

There were seventeen separate wildfires burning across California.

Over 5,700 houses and businesses were severely damaged or destroyed in the fires.

The Tubbs fire was the most expensive of the fires. It caused over $1 billion USD in damage.

Other fires included the Atlas fire and Nuns fire.

[[Everyday Is Christmas]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 albums

Everyday Is Christmas is a Christmas album by Australian singer-songwriter Sia Furler. It was released by Atlantic Records and Monkey Puzzle on 17 November 2017. The album will feature original songs co-written and co-produced with Greg Kurstin.

[[2017–18 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in North America, 2018 in North America, National Hockey League seasons

The 2017-18 NHL season is the 101st season of operation (100th season of play) of the National Hockey League. The 31 teams are playing an 82-game regular season. The regular season began on October 4, 2017 and ended on April 7, 2018. The Stanley Cup playoffs began a few days after and the Stanley Cup finals was held between Washington Capitals and Vegas Golden Knights which ended with the Washington Capitals winning their first Stanley cup in their franchise history. The Vegas Golden Knights joined the league for this season and became the first team to win the first three games of their history. They now have five wins and one loss making them the first team to do this since the Montreal Canadiens in the NHL's first season. The two-time defending Stanley Cup and Eastern Conference champions are the Pittsburgh Penguins while Penguins' player Sidney Crosby is the two-time defending Conn Smythe Trophy winner. The Nashville Predators are the defending Western Conference champions. The Washington Capitals are the two-time defending Presidents' Trophy winners. Edmonton Oilers player Connor McDavid is the defending winner of the Hart Memorial and Art Ross Trophies.

[[Arrondissement of Issoire]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Issoire is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Puy-de-Dôme département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Issoire.

[[Oakland firestorm of 1991]]

CATEGORIES: Fires in the United States, 1991 in California, Natural disasters in the San Francisco Bay Area

The Oakland firestorm of 1991 was a major fire in October 1991 in west-central California. The fire began on Saturday, October 19, 1991 on the hillsides of northern Oakland and southern Berkeley.

The official name of this wildfire was "Tunnel fire".

Twenty-five people died in this wildfire. Another 150 were injured.

The fire caused $1.5 billion in damage.

More than 2,800 houses and 437 apartments and condominiums were severely damaged or destroyed by the fire.

[[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)]]

CATEGORIES: 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)

The UEFA 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification tournament was held from 4 September 2016 and 14 November 2017 and was used to determine which European teams will qualify for the 2018 FIFA World Cup. Robert Lewandowski was the top scorer, with 16 goals.

[[Brent Briscoe]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, American movie actors, American television actors, American television writers, American screenwriters, Actors from Missouri, Writers from Missouri

Brent Briscoe (May 21, 1961 – October 18, 2017) was an American actor and screenwriter. He was born in Moberly, Missouri. He was known for working with Billy Bob Thornton on Sling Blade. He also worked with Mark Fauser, who was his college roommate. He appeared in the 2017 television series Twin Peaks as Detective Dave Macklay. He wrote the screenplay for Waking Up in Reno.

Briscoe died in Los Angeles, California on October 18, 2017 from complications of a fall at the age of 56.

[[Zapolyarny, Murmansk Oblast]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Russia

Zapolyarny (Russian: Заполя́рный) is a town in the Pechengsky District of northern Murmansk Oblast. It is about 103 kilometers (64 miles) away from the administrative centre of Murmansk. In 2010, the population was 15,825 people.

The area was owned by Finland between 1920 and 1944. The town was founded in 1956 as Zhdanovsk.

Zapolyarny is the closest settlement to the Koshka Yavr air base.

[[People's Party (United States)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States, 1891 establishments in the United States, 1908 disestablishments, 1900s disestablishments in the United States

The People's Party (also known as the Populist Party) was a left-wing political party in the United States.

The party wanted direct election of senators, government ownership of the railroads, telegraph and telephone systems, price support for farmers, a graduated income tax, unilimited silver coinage, an 8 hour work day and more propositions and referendums.

The party was formed in 1891 after a series of conferences involving the leaders of a few agrarian organizations.

The Populists were very popular among farmers in the southwest and Great Plains. The party nominated James B. Weaver as their presidential candidate for the 1892 election, and he would later receive 8.5% of the popular vote and win 5 states. In the 1896 presidential election, the party nominated Democratic nominee William Jennings Bryan, who supported many of the Populist ideas. To separate themselves from the Democrats, they nominated Thomas E. Watson as their vice-presidential candidate, instead of Democrat pick Arthur Sewall. During this election, the populist party slowly began to merge into the Democratic party. Bryan would later lose the presidency to Republican William McKinley. Although the Populist party nominated candidates in the next three presidential elections, their support heavily dropped as many began to support the Democrats or Republicans, or follow Eugene V. Debs to his new Socialist Party. 

The party also had success in the House of Representatives elections. In 1890 they won 8 seats, in 1892 they won 11 seats, in 1894 they won 9 seats, in 1896 they won 22 seats, in 1898 they won 6 seats and finally, in 1900 they won 5 seats.

The party disbanded in 1908. The last known activity of the official Populist party was in 1913.

[[People's Party (United States, 1971)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States, Unknown disestablishments

The People's Party was a political party in the United States. The party was created by individuals from the Peace and Freedom Party, Human Rights Party, Liberty Union Party and a few more. Their goal was to present an anti-war platform for the upcoming election. The party ran in the 1972 and 1976 presidential elections. The party did not get more than 0.10% of the popular vote in both elections.

In the 1972 election, the party nominated pediatrician Benjamin Spock. Julius Hobson was his vice-presidential running mate. He supported universal health care, removing American troops from other countries (see non-interventionism) and the legalization of abortion and Marijuana. He received 0.10% of the popular vote, or 78,759 votes. In the 1976 election, the party nominated Margaret Wright, and Benjamin Spock ran as her vice-presidential running mate. In the end, she received 0.06% of the vote, or 49,013 votes.

After the elections, the party wanted to become a coalition, but many of the founding parties dissolved, so the People's Party disbanded as well.

[[Populist Party]]

The Populist Party can refer to:

[[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (CONMEBOL)]]

CATEGORIES: 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification

The 2018 CONMEBOL FIFA World Cup qualification (CONMEBOL) tournament was held from 8 October 2015 to 10 October 2017 and was used to determine which South American teams will qualify for the 2018 FIFA World Cup.

Ten teams participated in the tournament. Edinson Cavani (Uruguay) was the top scorer with 10 goals.

[[Eva Todor]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, People with Alzheimer's disease, People with Parkinson's disease, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, Actors from Budapest

Eva Fodor Nolding (November 9, 1919 – December 10, 2017), known professionally as Eva Todor was a Hungarian-born Brazilian actress. She was born in Budapest, Hungary. She emigrated to Brazil in 1929.

Todor was best known for her television roles in Roque Santeiro, Locomotivas, Partido Alto, Olho no Olho, O Cravo e a Rosa, América, India A Love Story, Salve Jorge and in As Brasileiras. Her movie roles include Os Dois Ladrões, Xuxa Abracadabra and Meu Nome Não É Johnny.

Todor died in Rio de Janeiro on December 10, 2017 of pneumonia while suffering from Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease at the age of 98.

[[Isabella Karle]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Cancer deaths in Virginia, Scientists from Detroit, Michigan

Isabella Helen Karle (née Lugoski; December 2, 1921 – October 3, 2017) was an American scientist. She was instrumental in developing techniques to remove plutonium chloride from a mixture containing plutonium oxide. She worked on the Manhattan Project during World War II. She was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1993.

For her scientific work, Karle has received the Garvan–Olin Medal, Gregori Aminoff Prize, Bower Award, National Medal of Science, and the Navy Distinguished Civilian Service Award (which is the Navy's highest form of recognition to civilian employees).

Karle was born in Detroit, Michigan. She studied at the University of Michigan. In 1942, she married Jerome Karle, a Nobel Prize winner. They had three children. Karle died on October 3, 2017 at a hospice in Alexandria, Virginia of brain cancer at the age of 95.

[[Jerome Karle]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Cancer deaths in Virginia, American chemists, Jewish American scientists, Scientists from New York City

ChemistryJerome Karle (Jerome Karfunkle; June 18, 1918 – June 6, 2013) was an American physical chemist. During World War II, he and his wife Isabella Karle worked on the Manhattan Project.

With Herbert A. Hauptman, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1985, for the direct analysis of crystal structures using X-ray scattering techniques.

Karle was a former president of both the American Crystallographic Association (ACA) (1972) and the IUCr (1981-1984), as well as a co-recipient of the 1985 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work on direct methods. Among the many additional honors he received for his work, he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1976 and the American Philosophical Society in 1990.

Karle died of liver cancer at the Leewood Healthcare Center in Annandale, Virginia on June 6, 2013 at the age of 94.

[[Eppelsheim]]

Eppelsheim is a village (Ortsgemeinde) in the Alzey-Worms district in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany.

[[Greer Grammer]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, 1992 births, Living people

Kandace Greer Grammer (born February 15, 1992) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as Lissa Miller in the hit MTV series Awkward.

[[Women's History Month]]

CATEGORIES: March events, Women, History

Women's History Month is an annual event to celebrate  the contributions of women to  history. It is celebrated during March in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia, together with  International Women's Day on March 8. In Canada it is celebrated during October , together with the celebration of Persons Day on October 18.

[[Garbage collection (computer science)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

When a computer program is run,  it will use memory, to store certain values. While these values are used, there is a reference to them. When they are no longer used, there are no more references. Clearing the parts of memory which a computer program used, but where there are no more references is called garbage collection. 

[[Richard Arvin Overton]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, African-American supercentenarians, American military personnel of World War II, Disease-related deaths in Texas, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Military people from Texas

Richard Arvin Overton (May 11, 1906 – December 27, 2018) was an American supercentenarian. He was the oldest verified surviving American World War II veteran, as well as the oldest American man. In 2013 he was honored by President Barack Obama. On that same Memorial Day, Overton met with Texas Governor Rick Perry. He was born in Bastrop County, Texas.

Overton served in the South Pacific from 1940 through 1945, including stops in Hawaii, Guam, Palau and Iwo Jima. He left the U.S. Army in October 1945.

During an NBA game between the San Antonio Spurs and the Memphis Grizzlies on March 24, 2017, Overton was honored during a half-time break.

He lived in Austin, Texas. When he was 82 years old, his wife, Wilma, died in 1988. On May 11, 2016, Overton became a supercentenarian. Overton died in Austin on December 27, 2018 from complications of pneumonia at the age of 112.

[[Gavin McInnes]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, English television personalities

Gavin Miles McInnes (born July 17, 1970) is a Canadian writer, far-right political commentator, polemicist, actor, and comedian. He is the co-founder of Vice Media and Vice Magazine and host of Get Off My Lawn, formerly on Conservative Review Television. He is a contributor to Taki's Magazine and a former contributor to The Rebel Media, and was a frequent guest on television programs on Fox News and TheBlaze.

McInnes was a leading figure in the hipster subculture while at Vice, being labelled as the "godfather" of hipsterdom. After leaving the company in 2008, he became increasingly known for his far-right political views. He is the founder of the Proud Boys, a chauvinist men's group considered to be a "general hate" organization by the Southern Poverty Law Center.

[[Tityos]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures

Tityos or Tityus was a giant from Greek mythology.

Tityos was the son of Elara and Zeus. He was hunted by Apollo and Artemis for attempting to rape their mother Leto. His punishment in Tartarus was to be tortured by two vultures who fed on his liver, which grew back every night.

[[Arrondissement of Thiers]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Thiers is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Puy-de-Dôme département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Thiers.

[[Michael Hardie Boys]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Governors General of New Zealand

Sir Michael Hardie Boys (born 6 October 1931) is a New Zealand jurist and was the country's 17th Governor-General, from 1996 to 2001.

In 2004, he stated his opposition to New Zealand becoming a republic, stating in an interview: "If it ain't broke, don't fix it."

[[Lech Ordon]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in Poland, Polish movie actors, Polish television actors, Polish stage actors, People from Poznań

Lech Ordon (24 November 1928 – 21 October 2017) was a Polish actor. In 1948, he graduated from The Aleksander Zelwerowicz National Academy of Dramatic Art in Warsaw, at the time located in Łódź. He was born in Poznań. He was known for his roles in Letters to Santa, Der Schimmelreiter, Czterdziestolatek and in Mister Blot's Academy.

In December 2008, he was awarded the Medal for Merit to Culture – Gloria Artis. He died on 21 October 2017 in Warsaw from pneumonia complicated by a stroke at the age of 88.

[[People's Summit]]

CATEGORIES: Chicago, Illinois, Bernie Sanders

The People's Summit is an annual conference in Chicago held by a group of progressive political organizations in the United States. It is held at the McCormick Place every year around in June. The organizers of the Summit stated that they wanted to get the energy of the Bernie Sanders 2016 presidential campaign. 

[[Bernie Sanders Guide to Political Revolution]]

CATEGORIES: Bernie Sanders, Non-fiction books

The Bernie Sanders Guide to Political Revolution is a 2017 bestselling political book authored by former U.S. presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, published by Henry Holt and Co. It is aimed at teenage readers.

The book is a YA version of 2016's Our Revolution. Sanders created the book to help young people "to fight for a progressive economic, environmental, racial, and social justice agenda that creates jobs, raises wages, protects the environment, and provides healthcare for all."

The book features many graphics and illustrations in the hopes of breaking down complex issues like income inequality, climate change, healthcare, law enforcement reform, prison system reform and student loan debt.

[[Francis W. Nye]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2019 deaths, American centenarians, American military personnel of World War II, American military personnel of the Korean War, People from Vermont, People from Albuquerque, New Mexico

Francis Walter Nye (June 29, 1918 – January 13, 2019) was an American military personnel. He served as a United States Air Force major general who was a B-24 Liberator and B-29 Superfortress combat pilot. He was commander, Field Command, Defense Atomic Support Agency, Sandia Base, N.M. During his career, he was awarded the Legion of Merit two times and the Distinguished Flying Cross also two times.

In November 1968, he was appointed chairman of the U.S. delegation of the Inter-American Defense Board, the Joint Brazil-U.S. Defense Commission, and the U.S. section, Joint Mexican-U.S. Defense Commission.

Nye was born in Barton, Vermont. He studied at the University of Vermont. His wife, Nina, died in 2017. Nye died in Albuquerque, New Mexico on January 13, 2019 at the age of 100.

[[Jeanne Manet]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2012 deaths, French movie actors

Jeanne Manet (born Gilberte Marcelle Lachmann; 27 November 1917 – 15 January 2012) was a French movie actress. After appearing in some French movies, Manet moved to Hollywood. Originally called there as a rising starlet, her roles were generally supporting ones. She was born in Houilles, France. 

[[Doris Grumbach]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, Living people, American novelists, American educators, LGBT writers, American literary critics, American essayists, Lesbians, LGBT people from New York City, Writers from New York City

Doris Isaac Grumbach (born July 12, 1918) is an American novelist, memoirist, biographer, literary critic, and essayist. In 1979, Grumbach published the novel Chamber Music, which was critically well received and helped establish her reputation as a novelist. In six years, three more books followed: The Missing Person (1981), The Ladies (1984), and The Magician's Girl (1987).

Grumbach taught at the College of Saint Rose in Albany, New York, the Iowa Writers' Workshop, and American University in Washington, DC, and was literary editor of The New Republic for several years. For two decades, she and her partner, Sybil Pike, managed a bookstore, Wayward Books, in Sargentville, Maine, until 2009 when they moved to a retirement home in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania.

[[Indumati Bhattacharya]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, Living people, Indian politicians

Indumati Bhattacharya (born 2 July 1918) is an Indian politician. She was elected to the Lok Sabha, lower house of the Parliament of India from Hooghly, West Bengal in 1984 as a member of the Indian National Congress.

Bhattacharya was born in Hooghly district, Bengal Presidency, British India. She married Umanath Bhattacharyya. They have one son.

[[Saint Xavier University]]

CATEGORIES: 1846 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in Chicago, 1840s establishments in Illinois

Saint Xavier University (SXU) is a four-year, coeducational institution of higher learning located on the southwest side of Chicago, Illinois, United States. The current president is Laurie M. Joyner.

Saint Xavier's 109 main campus is located in City of Chicago in the Mt. Greenwood neighborhood on the corner of 103rd Street and Central Park Avenue. The university's main campus is made up of several buildings.

It was founded in 1846.

Saint Xavier also has a campus located in Orland Park. In September 2015, Saint Xavier University opened their third campus with technology that allows its students improved educational capabilities. It had a full simulation center for advanced nursing careers as well as numerous huddle spaces and an auditorium.

Saint Xavier University has one of the most diverse undergraduate student bodies in Chicago, and qualified as a Hispanic-serving institution in 2015.

[[Judith McGrath]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from aortic aneurysm, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Australia, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Australian stage actors, People from Brisbane, Actors from Queensland

Judith McGrath (21 April 1947 – 21 October 2017) was an Australian actress. She was born in Brisbane, Queensland. She was best known for her television soap roles as Colleen Powell in Prisoner (1979–1984) on Network Ten, Bernice Hudson in A Country Practice on Network Seven between 1992 and 1993 and Von Ryan in the medical drama All Saints (1998–2009) on Network Seven.

McGrath died on 21 October 2017 at a hospice in Sydney of an aortic aneurysm at the age of 70.

[[Emilio D'Amore]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Italy, Italian politicians, Italian centenarians

Emilio D'Amore (26 November 1915 – 21 October 2017) was an Italian writer, journalist, and politician. He was born in Montefalcione, Italy. He was first elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1948 as a representative of the Monarchist National Party. D'Amore joined the Italian Democratic Party of Monarchist Unity (PDIUM) and won reelection in 1953. He served a final term in the Chamber of Deputies from 1963 to 1968, again as a member of the PDIUM.

D'Amore died in Avellino, Italy on 21 October 2017 of congestive heart failure at the age of 101.

[[NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue]]

CATEGORIES: Hospitals in the United States, Buildings and structures in Manhattan

NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue, formerly Bellevue Hospital Center and  Bellevue Hospital, is the oldest public hospital in the United States. It was founded on March 31, 1736. It is on First Avenue in the Kips Bay neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City. It is also home to FDNY EMS Station 08, formerly NYC*EMS Station 13.

The hospital handles nearly 460,000 non-emergency outpatient clinic visits, nearly 106,000 emergency visits and some 30,000 inpatients each year. More than 80 percent of Bellevue’s patients come from the city’s medically underserved populations. The hospital currently occupies a 25-story patient care facility with an ICU, digital radiology communication and an outpatient facility. The hospital has an attending physician staff of 1,200 and an in-house staff of about 5,500.

Bellevue was renamed in November 2015 as a reflection of its parent organization's rebranding.

In 2014 Bellevue was ranked 40th overall in the New York metro area and 29th in New York City by US News and World Report.

[[Maidstone West railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Kent

Maidstone West railway station is one of three railway stations which serve Maidstone in Kent. It is on the Medway Valley Line. It is in walking distance from the high street.

[[Hastein]]

CATEGORIES: Danish people, 9th century births, 9th century deaths

Hastein (his name is also recorded as Anstign, Haesten, Hæsten, Hæstenn,  Hæsting and Alsting) was a Viking chieftain. He lived in the late 9th century. He is famous for his attacks on cities in England, Spain, France, and Italy.

[[Arrondissement of Riom]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Riom is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Puy-de-Dôme département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Riom.

[[Rosemary Leach]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors

Rosemary Leach (18 December 1935 – 21 October 2017) was an English stage, television and movie actress. 

Leach won the 1982 Olivier Award for Best Actress in a New Play for 84, Charing Cross Road and was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for her roles in the movies That'll Be the Day (1973) and A Room with a View (1986). 

She appeared in several TV mini-series' including Germinal (1970), The Jewel in the Crown (1984), The Charmer (1987), The Buccaneers (1995) and Berkeley Square (1998) and had a recurring role on the sitcom My Family (2003-07).

[[Martin Eric Ain]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American bass guitarists, American songwriters, Swiss musicians

Martin Eric Ain (Martin Stricker; July 18, 1967 – October 21, 2017) was an American-born Swiss bass guitarist and songwriter. He was born in the United States. He was best known for being the former bassist of the influential extreme metal band Celtic Frost. He used the stage name Martin Eric Ain throughout his career in Celtic Frost. 

Ain died on October 21, 2017 following a heart attack in Zürich, Switzerland, aged 50.

[[Julian May]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, American science fiction writers, American children's writers, American novelists, Writers from Chicago

Julian Clare May (July 10, 1931 – October 17, 2017) was an American science fiction, fantasy, horror, science and children's writer. She had used several literary pseudonyms. She was best known for her Saga of Pliocene Exile (Saga of the Exiles in the United Kingdom), beginning with The Many-Colored Land and Galactic Milieu Series books. She was born in Chicago, Illinois.

May was married to author T. E. Dikty from 1953 until his death in 1991.

In August 2015, she was inducted into the First Fandom Hall of Fame in a ceremony at the 73rd World Science Fiction Convention.

May died on October 17, 2017 in Mercer Island, Washington at the age of 86.

[[Mercer Island, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state), Islands of the United States

Mercer Island is a city in King County, Washington, United States located on an island of the same name in the southern portion of Lake Washington. Mercer Island is in the Seattle Metropolitan Area, with Seattle located to its west and Bellevue located to its east.

Mercer Island is connected to the mainland on either side via bridges carrying Interstate 90.

he population was 22,699 at the 2010 census.  The population was 22,720 at 2013 Estimate from Office of Financial Management. This makes Mercer Island the most populated island in a lake within the United States.

[[Andrej Babiš]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of the Czech Republic, Czech businesspeople, Current national leaders

Andrej Babiš (ˈandrɛj ˈbabɪʃ; born 2 September 1954) is a Czech businessman and Prime Minister of the Czech Republic-elect since winning the 2017 Czech legislative election in October 2017.

Babiš, the second richest man in the Czech Republic, is a former CEO and sole owner of the Agrofert group with a net worth of about $4.04 billion according to Bloomberg.

[[George Saunders]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American novelists, American children's writers, American journalists, American educators, American essayists, Writers from Texas, Writers from Chicago

George Saunders (born December 2, 1958) is an American writer of short stories, essays, novellas, children's books, and a novel. His writing has appeared in The New Yorker, Harper's, McSweeney's, and GQ. He also contributed a weekly column, American Psyche, to the weekend magazine of The Guardian between 2006 and 2008.

[[Kübler-Ross model]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Death

The Kübler-Ross model, or the five stages of grief, is a theory about the feelings of people who are dying.  The five stages are denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance.

The five stages came from Elisabeth Kübler-Ross' 1969 book On Death and Dying.

== References == 

[[Japanophile]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture

A Japanophile is someone with Japanophilia, or someone with a strong interest in or love of Japanese people, culture, and history. This term even has a Japanese equivalent, shinnichi (kanji:親日, hiragana: しんにち) which literally translates to "pro-Japanese". Aguante Viral.

[[Area code 710]]

CATEGORIES: Area codes, Government of the United States

Area code 710 is the area code used by the United States Government. It is part of the North American Numbering Plan.

[[List of Mesopotamian deities]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of gods and goddesses

The following is a list of Mesopotamian deities.

== Major Deities == 

[[Stan Kowalski]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Minnesota, American wrestlers, Sportspeople from Minneapolis, Minnesota

Stan Kowalski (May 13, 1926 – October 20, 2017) was an American professional wrestler. He was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He was one half of the tag team Murder Incorporated with partner Tiny Mills in the American Wrestling Association (AWA) from 1960 to 1975. 

[[Dick Beyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, American wrestlers, American educators, Sportspeople from New York City

Richard John "Dick" Beyer (July 11, 1930 – March 7, 2019) was an American retired professional wrestler who was best known by his ring names, The Destroyer or Doctor X.

Beyer was born in New York City. He studied at Syracuse University. 

eyer began as a "babyface" wrestler in the mid-1950s. His career as a "masked" wrestler, The Destroyer, began in 1962 in Los Angeles. He used the “figure-four-leg-lock” on his way to the Worldwide Wrestling Associates (WWA) championship on July 27, 1962.

Beyer went into semi-retirement in 1984. From 1984-95, Beyer taught physical education in the Akron, New York Central School District, where he also coached football, wrestling and swimming.

On November 4, 2017, it was announced that Beyer would be awarded the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold and Silver Rays, by the Japanese government for "a lifetime spent promoting goodwill and bi-cultural exchanges between Japan and the United States".

Beyer died on March 7, 2019 in Akron, New York, aged 88.

[[Pampero Firpo]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American wrestlers, People from Buenos Aires

Juan Kachmanian (April 6, 1930 – January 9, 2020), better known as Pampero Firpo, was an Argentine-American professional wrestler of Armenian descent.

[[Bill Mercer]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, American educators, Writers from Oklahoma, Sportspeople from Oklahoma

William Anderson "Bill" Mercer (born February 13, 1926) is an American sportscaster, educator and author. He was born in Muskogee, Oklahoma. In 2002, he was inducted into the Texas Radio Hall of Fame. Mercer's best-known work in the field of exhibition wrestling was when he provided play-by-play announcing for the internationally acclaimed World Class Championship Wrestling (WCCW,) based in Dallas, from 1982-87.

Mercer is best known as a play-by-play radio announcer for baseball, football, basketball and wrestling.  He was also a news  reporter for Dallas, Texas, television station KRLD, covering the John F. Kennedy assassination in 1963.  He and fellow reporters George Phenix, Wes Wise and Bob Huffaker wrote, When the News Went Live, about their experiences during that time.

In his 60-year career, Mercer provided play-by-play broadcasting for several minor league teams: First, the Muskogee Giants of the Class C Western Association, then the Dallas Rangers (Triple A baseball) from 1959–64, and the Dallas-Fort Worth Spurs (Texas League baseball) from 1965 to 1971.  He then moved up to broadcast for major league baseball's Texas Rangers (major league baseball) in 1972 (with Don Drysdale) and Chicago White Sox in 1974.

Mercer has retired to Durham, North Carolina after a long residence in Richardson, Texas.

[[Railbus]]

CATEGORIES: Trains

The rail bus train can be found in many different countries, they are known as the pacer or the cooker trains in the United Kingdom due to the loud noises and how hot the air was in the trains.

They were made to respond to the outcry for more trains than buses, while saving money with a cheap design. They used the bodywork and engine of a bus and placed them on a train chassis.

[[M1917 Browning machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy machine guns

The M1917 Browning machine gun is a .30-06 Springfield machine gun created by John Browning. It was used in World War I and in World War II. It is a heavy machine gun that weighed around 100 pounds with the tripod and 42 pounds without it.

It is a water-cooled machine gun, which allowed it to fire for a long period of time without it overheating. The water-cooling tank made it much heavier. During World War II, M1917 was mostly replaced by the M1919 because it was lighter and let soldiers move more quickly, but the M1917 was still used often.

[[Spanish Golden Age]]

CATEGORIES: History of Spain

"El Siglo de Oro," literally "the century of gold," was the Golden Age of Spain. It was a period of flowering in Spanish art and literature. It happened at about the same time that the Spanish Habsburg dynasty ruled the country. El Siglo de Oro does not have precise dates and is generally considered to have lasted more than a century. It began no earlier than 1492, with the end of Reconquista (Reconquest), Christopher Columbus's first sea voyage to the New World, and the publication of Gramática de la lengua castellana by Antonio de Navarre. Politically, it ended no later than 1659, with the Pyrenees Treaty, which was ratified between France and Hapsburg Spain. The last great writer of the period, Pedro Calderón de la Barca, died in 1681, and his death is generally considered the end of El Siglo de Oro in art and literature.

[[Diorite]]

Diorite ( /ˈdaɪ.əˌraɪt/) is an intrusive igneous rock composed principally of the silicate minerals plagioclase feldspar (typically andesine), biotite, hornblende, and/or pyroxene. The chemical composition of diorite is intermediate, between that of mafic gabbro and felsic granite. Diorite is usually grey to dark-grey in color, but it can also be black or bluish-grey, and frequently has a greenish cast. It is distinguished from gabbro based on the composition of the plagioclase species; the plagioclase in diorite is richer in sodium and poorer in calcium. Diorite may contain small amounts of quartz, microcline, and olivine. Zircon, apatite, titanite, magnetite, ilmenite, and sulfides occur as accessory minerals. Minor amounts of muscovite may also be present. Varieties deficient in hornblende and other dark minerals are called leucodiorite. When olivine and more iron-rich augite are present, the rock grades into ferrodiorite, which is transitional to gabbro. The presence of significant quartz makes the rock type quartz-diorite (>5% quartz) or tonalite (>20% quartz), and if orthoclase (potassium feldspar) is present at greater than 10 percent, the rock type grades into monzodiorite or granodiorite. A dioritic rock containing feldspathoid mineral/s and no quartz is termed foid-bearing diorite or foid diorite according to content.

Diorite has a phaneritic, often speckled, texture of coarse grain size and is occasionally porphyritic.

Orbicular diorite shows alternating concentric growth bands of plagioclase and amphibole surrounding a nucleus, within a diorite porphyry matrix.

Diorites may be associated with either granite or gabbro intrusions, into which they may subtly merge. Diorite results from the partial melting of a mafic rock above a subduction zone. It is commonly produced in volcanic arcs, and in cordilleran mountain building, such as in the Andes Mountains, as large batholiths. The extrusive volcanic equivalent rock type is andesite.

[[Hugo van der Goes]]

CATEGORIES: Belgian painters, 1430s births, 1482 deaths

Hugo van der Goes (about 1435 – 1482) was a famous painter of the late 15th century He was probably born in Ghent, Belgium. He painted altarpieces and portraits. He painted his masterpiece, the Portinari Tryptich for a church in Florence. The painting shows the Adoration of the Shepherds, a story from the Gospel of Luke about the shepherds who visited the baby Jesus on the night he was born. The painting influenced other artists of the Italian Renaissance because of its realistic style. 

Van der Goes became mentally ill on a visit to Cologne, Germany  in 1481. On his way home, he tried to kill himself. His friends took him to a monastery in Belgium to recover from his illness, but he died in Auderghem a few weeks later.

[[Parenthesome]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

Parenthesomes or  septal pore caps  are special parts of the cells of fungi. In many cases they look like parentheses. Their function  has not yet been studied fully. They do not alwys look the same, and their appearance is useful for differentiating between different species of fungi

[[Changqing Subdistrict]]

CATEGORIES: Subdivisions of China

Changqing Subdistrict (常青街道) is a subdistrict in Hefei, Anhui, China.

[[A Different World]]

CATEGORIES: American comedy television series, 1980s American black sitcoms, 1987 American television series debuts, 1990s American television series endings, 1993 television series endings, English-language television programs

A Different World was an American sitcom. The series was of the Hillman College, a fictional African American college in Virginia. The show aired on NBC.

The show was aired from September 24, 1987 to July 9, 1993.

There were many actors on the show, like Lisa Bonet, Jasmine Guy, Marisa Tomei, Loretta Devine, Keshia Knight Pulliam and Jada Pinkett.

The show looked at strong topics, like LGBT rights, HIV/AIDS, the Equal Rights Amendment, race and class relations.

In season 2, it came to the attention of Bill Cosby and the producers that the show wasn't truly looking at a historically black college. That's when Debbie Allen was hired as the chief creative force to revamp the series.

[[Anya Taylor-Joy]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, Living people, Actors from Florida

Anya Taylor-Joy (born 16 April 1996 in Miami, Florida) is an Argentine-British actress. She starred as Casey Cooke in the 2017 film Split, and will reprise her role in the film's 2019 sequel, Glass. In 2018, she will star in the film The New Mutants.

[[Jeanne Brousse]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, French people, World War II people

Jeanne Brousse (maiden name: Maurier; April 12, 1921 – October 19, 2017) was a French resistance member. She was born in Saint-Pierre-de-Curtille in the Savoie region of France. 

Jeanne Brousse was a member of the French Resistance during World War II. In 1973 she was awarded the title of a Righteous Among The Nations. In 1981, Brousse was one of the founding members of the French chapter of the association of the Righteous Among The Nations. In 1987, she joined the French Yad Vashem committee, of which she remained the Vice President for several years.

In 2005, Jeanne Brousse was awarded the Legion of Honour.

Brousse died on 19 October 2017 in Annecy, France at the age of 96.

[[Walter Lassally]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winners, 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, British cinematographers, Greek people, People from Berlin

Walter Lassally (18 December 1926 – 23 October 2017) was a German-born British-Greek cinematographer. He won the Academy Award for Best Cinematography in 1964 for the movie Zorba the Greek. He was born in Berlin. He moved to England in 1939. He was closely worked with the Free cinema movement in the 1950s, and the British New Wave in the early 1960s.

Lassally died on October 23, 2017 at a hospital in Crete, Greece from complications of surgery at the age of 90.

[[George Young (rock musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Australian rock musicians, Australian guitarists, Bass guitarists, Australian pianists, Australian songwriters, Writers from Sydney, Musicians from Sydney, Musicians from Glasgow

George Redburn Young (6 November 1946spaced ndash22 October 2017) was a Scottish-born Australian musician, songwriter and record producer. He was a member of the 1960s Australian rock band the Easybeats, and with bandmate Harry Vanda he was a co-writer of the international hits "Friday on My Mind" and "Love Is in the Air", the latter recorded by John Paul Young (no relation). Vanda & Young were also the producers of some work by the Australian hard rock band AC/DC, formed by his younger brothers Malcolm and Angus Young.

Young died on 22 October 2017 in Australia, aged 70. His brother, Malcolm, died a few weeks later on November 18, 2017.

[[Al Hurricane]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, American singer-songwriters, American saxophonists, American rock guitarists, American pianists, American country guitarists, American country singers, American rock singers, Singers from New Mexico, Writers from New Mexico, Musicians from New Mexico

Alberto Nelson Sanchez (July 10, 1936 – October 22, 2017), known professionally as Al Hurricane, was an American singer-songwriter. He was dubbed "The Godfather" of New Mexico music. He released more than thirty albums, and was best known for his works to New Mexico’s unique style of Spanish music.

His signature look, which included an eye-patch, was due to an automobile accident that occurred during the 1960s.

Sanchez died of complications from prostate cancer on October 22, 2017 in Albuquerque, New Mexico, at the age of 81.

[[Jasmine Guy]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Boston, Massachusetts, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia, Living people

Jasmine Guy (born March 10, 1962) is an American actress, director, singer and dancer. She is best known for playing Whitley Marion Gilbert in the 1987-93 sitcom A Different World. She also played Erica in K.C. Undercover.

For her work, Guy was nominated for and won 4 NAACP Image Awards for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series from 1990 to 1993.

Guy was born in Boston, but raised in Atlanta.

Sources differ on Guy's birthdate. Some sources say she was born in 1962. Other sources mention 1964.

[[Tony Richardson]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning directors, BAFTA Award winning directors, 1928 births, 1991 deaths, Deaths from AIDS, Disease-related deaths in California, English movie directors, English movie producers, Bisexual people, English LGBT people, People from Yorkshire

Cecil Antonio "Tony" Richardson (5 June 1928 – 14 November 1991) was an English theatre and movie director and producer. His career lasted for fifty years. In 1964 he won the Academy Award for Best Director for the movie Tom Jones.  He also directed The Loved One, during which he worked with established stars including John Gielgud, Rod Steiger and Robert Morse.

He helped pay for the escape of a Wormwood Scrubs prison-imprisoned spy and double agent George Blake in 1966.

[[Al-Qaryatayn massacre]]

CATEGORIES: War crimes

The Al-Qaryatayn massacre was a massacre of 128 civilians in the Syrian city of Al-Qaryatayn between its capture by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in 1 October 2017, and its recapture by the Syrian army in 21 October 2017. The victims were indiscriminately executed for being accused of cooperating with the Syrian government.

[[Dennis Skinner]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Former Labour MPs (UK), UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019

Dennis Edward Skinner (born 11 February 1932) is a British Labour politician. He was a Member of Parliament (MP) for Bolsover between 1970 and 2019. He was Chairman of the Labour Party for one year from 1988–89 and served as a member of Labour's National Executive Committee, with brief breaks, for thirty years.

[[Melissa Benoist]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Actors from Houston, Texas, American movie actors, American television actors

Melissa Marie Benoist (born October 4, 1988 in Houston, Texas) better known simply as Melissa Benoist is an American actress and singer. She is best known for portraying Kara Danvers / Supergirl in the superhero television series, Supergirl.She also portrays Marley Rose in Glee

[[Paul J. Weitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, American astronauts, American aviators, American engineers, Cancer deaths in Arizona, Deaths from myelodysplastic syndrome, Scientists from Pennsylvania

Paul Joseph Weitz (July 25, 1932 – October 23, 2017) was an American naval officer and aviator, aeronautical engineer, test pilot, and former NASA astronaut.

Weitz flew into space twice. He was a member of the three-man crew who flew on Skylab 2, the first manned Skylab mission. He was also Commander of the STS-6 mission, the first of the Space Shuttle Challenger flights.

Weitz died on October 23, 2017 in Flagstaff, Arizona from myelodysplastic syndrome at the age of 85.

[[Guion Bluford]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American astronauts, American aviators, Engineers from Pennsylvania, American military people, Scientists from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Guion Stewart Bluford Jr., Ph.D. (born November 22, 1942), (Col, USAF, Ret.), is an American aerospace engineer, retired U.S. Air Force officer and fighter pilot, and former NASA astronaut.

Bluford was the first African American in space. Before becoming an astronaut, he was an officer in the U.S. Air Force, where he remained while assigned to NASA, rising to the rank of Colonel. He participated in four Space Shuttle flights between 1983 and 1992. In 1983, as a member of the crew of the Orbiter Challenger on the mission STS-8.

[[Dhanteras]]

CATEGORIES: Indian culture, Hinduism, Religious holidays, Nepali culture

Dhanteras (Sanskrit: धनतेरस), also known as Dhanatrayodashi (धनत्रयोदशी) or Dhanvantari Trayodashi, is the first day of the festival of Diwali in India and the festival of Tihar in Nepal.

Dhanteras is celebrated on the thirteenth lunar day of Krishna Paksha ("dark fortnight" in the moon's cycle) in the Vikram Samvat Hindu calendar month of Ashwin. Dhanvantari, who is also worshipped on Dhanteras, is the god of Ayurveda who brought and shared the wisdom of Ayurveda for the betterment of mankind and to bring relief from the suffering of disease with Ayurvedic remedies.

The Indian ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy), announced its decision to observe Dhanteras as the “National Ayurveda Day.” This day was first observed on October 28, 2016. 

[[Grottaglie]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Italy, Settlements in Apulia

Grottaglie is a town and comune in the province of Taranto, Apulia, in southern Italy.

[[Muthal Mariyathai]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil-language movies

Mudhal Mariyadhai is a 1985 Tamil feature movie directed by P. Bharathiraja. It starred Sivaji Ganesan and Radha in the lead with Vadivukkarasi, Ranjani, Aruna Mucherla, A. K. Veerasamy and Sathyaraj playing other significant roles. The film's score and soundtrack are composed by Ilaiyaraaja.

The film was critically well received upon release. It fetched Best Lyricist Award and Best Feature Film in Tamil Award for Vairamuthu and Bharathiraja  respectively at the 33rd National Film Awards. While the lead actors won their respective Filmfare Awards South in Best Tamil Actor and Best Tamil Actress category.

Kuyil role was first offered to Radhika, but she choose to do Swati Mutyam, which was offered to her at the same time.

The film was dubbed into Telugu under the title Aatma Bandhuvu. It is the last silver jubliee blockbuster of Sivaji as lead role.

[[Madhan Bob]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil actors, Tamil comedians

S. Krishnamoorthy (born 9 October), better known by his screenname Madhan Bob, is a popular comedian and Tamil film actor from Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. He started his film career as a musician and became an actor instead. Apart from appearing in supporting roles in Tamil films he also appears in the Sun TV comedy show Asathapovathu Yaaru as one of the judges. His debut film was Vaaname Ellai. It was Madan Bob who first taught Maragathamani music.

He was eighth child in his family, so he was named Krishnamurthy which also happened to be his uncle’s name and there was a lot of confusion in the house, so they changed his name to Madan. his brother’s name is Padmanabhan a.k.a. Babu. Both started a music group called ‘Madan and Babu’. In time, the Babu became Bob and that’s how director Balachander introduced him in his first film.

[[T. S. Balaiah]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil actors

Tirunelveli S. Balaiah (திருநெல்வேலி எஸ். பாலையா; 23 August 1914 – 22 July 1972) was an Indian actor best known for playing supporting roles in the Tamil films. He was introduced to the cine field by director Ellis R. Dungan in Sathi Leelavathi (1936), along with M. G. Ramachandran, N. S. Krishnan and M.K. Radha. He was one of the very few actors who excelled as a villain, as well as in character roles and comic roles.

[[M. R. Radha]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1979 deaths, Deaths from jaundice, Tamil actors, Indian movie actors, Tamil comedians

Madras Rajagopala Radhakrishnan Naidu (14 April 1907 – 17 September 1979), popularly known by his stage name, M. R. Radha, was an Indian movie actor and politician. He was given the title of "Nadigavel" (Spearhead of acting / frontrunner /torchbearer) by E.V.R. Periyar in a stage, for his acting prowess. After a successful career on stage in his early years, he acted in movies from the 1930s to the 1970s, and then, giving up movies, he went back to his first love, the stage.

[[The New Mutants (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: American horror movies, American LGBT movies, Movies produced by Lauren Shuler Donner, Movies produced by Simon Kinberg, X-Men (movie series), 2020 horror movies, 2020s superhero movies, Superhero horror movies

X-Men: The New Mutants (or simply titled The New Mutants) is a 2020 American superhero  horror movie. It is the thirteenth film of the X-Men film series and it was released on August 28, 2020. The movie is directed by Josh Boone. It stars Anya Taylor-Joy, Maisie Williams, Charlie Heaton, Henry Zaga, Blu Hunt, and Alice Braga.

[[Wilhelm Ostwald]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 births, 1932 deaths, Esperantists, German academics, German chemists, German Nobel Prize winners, Latvian scientists, People from Riga, Russian Nobel Prize winners

Wilhelm Ostwald (23 September 1853 - 4 April 1932) was a Latvian-German chemist born in Riga, Latvia, winner of the 1909 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. 

His parents are Elizabeth Leuckel and Gottfried Wilhelm Ostwald. His son is Wolfgang Ostwald. 

Wilhelm Ostwald was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1909 and it is Latvia's only Nobel prize. Although he was a German chemist, he was born in Latvia so the Nobel prize went to Latvia.

[[Singer 2018]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese music, 2018 in television

''Singer'' 2018 is the second season of Chinese television series Singer, a rebranded version of I Am a Singer that will air on Hunan Television. It is produced by Hong Tao, and its music director is Hong Kong senior musician Kubert Leung. It will be recorded in the Hunan Broadcasting System Radio and Television Center, Changsha, Hunan on January 3, 2018 and aired from January 12 to April 20, 2018 on Hunan Television.

[[Ugo Fangareggi]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, People from Genoa, Italian stage actors, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Deaths from Parkinson's disease

Ugo Fangareggi (30 January 1938 – 20 October 2017) was an Italian actor and voice actor. He was born in Genoa, Italy. He was best known for the role of Mangold in Mario Monicelli's The Incredible Army of Brancaleone.

Fangareggi died of Parkinson's disease at the age of 79.

[[Langenhagen]]

Langenhagen is a town in Lower Saxony, Germany.

[[ESPCI Paris]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Paris, 1882 establishments in France

ESPCI Paris (officially the École supérieure de physique et de chimie industrielles de la Ville de Paris; The City of Paris Industrial Physics and Chemistry Higher Educational Institution) is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is a constituent school of the University PSL (Northern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at ESPCI Paris.

[[Mustafa Adrisi]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2013 deaths

General Mustafa Adrisi (1922 – 28 July 2013) was Vice President of Uganda. He served from 1977 to 1978 and was one of President Idi Amin's closest allies. In 1978, after Adrisi was injured in a suspicious auto accident, troops loyal to him decided to rebel. Amin sent soldiers against the rebelling people, some of whom had fled across the Tanzanian border. This led to the Uganda–Tanzania War.

In the late 1990s, Mustafa Adrisi was living quietly in Arua, West Nile, in a house provided by the Ugandan government, and had recently gone back to complete his primary school certificate. He died in 2013.

[[Ambert]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Puy-de-Dôme, Subprefectures in France

Ambert is a commune in the Puy-de-Dôme department in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in central-southern France.

It is a subprefecture of the department and the capital of the arrondissement of Ambert.

[[Dianbu, Anhui]]

Dianbu (店埠) is a town in and the seat of Feidong County in the eastern suburbs of Hefei, the capital of Anhui province, People's Republic of China.

[[Topaz Solar Farm]]

CATEGORIES: Energy in California, Solar power

Topaz Solar Farm is located near San Luis Obispo, California.  It is one of the biggest solar farms in the world.

[[I. V. Sasi]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian movie directors

Irruppam Veedu Sasidaran (28 March 1948 – 24 October 2017), better known as I. V. Sasi, (മലയാളം: ഐ.വി. ശശി) was an Indian movie director. He made over 150 movies in various Indian languages and genres. He was known for his Malayalam movies of the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s, although he directed a few Tamil and Hindi movies as well. 

In 2015, he was awarded the J. C. Daniel Award, the highest award in Malayalam cinema.

Sasi died at his home in Saligramam, Chennai on 24 October 2017 at the age of 69 at 10:30 am, due to a massive heart attack.

[[Girija Devi]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Indian singers

Girija Devi (8 May 1929 – 24 October 2017) was an Indian classical singer of the Seniya and Banaras gharanas. She performed classical and light classical music and helped elevate the profile of thumri.

[[Glenn Barr]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Irish politicians, Political activists

Albert Glenn Barr OBE (19 March 1942 – 24 October 2017) was a Northern Irish politician. He was born in Derry, Northern Ireland.

Barr was an activist of Ulster nationalism. For a time during the 1970s he straddled both Unionism and Loyalism due to simultaneously holding important positions in the Vanguard Progressive Unionist Party and the Ulster Defence Association.

Barr died ￼at Altnagelvin hospital on 24 October 2017 at the age of 75.

[[Ebrahim Ashtiani]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Sportspeople from Tehran, Iranian footballers, Olympians

Ebrahim Ashtiani (Persian: ابراهیم اشتیانی; January 4, 1942 – October 24, 2017) was an Iranian football player. He played for the Iran national football team and spent most of his career at Persepolis. 

His son Ardalan is also a professional football player.

After the retirement of Persepolis captains Jafar Kashani and Homayoun Behzadi, Ashtiani became captain of the club when he was only 28 making him the youngest captain of Persepolis, a record that was broken by Alireza Haghighi in 2010. He retired in the summer of 1976 at the age of 30.

Ashtiani won the Asian Cup in Thailand in 1972 as well as the football tournament of the 1974 Asian Games in Tehran. He made 35 appearances for the Iran national football team from 1969 to 1974.

Ashtiani died in Tehran of heart disease on 24 October 2017 at the age of 75.

[[Agave deserti]]

CATEGORIES: Agavaceae

The desert agave (Agave deserti) is an agave, which is a type of plant. It is found in deserts in southern California, Arizona, and Baja California.

[[Robert Campin]]

CATEGORIES: Belgian painters, 1370s births, 1444 deaths

Robert Campin (c. 1375 – 26 April 1444) was a famous Flemish painter. He is also known as The Master of Flémalle. He painted altarpieces and portraits. Campin was a very successful painter. He made a lot of money and owned several houses in Tournai. For thirty years he was the most famous painter in Tournai. He had a large workshop where many painters worked for him. Campin's best known work is the Mérode Altarpiece. He painted it between 1425 and 1428.

No one knows where Campin was born. By 1406 he was a master painter in Tournai. By 1419 he had a large workshop there. Many cities and churches in Flanders bought his paintings. He was married to Ysabel de Stocquain. They had no children. In 1432 he had an affair with Laurence Polette. He was taken to court for this and banished (sent away) from Tournai for one year. Margaret of Burgundy admired his work. She convinced the court to let him pay a fine instead of banishment. Campin died in Tournai in 1444.

[[IPhone SE (1st generation)]]

CATEGORIES: IPhone, Mobile phones released in 2016

The iPhone SE is a smartphone made by Apple Inc. It was released on March 31, 2016. It has almost everything the iPhone 6S has but in the body of an iPhone 5S. It does not have 3D Touch or a barometer. However, just like the iPhone 6S, it has an improved Apple A9 system-on-a-chip, an improved battery, and an improved camera that can record 4K video.

Along with the iPhone 6S and the iPhone X, the iPhone SE was discontinued by Apple on September 12, 2018. The iPhone SE currently does not have an upcoming model based on the original iPhone SE. Business Insider wrote that "Apple made a big mistake by removing its smallest and most affordable iPhone from its lineup", suggesting that the company was ignoring customers who are worried about the loss of a smartphone type that is both affordable and small enough to be comfortable to use. Quartz reported that women and other smartphone users with small hands get sore hands from holding large smartphones. The technology website Gizmodo was also concerned that Apple discontinued the iPhone SE, hoping that "there will be a return to smaller phones", as well as hoping that people will be able to hold a phone "in a single hand, and be able to use it fully." 

[[Leviathan (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century books, Non-fiction books

Leviathan  is a famous book by Thomas Hobbes. Its full name is Leviathan or The Matter, Forme and Power of a Common-Wealth Ecclesiasticall and Civil. Hobbes wrote the book in 1651. The name of the book comes from a sea monster called "Leviathan" in the Book of Job (one of the books in the Old Testament of the Bible).  In Leviathan, Hobbes writes about the structure of society and what makes a good government. It was a very early book on social contract theory. It influenced many other writers. He also wrote a version of the book in Latin in 1668.

[[Queue]]

A queue is a line of items.

Queue might also refer to:

[[La Noche Triste]]

CATEGORIES: Battles, 1520, Aztec, 16th century in Spain, History of Mexico

La Noche Triste (Spanish for "The Sad Night") was a famous battle between the Spanish conquistadors and the Aztecs, a native people of Mexico. The battle took place on the shores of Lake Texcoco near the Aztec city of Tenochtitlan in the night between June 30 and July 1, 1520.

The Spanish side, led by Hernán Cortés, had 600 to 1000 Spanish soldiers and 20,000 native Mexican allies. The Aztecs, led by Cuitláhuac (the son of Moctezuma II), had 50,000 soldiers. The Aztec soldiers won the battle. They made the Spanish army leave their city. The Spanish army lost almost all their equipment and the gold they took from Tenochtitlan.  Between 400 and 800 Spanish soldiers were killed or captured. Between 2,000 and 4,000 native Mexican allies of the Spanish were killed or captured. The Aztecs lost about 1,000 soldiers.

[[Shedinja]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon monsters

Shedinja is one of the fictional species of Pokémon from the Pokémon media franchise owned by Nintendo and Game Freak.

It is a Bug/Ghost type Pokemon from the third generation of games, Ruby, Sapphire and Emerald. It is evolved from a Nincada when there's a free space in the player's party. Shedinja is notable because it only takes damage from super effective attacks and has one HP.

[[Additional Member System]]

CATEGORIES: Voting systems

The Additional Member System is an electoral system used to produce a more proportional result than Plurality voting, also known as First Past The Post. It is sometimes referred to as Mixed Member Proportional but these two electoral systems have different ways of allocating list seats. The term additional member system is almost only used in the United Kingdom but has been used to describe Italy's Electoral system from 1993 to 2005.

[[Port Blair]]

CATEGORIES: Andaman and Nicobar Islands

Port Blair (Port_Blair.ogg) is the capital of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a union territory of India in the Bay of Bengal. It is also the local administrative sub-division (tehsil) of the islands, the headquarters for the district of South Andaman, and is the territory's only notified town. It houses the headquarters of the Andaman and Nicobar Police and the Andaman and Nicobar Command, the first integrated tri-command of the armed forces of India.

[[Cellular Jail]]

CATEGORIES: Andaman and Nicobar Islands

The Cellular Jail, also known as Kālā Pānī (Hindi for black waters), was a colonial prison in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, India. The prison was used by the British especially to exile political prisoners to the remote archipelago. Many notable dissidents such as Batukeshwar Dutt, Yogendra Shukla and Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, among others, were imprisoned here during the struggle for India's independence. Today, the complex serves as a national memorial monument.

[[Ross Island, South Andaman district]]

CATEGORIES: Andaman and Nicobar Islands

Ross Island is an island of the Andaman Islands.  It belongs to the South Andaman administrative district, Andaman and Nicobar Islands.

The island is situated 3 east from downtown Port Blair.

[[Amaravati]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Andhra Pradesh, Cities in India, 2015 establishments in India

Amaravati is a city in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. The planned city is on the southern banks of the Krishna river in Guntur district, in the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region. Amaravati derives its name from the historical Amaravathi  Temple town, the ancient capital of the Telugu Rulers of the Satavahana dynasty. The foundation stone was laid on 22 October 2015, at Uddandarayunipalem area by the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi. The metropolitan area of Guntur and Vijayawada are the major conurbations of Amaravati.

[[Naya Raipur]]

CATEGORIES: Chhattisgarh

complexNaya Raipur is between National Highways NH-6 and NH-43, about 17 km  southeast of the current capital Raipur; Swami Vivekananda Airport separates the old and new cities. Naya Raipur is the administrative capital of the State and also caters to the infrastructural needs of industry and trade in the region.

Naya Raipur is surrounded by the cities of Raipur, Arang, Mahasamund, Rajim and Abhanpur. Naya Raipur covers an area of about 8000 hectares. It includes 41 villages out of which 27 villages form the core of Naya Raipur. During the renovation of villages for the construction of Naya Raipur, it displaced the population of one village.

About half of the total acquired land is being used for afforestation, roads, parks, public conveniences, water facilities-canals, green belts etc.; 23%  of the land would be reserved for educational institutions, government offices and public auditoriums etc.; and 30% of the land will be used for residential and economical purposes.

Naya Raipur is India's sixth planned city after Jamshedpur (Jharkhand), Bhubaneshwar (Odisha), Gandhinagar (Gujarat), Chandigarh (Punjab & Haryana),  and Navi Mumbai (Maharashtra), and fourth among the capital cities.

The city is expected to house about 4.5 lakh (450,000) people within a decade. There are plans to make it larger and to improve infrastructure in the future.

[[Shaheed Veer Narayan Singh International Cricket Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Chhattisgarh

The Shaheed Veer Narayan Singh International Cricket Stadium or Naya Raipur International Cricket Stadium is a cricket field in the city of Naya Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India.

It is the second largest cricket stadium after Eden Garden cricket stadium (Kolkata) and fourth-largest cricket stadium in the world. The stadium has a seating capacity of 65,000. Inaugurated in 2008, this ground hosted its first ever match in 2010, when the Canada national cricket team arrived in India and played a practice match against the Chhattisgarh state team. In 2013, the stadium was declared as a second host venue for Delhi Daredevils in the Indian Premier League (IPL) and hosted two of its matches.

The stadium is named after Veer Narayan Singh a landlord from Sonakhan who led the 1857 war Indian independence in Chhattisgarh.

[[Famous places in Shanghai]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Shanghai

[[Muhammad Qudrat-i-Khuda]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1977 deaths, Bangladeshi people, Chemists, Recipients of the Ekushey Padak, Bangladeshi Muslims, Recipients of the Independence Day Award

Muhammad Qudrat-i-Khuda (মুহম্মদ কুদরাত-ই-খুদা, FPAS, SI), was a Bangladeshi organic chemist, educationist and writer. He founded the Bangladesh Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. From 1969 till 1972, Khuda served as the president of the Pakistan Academy of Sciences.

He was awarded Ekushey Padak in 1976 by the Government of Bangladesh for his contribution in education of the country and Independence Day Award in 1986 (posthumous) by the Government of Bangladesh for his contribution in science and technology.

[[Against All Odds (Take a Look at Me Now)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 songs, Pop songs, Phil Collins

"Against All Odds (Take a Look at Me Now)" is a song written and recorded by British singer-songwriter Phil Collins.  It was first released on March 26, 1984.  The song appears on the soundtrack for the movie of the same name.  The song reached number one in Norway and on the US Billboard Hot 100.  It reached the top five in the UK, Switzerland, Belgium, Sweden, and New Zealand.

[[Lauw]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Lauw is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Misenum]]

CATEGORIES: Naples

Misenum (modern-day Miseno) is a small commune near Naples, Italy. Today, Miseno is part of Bacoli. Miseno is at the end of the Gulf of Naples. The city has a long history. Originally, Misenum was part of Cumae. It was devastated by Hannibal, in the year 214 BC.

Today, it is mostly known for its beaches. The best-known sight is the Piscina Mirabilis, a water reservoir, of about 70m by 30m which the Romans constructed to support the fleet.

The current landscape around Misenum is characterized by hills and crater lakes. It is the result of the volcanic activity of the Phlegraean Fields.

[[Inga Borg]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Cartoonists, Swedish artists, Swedish children's writers, Writers from Stockholm

Inga Maria Borg (25 August 1925 – 24 October 2017) was a Swedish artist and children's book author. She is best known for writing about the fantasy figure Plupp. She was awarded the Elsa Beskow Award for her books about Plupp in 1970. She was born in Stockholm.

Borg died in Stockholm on 24 October 2017 at the age of 92.

[[Albaston]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in Cornwall

Albaston (Trevalba) is a hamlet in Cornwall, England, United Kingdom. It is in the civil parish of Calstock.

[[Contribution claim]]

CATEGORIES: Law

A contribution claim is a claim made by one or more people in a court case to get money from a person not involved in the case.

In most cases, contribution claims are made like the original claim itself. The claim must be personally given to the new, third party defendant, by the third party plaintiff (the defendant bringing the claim for contribution relief). In contrast, a counter-claim asserts that the party (usually a defendant) is entitled to offset the damages awarded to plaintiff by the proportionate share of any responsibility, liability, or fault assigned to the plaintiff by the jury. Finally, a cross-claim is the same as a counter-claim or contribution claim, except that it is asserted by a defendant against other defendants. Counter-claims and cross claims do not require personal service because no new parties are being added to the claim.

In some state court systems, a contribution claim must be made as a new case, and the person making it must pay a fee. In other states, no extra fee is required.

[[Marcus Terentius Varro Lucullus]]

CATEGORIES: Roman people, Roman generals

Marcus Terentius Varro Lucullus (c. 116 – soon after 56 BC), younger brother of the more famous Lucius Licinius Lucullus, was a supporter of Lucius Cornelius Sulla and consul of ancient Rome in 73 BC. As proconsul of Macedonia in 72 BC, he defeated the Bessi in Thrace and advanced to the Danube and the west coast of the Black Sea. In addition, he was marginally involved in the Third Servile War (a.k.a. Spartacus' War).

[[Lu Guanqiu]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, People from Hangzhou, Billionaires, Chinese businesspeople

Lu Guanqiu (鲁冠球;17 January 1945 – 25 October 2017) was a Chinese billionaire entrepreneur, and the founder of Wanxiang Group. He was the 18th richest person in China, according to the Hurun Report China Rich List 2013, the 286th richest person in the world, and reportedly the richest person in Zhejiang province. He was a delegate to the Chinese National People's Congress.

Lu died on 25 October 2017 in Hangzhou, China, aged 72.

[[Vilnis Edvīns Bresis]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary edema, Latvian politicians

Vilnis Edvīns Bresis (30 January 1938 in Jelgava – 25 October 2017) is a Latvian politician who was the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Latvian SSR from 6 October 1988 to 7 May 1990. From 2002 until 2010, Bresis was member of the parliament, elected from the Union of Greens and Farmers. 

Bresis died on 25 October 2017 of pulmonary edema at the age of 79.

[[Cheri Bustos]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, United States representatives from Illinois, Journalists from Illinois, Writers from Springfield, Illinois, Politicians from Springfield, Illinois, US Democratic Party politicians

Cheryl Lea Bustos ˈ (née Callahan; born October 17, 1961) is an American journalist, healthcare executive, and politician. Bustos has served as the U.S. Representative for Illinois's 17th congressional district since 2013. She is a member of the Democratic Party. Bustos is the first woman elected to Congress from her district.

In April 2021, Bustos announced that she would not run for another term in 2022.

[[Billy the Puppet]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2003, Fictional murderers, Movie characters, Saw (franchise)

Billy is a puppet that has appeared in the Saw franchise. It was used by John Kramer to talk with his test subjects by delivering recorded messages, often appearing on a television screen or occasionally in person to describe the details of the traps and the means by which the test subjects could survive.

Although it has never actually been identified in the movies, "Billy" is the name by which it is referred to by writers, directors, and members of the cast and crew on documentaries and interviews. The name was given to it by its real-life creator James Wan, who is the director and co-writer of Saw.

[[David A. Kessler]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Commissioners of the Food and Drug Administration, American lawyers, Writers from New York City

David Aaron Kessler (born May 13, 1951) is an American pediatrician, lawyer, author, and administrator (both academic and governmental).  He was the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) from November 8, 1990 to February 28, 1997.

On November 9, 2020, Kessler was announced as one of the three co-chairs of Joe Biden's COVID-19 Advisory Board, alongside former U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy and Yale public health professor Marcella Nunez-Smith in his administration.

He was the head of Operation Warp Speed, the U.S. government program to accelerate the development of COVID-19 vaccines and other treatment, from January to February 2021.

[[Donald Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Commissioners of the Food and Drug Administration, American educators, Journalists from New York City, Scientists from New York City

Donald Kennedy (August 18, 1931 – April 21, 2020) was an American scientist, public administrator and academic.  He served as Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration (1977–79), President of Stanford University (1980–92), and editor-in-chief of Science (journal) (2000–08).  

Kennedy resigned as president of Stanford University in 1992 in the wake of a scandal involving expenses charged to the federal government.

Kennedy died of COVID-19 in Redwood City, California on April 21, 2020 at the age of 88.

[[Icelandic horse]]

CATEGORIES: Horse breeds, Iceland

Icelandic horses are a breed of horse that resist the cold, have two unique gaits, and are a breed with special names.

Icelandics in winter get really fluffy coats, helping keep the cold out.

The icelandics also have two unique gaits, one of which, the most popular, the tölt! The tölt is a beautiful, long stride gait, almost like a stretched out trot.

This specific breed of horse has special names for their horses, since the breed is quite old. Here are some examples of them:

[[Lierna]]

CATEGORIES: Lake Como, Settlements in Lombardy

Lierna is a comune in the province of Lecco in Lombardy, in north-west Italy. It lies on the eastern shore of Lake Como. It is about 60 north of Milan and about 15 north-west of Lecco. It has an area of 11.3 km² and has twelve frazioni: Bancola, Casate, Castello, Cisarino, Genico, Giussana, Grumo, La Foppa, Mugiasco, Olcianico, Sornico and Villa. At the end of 2014 the population was 2176 people, in 983 families.

Lierna borders the comunes of Esino Lario, Mandello del Lario, Oliveto Lario and Varenna.

[[List of places in Cornwall]]

CATEGORIES: Cornwall

This is a list of all the towns and villages in the ceremonial county of Cornwall, United Kingdom. The ceremonial county includes the unitary authorities of both Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly.

The list has been compared to gazetteers and the Cornish names are in the standard written form and approved by the MAGA Signage Panel.

For the Civil parishes which often share the name of a village, see Civil parishes in Cornwall.

[[Team Fortress Classic]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 video games

Team Fortress Classic is a team online multiplayer first-person shooter video game made and sold by Valve.

In Team Fortress Classic two teams battle each other, with each team member having access to nine types of character.

[[Asiago]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Italy, Settlements in Veneto

Asiago is a mountain town in the Northern Italian alps and the birthplace of the world-famous Asiago cheese. The town is located on a plateau at an altitude of 3800 feet (1000 meters) and has a population of more than 6000 people. Asiago is also known as the site of a major battle during the first World War and is home to a war memorial and observatory. Its current economy is based on farming, dairy production and tourism. Roads connect Asiago to the cities of Verona, Venice and Trento and their international airports.

[[Miitopia]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 video games, Nintendo video games, Role-playing video games, Video games developed in Japan, Nintendo 3DS games, Nintendo Switch games

Miitopia is a video game for Nintendo 3DS and Nintendo 2DS. You can be a Mage, Princess, Warrior, Flower, Cleric, Vampire and more. In this video game, the plot is to defeat the Dark Lord and become the world's greatest hero, and you have to defeat even stronger monsters and defeat them all. Also, you can get new powers whenever you defeat a monster to get HP. For example if you are a mage you can get spells such as Fire or Lightning. A version for Nintendo Switch was produced as well in 2021.        

[[Allusion]]

CATEGORIES: Figures of speech, English language

An allusion is a figure of speech. It refers to a well-known story, event, person, or object in order to make a comparison in a person's mind.

[[Marmorera]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Marmorera (Marmels, Murmarera) is a former municipality of the district Albula in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2016 the former municipalities of Bivio, Cunter, Marmorera, Mulegns, Riom-Parsonz, Salouf, Savognin, Sur and Tinizong-Rona merged to form the new municipality of Surses.

[[Kahlil Gibran]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 births, 1931 deaths, American novelists, American painters, American philosophers, American poets, American sculptors, Christian mystics, Christian writers, Deaths from cirrhosis, Deaths from tuberculosis, Humanists, Infectious disease deaths in New York, Lebanese poets, Lebanese Christians, Ottoman people

Kahlil Gibran (6 January 1883 – 10 April 1931) was a writer and poet from Lebanon. He wrote books in both English and Arabic.  His most famous book is The Prophet.

[[Anatoliy Solovianenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 1999 deaths, Tenors, European opera singers

Anatoliy Solovianenko (September 25, 1932 – July 29, 1999) was a Soviet and Ukrainian tenor. He was a People's Artist of the USSR (1978). 

He was born in Donetsk (Stalino at that time) into a mining family. He graduated from Donetsk Polytechnic Institute in 1954. He also studied singing with Alexander Korobeichenko from 1950. He recorded 18 LPs of arias, romances and songs.

Anatoliy Solovyanenko died from a heart attack on 29 July 1999.

[[Privacy]]

CATEGORIES: Everyday life, Law

Privacy is the ability of a person or group of people to hide information about themselves.  It is also how people choose what information about themselves they want to share.

Many countries have laws about privacy.  Some laws and constitutions protect privacy, such as the United States Constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  Other laws limit privacy.  For example, taxation laws force people to share information about income with the government.  Companies can also encourage people to share information about themselves in exchange for money or other benefits.

[[Emmy Noether]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1935 deaths, German mathematicians

Amalie Emmy Noether (23 March 1882 – 14 April 1935) was a mathematician from Germany who studied abstract algebra.  She studied mathematics at the University of Erlangen, and then joined the faculty at the University of Göttingen.

Her main area of research changed over time. From 1908 to 1919, she studied algebraic invariants and number fields.  Her work on Noether's theorem has been called "one of the most important mathematical theorems ever proved in guiding the development of modern physics". From 1920 to 1926, she developed the theory of ideals in commutative rings.  From 1927–35, she published works on noncommutative algebras and hypercomplex numbers. In addition to her own publications, Noether was generous with her ideas and is credited with several lines of research published by other mathematicians, even in fields far removed from her main work, such as algebraic topology.

[[Parenting]]

CATEGORIES: Childhood

Parenting is the process of helping a child develop into an adult.  

When a child is an infant, parenting involves providing food, comfort and cleaning, and allowing the infant to sleep.  As infants cannot talk, this requires the parents to watch the child closely and to help the child learn language.

As the infant grows, parenting involves guiding and teaching the child.  Parents establish habits such as brushing teeth and teach etiquette to behave in society.

[[Tritiated water]]

CATEGORIES: Chemicals, Water

Tritiated water is a type of water where the hydrogen atoms are replaced with tritium.  Tritiated water is radioactive.

[[Ywain the Bastard]]

CATEGORIES: Arthurian legend, Fictional knights

Ywain the Bastard, also called Ywain the Adventurous, is a son of King Urien of Gore. He is a Knight of the Round Table in later Arthurian legend. He is often mistaken for his half-brother also named Sir Ywain.

[[Roy Williams (coach)]]

Roy Allen Williams (born August 1, 1950) is an American college basketball coach for the North Carolina Tar Heels.

He started his college coaching career at North Carolina as an assistant coach for Dean Smith in 1978. 

In 1988, Williams became the head coach of the men's basketball team at Kansas, taking them to fourteen consecutive NCAA tournaments, collecting a .805 win percentage and winning nine conference titles over his fifteen-year span. 

In 2003, Williams left Kansas to return to his alma mater North Carolina, replacing Matt Doherty as head coach of the Tar Heels. 

Since returning to North Carolina, Williams has won three national championships, eight Atlantic Coast Conference conference titles, one AP National Coach of the Year award, and two ACC Coach of the Year awards.

[[Amalebra]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in Cornwall

Amalebra (Amal a-Bri, the name means from the clay of the river Amal) is a hamlet in Cornwall, England, United Kingdom, 3 miles (5 kilometres) south-west of St Ives at Ordnance Survey SW 495 365. The 2011 census population data was included with the civil parish of Towednack.

[[Gualtiero Galmanini]]

CATEGORIES: Italian architects, 1909 births, 1978 deaths

Gualtieri Galmanini (1909 – 1978) was an Italian architect, industrial designer and furniture designer.

[[Antony Passage]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in Cornwall

Antony Passage is a hamlet in south-east Cornwall, England, UK. It is located by the River Lynher (a tributary of the River Tamar) on the opposite bank to Antony village.

[[Tekeda Alemu]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1951 births, Ethiopian people, Ambassadors to the United Nations, International relations

Tekeda Alemu (born in Addis Ababa, May 5, 1951) is a diplomat to the United Nations. He represents his country, Ethiopia. 

[[Chusquea albilanata]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species

Chusquea albilanata is a species of Chusquea bamboo.

[[Dore (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The Dore is a river in central France in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, in the Puy-de-Dôme department. It is a right tributary of the Allier river and it is one of the three more important tributaries of the Allier river (with the Sioule and Alagnon rivers).

[[Helen DeVos]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, American philanthropists, American Protestants, Cancer deaths in Michigan, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from leukemia, Deaths from stroke, Businesspeople from Grand Rapids, Michigan, Richard DeVos

Helen June DeVos (née Van Wesep; February 24, 1927 – October 18, 2017) was an American philanthropist and political donor. She was the wife of Richard DeVos, co-founder of Amway beauty and home care products company and owner of the Orlando Magic basketball team. She was the mother-in-law of U.S. Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos.

DeVos was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan. She studied at Calvin College. In 1953, she married Richard DeVos. They had three sons, Dick, Dan, and Doug, and a daughter, Cheri DeVos-Vander Weide.

DeVos served on the board of directors of the Grand Rapids Symphony and the St. Cecelia Music Center.

DeVos died at her home in Ada Township, Michigan on October 18, 2017 of complications from a stroke after being diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia, aged 90.

[[Jack Bannon]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Idaho, Actors from Los Angeles, California

John James "Jack" Bannon (June 14, 1940 – October 25, 2017) was an American television actor. He may be best known for his role as Art Donovan on Lou Grant, a role he played from 1977-82. In 1963, Bannon appeared in the Season 1 episode "Kate's Recipe For Hot Rhubarb" of Petticoat Junction as Roger. In 1969, Bannon appeared again on Petticoat Junction (after his mother died in 1968) appearing as "Buck". He was born in Los Angeles, California.

Bannon was married to actress Ellen Travolta, a retired actress and elder sister of John Travolta, from 1983 until his death in 2017. 

Bannon died on October 25, 2017 at his home in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho at the age of 77.

[[Aggron]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional dinosaurs, Pokémon monsters

Aggron is a dinosaur-styled Pokémon introduced in Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire and Pokémon Emerald. It is a Steel/Rock type Pokémon that evolves from Lairon. It is Aron's final evolution form.

[[Bambusa basihirsutoides]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species, China

Bambusa basihirsutoides is a species of Bambusa bamboo.

[[Villarrica (volcano)]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Chile

Villarrica is one of Chile's most active volcanoes. It is near Lake Villarrica and Villarrica, Chile.

[[Villarrica, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile, 1550s establishments in South America, 16th-century establishments in Chile, 1552 establishments

Villarrica is a city and commune in southern Chile in the Province of Cautín, Araucanía Region. It is located on the western shore of Villarrica Lake. It is also close to the Villarrica Volcano ski center. Santiago is 746 to the north.

[[Pinito del Oro]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Spanish novelists, Spanish entertainers

María Cristina del Pino Segura Gómez, known as Pinito del Oro  (6 November 1930 – 25 October 2017), was a Spanish trapeze artist and novelist. She was known for her association with Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus for seven years. She was born in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain.

Cecil B. DeMille tried to hire Pinito for a movie about the circus, but she rejected it because DeMille did not want her to appear on the credits. 

In addition to the circus performances, Pinito del Oro found time to publish some novels: Born for the Circus (Nacida para el circo) , The Eve (La víspera) and The Italian (El italiano). With them, she was a finalist in some literary contests such as the "City of Oviedo" and "Blasco Ibañez".

Pinito del Oro died on 25 October 2017 at her home in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria from stroke-related complications at the age of 86.

[[Ronald Breslow]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in New York City, American chemists, American educators, Scientists from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey

Ronald Charles Drake Breslow (March 14, 1931 – October 25, 2017) was an American chemist. He was University Professor at Columbia University. He had taught at Columbia since 1956 and was a former chair of the university's chemistry department. He was interested in the design and synthesis of new molecules with interesting properties, and the study of these properties. 

He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the American Philosophical Society.

Breslow died of pancreatic cancer in New York City on October 25, 2017 at the age of 86.

[[Stephen Toulouse]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2017 deaths, Engineers from Washington (state), Microsoft people

Stephen Toulouse, also known as Stepto, (1972 – October 26, 2017) was the former Director of Xbox LIVE Policy and Enforcement at Microsoft. He represented Microsoft and Xbox Live in many media events, including on Larry Hryb's "Major Nelson Radio" Xbox-related podcast, to discuss security and policy issues.

Before joining the Xbox team at Microsoft, Toulouse was the head of communications for security response with the Microsoft Security Response Center.

Toulouse died on 26 October 2017 at the age of 45.

[[Punathil Kunjabdulla]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from bladder cancer, Indian poets, Physicians, Novelists

Punathil Kunjabdulla (1940 – 27 October 2017) was a well-known Indian Malayalam language novelist and poet from Kerala state, South India. He was a medical doctor by profession. Kunjabdulla was a modernist in Malayalam literature. His novel Smarakasilakal (Memorial Stones) won the Kendra Sahithya Academy Award (Malayalam) in 1980.

Kunjabdulla died at the age of 75 on 27 October 2017 of bladder cancer.

[[Gordon Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, American philanthropists, American billionaires, American inventors, Engineers from California, American computer scientists, American chemists, American educators, Scientists from San Francisco, Writers from San Francisco, Businesspeople from San Francisco

Gordon Earle Moore (m; born January 3, 1929) is an American businessman, co-founder and chairman emeritus of Intel Corporation, and the author of Moore's law. As of January 2016, his net worth is $7.3 billion.

In July 1968, Robert Noyce and Moore founded NM Electronics which later became Intel Corporation. Moore served as executive vice president until 1975 when he became president. In April 1979, Moore became chairman and chief executive officer, holding that position until April 1987, when he became chairman. He was named chairman emeritus in 1997.

In 1990, Moore was presented with the National Medal of Technology and Innovation by President George H. W. Bush. Moore was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2002, the United States' highest civilian honor, by President George W. Bush.

[[Din Tai Fung]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 establishments in Asia, Asian restaurants, 20th century establishments in Taiwan

Ding Tai Fung is a chain restaurant founded in Taiwan, best-known for its xiaolongbao, a type of steamed dumpling. In 1972, Din Tai Fung started selling xiaolongbao and soon began to expand. The restaurant is recommended by the New York Times and the Michelin Guide. Din Tai Fung’s branches have spread around the world along with its business philosophy.

[[Central Cornwall]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Cornwall

Central Cornwall is the middle area of Cornwall. It used to be two districts, Carrick and Restormel. It is used by Cornwall Council to define the area served by Public Services.

[[Carrick]]

CATEGORIES: Cornwall, Local government in England

Carrick was a district in Cornwall. It was replaced in 2009. It was a local government district run by Carrick District Council. 

[[Carrick District Council]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in England, Government of Cornwall, 2009 disestablishments in England

Carrick District Council was a local council in Cornwall. It was closed in 2009. The jobs done by this council are now done by Cornwall Council. The council ran public services and town planning.

[[Cornwall Council]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Cornwall, 2009 establishments in England

Cornwall Council is the local government for Cornwall. It was started in 2009. Previously Cornwall had six district councils.

[[District council]]

CATEGORIES: District and borough councils in England

District councils are a type of local government in England.

[[Ouch, Lower Dir]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Pakistan

Ouch is a town in Lower Dir District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.

[[Timergara]]

CATEGORIES: Lower Dir District

Timergara is a city in Lower Dir District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. It is the headquarters of Lower Dir District in Pakistan. Timergara City is located on the east bank of the Panjkora River. The people of Timergara are mainly Pashtun. The people generally wear typical pashtoon dress. Timergara connects Bajawar, Upper Dir and Chitral to the rest of Khyber Pukhtunkhwa.

[[Pakistan National Assembly]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan

The National Assembly of Pakistan is the lower house of the parliament. The National Assembly has 342 seats, 272 of which are elected by the people, 60 are reserved for women and 10 for religious minorities.

[[Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Pakistan

Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal was a political alliance of several parties of Pakistan that opposed President Pervez Musharraf and Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz.

[[Qazi Hussain Ahmad]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani people, Pakistani politicians

Qazi Hussain Ahmad was an Islamic scholar, democracy activist, and former leader of a Jamaat-e-Islami, an Islamist political party in Pakistan.

[[Constituency NA-34]]

CATEGORIES: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Constituency NA-34 (این اے-۳۴، لور دیر) is a constituency for the National Assembly of Pakistan.

[[Constituency PK-97 (Lower Dir-IV)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan

Constituency PK-97 (Lower Dir-IV) is a Parliamentary seat for the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly.

[[Constituency PK-96 (Lower Dir-III)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan

Constituency PK-96 (Dir lower-III) is a constituency for the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Constituency PK-95 (Lower Dir-II)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan

Constituency PK-95 (Lower Dir-II) is a constituency for the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Constituency PK-94 (Lower Dir-I)]]

CATEGORIES: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Constituency PK-94 (Lower Dir-I) is a constituency for the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly in Pakistan.

[[Sivaji Ganesan filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

The filmography of Sivaji Ganesan comprises 277 Tamil movies, six Telugu and eight guest roles.

[[Vadivelu filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

Vadivelu is an Indian film actor, comedian and playback singer. Since the 1990s, he has acted mainly as a comedian in Tamil films and is renowned for his slapstick comedies. Vadivelu has won the Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Comedian five times for his works in Kaalam Maari Pochu (1996), Vetri Kodi Kattu (2000), Thavasi (2001), Imsai Arasan 23m Pulikesi (2006) and Kathavarayan (2008). He has also won the Filmfare Award for Best Comedian – Tamil two times for his work in Chandramukhi (2005) and Imsai Arasan 23rd Pulikecei (2006) and was nominated once in the Best Supporting Actor – Tamil category for Aadhavan (2009). He also won the Vijay Award for Best Comedian for his work in Marudhamalai (2007) and was nominated three times in the Best Comedian category for his work in Aadhavan (2009), Nagaram (2010) and Kaavalan (2011). He has acted as a hero in four films to-date: Imsai Arasan 23rd Pulikecei (2006), Indiralohathil Na Azhagappan (2008), Tenaliraman (2014) and Eli (2015).

[[Rajinikanth filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

Rajinikanth is an Indian actor who has appeared in over 150 films, predominantly in Tamil cinema. He began his film career by playing antagonistic and supporting roles before graduating to a lead actor. After starring in numerous commercially successful films throughout the 1980s and 1990s, he has continued to hold a matinée idol status in the popular culture of Tamil Nadu. Writing for Slate, Grady Hendrix called him the "biggest movie star you've probably never heard of." Rajinikanth has also worked in other Indian film industries such as Bollywood, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam and Bengali.

He made his cinematic debut with K. Balachander's 1975 Tamil drama Apoorva Raagangal, in which he played a minor role of an abusive husband. He had his first major role in Balachander's Telugu drama film Anthuleni Katha (1976), and got his breakthrough in Tamil with Moondru Mudichu (1976)—also directed by Balachander. His style and mannerisms in the latter earned recognition from the audience. In 1977, he acted in 15 films, playing negative characters in most of them, including Avargal, 16 Vayathinile, Aadu Puli Attam and Gaayathri. He had positive roles in Kavikkuyil, the Kannada film Sahodarara Savaal, and the Telugu film Chilakamma Cheppindi, in which he played the protagonist for the first time in his career. His role as a failed lover in S. P. Muthuraman's Bhuvana Oru Kelvikkuri (1977) won him critical acclaim. In 1978, he was cast as the main lead in the Tamil film Bairavi. The same year, he received critical acclaim for his roles in Mullum Malarum and Aval Appadithan; the former earned him a Tamil Nadu State Film Award Special Prize for Best Actor. He made his Malayalam cinema debut with I. V. Sasi's fantasy drama Allauddinum Albhutha Vilakkum (1979), an adaptation of a story from One Thousand and One Nights. By the end of the decade, he had worked in all South Indian languages and established a career in Tamil cinema.

He played dual roles in the action thriller Billa (1980), which was a remake of the Bollywood film Don (1978). It was his biggest commercial success to that point and gave him the "action-hero" image. Balachander's Thillu Mullu (1981), the Tamil remake of the Bollywood film Gol Maal (1979), was Rajinikanth's first full-length comedy film. He played triple roles in the 1982 Tamil film Moondru Mugam, which earned him a special prize at the Tamil Nadu State Film Awards ceremony. The following year, he made his Bollywood debut with Rama Rao Tatineni's Andha Kanoon; it was among the top-grossing Bollywood films in 1983. Muthuraman's Nallavanuku Nallavan (1984) won him that year's Filmfare Award for Best Tamil Actor. In 1985, he portrayed the Hindu saint Raghavendra Swami in his 100th film Sri Raghavendrar, a box-office failure. In the latter half of the 1980s, he starred in several films in Tamil and Hindi, including Padikkadavan (1985), Mr. Bharath (1986), Bhagwaan Dada (1986), Velaikaran (1987), Guru Sishyan (1988) and Dharmathin Thalaivan (1988). During this time, he made his debut in American cinema with a supporting role in the mystery adventure film Bloodstone (1988), a box-office failure.

Rajinikanth continued to act in Bollywood, often playing supporting roles in films such as Hum, Khoon Ka Karz, and Phool Bane Angaray (all in 1991). Mani Ratnam's Tamil film Thalapathi (1991), based on the Indian epic Mahabharata, earned him critical acclaim. Suresh Krissna's Annamalai (1992), P. Vasu's Mannan (1992) and Uzhaippali (1993) are among his box-office successes in Tamil. He made his debut as a screenwriter with Valli (1993), a commercial failure. The Suresh Krissna-directed  Baashha, in which he played a crime boss, was a major commercial success in his career and earned him a "demigod" status in Tamil Nadu. Later that year he acted in K. S. Ravikumar's Muthu, which was dubbed into Japanese. In Japan, the film grossed a record US$1.6 million in 1998 and was largely instrumental in creating a fan-base for Rajinikanth in the country. Padayappa (1999), his second collaboration with Ravikumar, went on to become the highest-grossing Tamil film to that point. In 2002 Rajinikanth produced, wrote and starred in the fantasy thriller Baba, which fell short of market expectations and incurred heavy losses for its distributors. After a three-year sabbatical, he returned to acting with the comedy horror film Chandramukhi (2005); it went on to become the highest-grossing Tamil film to that point, and its theatrical run lasted 126 weeks at a theatre in Chennai. Rajinikanth was paid INR260 million for his role in S. Shankar's Sivaji (2007), which made him the second-highest paid actor in Asia after Jackie Chan. He played dual roles, as a scientist and an andro-humanoid robot, in the science fiction film Enthiran (2010). It was India's most expensive production at the time of its release, and is among the highest-grossing Indian films of all time. He played triple roles in the 2014 animated film Kochadaiiyaan, the first in India to be shot with motion capture technology; it was a commercial failure. Two years later, Rajinikanth played a Malaysian Tamil crime boss in Pa. Ranjith's Kabali, which had the biggest weekend opening for an Indian film.

[[Vijay filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

Vijay is an Indian actor who works in Tamil language films. He made his cinematic debut in the 1984 drama Vetri, directed by his father, S. A. Chandrasekhar. After appearing in Chandrasekhar's films as an child artist in nearly 9 films, Vijay made his debut as a lead actor with Naalaiya Theerpu (1992). He followed it with a supporting role opposite Vijayakanth in Sendhoorapandi (1993). Vijay went on to play lead roles in his father's directorial ventures such as Rasigan (1994) and Deva (1995). Some which were successful at the box office but unsuccessful critically.

Vijay's first breakthrough was in 1996 with Vikraman's romance film, Poove Unakkaga. His subsequent films, Vasanth's Nerrukku Ner (1997) and Fazil's Kadhalukku Mariyadhai (1997), were critically and commercially successful. His performance in the latter won him the Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Actor. Thulladha Manamum Thullum (1999) earned him a Tamil Nadu state Award.

Vijay began the new millennium with critically and commercially successful films such as Kushi and Priyamanavale. The following year, he performed in three films: Friends, Badri and Shahjahan. All of which had a 100-day theatrical run. His subsequent films Vaseegara and Pudhiya Geethai did not do well at the box office. The success of his  masala film Thirumalai (2003), where he was paired opposite Jyothika, changed his on-screen persona to that of an action hero. He appeared next as a kabaddi player opposite Trisha in Dharani's Ghilli (2004), which went on to become the most commercially successful Tamil film of the year. It was also the first Tamil film to earn INR500 million (Indian rupees). His performance as a caring brother in the masala film Thirupachi (2005) earned him a second Tamil Nadu State Award. He continued to achieve commercial success with Sivakasi (2005) and Pokkiri (2007).  Barring Vettaikaaran (2009), all of his subsequent releases from Azhagiya Thamizh Magan (2007), where he played dual roles for the first time in his career, to Villu (2009) were average successes; and his 50th film, Sura (2010), was a commercial failure.

In 2011 Vijay's career prospects improved after he was praised for his role as a bodyguard in Kaavalan. The following year he appeared in two films: as a college student in Nanban and an army officer in Thuppakki. His performances in both films received positive critical feedback,  He followed that with A. L. Vijay's Thalaivaa (2013) and the multi-starrer Jilla (2014). The latter featured him along with Mohanlal. Both films were successful. He teamed up with Murugadoss again for the action film Kaththi (2014). The film, which had Vijay playing dual roles as a thief and an idealist, became one of the highest-grossing Tamil films of that year. He featured as a tribal warrior in his next film,  Puli (2015); it was a commercial failure. The following year, he played a police officer in Theri (2016). The film had one of the biggest openings in Tamil cinema, grossing INR1.51.56 billion worldwide, and is among the highest-grossing Tamil films of all time.

[[Vivek filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

Vivek (born 19 November 1961) is an Indian film actor and comedian. He has won three Filmfare Best Comedian Awards for his performances in Run, Saamy and Perazhagan. In April 2009, Vivek received the Padma Shri award by the Government of India for his contribution to the arts. He was introduced to filmdom by renowned director K. Balachander.

This is a complete list of films acted by comedian Vivek. His debut as a hero, Solli Adippen, however, remains unreleased.

[[Vijayakanth filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

This following is a complete list of all the films Vijayakanth has acted in:

[[Kamal Haasan filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

He is also a screenwriter, director, producer, playback singer  and choreographer who works primarily in the Tamil film industry. He debuted as a child actor in the 1960 Tamil film Kalathur Kannamma, which won him the President's Gold Medal. Since then he has acted in over 200 films in several languages including: Malayalam, Hindi, Telugu, Kannada and Bengali. After a few projects as a child artist he took a break to continue his education. He later concentrated on dance choreography and worked as an assistant choreographer. During this time, he made uncredited appearances in a few films which he worked on.

In 1973, Kamal landed his first adult role as Thiagu in the film by K. Balachander, whom the actor considers his mentor. He continued to act in minor roles in several films such as Sollathaan Ninaikkiren (1973) and Naan Avanillai (1974), most of which were directed by Balachander. His breakthrough as an independent lead actor came with the 1974 Malayalam film Kanyakumari. His work in it won him the Filmfare Award for Best Actor (Malayalam). Following that, he starred in a series of films in both languagesEm dashTamil and Malayalam. His breakthrough in Tamil cinema came with Balachander's Apoorva Raagangal (1975); the film earned him a second Filmfare Award, his first in Tamil. Between 1974 and 1978, he won six Filmfare Awards including four consecutive wins for the Best Tamil Actor. Kamal turned producer for Raja Paarvai (1981), in which he played the lead role of a blind musician. The film was produced under the "Hasan Brothers" banner which was later renamed Raaj Kamal Films International.

Kamal debuted in Bollywood with Balachander's Ek Duuje Ke Liye (1981), which was a remake of his 1978 Telugu film Maro Charitra. His role as a school teacher who looks after an amnesic girl in Moondram Pirai (1982) won him several accolades, including the Best Actor honours at the National Film Awards and Tamil Nadu State Film Awards. His work in Ramesh Sippy's Hindi film Saagar (1985), a triangular love story, was nominated in both Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor categories at the 33rd Filmfare Awards. Under Raaj Kamal Films International, he produced films such as: Vikram (1986), Apoorva Sagodharargal (1989), Thevar Magan (1992) and Hey Ram (2000). As a producer he won a Filmfare Award and National Film Award for Apoorva Sagodharargal and Thevar Magan. Seven films featuring Kamal have been submitted by India to the Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film, the most for any actor in India. In 2009, he became one of the few actors in India to have completed 50 years working in cinema. His work Vishwaroopam (2013), which he also produced and directed, won two awards at the 60th National Film Awards.

[[Manivannan filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

S.S. Manivannan (31 July 1954 – 15 June 2013), popularly known mononymously as Manivannan, was an Indian film actor and director. In a career spanning three decades, Manivannan went from being a story and dialogue writer for veteran director Bharathiraja from 1980–82 to a successful director who thrived in experimenting with different genres, before becoming an actor. With over 400 films to his name, Manivannan was one of the most experienced actors in the field and has directed exact 50 films. Manivannan was mainly a supporting actor in films and often played the comedian or the villain's role.

The following is Manivannan's filmography. He has worked as a director, script and dialogue writer and as an actor. Manivannan has acted in over 400 films and directed 50 films throughout his career.

[[Sino-Korean vocabulary]]

CATEGORIES: Vocabulary, Writing systems, Korean culture, Chinese language

Sino-Korean vocabulary, or hanja-eo (hangul: 한자어, hanja: 漢子語) are Chinese loanwords in the Korean language. Like Japanese, Korean is unrelated to the Chinese language. Chinese is a Sino-Tibetan language while Korean is a language isolate (meaning that no known languages are related to it), but Chinese has influenced Korean so much that it made many changes to the Korean language. Chinese loanwords make up around 60% of the language's vocabulary, even though Koreans tend to use native Korean words a lot more in everyday speech. This is similar to how around 50% of English words come from Latin, French, or Greek, but English speakers tend to use native English words a lot more. Also similar to Japanese, Chinese serves as one the three main sources for Korean words, the other two being native Korean words and words from other foreign languages, especially English. When some Chinese loanwords changed meanings in Japanese, their meanings also changed in Korean because Korea was a Japanese colony at the time these words changed. Since Koreans were forced by law to speak Japanese and forbidden to speak Korean, the Chinese loanwords adopted the new Japanese meanings when Koreans were allowed to freely speak their own language again.

Since the Korean Peninsula split into two different countries, North Korea and South Korea, the different dialects developed very differently from each other.

[[Council of the Isles of Scilly]]

CATEGORIES: Isles of Scilly, Government of Cornwall

The Council of the Isles of Scilly is the local government for the Isles of Scilly. There are 16 councilors in it, they help run the Isles of Scilly, but don't make any laws. Only the Parliament of the United Kingdom can make laws for the Isles of Scilly.

[[Henry Jenner]]

CATEGORIES: People from Cornwall, 1848 births, 1934 deaths

Henry Jenner (8 August 1848 – 8 May 1934) was a skilled man and writer from Cornwall who studied languages. He brought back the dead language of the Cornish people. This was called Kernewek.

[[Callington, Cornwall]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cornwall, Civil parishes in Cornwall, Market towns in England

Callington is a town and civil parish in Cornwall. It is near the River Tamar, and about seven miles (11 km) north of Saltash and nine miles south of Launceston. 5,876 people live there. Lots of people in Callington work for Ginsters making pasties.

[[Mebyon Kernow]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Cornwall, Political parties in the United Kingdom, 1951 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1950s establishments in England

Mebyon Kernow – The Party for Cornwall (, MK; Cornish for Sons of Cornwall) is a political party in Cornwall. It campaigns in local and national Elections. It has policies that are about making Cornwall a better place.

[[Masein]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Masein (Masagn) is a municipality of the district Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Mountain gorilla]]

CATEGORIES: Apes, Mammals of Africa

Mountain gorillas are gorillas that are from Eastern Africa. Some live in the Virunga Mountains of Central Africa, within 3 national parks. The other lives in the Bwindi Impenetrable National Park of Uganda

[[P-value]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

In statistics, a ''p''-value is the probability that the null hypothesis (the idea that a theory being tested is false) gives for a specific experimental result to happen.  p-value is also called probability value.  If the p-value is low, the null hypothesis is unlikely, and the experiment has statistical significance as evidence for a different theory.

In many fields, an experiment must have a p-value of less than 0.05 for the experiment to be considered evidence of the alternative hypothesis. In short, a low p-value means a higher chance of the null hypothesis being false.

[[George Kingsley Zipf]]

CATEGORIES: Scientists from Illinois, 1902 births, 1950 deaths, Harvard University alumni

George Kingsley Zipf (1902–1950) was an American scientist in the fields of linguistics, philology, mathematics and statistics. He came up with a law of word frequency in languages which bears his name.

[[Ginsters]]

Ginsters is a company in Callington, Cornwall that makes pasties. It is owned by another company called Samworth Brothers. It makes "Original Cornish Pasty" food products, as well as pies and pastries.

[[List of Pixar movies]]

CATEGORIES: Pixar, Lists of movies

[[Cornish Assembly]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Cornwall

A Cornish Assembly is a law making parliament that some Cornish people and politicians argue should exist as part of a devolution agreement with the United Kingdom. So far the Parliament of the United Kingdom has not allowed it to be made.

[[Civil parishes in Cornwall]]

CATEGORIES: Cornwall, Lists of civil parishes in England

[[Frank Darabont]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Hungarian people, American filmmakers, People from Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

Frank Árpád Darabont (born Darabont Ferenc Árpád; January 28, 1959) is a Hungarian-American film director, screenwriter and producer who has been nominated for three Academy Awards and a Golden Globe Award. He is best known for his film adaptations of Stephen King novels such as The Shawshank Redemption, The Green Mile, and The Mist.

[[Daylight (Maroon 5 song)]]

CATEGORIES: Maroon 5 songs, 2012 songs

         =

"Daylight" is a song performed by American pop rock band Maroon 5. The song was released as the third single from their fourth studio album, Overexposed (2012). Lead singer Adam Levine co-wrote and co-produced it with Max Martin and Mason "MdL" Levy, with additional writing from Sam Martin. The song is a soft rock ballad.

[[Teddybears]]

CATEGORIES: Alternative rock bands, Swedish rock music groups, Punk bands

Teddybears (formerly Teddybears STHLM) are a Swedish band formed in 1991, known for mixing pop, rock, hip-hop, electronica, reggae, punk and multiple other genres.

[[Wrinkle (skin)]]

CATEGORIES: Skin

A wrinkle is a fold, ridge or crease in the skin, similar to those that can form on the surface of fabric. The medical term is rhytide. 

[[Sticker]]

CATEGORIES: Stationery, Collecting

A sticker is a type of  label: a piece of printed paper, plastic, vinyl, or other material with adhesive on one side. They can be used for decoration or for functional purposes, depending on the situation. They are also collected and traded among other collectors.

[[Nuclear weapons states]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear weapons, Cold War

According to a new report from the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), nine nations possess nuclear weapons

Here are nine countries with nuclear weapons:

[[Gemini Ganesan filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

This article contains the entire filmography of Gemini Ganesan.

[[Jayalalithaa filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

This is the filmography of former Indian actress Jayalalitha who has acted in over 140 films.

[[Gilbert Stork]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, American chemists, People from Brussels

Gilbert Stork (December 31, 1921 – October 21, 2017) was an American organic chemist. He was born in Brussels, Belgium. He was the Eugene Higgins Professor of Chemistry Emeritus at Columbia University. The Stork enamine alkylation is named in his honor.111

He was responsible for the first planned stereo-controlled synthesis as well as the first natural product to be synthesized with high stereo-selectivity.

Stork was a member of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1962 and Foreign Member of the French Academy of Sciences.

[[Atle Hammer]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Engineers, Jazz musicians, Trumpeters, Musicians from Oslo

Atle Jonas Hammer (11 March 1932 – 22 October 2017) was a Norwegian engineer and jazz musician (trumpet, Flugelhorn), central on the jazz scene in Oslo. He was born in Oslo. He was known from several international cooperation.

From 1980 to 1985, he led his own quintet with among others Terje Venaas (bass), Eivin Sannes (piano) and Tom Olstad (drumes), and this was followed by a quintet with Harald Bergersen (saxophone), Erling Aksdal (piano, 1985–89).

During the 1980s and 1990s he played in bands with Thorgeir Stubø, Per Husby Quintet, Magni Wentzel Quintet, and in Big Bands like the one led by Harald Gundhus/Ole Jacob Hansen and Erling Wicklund's «Storeslem».

Hammer died in Oslo on 22 October 2017 at the age of 85.

[[Ian Cathie]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Politicians from Melbourne

Ian Robert Cathie (24 October 1932 – 25 October 2017) was an Australian politician. He was born in Melbourne. In 1964 he was elected to the Victorian Legislative Council as a Labor member for South Eastern Province; he was defeated in 1970, but in 1976 was elected to the Legislative Assembly seat of Carrum, which he held until 1988.

From 1994 to 1997, Cathie was a Commissioner of the City of Greater Dandenong. In 2010, he was elected President of Glen Eira University of the Third Age (U3A).

Cathie died on 25 October 2017 in Melbourne at the age of 85.

[[Ali Ashraf Darvishian]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Activists, Iranian educators, Iranian writers

Ali Ashraf Darvishian (علی‌اشرف درویشیان‎; 25 August 1941 – 26 October 2017) was an Iranian story writer and scholar. He was born in Kermanshah, Iran. He was often called the "Iranian Charles Dickens". He taught Persian literature in Australian colleges and universities during his career. He was a guest of the Iranian Centre for Democracy and presented a number of lectures on a broad range of social and cultural issues.

Darvishian died on 26 October 2017 in Tehran of respiratory failure at the age of 76.

[[Arnett E. Girardeau]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Florida, American civil rights activists, African American politicians, Politicians from Jacksonville, Florida, US Democratic Party politicians

Arnett Elysus Girardeau Sr. (July 15, 1929 – October 26, 2017) was an American dentist, civil rights activist and former politician in the state of Florida. He was born in Jacksonville, Florida. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He was a member of the Florida House of Representatives from the 16th distrist from 1976 to 1982. He then served in the Florida Senate from 1983 through 1992.

Girardeau died on October 26, 2017 in Jacksonville of a heart attack at the age of 88.

[[Shea Norman]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, African-American singers, American singer-songwriters, American gospel musicians, American Christians, Musicians from Memphis, Tennessee, Singers from Memphis, Tennessee, Writers from Tennessee, Musicians from Alabama, Singers from Alabama, Writers from Alabama, People from Sheffield, Alabama

Minister Alen VonShea Norman (November 2, 1971 – October 26, 2017), who went by the stage name Shea Norman, was an American gospel singer-songwriter. He started his music career, in 2004, with the release of My Heart Depends on You, by Verity Records. This would be his breakthrough release upon the Billboard Gospel Albums chart. The song, "'Tis So Sweet", was placed on the WOW Gospel 2005.

Norman died of complications from diabetes in Memphis, Tennessee on October 26, 2017 at the age of 45.

[[Nelly Olin]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from breast cancer, Cancer deaths in France, French politicians

Nelly Olin (23 March 1941 – 26 October 2017) was a French politician. She was a Minister of Environment in France under Dominique de Villepin's government from 2005 through 2007. From 2004 to 2005, Olin was the Minister-Delegate for Social Security. She was a Senator for the Oise department.

Olin served as Mayor of Garges-lès-Gonesse and Senator, both offices from 1995 to 2004.

Olin died on 26 October 2017 in Paris of complications from breast cancer. She was at age 76.

[[Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory]]

CATEGORIES: Set theory

Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory (abbreviated ZF) is a system of axioms used to describe set theory.  When the axiom of choice is added to ZF, the system is called ZFC.  It is the system of axioms used in set theory by most mathematicians today.

After Russell's paradox was found in the 1901, mathematicians wanted to find a way to describe set theory that did not have contradictions.  Ernst Zermelo proposed a theory of set theory in 1908.  In 1922, Abraham Fraenkel proposed a new version based on Zermelo's work.

[[Disjoint sets]]

CATEGORIES: Set theory

[[Power set]]

CATEGORIES: Set theory, Algebra

[[Second Anglo-Mysore War]]

CATEGORIES: Wars involving England, Wars involving France, Wars involving India, 1780s, 18th century in Asia, 18th century in the Kingdom of Great Britain

The Second Anglo-Mysore War was a conflict that took place on the Indian Subcontinent from 1780 to 1784. The war ended without a clear victory on either side. The Treaty of Mangalore restored the situation to the state before the war broke out. The war involved the Kingdom of Mysore and the British East India Company. The Kingdom of Mysore was a large kingdom, in the South of India. It was an ally of the French. The East India Company was on the side of the English.

Hyder Ali, the ruler of Mysore, committed himself to a French alliance to seek revenge against the British.  The British had problems with Mysore because it had an alliance with the French.

[[Olorotitan]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs

Olorotitan was a type of dinosaur. It was a herbivore, which means it ate plants. One of its skeletons was found in Russia.

[[Abdul Taleb Zaki]]

CATEGORIES: Hazara politicians, Hazara people, 1960 births, 1998 deaths

Abdul Taleb Zaki (عبدالطالب ذکی) was a Hazara politician and jihadist from Afghanistan.

Abdul Taleb Zaki, son of Abdul Wahid born in 1960 in Bamiyan Province of Afghanistan. He was a commander and a member of Hezbe Wahdat political party in Afghanistan.

He was the governor of Bamyan Province for four years from 1994 to 1998. He died in 1998 in Ghazni Province.

[[Leimbach, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Leimbach is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[M. S. Viswanathan]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Indian singers, Composers, Tamil musicians, Tamil singers

Manayangath Subramanian Viswanathan (24 June 1928 – 14 July 2015), also known as M.S.V., was an Indian music director, composer, and singer. He was popularly known as Mellisai Mannar (Tamil for "The King of Light Music"). He composed songs in 1200 movies from Tamil, Malayalam, Telugu, Kannada, and Hindi languages. He worked primarily in Tamil, Malayalam and Telugu movies.

Viswanathan died on 14 July 2015 in Chennai, India of respiratory failure at the age of 87.

[[Mohamed Abshir Muse]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Military people

Mohamed Abshir Muse (yes, محاميد أبشير موسى), (1 July 1926 – 25 October 2017) also known as Mahamed Abshir Musa, was a well known Somali military person. He was active from 1940s to 1950s. He served General and the first Commander of the Somali Police Force. He was trained at the Carabinieri, Italy's national military training base.

Muse resigned in 1969 from his job at the police force. He was later jailed by the military dictator Siad Barre for speaking out against the regime.

Muse died on 25 October 2017 in Minneapolis, Minnesota aged 91.

[[Manfredi Nicoletti]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Italian architects

Manfredi Nicoletti (16 June 1930 – 29 October 2017) was an Italian architect. He was born in Rieti, Italy. He was known for his projects Fontvieille, Monaco, the cancelled Helicoidal Skyscraper in New York City, the Catania–Fontanarossa Airport, Millennium Park in Abuja, Courthouse of Arezzo, the Kazakhstan Central Concert Hall and the Millennium Tower.

Nicoletti died on 29 October 2017 at the age of 87.

[[Manuel Sanchís Martínez]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Madrid

Manuel Sanchís Martínez (26 March 1938 – 28 October 2017) was a Spanish footballer who played as a defender. He was born in Alberique, Spain. His son was Manuel Sanchís Hontiyuelo.

Sanchís represented Real Madrid and Spain. They were one of only three father/son pairs to have won the European Cup/Champions League, and he played in 213 La Liga games over the course of ten seasons.

An international during nearly two years, Sanchís appeared with the national team at the 1966 World Cup.

Sanchís earned 11 caps for Spain, and represented the nation at the 1966 FIFA World Cup. During the group stages, he scored a rare goal in a 2–1 win against Switzerland.

Sanchís died on 28 October 2017 in Madrid, aged 79, from pulmonary embolism.

[[Pasty]]

CATEGORIES: Baked foods, Cornwall

A pasty is a kind of pastry filled with meat or vegetables and baked, a bit like a pie. They are linked with Cornwall where they were first made.

[[Fort Provintia]]

CATEGORIES: Forts, History of Taiwan, 1653 establishments, 17th century establishments in Asia

Fort Provintia is a defense base in Tainan, a city in south Taiwan, built by the Dutch in 1653, and now it’s a historic site.

History

[[AFC East]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League

The AFC East is a division in the National Football League.  There are four teams in the AFC East: the New England Patriots, Buffalo Bills, New York Jets, and Miami Dolphins.

[[Stranger Things]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in the United States, 2010s American drama television series, 2010s mystery television series, 2010s science fiction television series, American horror television series, American mystery television series, American science fiction television series, Indiana in fiction, Period television series, Works set in the 1980s, 2016 television series debuts, Netflix original shows, English-language television programs

Stranger Things is an American science fiction television series created, written, directed and co-executive produced by the Duffer Brothers, as well as co-executive produced by Shawn Levy and Dan Cohen. The first season, released in July 2016, stars Winona Ryder, David Harbour, Finn Wolfhard, Millie Bobby Brown, Gaten Matarazzo, Caleb McLaughlin, Natalia Dyer, Charlie Heaton, Cara Buono and Matthew Modine, with Noah Schnapp and Joe Keery in recurring roles. For the second season, Schnapp and Keery were made series regulars, with actors Sadie Sink, Dacre Montgomery, Sean Astin and Paul Reiser also appearing. The series is allegedly based on a 1992 book The Montauk Project: Experiments in Time which tells stories about the Montauk Project, an alleged series of secret U.S. government projects in Long Island.March 2021

[[Mark of Cornwall]]

CATEGORIES: People from Cornwall, Kings and queens

King Mark was a legendary king of Cornwall. He lived in the early medieval period.

[[National Congress of Brazil]]

CATEGORIES: Parliaments, Government of Brazil, 1825 establishments in South America, 19th-century establishments in Brazil

The National Congress of Brazil is the national parliament of Brazil. It is bicameral. 

The two chambers are the Chamber of the deputies (Câmaras dos deputados) and the Senate (Senado).

The president of the senate is also the president of the National Congress.

The National Congress was created in 1825.

The chamber of the deputies has 344 deputies elected for a 4-years term and is ruled by a president (presidente).

The senate has 81 senators (3 by state) elected for a 8-years term and is ruled by a president (presidente).

The headquarters of the National Congress are in the plaza of the three powers (praça dos três poderes).

[[Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1995 deaths, Indian scientists, Indian Nobel Prize winners

Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar (19 October 1910 – 21 August 1995) was an Indian American Physicist. He received the 1983 Nobel Prize in Physics alongside William Alfred Fowler "for his theoretical studies of the physical processes of importance to the structure and evolution of the stars".

He was born in Lahore now Pakistan until 1916, his family came and settled in Allahabad then in 1918, moved to Madras. He died in Chicago.

[[Trippie Redd]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 births, Living people, Pop artists

Michael Lamar White IV (born June 18, 1999), known professionally as Trippie Redd, is an American rapper, singer and songwriter.

Following his high school graduation, Trippie Redd moved to Atlanta, where he met rapper Lil Wop and was eventually offered a record deal with a professional recording studio. Trippie Redd is best known for his songs "Love Scars", "Poles1469", featuring 6ix9ine, and "Dark Knight Dummo", featuring Travis Scott, with the former two songs both certified gold by the RIAA, and the latter peaking at number 72 on the Billboard Hot 100 as well as receiving platinum certification by the RIAA. In July 2018, Trippie Redd announced his debut album would be titled Life's a Trip. The album was released August 10, 2018 and debuted at number four on the Billboard 200 Album Chart selling 72,000 album-equivalent units. Trippie Redd earned his highest Billboard 200 charting in November 2018 with the mixtape, A Love Letter to You 3, debuting at number three.

[[Ming Chang]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Virginia, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Military people from Virginia, People from Shanghai

Ming Erh Chang (錢勇傑; April 20, 1932 – October 3, 2017) was a Chinese-born American military naval officer. He was born in Shanghai, China. He served in the U.S. Navy for 34 years. He became the Department of the Navy Inspector General in 1987. When Chang left the navy, he became vice president and corporate director for the Pacific region at Raytheon International and then president of MEC International, LLC.

Chang died on October 3, 2017 from complications of Parkinson's disease in McLean, Virginia at the age of 85.

[[Władysław Kowalski]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Polish movie actors, Polish television actors

Władysław Kowalski (24 February 1936 – 29 October 2017) was a Polish actor. He has appeared in nearly 100 movies and television shows from 1957 until his death in 2017. He was born in Żurawce, Poland. Kowalski was known for his roles in Samson (1961), Dreszcze (1981), Escape from the 'Liberty' Cinema (1990), The Boy on the Galloping Horse (2006), Katyń (2007), Louise's Garden (2008) and in Body (2015).

Kowalski died of a heart attack in Warsaw on 29 October 2017 at the age of 81.

[[Gert Timmerman]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Baritones, Bassists, Clarinetists, Converts to Christianity, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Dutch musicians, Dutch Protestants, Dutch singers, Keyboardists, People from Overijssel, Saxophonists

Gerrit "Gert" Timmerman (8 June 1935 in Oldenzaal – 28 October 2017 in Overdinkel) was a Dutch singer and musician from the Province of Overijssel. He was a baritone, and played the saxophone, the clarinet, the keyboard and the double bass.

His best known hits were "Nimm deine weiße Gitarre" (1963), "Ik heb eerbied voor jouw grijze haren" (1963), "Een moederhart, een gouden hart" (1964), "De schommelstoel" (1965), and "Brandend zand" (1970).

He married Hermien van der Weide (also from the Province of Overijssel) in 1963. As "Gert and Hermien" they were a very popular musical duo for many years.

Timmerman and his wife became Christians in 1974. After their conversion they started a Christian musical career but later on they returned to their previous career.

They divorced in 1999. He remarried another woman in 2002. Hermien died in 2003.

Gert died of pancreatic cancer in 2017, at the age of 82.

[[List of comuni of the Province of Chieti]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Abruzzo, Lists of settlements in Europe

The following is a list of the 104 comuni of the Province of Chieti, Abruzzo, in Italy.

[[Queue (unit)]]

CATEGORIES: Units of volume

The Queue was a unit of measurement, used for wines and spirits. It was equal to 3 feuilettes, or about 402 litres. Depending on the region, the definition varied a little, one queue was between 360 and 411 litres. 

[[John Saxon]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American movie actors, American television actors, American martial artists, Actors from New York City

John Saxon (born Carmine Orrico; August 5, 1936 – July 25, 2020) was an American actor and martial artist. He has worked on more than 200 movies in his 60 year long career starting in 1954. He was born in New York City to an Italian-American family.

Saxon was known for his work in westerns and horror movies as well as for his role as Roper in the 1973 movie Enter the Dragon. He was well known for playing Lt. Donald Thompson in the 1984 slasher horror movie A Nightmare on Elm Street.

Saxon died on July 25, 2020 in Murfreesboro, Tennessee from pneumonia-related problems, aged 83.

[[Lil Uzi Vert]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, African-American rappers, American hip hop musicians, American rap musicians from Pennsylvania, Musicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Singers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Trap musicians

Lil Uzi Vert is the stage name of Symere Woods (born July 31, 1995). Woods is an American rapper and singer from Philadelphia.

[[Philippe, Chevalier de Lorraine]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT people, 1643 births, 1702 deaths, Noblemen from France

Philippe of Lorraine (1643 – 8 December 1702), known as the Chevalier de Lorraine, was a French nobleman and member of the House of Guise, cadet of the Ducal House of Lorraine. He was the renowned lover of Philippe of France, Duke of Orléans, Monsieur, only brother of Louis XIV. Even though he never married, he is said to have had illegitimate children.  

[[TD Ameritrade]]

CATEGORIES: Finance, American financial companies, 1971 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Nebraska

TD Ameritrade is a company that lets customers buy and sell stocks and other financial securities. It has headquarters in Omaha, Nebraska.

The company received its current name in January 2006, when Ameritrade Holding Corporation acquired TD Waterhouse from Toronto-Dominion Bank and was renamed TD Ameritrade.

[[Mutual of Omaha]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century establishments in Nebraska, 1909 establishments in the United States, Insurance companies, Companies of the United States, Omaha, Nebraska

Mutual of Omaha is a mutual insurance company with headquarters in Omaha, Nebraska.  The company is on the Fortune 500.

[[Mutual insurance]]

CATEGORIES: Insurance

A mutual insurance company is an insurance company that is owned by its customers. If the company is profitable, the profits are returned to the customers.  This is different from other insurance companies, which are public companies.

[[Lil Yachty]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, African-American singers, American rap musicians from Georgia, African-American rappers, 1997 births, Twitch (service) streamers

Lil Yachty is the stage name of Miles Parks McCollum (born August 23, 1997). McCollum is an American rapper, singer, and songwriter from Georgia.

[[Fortune 500]]

CATEGORIES: Economy of the United States, 1955 establishments in the United States

The Fortune 500 is a list of the companies in the United States with the most revenue.  It is created by Fortune magazine.  The first list was published in 1955.

[[Fortune (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines, 1929 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in New York (state), Magazines published in New York City

Fortune is a magazine that talks about business topics. It publishes the Fortune 500 list of the companies in the United States with the most revenue.

[[Seismic wave]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics

Seismic waves are vibrating movement of the ground. Seismic waves can be caused by underground explosions, volcanic eruptions and man-made explosions that can vibrate the ground. Seismic waves go through the Earth’s layers. The speed of seismic waves depends on the type of materials they meet. When they meet different kind of material, they bounce or go in different directions. Seismic waves can be detected by seismographs.

[[Tony Madigan]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in France, Australian rugby league players, Australian boxers, Australian Olympic medalists, Sportspeople from Sydney

Antony Morgan "Tony" Madigan (4 February 1930 – 29 October 2017) was an Australian boxer and rugby player. He competed in boxing at the 1952, 1956 and 1960 Olympics and finished in fifth, fifth and third place. 

In 1960 Madigan lost his semifinal to Muhammad Ali.  He also won medals at three Commonwealth Games in the light-heavyweight division – a silver in 1954 and gold in 1958 and 1962.

Madigan was the 2010 addition for the Australian National Boxing Hall of Fame Veterans category.

Madigan died in France on 29 October 2017 of complications from pneumonia at the age of 87.

[[Denise P. Barlow]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Austria, English geneticists, People from Yorkshire

Denise Patrice Barlow (31 January 1950 – 21 October 2017) was a British geneticist. She was born in Yorkshire. She worked in the field of epigenomics. 

Barlow was an elected member of European Molecular Biology Organization (EMBO), an honorary professor of genetics at the University of Vienna and received the Erwin Schrödinger Prize of the Austrian Academy of Sciences in 2014. Her discovery of the first mammalian imprinted gene, IGF2R, which codes for the insulin-like growth factor was her best known work.

Barlow died of pancreatic cancer in Vienna, Austria on 21 October 2017 at the age of 67.

[[Hossein Rajabian]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, People from Tehran, Filmmakers, Iranian screenwriters, Iranian movie directors, Photographers

Hossein Rajabian (حسین رجبیان; born 5 July 1984) is an Iranian movie director, writer and photographer who was imprisoned in 2015 on charges related to his filmmaking.

[[Anarcho-primitivism]]

CATEGORIES: Political movements

Anarcho-primitivism is a form of anarchism that is critical of the progress of human civilization.

[[United States presidential elections in Hawaii]]

CATEGORIES: History of Hawaii, United States presidential elections

Below is a table of all United States presidential elections in Hawaii since it became a state in 1959.

Hawaii has historically been a strong "blue" state, voting Democrat in 13 out of 15 of their presidential elections.

[[2021 FIFA Confederations Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Football in Qatar, FIFA Confederations Cup

The 2021 FIFA Confederations Cup was expected to be the 11th FIFA Confederations Cup tournament. It was cancelled as the plans to expand the FIFA Club World Cup in 2021 were approved. 

[[La zona]]

CATEGORIES: Police television series

La zona is a Spanish TV-series produced by Movistar+ for #0. It first episode was aired on 27th October 2017.

[[Vadivelu]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil actors, Tamil singers, Living people, Tamil comedians

Vadivelu is one of the most famous comedian in the present era of Tamil cinema .following the worlds best comedian Surya of neyveli. The comedian known in Tamil cinema mainly for his slapstick comedies.  He is also a playback singer and an actor who played supporting roles along with comedy. He acted in about 200 and above movies. Vadivelu received awards in the Best Comedian category for his performances in Kaalam Maari Pochu (1996), Vetri Kodi Kattu (2000), Thavasi (2001), Chandramukhi (2005), Imsai Arasan 23m Pulikesi (2006), Marudhamalai (2007) and Kathavarayan (2008) Velayudham (2011) . His popularity led to his media-coined nickname, Vaigai Puyal, meaning "the storm from the Vaigai River which flows through his hometown Madurai.

[[Ilaiyaraaja]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil musicians, Tamil singers

Ilayaraaja is a famous film composer and singer in South Indian cinema especially in Tamil cinema. Ilaiyaraaja is also an instrumentalist, conductor, singer, and songwriter. He has composed more than 6000 songs and provided film music or movie soundtrack for more than 1000 films, particularly being famous for his background music.

Ilayaraaja introduced Western type of music into the Tamil cinema.He is also known for creating music by fusing symphonic orchestration with traditional Indian instrumentation.In 1993 he organised a full symphony performed by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra in London and thus became the First Indian to compose a full symphony, with Ravi Shankar being the only other Indian to do so. He is also the first Asian to compose a full symphony performed by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. He has won five Indian National Film Awards (the highest film honor in India); three for Best Music Direction and two for Best Background Score. In 2010 he has received Padma Bhushan, awarded by the Government of India.

He is usually referred to by the title Isaignani (Musical Genius), or as The Maestro. Ilaiyaraja is a gold medalist in classical guitar from Trinity College of Music, London. In 2003, according to an international poll conducted by BBC, more than half-a million people from 165 countries voted his composition Rakkamma Kaiya Thattu from the 1991 film Thalapathi as fourth in the world's top 10 most popular songs of all time.

In 2015, he was also honoured with the Centenary Award for lifetime achievement at the 46th International Film Festival of India (IFFI) at Panaji, Goa. On December 31, 2015, he was nominated by the Kerala Government for Nishagandi Puraskaram, the top award conferred by the Kerala Government's Tourism Ministry, for his artistic excellence and contributions to the Indian film industry.

In a poll conducted by CNN-IBN celebrating 100 years of Indian cinema in 2013, Ilaiyaraaja was voted as the greatest music composer of India with a maximum of 49%.

[[Yuvan Shankar Raja]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil musicians, Tamil singers, Bollywood playback singers

Yuvan Shankar Raja (born 31 August 1979) is an Indian singer-songwriter, film score and soundtrack composer, and occasional lyricist from Chennai, Tamil Nadu. He composed music for Tamil films like his father Ilaiyaraaja. He began his career at the age of 16, when he composed the film music for Aravindhan. 

Then after a long break he composed for "Thulluvatho Ilamai" in the year 2001. Within 15 years, Yuvan Shankar Raja has worked on over 100 films. Considered a multi-talented composer. He is particularly known for his use of western music elements and often credited with having introduced Hip hop to the Tamil film and music industry and having started the "era of remixes" in Tamil Nadu.

[[National deep fried clams day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays

National Deep Fried Clams Day is a national holiday celebrating the process of deep frying and consuming clams.

The holiday is observed on November 1st every year. It is common for people to cook and serve clams on this day.

[[Arthrostylidium schomburgkii]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species

Arthrostylidium schomburgkii is a species of Arthrostylidium bamboo in the grass family. The species are native to Central America, the West Indies, northern South America, and southern Mexico.

[[Arthrostylidium judziewiczii]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species

Arthrostylidium judziewiczii is a species of Arthrostylidium bamboo in the grass family. The species is native to Central America, the West Indies, northern South America, and southern Mexico.

[[Pontresina]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Pontresina (Puntraschigna) is a municipality of the district Maloja in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[+ (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Acoustic pop albums, Folk albums, Hip hop albums

+ (pronounced "plus") is the first studio album by English artist Ed Sheeran. The album was released on September 9, 2011 and is considered to be Sheeran's breakthrough into the music industry.

[[Erie County, New York]]

CATEGORIES: New York (state) counties

Erie County is a county in the state of New York in the United States. As of the 2010 census, 919,040 people lived there. The county seat is Buffalo. The county's name comes from Lake Erie.

The cities of Lackawanna and Tonawanda are in Erie County.

Erie County is home to the Buffalo Bills football team, the Buffalo Sabres hockey team, and the Buffalo Bandits lacrosse team.

[[Chusquea]]

Chusquea is a genus of evergreen bamboos in the grass family. Most of them are native to mountain habitats in Latin America, from  Mexico to southern Chile and Argentina. 

They are sometimes referred to as South American mountain bamboos. Unlike most other grasses, the stems of these species are solid, not hollow. Some animals are associated with stands of Chusquea, for example the Inca wren and the plushcap.

[[Shimmer and Shine]]

CATEGORIES: American children's television series, Canadian children's television series, English-language television programs

Shimmer and Shine is a Canadian–American animated children's television series created by Farnaz Esnaashari-Charmatz. It airs on Nickelodeon in the United States and on Treehouse in Canada. The series premiered on August 24, 2015. The show was based on an unreleased pilot from September 2013.

On February 11, 2016, it was announced that Shimmer and Shine was renewed for a second season that uses CGI animation. On June 21, 2016, Shimmer and Shine was renewed for a third season. Shimmer and Shine are 2 genies who grant wishes and try to solve problems and the evil Zeta  with the help of their human friends Leah and Zac.  

[[Katalin Szőke]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Hungarian sportspeople, Hungarian swimmers, Olympic gold medalists, People from Brussels

Katalin Szőke (17 August 1935 – 27 October 2017) was a Hungarian swimmer. She competed at the 1952 Olympics and won two gold medals, in the 100 m and 4 × 100 m freestyle events. She was born in Budapest. During her career Szőke set four world records. In 1985 she was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame.

Szőke died on 27 October 2017 in Los Angeles, California at the age of 82.

[[Josaphat-Robert Large]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in New York City, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Haitian people, American novelists, American poets, American educators, American art critics

Josaphat-Robert Large (November 15, 1942 – October 28, 2017) was a Haitian-American poet, novelist and art critic. His novel, Les terres entourées de larmes (Shore surrounded with tears) won the Prix littéraire des Caraïbes (Caribbean literary Prize) in 2003. He was born in Jérémie, Haiti. Large was a member of La Société des Gens de Lettres de France (Society of French intellectuals) and of the PEN Club America.

Large died of cancer in New York City on October 28, 2017 at the age of 74.

[[Dennis Banks]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Minnesota, American movie actors, American activists, American educators, 2016 United States vice-presidential candidates, Politicians from Minnesota, Writers from Minnesota, Actors from Minnesota

Dennis Banks (April 12, 1937 – October 29, 2017) was a Native American leader, teacher, lecturer, activist, actor and author. He was an Anishinaabe born on Leech Lake Indian Reservation in northern Minnesota. Banks was also known as Nowa Cumig. His name in the Ojibwe language means "In the Center of the Universe". He was a longtime leader of the American Indian Movement, which he co-founded in 1968 with Native Americans in Minneapolis.

Banks had roles in the movies War Party (1988), The Last of the Mohicans (1992), Thunderheart (1992), and Older Than America (2008).

In August 2016, Banks received the vice presidential 2016 election nomination of the Peace and Freedom Party, a socialist political party with ballot access in California. He appeared on the California ballot with presidential nominee Gloria La Riva.

Banks died of complications from pneumonia on October 29, 2017 in Rochester, Minnesota at the age of 80.

[[Linda Nochlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, American historians, American feminists, American educators, American essayists, American critics, Writers from New York City

Linda Nochlin (née Weinberg; January 30, 1931 – October 29, 2017) was an American art historian and feminist. She was a Professor Emerita of Modern Art at New York University Institute of Fine Arts. She was also a essayist. A well known feminist art historian, she became well known for her pioneering 1971 article "Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?". She was born in New York City.

Nochlin studied at Vassar College, Columbia University and at New York University.

Nochlin was the co-curator of a number of landmark exhibitions exploring the history and achievements of female artists. Her works include "Global Feminisms" at the Brooklyn Museum and "Women Artists: 1550-1950" (with Ann Sutherland Harris) at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.

Nochlin died at age 86 on October 29, 2017.

[[Kim Joo-hyuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2017 deaths, Road accident deaths, South Korean actors, South Korean movie actors, South Korean television actors, People from Seoul

Kim Joo-hyuk (김주혁; 3 October 1972 – 30 October 2017) was a South Korean actor. He was born in Seoul, South Korea.

Kim was known for his leading roles in the movies My Wife Got Married (2008), The Servant (2010) and Yourself and Yours (2016). He was known for his roles on the television series Lovers in Prague (2005), God of War (2012), Hur Jun, The Original Story (2013) and Argon (2017). Also, he was a regular member of the TV show 2 Days and 1 Night, which gave him the his best-known nickname “Brother Gutaeng”(구탱이형).

Kim was killed in a car crash near Seoul after suffering a heart attack behind the wheel on 30 October 2017 at the age of 45.

[[James D. Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2017 deaths, Businesspeople from Alabama, Deaths from congestive heart failure, United States representatives from Alabama, US Republican Party politicians

James Douglas Martin (September 1, 1918 – October 30, 2017) was an American businessman and Republican politician. He was born in Tarrant, Alabama. He served a single term in the United States House of Representatives from 1965 to 1967.

His 1962 campaign for the United States Senate against the Democrat J. Lister Hill was the first serious showing by a member of his party in Alabama since Reconstruction.

The James D. Martin Wildlife Park at U.S. Highway 411 in Gadsden is named in his honor.

Martin died in Gadsden, Alabama of congestive heart failure on October 30, 2017 at the age of 99.

[[Melanmai Ponnusamy]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian writers, Communists, Indian journalists

Melanmai Ponnusamy (மேலாண்மை பொன்னுசாமி, 1951 – 30 October 2017) was a Tamil writer and journalist. He was born in Melanmarainadu, Tamil Nadu, India. He was a Marxist by political orientation and a member of Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M). His first short story was published in 1972 in the literary journal Semmalar. He wrote columns for Ananda Vikatan and Kalki.

Ponnusamy died of a heart attack in Tamil Nadu on 30 October 2017 at the age of 66.

[[Daniel Te'o-Nesheim]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, 2017 deaths, Samoan people, Philadelphia Eagles players, American football defensive ends, Tampa Bay Buccaneers players

Daniel Te'o-Nesheim (t; born Daniel Nesheim, June 12, 1987 – October 29, 2017) was a Samoan American football defensive end. He was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the third round of the 2010 NFL Draft. He played college football at Washington. He was born in Pago Pago, American Samoa.

On October 30, 2017, Te'o-Nesheim was reported to have died at the age of 30.

[[Aterno-Pescara]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Italy

The Aterno-Pescara (Aternus) is the longest river in the Abruzzo region and the one with largest watershed, 3190 of the rivers that flow into the Adriatic Sea south of the Reno river.

The river starts as Aterno on the Monti della Laga (a mountain range in the central Apennines) flowing mainly through the provinces of L'Aquila and Pescara; it flows also through the Chieti but only for a short distance. In the comune of Popoli, the river is joined by the Pescara river and then flows into the Adriatic Sea in the city of Pescara.

[[Delphine Gibson]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 2018 deaths, American supercentenarians, People from South Carolina, People from Pennsylvania

Delphine Gibson (August 17, 1903 – May 9, 2018) was an American supercentenarian. She was born Fairfield County, South Carolina. At the age of 1903 was the oldest person in the United States. She became the oldest living American upon the death of Adele Dunlap on February 5, 2017.

She married Tyler Gibson in 1928. They had three children. Gibson lives in Huntingdon, Pennsylvania. Gibson died on May 9, 2018 at the age of 114.

[[Jean Daniel]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Living people, African Jews, French journalists, Jewish French writers

Jean Daniel (born 21 July 1920), also known as Jean Daniel Bensaid, is an Algerian-born French Jewish journalist and author. He is the founder and executive editor of Le Nouvel Observateur weekly. He was born in Blida, Algeria. He is a member of the Saint-Simon Foundation think-tank. 

In La prison juive: Humeurs et méditations d'un témoin (The Jewish Prison), Daniel argues that prosperous Jews in the west live in a self-imposed prison made of up of three invisible walls: the idea of the Chosen People, Holocaust remembrance, and support for Israel.

[[Parasakthi (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil-language movies

Parasakthi is an 1952 Indian film in the language of Tamil directed by R. Krishnan - S. Panju. This film is the debut for the famous actor of Tamil cinema known for his excellent acting, Sivaji Ganesan. This film was jointly produced by National Pictures and AVM Productions. This film is based on  the stage play written by Pavalar Balasundaram in the same title.

The film narrates the misfortunes of a Tamil family during the World War II and how the individuals of the family face their fate and how they reunite at the climax of the film.

The screenplay and dialogues for Parasakthi were written by M. Karunanidhi, who would later become the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. The music of Parasakthi was composed by R. Sudarsanam. The lyrics were written by Bharathidasan, Subramania Bharati, M. Karunanidhi, Annal Thango, Udumalai Narayana Kavi and K. P. Kamatchisundaram.  Parasakthi was released on 17 October 1952, during the festive occasion of Diwali, and faced controversies because of its portrayal of Brahmins and Hindu customs and practices in poor light.The society with powerful peoples (elites) including the then ruling State government even demanded the film to be banned.

Despite these protests, the film was critically celebrated, with praise directed towards its dialogues and the actors performances in particular. The film also become a commercial success, and had a theatrical run of over 175 days. Parasakthi  in Tamil cinema became a trendsetter for dialogues and acting for later Tamil films.

[[Goliath frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of Africa

The goliath frog or giant slippery frog (Conraua goliath) is the biggest type of frog on Earth. It can grow to 32 centimetres (12.6 inches) long and weigh up to 3.25 kilograms (7.17 pounds). Its natural habitat is western Africa.

In 2019, scientists learned that the frog does something unusual: It digs pools to lay eggs in.  The scientists think it is the male frog who digs the pool.  Because not all the tadpoles in each pool were the same size, the scientists came to think that frogs lay eggs in the same pool more than once.  The frogs move sand, pieces of plants, and stones almost as big as they are.  They use the stones and plants to build higher walls for the pool.  Scientists saw adult frogs staying near the pools at night to scare away bigger animals that wanted to eat the tadpoles.  Scientists think this might be why the goliath frog is so big: Bigger frogs can move bigger rocks, build bigger pools and scare away bigger predators.

[[Boomerang (Central and Eastern Europe)]]

CATEGORIES: Cartoon Network, 2005 establishments in Europe

Boomerang Central and Eastern Europe is a television channel, which broadcasts cartoons, from the Hanna-Barbera and Warner Bros. Animation library. This is the variant of the channel that is being broadcast in countries part of Central and Eastern Europe, such as Romania, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Ukraine, the Adria nations, Russia and CIS countries. Since November 2014, it has been broadcasting on all providers in the Netherlands and the Flanders region of Belgium. In the Netherlands and Flanders, it is offered with a Dutch soundtrack as well.

[[Artturi Ilmari Virtanen]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1973 deaths, Academics, Biochemists, Finnish Nobel Prize winners, Finnish scientists, People from Helsinki

Artturi Ilmari Virtanen (January 15, 1895 – November 11, 1973) was a Finnish biochemist. He received the 1945 Nobel Prize in Chemistry "for his research and inventions in agricultural and nutrition chemistry, especially for his fodder preservation method".

He was born in Helsinki, Russian Empire (now Finland) and died in Helsinki.

[[Spider-tailed horned viper]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

A spider-tailed horned viper (Pseudocerastes urarachnoides) is a species of viper. It is found in western Iran. It was discovered in 2006. Its head is like other species of Pseudocerastes, but its tail is not. The spider-tailed horned viper has a spider shaped tail which it uses it to attract its prey.

[[Polo Hofer]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Swiss musicians

Urs Alfred "Polo" Hofer (16 March 1945 – 22 July 2017) was a Swiss musician. He was known for his work in the field of Swiss German pop and rock music. He was born in Interlaken, Switzerland.

Hofer composed and sang in Bernese German, and was one of the most popular protagonists of Swiss-German rock and pop music, so-called Mundartrock. Co-founding the then popular Swiss rock groups Rumpelstilz and Schmetterband, Hofer published 18 music albums and composed about 350 songs.

Hofer died on 22 July 2017 at the age of 72.

[[Dieter Kurrat]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, German footballers, German football managers, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia, People from Dortmund

Dieter "Hoppi" Kurrat (15 May 1942 – 27 October 2017) was a German football player and coach. He was born in Dortmund, Germany. His brother was Hans-Jürgen Kurrat.

Kurrat died on 27 October, 2017.

[[List of former municipalities of Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Switzerland

This is a list of former municipalities of Switzerland, i.e. municipalities of Switzerland (Gemeinden, communes, comuni, vischnancas) that no longer exist.

In 1850, Switzerland had 3203 municipalities. On 1 January 2015, the number was 2324.

[[Siat]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Siat is a former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Siat, Castrisch, Ilanz, Ladir, Luven, Pitasch, Riein, Ruschein, Schnaus, Sevgein, Duvin, Pigniu and Rueun merged into the new municipality of Ilanz/Glion.

[[Gert and Hermien]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch singers, Musical duos, People from Overijssel

Gert and Hermien (Dutch: Gert en Hermien) were a musical duo from the Province of Overijssel in the Netherlands, consisting of Gert Timmerman (died 2017) and his wife Hermien Timmerman-van der Weide (died 2003).

They were singing from the 1960s to the early 1990s.

Their most well-known song was "Shalalie shalala".

After their conversion to Christianity in 1974, they only did religious singing for several years.

[[Sabu M. Jacob]]

Sabu M. Jacob is an Indian business magnate. He is the chief Coordinator of Twenty-20 the charity outfit floated by Anna-Kitex Group.

[[Vincent de Paul]]

CATEGORIES: 1581 births, 1660 deaths

St. Vincent de Paul (24 April 1581 – 27 September 1660) was a French Roman Catholic priest who dedicated himself to serving the poor. He is venerated as a saint in the Catholic Church and the Anglican Communion. He was canonized in 1737. He was renowned for his compassion, humility and generosity and is known as the "Great Apostle of Trumpets."

[[A. R. Rahman]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil singers, Tamil musicians, Living people, Bollywood playback singers

Allah-Rakha Rahman is an Indian composer, singer, songwriter, music composer and philanthropist. A. R. Rahman's works are famous for combining Indian classical music with electronic music, world music and traditional orchestral arrangements.

[[Queue (abstract data type)]]

CATEGORIES: Data structures

In Computer science, a queue is a data structure, used for storing items, before they are processed. Generally, the following operations exist:

Items that are between the first and the last element of the queue are not directly accessible.

There is a specialization, called priority queue: In a priority queue, each item also has a weight, which determine the position of the item in a queue.

[[Flag Day (United Arab Emirates)]]

CATEGORIES: National Days

Flag day in United Arab Emirates(UAE) is a national occasion which is  celebrated every year at November 3rd. Flag Day. It is celebrated to remember Sheikh Zayed and Anderson Quintana, and their brothers.

[[Deva (composer)]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil musicians, Living people, 1950 births, Tamil singers, Composers

Devanesan Chokkalingam, also known as Deva, is an Indian movie composer and singer. He has composed songs and provided background music for Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada movies in a career spanning about 20 years. Many know his gaana songs, written mostly using Madras Tamil. He is known as the "Father of Gaana Genre" in the Tamil movie industry.

Deva has composed music for many movies within a very short period. His first movie as a movie music director is the movie Manasukkeththa Maharasa in 1989. In these years he has composed music for more than 400 movies.

[[Gangai Amaran]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil musicians, Tamil singers, 1947 births, Tamil directors, Living people

Gangai Amaran is a music director, singer, lyricist, script writer, movie director and actor in Tamil movies.

[[Prince Andrew of Greece and Denmark]]

CATEGORIES: Greek people, Danish royalty, Princes and princesses, 1882 births, 1944 deaths

Prince Andrew of Greece and Denmark (2 February 1882 – 3 December 1944) was a Greek and Danish prince of the House of Glucksburg. He was the son of George I of Greece and the grandson of Christian IX of Denmark and Queen Louise of Denmark. He was the father of HRH Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh and father in law of Queen Elizabeth II. He was the grandfather of Charles, Prince of Wales, great grandfather of Prince William, Duke of Cambridge and great great grandfather of Prince George of Cambridge.

He married Princess Alice of Battenberg and had four daughters and a son. He was an ancestor of the present Mountbatten-Windsor line.

[[Szlachcic]]

CATEGORIES: Nobility

A Szlachcic is Polish. It means someone is a member of Polish Nobility.

[[Audi Q7]]

CATEGORIES: Audi automobiles, Sport utility vehicles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Audi Q7 is an SUV made by Audi since 2005. It is an all wheel drive vehicle which can carry seven passengers.

[[Eugène Parlier]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Swiss footballers, 1954 FIFA World Cup players

Eugène Parlier (13 February 1929 – 30 October 2017) was a Swiss football goalkeeper who played for Switzerland in the 1954 FIFA World Cup. He was born in Montreux, Switzerland. He also played for Neuchâtel Xamax, Servette FC, Urania Genève Sport, FC Biel-Bienne, FC Lausanne-Sport, and Étoile Carouge FC.

Parlier died on 30 October 2017 at the age of 88.

[[Jotaro Kujo]]

CATEGORIES: Manga, Fictional characters, Anime characters

Jotaro Kujo is a character in JoJo's Bizarre Adventure, son of a Japanese jazz musician and Holly Kujo, daughter of Joseph Joestar, the main Jojo in the third part of the manga:Stardust Crusaders. Aswell as a major ally in the fourth and sixth parts Diamond Is Unbreakable and Stone Ocean. He also appears briefly at the Beginning of the fifth part,Vento Aureo. He has super powers, in this case he manifests a Stand; Star Platinum. Star Platinum suggests the 17th Tarot card, the star meaning Hope. He punches things and people with high speed and inhuman strength; he also has a secondary attack: Star Finger. In the fight against Dio Brando he has the ability to stop time for five seconds (Two seconds is part four and six). He has a very high precision with his stand.

[[Poschiavo]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Poschiavo (Poschiavo, Pusciaaf, Puschlav, Puschlav) is a municipality of the district Bernina in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. As of December 2015, 3513 people lived there.

Poschiavo has its own lake, called Lago di Poschiavo, which is located to the south of the village.

[[Knights Hospitaller]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Ages, Orders of knighthood

The Knights Hospitaller were a group of military knights fighting in Jerusalem.  They are the group that became the Knights of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem and, eventually, St. John Ambulance.

The Hospitallers are a Catholic military order founded at Jerusalem in the 11th century. They later became the Sovereign Military Order of Malta. Today their headquarters are in Rome. The order continues its humanitarian tasks in most parts of the modern world under several slightly different names.

[[Ahmed Boukouss]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1946 births, Moroccan scientists, Linguists, Sociologists, Moroccan writers

Ahmed Boukous (Amazigh: ⵃⵎⴰⴷ ⴱⵓⴽⵓⵙ, Ḥmad bukus; born October, 15, 1946) is a Moroccan Amazighist, linguist and sociologist. He is now the president of the Royal Institute of the Amazigh Culture.

[[Deaths in November 2017]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, November 2017 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in November 2017. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".  Names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

[[2017 Lower Manhattan attack]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 murders in the United States, 2010s in New York (state), 21st century in Manhattan, Islamic terrorist incidents in the United States, Islamic State, Mass murder in 2017, Mass murder in New York, Massacres in the United States, October 2017 events

On October 31, 2017, a man drove a pickup truck into cyclists and pedestrians along 1 of a bike path alongside West Street, near Chambers Street in Lower Manhattan, New York City.

The vehicle-ramming attack killed eight people, including five Argentines and one Belgian tourist, and injured eleven others. After leaving the truck, the driver appeared to be wielding two guns and was later shot in the abdomen by police, and then arrested. An ISIS flag and a document that read "Islamic State will endure forever" in Arabic were found in the truck.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation charged 29-year-old Sayfullo Habibullaevich Saipov, who had immigrated to the United States from Uzbekistan on a Diversity Immigrant Visa, with destruction of a motor vehicle and supporting a terrorist organization.

[[Milo Yiannopoulos]]

CATEGORIES: British journalists

Milo Yiannopoulos is a British writer. He often criticizes feminism and Islam.  He studied at the University of Manchester and Wolfson College. He has worked for The Telegraph. He covered the gamergate controversy. In 2016 he was criticized for saying that sex between adults and children can sometimes be consensual.

[[S. A. Chandrasekhar]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil directors

S. A. Chandrasekhar is an Indian movie director, producer and writer who mostly works in Tamil movies. Chandrasekhar made his debut as a director with Sattam Oru Iruttarai (1981) and went on to direct movie with social based or society based themes.

[[K. Balachander filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

K. Balachander has written, directed nearly 80 movies. He has worked in more than 100 movies either as director or writer in many languages. Those languages are Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Hindi and Kannada.

[[Buddhist texts]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist texts

The Dhyāna sutras (Chan-jing) are a group of early Buddhist meditation texts which contain meditation teachings from the Sarvastivada school along with some early proto-Mahayana meditations. They were mostly the work of Buddhist Yoga teachers from Kashmir and were influential in Chinese Buddhism.

[[Grand Traverse County, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Michigan counties, 1851 establishments in Michigan

Grand Traverse County is a county in Michigan. It's county seat is Traverse City. It is a very popular tourist destination during the summer.

[[Password policy]]

CATEGORIES: Computer security

A password policy is a set of rules to enforce strong passwords.

[[Shivalinga (2017 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil-language movies

Sivalinga is Tamil mystery horror comedy movie directed by P. Vasu with Raghava Lawrence and Ritika Singh in the leading roles. This movie is a remake of Vasu's earlier 2016 Kannada movie of the same name. The project in Tamil, began production in July 2016.

[[Maroon (people)]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in North America, Ethnic groups in South America

Maroon are Africans who escaped from the slavery in the Americas and who mixed with the native Americans.

[[Raghava Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil actors, Tamil singers, Tamil directors

K. Raghava Lawrence is an Indian choreographer, an actor, director, composer and playback singer. He made his debut as a choreographer in 1993. He began his career as an actor in 1998, in a Telugu film. Most of his Telugu films were dubbed by artists. He became famous in Telugu cinema through the film Style. In Tamil, he became famous through the Muni film series.

Lawrence is also known for his complicated hip-hop and westernised dance moves. He has won four Filmfare Awards and three Nandi Awards for best choreography. He is also known for his social services and the temple he built for his living mother Kanmani. He was born In Andhra Pradeah

[[Sri Lankan Tamils]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil people

A person of the Tamil dialect, from the country of Sri Lanka.

[[Muni (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil-language movies

Muni is a 2007 Tamil horror comedy film written and directed by Raghava Lawrence who also plays the lead role. Vedhicka, Rajkiran, Kovai Sarala and Rahul Dev played supporting roles in the film.The film released on 9 March 2007 along with a Telugu dubbed version of same name. This film gained average reviews and average box office collections. This movie is the 1000th movie of actor Vinu Chakravarthy..

[[Microsoft 4Afrika]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft

Microsoft 4Afrika is a market development engine in Africa started by Microsoft  to create technology for the world by using talent of Africans. Microsoft 4Afrika invests in World-class skills, Access and Innovation.  It was launched in February 2013. Microsoft launched 4Afrika Initiative in Rwanda on 3 April 2013.

This project of 75 million USD aims to increase internet accessibility via smart devices, educate the African web developers and promote new Africentric technologies. Since 2013, 4Afrika is investing on the entrepreneurs, youth, small businesses, governments and markets. Microsoft partnered with Kenya's Ministry of Information and Communication and Indigo Telecom to reach underserved communities via solar-powered base stations. University of the People has a partnership with Microsoft 4Afrika to offer scholarships to study towards an associate’s degree in University.  4Afrika helps developers create and monetise their applications, and gain experience working with senior software developers in a number of programmes. It provides internships for the youth and education youth.  Microsoft 4Afrika with Wollo University and Tulane University – Center for Global Health Equity (CGHE) launched AppFactory Academy in Ethiopia for Wollo University IT graduates, and related computing discipline graduates.

Microsoft 4Afrika camps in the following African countries:

Microsoft 4Afrika signed partnership with Tony Elumelu Foundation to provide tools, resources and mentorship to entrepreneurs enrolled in entrepreneurship programme of  foundation.

[[Ghulam Ali Wahdat]]

CATEGORIES: Hazara politicians, Hazara people

Ghulam Ali wahdat is an ethnic Hazara politician in Afghanistan. He was the governor of Bamyan Province from (October, 2013 to June, 2015).

Gholamali Vahdat, son of Nawazesh Ali, was born in the year 1962 in Bamyan Province, Afghanistan.

[[Angloposeidon]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs of Europe

The Angloposeidon is a big sauropod dinosaur that lived in the early Cretaceous period. It mainly lived in present-day England. Its fossil back bone was found on the Isle of Wight.

[[Qasim Akhgar]]

CATEGORIES: Hazara people

Qasim Akhgar, was a Hazara writer, researcher, activism and theorists from Afghanistan.

Qasim Akhgar, was born in 1951 in Kabul, Afghanistan. He died after an illness in 2013 in Kabul, Afghanistan.

[[Fano]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Marche

Fano is a city and comune of the province of Pesaro and Urbino in the Marche region, central Italy.

It is a beach resort 12 southeast of Pesaro, along the Adriatic Sea. It is the third city in the region by population after Ancona and Pesaro.

[[Francia]]

CATEGORIES: Former countries in Europe, 5th century establishments in Europe, 481 establishments

Francia was a kingdom founded in 481 AD. It may also be called the Kingdom of the Franks, Frankish Kingdom, or Frankish Empire. It was first a province of the Western Roman Empire founded by Clovis I. Before that it was a Germanic state. After the Treaty of Verdun in 843, West Francia became the predecessor of France, and East Francia became that of Germany.

[[Strange matter]]

CATEGORIES: States of matter

Strange matter is a form of quark matter, matter that consist primarily of quarks. Strange matter is a 'liquid' made of up, down, and strange quarks, and is different to non-strange quark matter because non-strange quark matter contains only up and down quarks, while strange quark matter has strange quarks as well. Strange matter is thought to exist in the cores of neutron stars. Strange matter only exists at extremely high densities (like in cores of neutron stars). 'Charm matter', quark matter made of charm quarks could be possible, but only at much higher densities.

[[Vladimir Makanin]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Russian novelists, Short story writers

Vladimir Semyonovich Makanin (Владимир Семёнович Маканин; 13 March 1937 – 1 November 2017) was a Russian writer. He was born in Orsk, Soviet Union. In 1963 he took a course in script-writing, and then worked in the publishing house Sovietskiy Pisatel (The Soviet Writer). Makanin's writing style may be categorized as realist. In 2012, he won the European Prize for Literature.

He was specialized in short stories and novels.

Makanin died on 1 November 2017 in Krasny, Russia at the age of 80. 

[[Yisrael Rosen]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Chief Rabbinate of Israel, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Israeli journalists, Israeli judges, Israeli rabbis, Jewish Israeli writers, Jewish judges, People from Tel Aviv

Yisrael Rosen (ישראל רוזן) (May 1941 – November 2, 2017) was an Orthodox Israeli rabbi. He founded the office for conversion to Judaism in the Chief Rabbinate of Israel and he was a judge there. He was born in Tel Aviv.

Rosen was the director of the Zomet Institute for the interface of Halakha and technology and also the editor-in-chief of the Zomet annual journal Techumin.  He edited a weekly newsletter Shabbat B'Shabbato.

Rosen died on November 2, 2017 in Alon Shevut, a West Bank settlement, of pancreatic cancer at the age of 76.

[[María Martha Serra Lima]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Argentine singers, People from Buenos Aires

María Martha Serra Lima (December 19, 1944 – November 2, 2017) was an Argentine singer. She was born in Buenos Aires. Serra Lima was first signed on to a record label in 1977, and became famous across Latin America and in Spain during the 1970s and 1980s. Her albums became hits in Mexico, Puerto Rico, Chile, Colombia, Venezuela, and elsewhere in the region, apart from her home country.

Serra Lima died in Miami, Florida on November 2, 2017 at the age of 72.

[[Dina Wadia]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in New York City, Indian politicians, Civil servants, Politicians from London

Dina Wadia (15 August 1919 – 2 November 2017) was an Indian political figure. She was born in London. Her father was Muhammad Ali Jinnah. She was married to Neville Wadia from 1938 until they divorced in 1943.

Wadia died at her home in New York City of pneumonia on 2 November 2017 at the age of 98.

[[Richard E. Cavazos]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Texas, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, American military personnel of the Korean War, Military people from Texas

Richard Edward Cavazos (January 31, 1929 – October 29, 2017), was a United States Army four-star general. He was a Korean War recipient of the Distinguished Service Cross as a first lieutenant. He advanced in rank to become the United States Army's first Hispanic four-star general.  

During the Vietnam War, as a lieutenant colonel, Cavazos was awarded a second Distinguished Service Cross.  In 1976, Cavazos became the first Mexican American to reach the rank of brigadier general in the U.S. Army. 

Cavazos served for thirty-three years, with his final command as head of the U.S. Army Forces Command.

Cavazos died at the age of 88 in San Antonio, Texas on October 29, 2017 from complications of Alzheimer's disease.

[[Fred Beckey]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Mountain climbers, Writers from Seattle, Washington

Friedrich Wolfgang Beckey (14 January 1923 – 30 October 2017), known as Fred Beckey, was an American rock climber, mountaineer and author. He made hundreds of first ascents, more than any other North American climber. In 2003, his 563-page book on the history of the region, Range of Glaciers, was published by the Oregon Historical Society Press. Between climbs, he wrote several books, most notably the Cascade Alpine Guide.

Beckey was born in Düsseldorf, Germany. He studied at the University of Washington. Beckey died on 30 October 2017 in Seattle, Washington at the age of 94.

[[Daniel Viglietti]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Folk singers, Folk musicians, Guitarists, Political activists, People from Montevideo

Daniel Alberto Viglietti Indart (24 July 1939 – 30 October 2017) was an Uruguayan folk singer, guitarist, composer, and political activist. He was one of the main singers of Uruguayan popular song and also of the Nueva Canción or "New Song" of the 1960s and early 1970s. Viglietti was imprisoned in 1972 by his own government. He was an activist against fascism in South America during the 1970s.

[[Abbas Zandi]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Olympians, Wrestlers, People from Tehran

Abbas Zandi (عباس زندی; 3 June 1930 – 30 October 2017) was an Iranian Freestyle Wrestler, national champion, and coach. He was born in Tehran. Zandi had competed in three Olympic games including 1948 London, 1952 Helsinki and 1956 Melbourne.

Zandi died on 30 October 2017 in Tehran at the age of 87.

[[Mario das Neves]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiopulmonary arrest, Argentine politicians, People from Buenos Aires

Mario das Neves (April 27, 1951 – October 31, 2017) was an Argentine Justicialist Party politician. He was the governor of the Argentine province of Chubut from 2003 through 2011 and again from 2015 until his death in 2017. He was born in Buenos Aires.

Das Neves died of cardiopulmonary arrest on October 31, 2017 in Rawson, Chubut at the age of 66.

[[Papi Oviedo]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Cuban musicians

Gilberto "Papi" Oviedo la Portilla (9 February 1938 – 31 October 2017) was a Cuban tres player. He was born in La Habana. He started playing the tres when he was about 15. Oviedo was the tres player in Elio Revé's band for 13 years. He has been on tour with Buena Vista Social Club exposing the son style to wider audiences.

Oviedo died of lung cancer in Havana, Cuba on 31 October 2017 at the age of 79.

[[Aboubacar Somparé]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Presidents of Guinea

El Hajj Aboubacar Somparé (31 August 1944 – 2 November 2017) was a Guinean politician. He was President of the National Assembly of Guinea from 2002 to 2008. He was previously Guinea's Ambassador to France from 1978 to 1984 and was Secretary-General of the Unity and Progress Party (PUP) from 1995 to 2002. He served as Interim President of Guinea from 22 December 2008 through 24 December 2008.

Somparé died on 2 November 2017 in Ratoma, Guinea at the age of 73.

[[Jigsaw (Saw character)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 2004, Fictional murderers, Movie characters, Saw (franchise)

John Kramer—known as The Jigsaw Killer or simply Jigsaw—is a fictional character who appears in the Saw franchise as the main antagonist. 

Jigsaw made his appearance in the first movie of the series, Saw, and he later appeared in Saw II, Saw III, Saw IV, Saw V, Saw VI, Saw 3D and, eventually, Jigsaw. He is played by American actor Tobin Bell.

Jigsaw ranks No. 30 in Empire magazine's "100 Greatest Movie Characters" list.

[[Vinu Chakravarthy]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil actors, Tamil directors, 1945 births, 2017 deaths

Vinu Chakravarthy (15 December 1945 – 27 April 2017) was an Indian actor (actor who acted in many language movies), writer and director. He had acted in about 1000 movies. Muni of Raghava Lawrence is Vinu Chakravarthy's 1000th movie. He acted in 900+ Tamil movies, 50 Malayalam movies, 5 Telugu movies, Some Kannada movies and 1 Badaga language movie.

[[Moza bint Nasser]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1959 births, Qatar Foundation people

Moza bint Nasser (Arabic:موزا بنت ناصر)(Born on  8 August 1959 in Doha, Qatar ) is the wife of former Emir of Qatar, Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani and mother of current Emir of Qatar, Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani.she is chairperson of Qatar Foundation and founder of Silatech.she was UNESCO's Special Envoy for Basic and Higher Education in 2003.also, she has been named as one of Forbes' 100 Most Powerful Women at #75.

[[Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Qatari people, Current national leaders, Living people

Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani (born 3 June 1980 in Doha, Qatar) is the current Emir of Qatar. Sheikh Tamim is the fourth son of his father, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, the previous Emir of Qatar and second son of Sheikha Moza bint Nasser. He became Emir of Qatar on 25 June 2013 after his father. He became the heir apparent to the Qatar throne on 5 August 2003.

[[Reborrowing]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics

Reborrowing is when words of a certain language are borrowed into a different language, when the new language creates new words using the loanwords or roots they borrowed, and either when the newly created words are introduced to the language that the old loanwords came from.

Examples of this can be found in many languages.

[[Peter MacGregor-Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, American movie producers, Road accident deaths in New York

Peter MacGregor-Scott (December 28, 1947 – October 25, 2017) was an American movie producer. He was born in Maidenhead, Berkshire, England. He produced the 1997 movie, Batman & Robin. He also produced the Cheech & Chong movie Cheech & Chong's The Corsican Brothers, Still Smokin and Born in East L.A.. Others are The Whoopee Boys and Death to Smoochy.

MacGregor-Scott was involved in a traffic collision in New York City which would result in his death on October 25, 2017, aged 69.

[[Third Rutte cabinet]]

CATEGORIES: Cabinets of the Netherlands, 2017 establishments in the Netherlands

The Third Rutte cabinet, also called Rutte III cabinet or Rutte III, is the current government of the Netherlands.

It was sworn in on October 26, 2017. It is named after Prime Minister Mark Rutte (VVD). It has been outgoing since January 15, 2021, due to problems caused by the childcare benefits scandal.

It is a coalition of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD), the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA), Democrats 66 (D66), and the ChristianUnion (CU).

VVD is a conservative and D66 a social liberal party. CDA is a Christian democratic and CU an orthodox Christian democratic party.

The Third Rutte cabinet has 77 (originally 78) seats in the present House of Representatives (they had 75 (originally 76) seats in the previous Second Chamber) and 32 seats in the Senate (they had 38 seats in the previous First Chamber).

It was preceded by the Second Rutte cabinet.

[[Vernier]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Geneva

Vernier is a municipality of the canton of Geneva in Switzerland. It has villages of Vernier Village, Le Lignon, Aïre, Les Avanchets, Cointrin and Châtelaine. As of 31 December 2016, 34,983 people lived there.

[[Chair of the Federal Reserve]]

CATEGORIES: Chairs of the Federal Reserve

The Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is the head of the central banking system of the United States. The job is known as "Chair of the Fed" or "Fed Chair". The chair is in charge of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

The chair is chosen by the President of the United States from among the members of the Board of Governors; and serves for four-year-terms after appointment. A chair may be appointed for many terms. William Martin was the longest serving chair, holding the position from 1951 to 1970. 

The current chair is Jerome Powell upon taking office on February 5, 2018.

[[Minnesota State University, Mankato]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Minnesota, Western Collegiate Hockey Association, 1868 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Minnesota

Minnesota State University, Mankato (Minnesota State) is the largest and second oldest university in the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities system. It is one of the largest universities in Minnesota. The nickname for the sports teams is the Mavericks. Minnesota State is located in Mankato, Minnesota a city southwest of the Twin Cities. It has a big business impact on southern Minnesota. It's stadium was where the Vikings came to practice in the summer. It was also linked to the Coach (TV series). It sports teams have won several national championships in the National Collegiate Athletics Association Division 2 level.

Minnesota State University, Mankato

[[Jerome Powell]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American lawyers, Chairs of the Federal Reserve, Politicians from Washington, D.C., Businesspeople from Washington, D.C., US Republican Party politicians

Jerome Hayden Powell (born February 4, 1953) is an American lawyer. He is the 16th and current Chair of the Federal Reserve since February 2018 and a member of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and has served since 2012 upon being nominated by President Barack Obama.

On November 2, 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Powell to serve as the next Chair of the Federal Reserve. His nomination was confirmed by the United States Senate on January 31, 2018 and took office on February 5, 2018.

[[Brad Bufanda]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from San Bernardino, California, Actors who committed suicide, American movie actors, American television actors, Suicides by jumping in the United States

Brad Bufanda (Fred Joseph Bufanda III; May 4, 1983 – November 1, 2017) was an American actor. He was best known for his self-made internet videos. He was born in Upland, California. His career began in 1995. While in middle school he appeared on the ABC television series Roseanne and Hangin' with Mr. Cooper. He was best known for his role as David in A Cinderella Story.

Bufanda played Felix Toombs in the series Veronica Mars and was also featured in the movie. He starred in the Cinemax series Co-Ed Confidential from 2008-2010.

Bufanda committed suicide on November 1, 2017 at the age of 34 by jumping off of his residential tower in the Park La Brea apartment community of Los Angeles, California.

[[Václav Riedlbauch]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from COPD, Czech academics, Czech composers, Czech politicians

Václav Riedlbauch (1 April 1947 – 3 November 2017) was a Czech composer, pedagogue and manager. He was the Minister of Culture in the government of Jan Fischer (2009–2010). He was born in Dýšina. He was program director at the Prague Congress Centre.

From 2001 until his death, he was the Director General of the Czech Philharmonic. He was a professor at the Academy of Performing Arts in Prague.

Riedlbauch died of complications from COPD in Prague on 3 November 2017 at the age of 70.

[[Hussain Muhammad Ershad]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from myelodysplastic syndrome, Presidents of Bangladesh, Bangladeshi Muslims

Hussain Muhammad Ershad (হুসেইন মুহাম্মদ এরশাদ Hussein Muhammad Ershad, 1 February 1930 – 14 July 2019) was a Bangladeshi politician. He served as the 10th President of Bangladesh from 1983 to 1990. He was the founder of the Jatiyo Party, currently the second-largest party in the Jatiyo Sangshad.

Ershad was twice honoured as a United Nations Laureate, for his works on population and environmental issues.

Ershad died on 14 July 2019 at a military hospital in Dhaka from myelodysplastic syndrome, aged 89.

[[Shahabuddin Ahmed]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Presidents of Bangladesh, Bangladeshi Muslims

Shahabuddin Ahmed (born 1 February 1930) is a Bangladeshi politician. He served as the 12th President of Bangladesh. He also served as the Chief Justice of the country. 

Ahmed took over the office of President after a popular uprising against President Hussain Muhammad Ershad in 1991. Afterwards, he returned to his duties as the Chief Justice following the amendment. Later, he served as the President from 1996 to 2001. During his first time in the Presidential office, he served as Acting President. Later when he again took over the office in 1996 he became the 12th President.

[[Muhammad Jamiruddin Sircar]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Presidents of Bangladesh, Bangladeshi Muslims

Muhammad Jamiruddin Sircar (born 1 December 1931) is a Bangladeshi barrister and politician. He was born in Tetulia, Panchagarh, Bengal Presidency, British India. He served as the acting President of Bangladesh in 2002. He served as the speaker of the Parliament of Bangladesh. He is one of the founding members of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party and was a member of the standing committee.

[[Gyalo Thondup]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Tibetan people, Prime ministers

Gyalo Thondup (嘉乐顿珠), (born c.1928) is the second-eldest brother of the 14th Dalai Lama. He often acted as the Dalai Lama's unofficial ambassador, and was involved in many political controversies around the Tibetan society. 

In recent years, Thondup has repeatedly said that the only way to achieve progress is with China. In 1998, the Central Tibetan Administration (the political arm of the Dalai Lama's anti-China diaspora faction) criticized Thondup for not letting the Dalai Lama know about the CIA's involvement in Tibet.

[[Frederica Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, United States representatives from Florida, Politicians from Miami, Florida, US Democratic Party politicians

Frederica Smith Wilson (born Frederica Patricia Smith; November 5, 1942) is an American politician. She has been a member of the United States House of Representatives since 2011. Wilson's congressional district—numbered the 17th during her first two years in Congress, and the 24th since 2013.

She gained national attention in early 2012 as a result of her high-profile comments on the death of Trayvon Martin.

Wilson is a member of the Democratic Party.

[[A. Q. M. Badruddoza Chowdhury]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Presidents of Bangladesh, Bangladeshi Muslims, Physicians, Activists, Essayists, Bangladeshi playwrights, Television presenters

Abul Qasim Muhammad Badruddoza Chowdhury (born 1 November 1932) was the 13th President of Bangladesh, serving from 14 November 2001 until his resignation on 21 June 2002. He was the founding secretary-general of Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP).

He is also a known physician, and former cultural activist, an author, essayist, playwright, television presenter and an orator of distinction.

[[Renzo Calegari]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Italian comics artists, Illustrators, Cartoonists, People from Genoa

Renzo Calegari (5 September 1933 – 5 November 2017) was an Italian comics artist. He was born in Genoa, Italy. His best known work was the long lasting comic book series Storia del West, which run from 1967 until 1980, and for which he illustrated many stories.

Calegari died on 5 November 2017 in Chiavari, Italy of complications from a stroke at the age of 84.

[[William Deane]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Australian Governors-General, Australian judges, Politicians from Melbourne

Sir William Patrick Deane (born 4 January 1931) is an Australian lawyer and judge. He served as the 22nd Governor-General of Australia, in office from 1996 to 2001. He was appointed to the Supreme Court of New South Wales in 1977, and later that year was also appointed to the Federal Court of Australia. He was a Justice of the High Court of Australia from 1982 to 1995.

Deane had a low profile during his five-year term, having no major constitutional issues, but did become notice by the global scale by officially opening the 2000 Summer Olympics.

Deane was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) on 10 August 1982, a few weeks after being appointed to the High Court.

[[Bill Hayden]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Australian Governors-General, Australian judges, Leaders of the Opposition (Australia), Politicians from Brisbane

William George "Bill" Hayden (born 23 January 1933) is an Australian politician. He served as the 21st Governor-General of Australia, in office from 1989 to 1996. He had been leader of the Labor Party from 1977 to 1983, as well serving as a cabinet minister in the Whitlam and Hawke Governments.

Hayden was elected to the House of Representatives when he was 28 years old. He replaced Jim Cairns as Treasurer in 1975, but served for only five months. 

In early 1977, Hayden challenged Whitlam for the party leadership and was defeated by just two votes. He replaced Whitlam as Leader of the Opposition at the end of the year when Whitlam resigned as a result of Labor's defeat at the 1977 election. He was replaced by Bob Hawke in 1983. 

[[John K. Singlaub]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, Living people, American autobiographers, Anti-Communists, American military personnel of World War II, American military personnel of the Korean War, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, Military people from California, Writers from California

John Kirk Singlaub (born July 10, 1921) was an American OSS officer. He was a founding member of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and is a retired Major General in the United States Army. 

[[Aminoglycoside]]

CATEGORIES: Antibiotics

Aminoglycosides are antibiotics used for gram negative infections. Gram-negative means that the bacteria which cause the infection don't hold the color of a particular dye (Crystal Violet) when they're tested.

Since they are not absorbed from the gut, they are usually taken by an injection into the vain or muscle but they can be given as a cream or ointment to prevent and treat skin infections, as eye drops for eye infections, as ear drops for ear infections and as a pill for intestinal infections but not for other internal infections.

Antibiotics from this family can be used in patients who are not able to take some regular antibiotics, such as Penicillin because of allergies.  The most common Aminoglycosides used as alternatives to Penicillin are Erythromycin (lit. Red fungus) and Clarithromycin (lit. Yellow fungus).  They're most commonly used in the treatment of bacterial infections, such as Bronchitis.

[[Normandy landings]]

CATEGORIES: Invasions of World War II, June 1944 events

The Normandy landings (codenamed Operation Neptune) were the landings on Tuesday, June 6th, 1944, during World War II. Invasion forces landed at Gold Beach, Sword Beach, Omaha Beach, Juno Beach, Pointe du Hoc, and Utah Beach.

The landing started on the so-called D-Day. It was by the Allies of World War II: the U.S.A., the U.K., Canada, Australia, and other forces. The whole event was codenamed "Operation Overlord" and intended to open a new Western Front of the war. It was the largest seaborne invasion in history. After landing, the Allied forces failed to take any of the towns and places they had planned to take. However, they were able to control the beaches, and in the following days they moved inland.

German casualties on D-Day have been estimated at 4,000 to 9,000 men. Allied casualties were at least 10,000, with 4,414 confirmed dead. The Normandy landings were the largest and deadliest amphibious assault in the history of warfare.

[[Joel Kinnaman]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish voice actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Stockholm

Charles Joel Nordström Kinnaman (born 25 November 1979) is a Swedish American actor,  known for his television roles as Detective Stephen Holder in AMC's The Killing, Takeshi Kovacs in the first season of Altered Carbon, and Governor Will Conway in the U.S. version of House of Cards. He has also played Alex Murphy in the 2014 RoboCop remake, and Rick Flag in the film adaptation of Suicide Squad (2016). Kinnaman is also known in Sweden for playing the lead role in the Swedish movie Easy Money.

[[Jack Nichols (activist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2005 deaths, American journalists, American LGBT people, American LGBT rights activists, Cancer deaths in Florida, Deaths from salivary gland cancer, Gay men, LGBT journalists, Writers from Washington, D.C.

John Richard "Jack" Nichols Jr. (March 16, 1938 – May 2, 2005) was an American gay rights activist. He co-founded the Washington, D.C. branch of the Mattachine Society in 1961 with Frank Kameny. He was born in Washington, D.C.. Nichols led the first gay rights march on the White House, in April 1965, and participated in the Annual Reminder pickets at Independence Hall in Philadelphia. 

In 1967, Nichols became one of the first Americans to talk openly about his homosexuality on national television when he appeared in CBS Reports: The Homosexuals, a CBS News documentary.

Nichols died of complications from salivary gland cancer in Cocoa Beach, Florida on May 2, 2005 at the age of 67.

[[Ibrahim Cevahir]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, Turkish businesspeople

Ibrahim Cevahir (born 1938, Trabzon - died, September 21, 2015, Istanbul) is a Turkish entrepreneur and businessman. he also is the founder and former Chairman  of Cevahir Holding. In 1959, Cevahir Holding's foundations entered the construction sector with his brothers.

He died of a heart attack on September 21, 2015 in Istanbul at the age of 77.

[[Hugo de Jonge]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Deputy Prime Ministers of the Netherlands, Aldermen of the Netherlands, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch civil servants, Dutch councillors, Dutch teachers, Former leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Politicians from Zeeland

Hugo Mattheüs de Jonge (born September 26, 1977 in Bruinisse) is a Dutch politician. He is a member of the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) and the current first Deputy Prime Minister in the Third Rutte cabinet.

De Jonge studied at Ichthus University of Applied Sciences in Rotterdam  and subsequently worked as a school teacher for five years.

From 2004 to 2006 he was an assistant to the CDA parliamentary group in the House of Representatives. The next four years he worked at the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science.

He became an alderman of the city of Rotterdam in 2010, which lasted till 2017. Education, youth and family matters were in his portfolio. In between he was also a councillor of Rotterdam for a brief period (after the municipal elections in 2014).

Since October 26, 2017, he has been Minister of Health, Welfare and Sports, and also a Vice Minister-President in Rutte III. He is the first one to replace Prime Minister Mark Rutte.

At the public presentation of the government he received attention by wearing dark-dotted white shoes made of crocodile leather.

He was leading the CDA in 2020 (succeeded by Wopke Hoekstra).

Hugo de Jonge is married with two children, and a member of the Protestant Church in the Netherlands (PKN).

[[Bruinisse]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Zeeland, Former municipalities of Zeeland, Schouwen-Duiveland

Bruinisse, Zeelandic: Bru, is a village in the municipality-island of Schouwen-Duiveland, in the Province of Zeeland, the Netherlands.

About 4,000 people are living there. It is located on the very east of the island.

Bruinisse is an agricultural and fishing community. Breeding of the blue mussel is an important business there.

[[Agulu lake]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Africa, Nigeria

Agulu lake is a lake in Anambra State, Nigeria. The lake is connected to Ulasi Okija and River Nigeria.

[[Mahadev Ghurhu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Uttar Pradesh

Mahadev Ghurhu is a  town in the Siddharth Nagar district in Basti division within Indian state of Uttar Pradesh and adjacent to Nepal. Mahadev Ghurhu is situated 170 km from the State's Capital City Lucknow.

[[Bairavaa]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil-language movies

Bairavaa is a 2017 Indian Tamil-language action film written and directed by Bharathan and produced by Vijaya Productions. The film stars Vijay and Keerthy Suresh in the lead roles, while Sathish, Jagapathi Babu, Daniel Balaji, Mime Gopi, Sriman and Sija Rose amongst others play supporting roles. The music is composed by Santhosh Narayanan, the cinematography is handled by M. Sukumar and the film is edited by Praveen K. L. After entering production in early 2016, the film progressed under the tentative title of Vijay 60, before being named as Bairavaa during September 2016. The film had a worldwide release on 12 January 2017. The film was dubbed into Telugu as Agent Bairavaa and in Hindi as Bhairava by Goldmines Telefilms in 2017. The film completed 100-day theatrical run. The film was a commercial success.

[[Revenue Village]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in India

A Revenue Village is a small administrative region in India, a village with fixed (defined) borders. One revenue village may contain many small settlements called hamlets.

The Village Administrative Officer (VAO) is the head officer of the Revenue Village

[[Revenue block]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in India

Revenue blocks, revenue circles or firka are the local revenue sub-divisions of the various districts of the states of India. These blocks should not be confused with the similar Panchayath union blocks (Blocks) and taluks. The revenue blocks exist to simplify local administration, and each consists of a small number of revenue villages, governed by a Revenue Inspector. The Revenue Inspector is charged with a number of key administrative roles, most notably the identification and collection of tax revenue. Sometimes the land area in a revenue circle is identified as an ILRC (Inspector Land Revenue Circle) for administrative purposes.

While Revenue blocks may be as large as or larger than a tehsil, revenue circles are generally smaller. In the state of Tamil Nadu alone, there are 1,127 revenue blocks.

[[Nagar panchayat]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in India

A Nagar Panchayat or Notified Area Council (NAC) or City Council in India is a council helps in the transformation of from rural to urban.

The 74th Amendment of the Constitution of India made laws relating to urban local government. The three-tier structure is municipal corporation, municipal council and nagar panchayat.

Each Nagar Panchayat has a committee consisting of a chairman / mayor along with ward/counselors members. There are at least ten elected ward members and three nominated members.

There are seats reserved for scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, backward classes and women. The councillors or ward members are chosen by direct election from electoral wards in the Nagar Panchayat.

[[Chidambaram taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Cuddalore district

Chidambaram taluk is a taluk of Cuddalore district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Chidambaram.

[[Kattumannarkoil taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Cuddalore district

Kattumannarkoil taluk is a taluk of Cuddalore district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Kattumannarkoil.

[[Dharmapuri taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Dharmapuri district

Dharmapuri taluk is a taluk in the Dharmapuri district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Dharmapuri.

[[Palacode taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Dharmapuri district

Palacode taluk is a taluk in the Dharmapuri district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Palacode.

[[Formic acid]]

CATEGORIES: Ants, Carboxylic acids

Formic acid, or  methanoic acid, is the simplist carboxylic acid and has the chemical formula H. Many animals use for defence. The word "formic" comes from the Latin word for ant, formica, referring to its early isolation by the distillation of ant bodies, and the trivial name in some languages means "ant-acid", such as Dutch mierenzuur, Danish myresyre, Faroese meyrusýra, Français acide formique and German Ameisensäure. Esters, salts, and the anions derived from formic acid are called formates.

In the 15th century, many alchemists reported that ants use an acidid fluid for defense. English naturalist John Ray was the first to get formic acid, by distilling ants, in 1671. 

In nature, it is found in most ants. The wood ants from the genus Formica can spray formic acid on their preys or to defend the nest. It is also known from the trichomes of stinging nettle (Urtica dioica). Formic acid is a naturally occurring component of the atmosphere due primarily to forest emissions.

[[Salvador Minuchin]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Florida, Argentine scientists, American psychologists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Argentine writers, Writers from New York City

Salvador Minuchin (October 13, 1921 – October 29, 2017) was an Argentine-American family psychotherapist. He was born and raised in San Salvador, Argentina. Minuchin developed structural family therapy, which talked about problems within a family by talking about the relationships between family members, or between subsets of family. 

When Minuchin moved to New York in 1981, he established the Family Studies Institute, where he could teach family therapists and interface directly with the foster care system through consultation services.

Minuchin died of heart disease at a care facility in Boca Raton, Florida on October 29, 2017 at the age of 96.

[[Peter Schutz]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Florida, German businesspeople, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Businesspeople from Chicago, People from Berlin

Peter Werner Schutz (April 20, 1930 – October 29, 2017) was a German-American businessman. He served as the president and CEO of Porsche between 1981 and 1987, a time in which the company greatly expanded sales such as in the United States. He was a motivational speaker and co-founder of Harris and Schutz Inc..

Schutz was born in Berlin, Germany. His family moved to Havana, Cuba in 1937 after the rise of the Nazi Party. In 1939, his family moved to Chicago, Illinois where he was raised. He studied at the Illinois Institute of Technology.

Schutz died in Naples, Florida of complications from Alzheimer's disease on October 29, 2017 at the age of 87.

[[Michael Augustine]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian people, Roman Catholic archbishops

Monsignor Michael Augustine (12 June 1933 – 4 November 2017) was an Indian archbishop (emeritus) of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Pondicherry and Cuddalore from 1999 through 2004. He served as Bishop of Vellore from 1981 through 1992.

He served the Church for 39 years as a bishop and for 56 years as a priest. He was born in Kovilanoor, Tamil Nadu. He resigned in 2004 due to health problems along with Pope John Paul II accepting his resignation. Since 2004 until his death, Augustine held the title of Emeritus Archbishop of Pondicherry and Cuddalore.

Augustine died on 4 November 2017 at a hospital in Pondicherry, India of a heart attack at the age of 84.

[[Muse Watson]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Louisiana, Actors from Kentucky

Muse Watson (born July 20, 1948) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles as Ben Willis in the I Know What You Did Last Summer franchise, Charles Westmoreland on the Fox television series Prison Break and as Mike Franks in CBS television series NCIS.

Watson was born in Alexandria, Louisiana. He studied at Louisiana Tech and at Berea College in Kentucky. 

[[Polity IV]]

CATEGORIES: Democracy

The Polity IV scale is a yearly assessment that assesses most sovereign states with a population above 500,000. They are split into five categories: full democracies, democracies, open anocracies, closed anocracies, and autocracies.

Status by country:

Full Democracies (Score of 10):

United States

Canada

United Kingdom

Germany

Japan

Democracies (Score of 9 to 6):

Mexico (8 points)

Brazil (8 points)

France (9 points)

Turkey (9 points)

India (9 points)

Open anocracies (Score of 5 to 1):

Venezuela (4 points)

Nigeria (5 points)

Russia (4 points)

Closed anocracies (Score of -1 to -5):

Morocco (-3 points)

Egypt (-3 points)

Afghanistan (-1 point)

Autocracies (Score of -6 to -10):

Cuba (-7 points)

Syria (-9 points)

Iran (-7 points)

China (-7 points)

North Korea (-10 points)

[[Norman Hardie]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Mountain climbers, New Zealand sportspeople, People from South Island

Norman David Hardie (28 December 1924 – 31 October 2017) was a New Zealand climber. He was involved in the first ascent of 8,586-metre (28,169 ft) Kangchenjunga, the third highest mountain in the world. He was born in Timaru, New Zealand. 

A close friend of Edmund Hillary, for 22 years Hardie was on the board of Edmund Hillary's Himalayan Trust. He visited the Himalayas on 14 trips. He has also been to Antarctica on three occasions, including as leader of Scott Base. 

In the 1992 New Year Honours, Hardie was appointed a Companion of the Queen's Service Order for community service.

Hardie died on 31 October 2017 in Auckland, New Zealand at the age of 92.

[[Joe Brown (climber)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Mountain climbers, People from Manchester

Joseph Brown, usually Joe Brown, CBE (26 September 1930 – 15 April 2020) was an English climber. He was born in Ardwick, Manchester, Lancashire, England. Brown's mountaineering achievements in the Alps and Himalayas have often been little known. In 1956 he made the first ascent of the west summit of the Muztagh Tower in the Karakoram with Ian McNaught-Davis. He was a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE), Brown was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2011 New Year Honours for services.

Brown died on 15 April 2020 at the age of 89.

[[Tony Streather]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2018 deaths, Mountain climbers, British military people

Lieutenant Colonel (Retired) Harry Reginald Anthony "Tony" Streather OBE (24 March 1926 – 31 October 2018) was a British army officer. He served in the Gloucestershire Regiment. He was one of the mountaineers who first-ascended Tirich Mir and Kangchenjunga. 

[[Achille Silvestrini]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2019 deaths, Ambassadors, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Humanitarians, Italian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops

Achille Silvestrini (25 October 1923 – 29 August 2019) was an Italian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He served in the Vatican diplomatic corps, either in Rome or abroad, from 1953 to 1990. He was Prefect of the Congregation for the Oriental Churches from 1991 to 2000. He was born in Brisighella, Italy.

Silvestrini was ordained a priest on 13 July 1946 in the cathedral of Faenza by Giuseppe Battaglia, Bishop of Faenza. He earned a doctorate at the University of Bologna in 1948 and a doctorate in canon and civil law at the Pontifical Lateran University.

As of 2016, Silvestrini was chair of the Collegio universitario Fondazione Comunità Domenico Tardini, which was founded in 1946 to support war orphans.

In the 1990s, Silvestrini was mentioned as a successor to Pope John Paul II in the secular press, though Vatican observers noted that his advanced age made his election unlikely.

Silvestrini died in Vatican City on 29 August 2019 at the age of 95.

[[Mecklenburg County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1762 establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 1760s establishments in North Carolina

Mecklenburg County is a county in North Carolina. In 2010, 1,054,835 people lived there. The county seat is Charlotte.

[[Churchill County School District]]

CATEGORIES: Schools, Nevada

The Churchill County School District is a K-12 school district serving Churchill County, Nevada.

[[Arthrostylidium simpliciusculum]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species

Arthrostylidium simpliciusculum is a species of Arthrostylidium bamboo in the grass family.

[[Bambusa dissimulator]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species

Bambusa dissimulator is a species of bamboo from Hong Kong. It is fast growing and has plentiful branches.

[[Bambusa farinacea]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species

Bambusa farinacea is a species of Bambusa bamboo.

[[Bambusa affinis]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species, Flora of Indo-China

Bambusa affinis is a species of Bambusa bamboo, and a member of the grass family

[[Bambusa balcooa]]

CATEGORIES: Flora of Indo-China

Bambusa balcooa is a clumping bamboo native to Indochina and the Indian subcontinent. It is thick walled clumping or sympodial bamboo.

[[Bambusa blumeana]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species

Bambusa blumeana, also known as spiny bamboo or thorny bamboo, is a species of bamboo occurring in Tropical Asia.

This bamboo is known locally as: kawayang tinik in the Philippines, buluh duri in Malay and tre gai or tre lá ngắn in Vietnam.

[[Ampelocalamus scandens]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species

Ampelocalamus scandens is a species of bamboo native to the Guizhou province of China. It can reach heights of 10 m and a stem diameter of 0.8 cm and grows at an altitude of between 265 - 320m.

[[Pennagaram taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Dharmapuri district

Pennagaram taluk is a taluk in Dharmapuri district in Tamil Nadu. The headquarters is Pennagaram town.

[[Harur taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Dharmapuri district

Harur taluk is a taluk in Dharmapuri district in Tamil Nadu. The headquarters is the town of Harur.

[[Appukutty]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil actors, Tamil comedians

Sivabalan (Popularly called Appukutty) is an actor and comedian in Tamil cinema. He became a well known actor since his role in the movie Vennila Kabaddi Kuzhu. His role in Azhagarsamiyin Kudhirai won him National Film Award for Best Supporting Actor.

[[MGR Kazhagam]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Tamil Nadu

MGR Kazhagam is a political party founded and led by R. M. Veerapan. He is the former Minister under All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam for 5 terms at different periods.

MGR Kazhagam which was divided and created from AIADMK supported the DMK alliance in 2004 Lok Sabha elections.

[[Sergei Ignashevich]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Russian footballers, Living people

Sergei Nikolayevich Ignashevich (Russian: Сергей Николаевич Игнашевич; born on 14 July 1979 in Moscow) is a Russian football player. Since 2004, he has played for CSKA Moscow. He is the most capped player (meaning he has made the most appearances) for the Russia national team.

[[2017–18 Russian Premier League]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in sports, 2018 in association football, Russian Premier League

The 2017–18 Russian Premier League (Russian: Чемпионат России по футболу 2017/2018, Chempionat Rossii po futbolu 2017/2018) was the 16th Russian Premier League season, and the 26th top division football tournament. It was played from 15 July 2017 to 13 May 2018. Spartak Moscow were the defending champions, but Lokomotiv Moscow won the tournament.

[[2016–17 Russian Premier League]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2017 in sports, Russian Premier League

The 2016–17 Russian Premier League (Russian: Чемпионат России по футболу 2016/2017, Chempionat Rossii po futbolu 2016/2017) was the 15th Russian Premier League season, and the 25th top division football tournament. It was played from 30 July 2016 to 21 May 2017. Spartak Moscow won the tournament.

[[Alp Buğdaycı]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2016 deaths

Alp Buğdaycı (born 21 July 1964 Diyarbakır, died 12 June 2016 Istanbul) is a Turkish businessman, newscaster, and voice artist.

[[Piet Derksen]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1996 deaths, Dutch businesspeople, People from Rotterdam

Piet Derksen (1913, Rotterdam - 24 February 1996, Westerhoven) was a Dutch businessman who founded Center Parcs. He was also a philanthropist. He donated all his fortune to charity.

[[Westerhoven]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in North Brabant, Former municipalities of North Brabant

Westerhoven is a village in the Dutch province of North Brabant. It is in the municipality of Bergeijk. It is about 15 km southwest of Eindhoven.

[[Qatar Foundation]]

CATEGORIES: Non-profit organizations of Asia, Qatar

Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development is an NPO organization based in Qatar, founded by former Emir of  Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani and his second wife Moza bint Nasser in 1995.

The President of the Qatar Foundation is shaikha Moza bint Nasser. In February 2016, her daughter Hind bint Hamad Al Thani, the sister of the current Emir of Qatar, is appointed CEO of the foundation.

Qatar Foundation has created a campus, Education City, which houses branches of reputable American universities. To link these universities to industry, and has established the Qatar Science and Technology Park to host technology and innovation-based companies.

On December 10, 2010, FC Barcelona announced that it has signed a five-year, 150 million euro contract with the Qatar Foundation.

[[Center Parcs]]

CATEGORIES: Hotel chains, Companies of the Netherlands

Center Parcs is a group of holiday villages in Europe that was founded in the Netherlands in 1968. It is now two different companies: Center Parcs Europe (CPE), which is run by Pierre & Vacances on mainland European sites owned by Blackstone Group and Center Parcs UK which runs holiday villages in Great Britain and Ireland and is owned by the Brookfield Properties Corporation.

[[Center Parcs UK]]

CATEGORIES: Tourism, 1987 establishments in the United Kingdom, Companies of the United Kingdom

Center Parcs UK is a company which sells short breaks in five holiday villages in the United Kingdom. Each is about 400 of woodland. The company's first village opened at Sherwood Forest, Nottinghamshire, in 1987. Its fifth, at Woburn Forest, Bedfordshire, opened in 2014.

Another company runs in the main part of Europe. It is also called Center Parcs, but the two companies are separate. Center Parcs UK became 30 years old in 2017.

[[Silatech]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments in Asia, Research organizations in Asia, Youth organizations, Political organizations based in Asia, Qatar

Silatech (Arabic: صلتک) is a private, international and non-governmental organization in Qatar, founded by Moza bint Nasser in 2008, mother of the current Emir of Qatar. The current CEO of this organization is Sabah Ismail AlHaidoos. Silatech try to create new job for young people (18 to 30 years old) in Arab world by teaching them. By 2016, Silatech has created over than 200,000 jobs for Arab people and Silatech is active in 16 countries. The Founding partners of Silatech include Cisco, Gallup, and ImagineNations.

[[Ballast]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components

A Ballast is a large resistor that regulates the amount of electrical current in a circuit. Most ballasts are used for fluorescent lamps to regulate the current thru it, which might rise to a dangerous level and burn it out.

Ballast is also crushed stone used in railway tracks. See ballast tamper.

[[Frank Holder]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Guyanese people, Jazz singers, Jazz musicians

Frank Holder (2 April 1925 – 29 October 2017) was a Guyanese jazz singer and percussionist. He was a member of bands led by Leslie George "Jiver" Hutchinson, John Dankworth and Joe Harriott. Holder recorded early in his career for the major record companies Parlophone, Decca and London Records. He was best known for his work in the early 1950s with The Dankworth Seven. He was born in Georgetown, Guyana.

Holder died in Georgetown on 29 October 2017 of congestive heart failure at the age of 92.

[[Kit Harington]]

CATEGORIES: English television actors, English stage actors, English movie actors, Actors from London, 1986 births, Living people

Christopher Catesby "Kit" Harington (born 26 December 1986) is an English actor. He played Jon Snow in the Home Box Office television series Game of Thrones. He was nominated for an Emmy Award in 2016. Harington was born in London. His role is praised for the series.

[[Nancy Friday]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in New York City, American feminists, American educators, Writers from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Writers from South Carolina, People from Charleston, South Carolina

Nancy Colbert Friday (August 27, 1933 – November 5, 2017) was an American author who wrote on the topics of female sexuality and liberation. She was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Her best known works are My Secret Garden and Forbidden Flowers.

Throughout the 1980s and early 1990s she was a frequent guest on television and radio programs such as Politically Incorrect, Oprah, Larry King Live, Good Morning America, and NPR’s Talk of the Nation.

Friday died on November 5, 2017 of complications from Alzheimer's disease in Manhattan, New York at the age of 84.

[[Paradise Papers]]

CATEGORIES: November 2017 events

The Paradise Papers are a set of 13.4 million documents relating to offshore investment. Among those whose financial affairs are mentioned are Queen Elizabeth II, and the last two US Secretaries of Commerce: Penny Pritzker and Wilbur Ross. The documents were made public by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists in collaboration with Süddeutsche Zeitung.  These same two organizations had earlier published the  Panama Papers in 2016 from the 2.6 terabytes of data sent by John Doe.

The papers include records from an offshore law firm Appleby, although the company has released a statement stating there has been "no evidence of wrongdoing".

People mentioned in the list are: Queen Elizabeth II, Bono, former Prime Ministers of Canada: Jean Chrétien,

Paul Martin, and Brian Mulroney, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, economic advisor Gary Cohn, U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, son-in-law of Vladimir Putin, Madonna, Paul Allen, President of Colombia Juan Manuel Santos, Jean-Jacques Annaud, Carlos Slim, Chancellor of Austria Alfred Gusenbauer, Prince Charles, President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko, Prime Minister of Japan Yukio Hatoyama, President of Liberia Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Shakira, Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan, Prime Minister of Pakistan Shaukat Aziz, and sons of Prime Minister of Turkey Binali Yıldırım.

Companies also mentioned were Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, EBay, Glencore, Uber, Nike,  Walmart, Allianz, Siemens, McDonald's and Yahoo.

[[Sutherland Springs church shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 mass shootings in the United States, 2017 murders in the United States, 2010s crimes in Texas, Attacks on buildings and structures in 2017, Attacks on buildings and structures in the United States, Attacks on churches, Mass murder in 2017, Mass murder in Texas, Mass shootings in Texas, Massacres in the United States, Murders by firearm in Texas, November 2017 events

On November 5, 2017, a mass shooting took place at the First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, Texas, United States. 

The gunman reportedly entered the church around 11:30 am CST and started firing. The shooter was killed after a chase with local law enforcement. At least 27 people were killed including the man who did the shooting. One of the victims was the pastor's 14-year-old daughter. At least 30 people were injured in the shooting.

The shooting is the deadliest mass shooting at a church in U.S. history. More people were killed than in the Charleston, South Carolina, church shooting in 2015.

President Donald Trump was in Japan at the time of the attack. He tweeted, "May God be w/ the people of Sutherland Springs, Texas. The FBI & law enforcement are on the scene. I am monitoring the situation from Japan."

A few hours after the shooting, it was learned that the shooter was 26-year-old Devin Patrick Kelley. He served in the U.S. Air Force from 2009 to 2013 before being told to leave. For a short time he was an unpaid  helper at a Vacation Bible School in Kingsville, Texas.

[[Offshore investment]]

CATEGORIES: Finance

Offshore investment is when a person invests money in a different country than the country of residence. This is many done to pay less taxes. Differences in legislation may also be a driving force. Very often money laundering is also done in these countries.

[[Paul Manafort]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American lawyers, American lobbyists, American fraudsters, People from Connecticut, Republicans (United States), 2016 United States presidential election

Paul John Manafort Jr. (born April 1, 1949) is an American lobbyist, political consultant, lawyer and convicted felon. He joined Donald Trump's presidential campaign team in March 2016 and served as campaign manager from June to August 2016. He was an adviser to the U.S. presidential campaigns of Republicans Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, and Bob Dole. 

On August 22, 2018, Manafort was convicted of bank and tax fraud.

In 1980, Manafort co-founded the Washington, D.C.-based lobbying firm Black, Manafort & Stone, along with principals Charles R. Black Jr., and Roger Stone. 

[[Dudley Simpson]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Australian composers, Conductors, People from Melbourne

Dudley Simpson (4 October 1922 – 4 November 2017) was an Australian composer and conductor. He was born in Melbourne. He was the Principal Conductor of the Royal Opera House orchestra for three years. He was best known for his work as a composer on British television. He worked on the BBC science-fiction series Doctor Who.

Among his early television work was the music for Moonstrike (1963). Simpson also created the theme music for The Brothers (1972), The Tomorrow People (1973), Moonbase 3 (1973), The Ascent of Man (1973) and Blake's 7 (1978). He also composed music for many plays from the BBC Television Shakespeare series.

Simpson died on 4 November 2017 at the age of 95.

[[Dionatan Teixeira]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Brazilian footballers

Dionatan do Nascimento Teixeira (24 July 1992 – 5 November 2017) was a professional footballer. He played as a centre-back. He was best known for playing for Stoke City F.C. from 2014 to 2017.

On 5 November 2017  Teixeira suffered a fatal heart attack in Londrina, Brazil at the age of 25.

[[Mansour bin Muqrin]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2017 deaths, Aviation deaths, Politicians, Princes and princesses, Saudi Arabian businesspeople

Mansour bin Muqrin bin Abdulaziz Al Saud (1973 – November 5, 2017) was a Saudi businessman, member of the House of Saud, and Advisor at the Court of the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia. In April 2015, he was appointed Advisor to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques with the rank of minister. He was the son of Prince Muqrin al-Saud, former Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia.

He was a partner in Ethan Allen's Saudi franchise.

bin Muqrin died in a helicopter crash near Abha on November 5, 2017 at the age of 43 or 44.

[[Royapuram]]

CATEGORIES: Neighbourhoods of Chennai

Royapuram is a locality (territory or neighbourhood) present in the northern part of Chennai metropolitan city, Tamil Nadu. This area is best known for the Royapuram Railway Station. This is the first railway station of South India. It was opened in 1856. At present it is the oldest surviving railway station of the Indian subcontinent   The St. Peter's Church, Royapuram is one of the most important and oldest church in the region. Royapuram fishing harbour is one of the largest fishing harbour in the Coromandel Coast or Eastern coast of India.

[[Eser Tümen]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2010 deaths, Turkish businesspeople

Eser Tümen  (born 17 March 1945, Istanbul - died on 27 January 2010, Maldives) was a Turkish businessman and capital project engineer for construction of the FSM Bridge. He also was the Chairman of the Board of Directors of STFA Group Construction.

He died of heart attack in Maldives.

[[Adyar, Chennai]]

CATEGORIES: Neighbourhoods of Chennai

Adyar is a large neighbourhood (locality) in the southern part of Chennai Metropolitan city, Tamil Nadu. This neighbourhood is on the southern banks of Adyar River. Adyar is one of the most expensive areas in Chennai. The land property in Adyar costs four times as much as similar land properties in the northern part of Chennai.

The Adyar River forms an estuary near the coast of Adyar (locality). This has been home to more than one hundred species of birds. But this estuary has been affected by industrial wastes.

Adyar is home to Adyar Cancer Institute and Central Leather Research Institute. Central Leather Research Institute is the world's largest leather research institute.

IIT Madras, Anna University, National Institute of Fashion Technology, Asian College of Journalism and the Technical Teachers Training Institute are all located in this neighbourhood.

[[Besant Nagar]]

CATEGORIES: Neighbourhoods of Chennai

Besant Nagar is one of the neighbourhood (locality) of Chennai metropolitan city, Tamil Nadu. This area is named after famous women's right activist Annie Besant.

[[Adambakkam]]

CATEGORIES: Neighbourhoods of Chennai

Adambakkam is a neighbourhood (locality) present in the Chennai metropolitan city, Tamil Nadu. This area is a thickly populated area. This is situated near the St. Thomas Mount Railway Station.

Before October 2011, a part of Adambakkam was under Chennai Corporation and the other part under Alandur municipality.But after that was joined totally with Chennai Corporation. The Adambakkam is having its new railway station under construction.

This area has many temples like famous Pazhandi Amman Temple.

[[Velachery]]

CATEGORIES: Neighbourhoods of Chennai

Velachery is a residential area as well as a locality in Southen part of Chennai metropolitan area, Tamil Nadu. This locality is the important and effective centre in Chennai. The Velachery Lake was historically containing an area of 250 acres. The ancient Selliamman and Narasimhar temples were located on its Southern corner(banks).

Velachery has its own railway station named Velachery railway station. There are many well known temples are located here.

[[Nihat Özbağı]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Turkish businesspeople

Nihat Özbağı  (born 23 July 1950, Elazığ) is a Turkish businessman. He is president and investor of Fenerbahçe Sports Club. Özbağı have founded Limak Construction in 1976.

Özbağı is married and has 1 daughter.

[[Independent clauses]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar

An independent clause, also called a main clause, is a clause that can stand on its own. It contains all the information necessary to be a complete sentence. An independent clause has a subject that tells you what the sentence is about and a verb that tells you what the subject is doing. It expresses a complete thought, relaying that something has happened or was said.

[[Zuni language]]

CATEGORIES: Isolated languages

Zuni, or Ashiwi, is a language isolate spoken by over 4500 people in New Mexico and much smaller numbers in parts of Arizona. It is now generally considered a language isolate. The Encyclopedia Britannica categorizes it as a Penutian language, and Bertha Dutton http://livingtreasures.kxx.com/bios/bertha.html https://web.archive.org/web/20061101121016/http://www.livingtreasures.kxx.com/bios/bertha.html once posed the hypothetical that according to the Swadesh list, "If the Zuni language is a member of the Penutian language family, then it is a distant relative of the Tanoan languages (Tewi)."  The Penutian Hypothesis http://www.uoregon.edu/~delancey/bib/penbib.html was advanced by Alfred Kroeber and Roland B. Dixon http://www.mnsu.edu/emuseum/information/biography/abcde/dixon_roland.html https://web.archive.org/web/20060831090708/http://www.mnsu.edu/emuseum/information/biography/abcde/dixon_roland.html and later refined by Edward Sapir, and was an attempt to reduce the number of unrelated language families in a culturally diverse area that was centered in California central coast.  While this theory was plausible for some of

the languages, the problem of verification of this theory was that to find any evidence of any cognates between the California languages and Zuni, one would possibly have to trace the languages' lineage by as much as 3000–5000 years or more.

A bibliography of books and articles concerning the Zuni language lists items dealing with syntax and semantics, as does Zuni

Curtis D. Cook's article and the work of Stanley Newman. Others, such as Ruth Bunzel's Pueblo Pottery and Jane M. Young'shttp://jan.ucc.nau.edu/swpottery/rockartbiblio/Zuni3.htm https://web.archive.org/web/20070703200843/http://jan.ucc.nau.edu/swpottery/rockartbiblio/Zuni3.htm book on Rock Art, are important in the study of pragmatics and the Zuni World View http://www.prophetsrock.com/zuni_world_view/page1.html as it is reflected in the Zuni language. The Zuni worldview may properly be considered as a study in orthology.

The form and function of design images and pictographic rock art images and their interpretation according to Zuni mythology

or cosmology sufficed as a form of communication prior to the appearance of a written language.

The Zuni Enigma, by Nancy Yaw Davis http://www.allreaders.com/Topics/info_3824.asp?BSID=6598041 offers a comparative of cognates between the Zuni language and

another language isolate; the Japanese language.  While speculative, it demonstrates a likeness between the Zuni and Japanese languages that is more compelling than that of the Penutian Hypothesis.  Dell Hymes offers information on California languages where one can form a comparative of certain Zuni words to the languages of California, e.g.Wintu, Maidu, Miwok, and may have relevance to studies of the Pueblo Peoples, the Pecos Classification, and the Hohokam.  Also important are the books on and by Frank Hamilton Cushing. He was the first anthropologist to undertake studies by means of the method of Participant observation, and became a member of the Zuni's Priesthood of the Bow during his tenure at the Pueblo from 1879-1884. Of special interest in regard to the Zuni language is his correspondences edited by Jesse Green, and their relevance to the Zuni language as it reflects their world view.

[[Flag of Bulgaria]]

CATEGORIES: Bulgaria, National flags

The flag of Bulgaria (знаме на България, znamɛ nɐ bɐɫˈɡarijɐ, zname na Bǎlgariya) is the flag of the European country, Bulgaria. It has three horizontal bands of white, green and red. It was adopted in 1991.

[[Voronezh]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Russia

Voronezh (Воро́неж) is an Russian city, not far from Ukraine. It is the administrative center of Voronezh Oblast. It is located on the river Voronezh. The city was founded in 1586. In 2017, the city had an estimated population of 1,039,801 people.

[[Brahma Kumaris]]

CATEGORIES: New religious movements

The Brahma Kumaris (ब्रह्माकुमारी, "People of Brahma"), fully known as the Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual University (BKWSU) is a religious movement that was founded in Hyderabad, Sindh, Pakistan during the 1930s. 

The Brahma Kumaris was founded by Dada Lekhraj Kripalani. It is well known for the large role that women play in the movement. The headquarters of the Brahma Kumaris is in Mount Abu, India.  It teaches a form of meditation called Raja Yoga Meditation. In 2008, the movement said that it had more than 825,000 members, with over 8,500 centres in 100 countries.

[[Landmark Worldwide]]

CATEGORIES: New religious movements

Landmark Worldwide (formerly Landmark Education), or simply Landmark, is a company offering self-improvement programs. It was founded in January 1991. As of 2013 the company had reported that more than 2.4 million people had participated in its programs since 1991. It is linked to EST (which stands for Erhard Seminars Training), and has been accused of being a cult.

EST was known for the instructor abusing the participants all the time. Especially the phrases "assholes! everyone", "Perfect!" and "standing is booking (continue standing)" were often parodied and ridiculed. The ultimate ideals of Landmark (also EST) are in the extraordinary human transformation and in "Being a Master of Life".

Landmark have many kinds of course programs like Scientology within English-speaking countries; in the 20th century, Landmark's course programs were limited. Landmark urge existing participants to invite others. Landmark calls it "enrollment", but critics often compare its system to zombies.

[[Cave Creek disaster]]

CATEGORIES: Disasters in the 1990s, 20th century in New Zealand, April events, 1995

The Cave Creek disaster occurred on 28 April 1995. A scenic viewing platform in Paparoa National Park, New Zealand, collapsed. The collapse resulted in the deaths of 14 people. The victims, 13 of whom were university students, fell 40 onto rocks below.

[[Anna Diggs Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Michigan, American judges, Politicians from Washington, D.C., Politicians from Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians, Women judges

Anna Katherine Johnston Diggs Taylor (Anna Katherine Johnston; December 9, 1932 – November 4, 2017) was an American judge. She served as United States District Judge for the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan from 1979 through 1998. She was born Washington, D.C.. 

In 1979, she was appointed to the federal bench by President Jimmy Carter, becoming the first black woman judge appointed to the Eastern District of Michigan.

She became Chief Judge in 1997, and took senior status in 1998.

Taylor died on November 4, 2017 of complications from Parkinson's disease in Grosse Pointe Woods, Michigan at the age of 84.

[[Arthrostylidium longiflorum]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species

Arthrostylidium longiflorum is a species of Arthrostylidium bamboo in the grass family. 

[[Feliciano Rivilla]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Spanish footballers

Feliciano Muñoz Rivilla (21 August 1936 – 6 November 2017) was a Spanish footballer who played as a defender. He was born in Ávila, Spain.

Rivilla made 26 appearances for the Spain national football team, and was in the team for the 1962 FIFA World Cup, the 1964 European Football Championship (where Spain won the title), and the 1966 FIFA World Cup.

Rivilla died on 6 November 2017 in Madrid, Spain at the age of 81.

[[Roosevelt Corollary]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United States, Theodore Roosevelt

The Roosevelt Corollary was an addition to the Monroe Doctrine articulated by President Theodore Roosevelt in his State of the Union address in 1904 after the Venezuela Crisis of 1902–03.

[[Acidosasa edulis]]

CATEGORIES: Bamboo species

Acidosasa edulis is a species of bamboo native to China. It is cultivated for its edible shoots in the provinces of Fujian, Zhejiang and Jiangxi, with yields of up to 20,000 kilograms per hectare.

[[Harald Krüger]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1965 births, People from Freiburg im Breisgau, German businesspeople

Harald Krüger (born 13 October 1965) is the current chairman of the board of management (CEO) of BMW.

[[Betty Dodson]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cirrhosis, American feminists, American educators, American critics, LGBT writers, American LGBT people, Bisexual people, Writers from Wichita, Kansas

Betty Dodson (August 24, 1929 – October 31, 2020) was an American sex educator and social critic. She was a part of the pro-sex feminist movement. She saw the modern feminist movement as needlessly political and hostile towards males. She is known for writing books about how masturbation is healthy and encouraged women to do it. 

In 1959, Dodson married Frederick Stern, an advertising director, with the marriage ending in divorce in 1965. She was openly bisexual.

Dodson died of cirrhosis at her Manhattan apartment on October 31, 2020 at the age of 91.

[[Robert Knight]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Tennessee, American R&B singers, American soul musicians, American pop singers, Musicians from Tennessee, Singers from Tennessee

Robert Knight (born Robert Peebles, April 24, 1945 – November 5, 2017) was an American R&B singer. He was born in Franklin, Tennessee. He was best known for the 1967 recording of the song "Everlasting Love".

Knight died at home in Nashville, Tennessee on November 5, 2017 after a short-illness, aged 72.

[[Quartermaster]]

CATEGORIES: Military ranks

Quartermaster officers are responsible for making sure equipment, materials and systems are available and functioning for missions. More specifically, the quartermaster officer provides supply support for soldiers and units in field services, aerial delivery, and material and distribution management.

[[David Harbour]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Actors from New York, Actors who played in James Bond movies, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors

David Kenneth Harbour (born April 10, 1975) is an American actor. He has appeared in movies, television shows and Broadway plays. Since 2016, he has starred in the Netflix series Stranger Things as Police Chief Jim Hopper. The role gave him a Primetime Emmy Award nomination. He played Nick in the 2005 version of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? and the title character of the movie reboot Hellboy (2019).

Harbour was born in White Plains, New York. He graduated from Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire in 1997.

[[Finn Wolfhard]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 births, Living people, Actors from Vancouver, Canadian child actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian rock guitarists, Canadian rock singers, Canadian television actors, Musicians from Vancouver

Finn Wolfhard (born December 23, 2002) is a Canadian actor and musician. He is best known for starring as Mike Wheeler in the Netflix series Stranger Things. He also appeared in the 2017 movie It as Richie Tozier and the television series Supernatural. He was also the lead singer and guitarist of the rock band Calpurnia until 2019.   

Wolfhard was born in Vancouver, British Columbia. He has a German, French and Jewish background.

[[Millie Bobby Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 births, Living people, English child actors, English movie actors, English television actors, People from Andalusia, People from Bournemouth

Millie Bobby Brown (born 19 February 2004) is a British actress, model, and Cover Singer. She began acting in 2013. She is best known for her role as Eleven in the Netflix series Stranger Things (since 2016). The role gave her a Primetime Emmy Award nomination. She appeared in the 2019 Godzilla sequel, Godzilla: King of the Monsters. Millie has also starred in the music video of the Maroon 5 song "Girls Like You". She has also released a new line of makeup and skincare called “Florence by Mills”

Brown was born in Marbella, Andalusia, Spain to British parents. She grew up in Bournemouth, England. She follows the Premier League football club Liverpool.

[[Sutherland Springs, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Texas

Sutherland Springs is an unincorporated community in northern Wilson County, Texas, United States. It is on U.S. Highway 87 at the intersection of Farm Road 539. It is about 21 miles (34 km) east of downtown San Antonio. Old Sutherland Springs occupies a portion of the South bank of the Cibolo According to the Handbook of Texas, the population was 362 in 2000.

[[Albany, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Alameda County, California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area, 1908 establishments in California

Albany is a city in Alameda County, California. The population was 18,539 at the 2010 census.

[[Dublin, California]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Alameda County, California, Cities in California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area, 1982 establishments in California

Dublin is a city in Alameda County, California, United States.

[[Gaten Matarazzo]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 births, Living people, Actors from New Jersey, American child actors, American stage actors, American television actors

Gaetano John "Gaten" Matarazzo III (born September 8, 1999) is an American actor. He is best known for starring as Dustin Henderson in the Netflix series Stranger Things. He has also appeared in a number of Broadway stage productions, including Les Misérables.

Matarazzo was born in Ocean County, New Jersey. He has cleidocranial dysplasia (CCD), a birth defect he shares with his Stranger Things character.

His parents are Gaten Matarazzo II (father) Heather Matarazzo (mother).

[[Caleb McLaughlin]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 births, Living people, Actors from New York, American child actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors

Caleb Reginald McLaughlin (born October 13, 2001) is an American actor. He is best known for starring as Lucas Sinclair in the Netflix series Stranger Things. He appeared as "Young Simba" in the Broadway musical The Lion King, between 2012 and 2014.

McLaughlin was born in Carmel, New York. He is the son of April and Corey McLaughlin.

[[Noah Schnapp]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 births, Living people, Actors from New York, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American TikTokers

Noah Schnapp (born October 3, 2004) is a Canadian-American actor. Since 2016, he has appeared as Will Byers in the Netflix series Stranger Things. He also voiced Charlie Brown in The Peanuts Movie (2015). 

Schnapp was born in New York City, New York, U.S. His parents are from Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

[[Natalia Dyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Living people, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Nashville, Tennessee

Natalia Dyer (born January 13, 1997) is an American actress. She is best known for her starring role of Nancy Wheeler in the Netflix series Stranger Things. She started her career in 2009, appearing in Hannah Montana: The Movie as Clarissa Granger.

Dyer was born in Nashville, Tennessee. She is a student at New York University.

[[Charlie Heaton]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, English movie actors, English rock musicians, English television actors

Charlie Ross Heaton (born 6 February 1994) is a British actor and musician. He portrays Jonathan Byers in the Netflix series Stranger Things. He will star in the upcoming superhero/horror movie The New Mutants (2020). He has also appeared in Casualty.

Heaton was born in Bridlington, East Yorkshire, England. He moved to London at the age of 16. He has a son, Archie (born 2014), with his ex-girlfriend Akiko Matsuura.

[[Seibu ikebukuro line]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Japan

The Seibu Ikebukuro Line is a train line in Japan that goes from Ikebukuro to Seibu-Chichibu and back, stopping at many stations on the way.

This is a list of abbreviations for the table:

LO: LOCAL

SE: Semi Express

EX: Express

LE: Lim. Express

CE: Commuter Express

CS: Commuter Semi Express

ST: S-Train

RX: Rapid Express

[[Cara Buono]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Actors from the Bronx, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Movie directors from New York City, Screenwriters from New York City, Writers from the Bronx

Cara Buono (born March 1, 1974) is an American actress, screenwriter and director. She is best known for her roles as Dr. Faye Miller in the AMC drama series Mad Men (2010), Kelli Moltisanti in the HBO series The Sopranos (2006–2007) and Karen Wheeler in the Netflix series Stranger Things (2016–present).

Buono was born in the Bronx, New York City. She has a daughter with her husband, Peter Thum.

[[Joe Keery]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Actors from Massachusetts, American movie actors, American rock guitarists, American television actors, Musicians from Massachusetts

Joseph David Keery (born April 24, 1992) is an American actor and musician. Since 2016, he has appeared as Steve Harrington in the Netflix series Stranger Things. He is also a guitarist of Chicago-based band Post Animal.

Keery was born in Newburyport, Massachusetts. He graduated from DePaul University in 2014.

[[Sadie Sink]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 births, Living people, Actors from Texas, American child actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors

Sadie Sink (born April 16, 2002) is an American actress. She joined in a starring role as Maxine "Max" Mayfield during the second season of the Netflix series Stranger Things. She also had the role of Suzanne Ballard in the NBC series American Odyssey. She appeared as Annie in the 2012 production of the Broadway musical Annie.

Sink was born in Brenham, Texas. She moved to New Jersey when she became an actress. She is now filming the 4th tremendous season of Stranger Things in Georgia.

[[Dacre Montgomery]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, Actors from Perth, Western Australia, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors

Dacre Kayd Montgomery-Harvey (born 22 November 1994) is an Australian actor. He is best known for his role as Jason ("Red Ranger") in the movie Power Rangers (2017) and Billy Hargrove in the Netflix series Stranger Things.

Montgomery was born in Perth, Western Australia. His mother is Canadian and his father is from New Zealand.

[[Scottish & Newcastle]]

CATEGORIES: Drink companies, Edinburgh, Beer, 1749 establishments, Companies of the United Kingdom, 2008 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, Establishments in Scotland, 1740s establishments in Europe

Scottish & Newcastle plc was a brewing company in Edinburgh, Scotland. It was an international beer business.

The company was bought by Heineken and Carlsberg in 2008. Heineken UK called themselves Scottish & Newcastle until 2009. The S&N Pub Enterprises pub part of the company has had its name changed to Star Pubs & Bars.

[[Lot (biblical person)]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament people

Lot  was a patriarch in the biblical Book of Genesis chapters 11–14 and 19. He moves to Sodom and Gomorrah. He leaves quickly when angels warn him of the coming destruction of the cities, but his wife looks back 'and she became a pillar of salt' (Genesis 19:26) He fathers children with his daughters when they get him drunk. They gave birth to Moab and Ammon.

[[Nazi ghettos]]

CATEGORIES: The Holocaust

The Nazi Ghettos were sections of cities where Jewish people were forced to live. They were set up by Nazi Germany before and during World War II. Jewish people had often been forced to live in ghettos in Europe, with the first one being set up in Venice in the 1500s. The Nazis wanted to keep the Jewish people separate from other people, which would make it easier to control them. Entry in and out of the ghetto was controlled. People were forced to live in the ghettos before they went to concentration camps. The areas were very overcrowded and dirty. 

[[European migrant crisis]]

CATEGORIES: Events in Europe, Migration, 2015 in Europe

More than a million migrants and refugees crossed into Europe in 2015.  This created a crisis because  it is hard for countries  to cope with the large numbers of people or even in some countries war. This also causes the people to flee to safer countries. It also created a division in the European Union over how to deal with resettling people.

[[Lancy]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Geneva, Cities in Switzerland

Lancy is a municipality of the canton of Geneva in Switzerland. The municipality is on the left bank of the Rhone river. As of December 2016, 31,661 people lived there.

[[Jansug Charkviani]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Writers from Georgia (country), Poets, Members of the Parliament of Georgia, People from Tbilisi

Jansug Charkviani (ჯანსუღ ჩარკვიანი; 30 September 1931 – 6 November 2017) was a Georgian poet. He was a member of the Parliament of Georgia from 1995 to 2003.

He was born in Tbilisi. Charkviani graduated from the Tbilisi State University in 1953. He was awarded, among other prizes, the Shota Rustaveli Prize (1984), Georgia's Order of Honor, and the title of Honorary Citizen of Tbilisi (1996).

Charkviani died on 6 November 2017 at the age of 86.

[[Lissy Tempelhof]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Berlin, East German people, German movie actors, German stage actors

Lissy Tempelhof (17 April 1929 – 10 October 2017) was an (East) German actress. She was born in Berlin, Germany. She was known for movies like Alle meine Mädchen (1980) and Erscheinen Pflicht (1984). She was married to actor Dietrich Körner.

Tempelhof died in Berlin on October 10, 2017, at the age of 88.

[[Thomas Hooton Michael Dix]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1985 deaths, People from Bedfordshire

The Ven. Thomas Hooton Michael Dix (7 April 1908-1985) was Archdeacon of Zanzibar and Priest in Charge of Christ Church Cathedral, Zanzibar between 1954 and 1959. In 1970 he was made Hon. Canon of St Albans Cathedral and, in 1974, Canon (Emeritus) of St Albans Cathedral.

[[Li Hongzhi]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese people, New religious movements

Li Hongzhi (李洪志) is the founder and spiritual leader of Falun Gong (or Falun Dafa), a "system of mind-body cultivation" in the qigong tradition. Li Hongzhi began his public teachings of Falun Gong on 13 May 1992 in Changchun, and subsequently gave lectures and taught Falun Gong exercises across China. 

In 1995 Li began teaching Falun Gong abroad, and in 1998 he settled as a permanent resident in the United States. Li's Falun Gong movement gained significant popularity in the 1990s, including in government and qigong circles, but was suppressed by the Chinese government in 1999.

[[Abdul Aziz bin Fahd]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, living people, Princes and princesses, Saudi Arabian people, Deaths by firearm, Civil servants

Abdul Aziz bin Fahd (Arabic:عبدالعزيز بن فهد بن عبد العزيز آل سعود) (born 16 April 1973) was a Saudi prince and member of the royal House of Saud. His father was King Fahd. He was first appointed as minister of state without portfolio in May 1998. Then, he was made head of the Office of the Council of Ministers in January 2000, when he was 28 years old.

[[Carl Sargeant]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2017 deaths, Suicides by hanging in the United Kingdom, Politicians who committed suicide, Welsh politicians

Carl Sargeant (1968 – 7 November 2017) was a Welsh politician. He was born in St Asaph, Denbighshire. He was the Cabinet Secretary for Communities and Children from 2016 through his resignation in 2017. He represented the constituency of Alyn and Deeside in the National Assembly for Wales from 2003 until his death in 2017.

Sargeant was suspended from Welsh Labour on 3 November 2017 following allegations of sexual harassment. He committed suicide by hanging four days later on 7 November 2017 at his home in Connah's Quay, Flintshire, Wales at the age of 49.

Following his death, Prime Minister Theresa May said on Twitter that: "My thoughts are with the friends and family of Carl Sargeant following his tragic death". Leader of the Opposition Jeremy Corbyn also made a statement on Twitter saying: "I'm deeply shocked to hear of the terrible news about Carl Sargeant. My thoughts and profound sympathy are with his family and friends".

[[Tulip Siddiq]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Muslims, Politicians from London

Tulip Rizwana Siddiq (টিউলিপ রেজওয়ানা সিদ্দীক; born 16 September 1982) is a British Labour Party co-operative politician. She was elected Member of Parliament (MP) for Hampstead and Kilburn at the 2015 general election.

Siddiq is Muslim.

[[Jo Stevens]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Welsh politicians

Joanna Meriel "Jo" Stevens (born 6 September 1966) is a Welsh Labour Party politician in the UK House of Commons. She was elected as the  Member of Parliament (MP) for Cardiff Central in the May 2015 general election. She was born in Swansea, Wales.

In Jeremy Corbyn's January 2016 reshuffle, she was appointed shadow solicitor general and shadow justice minister. In October 2016 reshuffle, after Corbyn's re-election as party leader, Stevens became Shadow Secretary of State for Wales. She resigned from the shadow cabinet on 27 January 2017, due to a disagreement over triggering article 50.

[[Bayard Rustin]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1987 deaths, Deaths from appendicitis, Disease-related deaths in New York City, American civil rights activists, Socialists, American LGBT rights activists, Gay men, LGBT people from Pennsylvania, Writers from Pennsylvania

Bayard Rustin (ˈ; March 17, 1912 – August 24, 1987) was an American leader in social movements for civil rights, socialism, nonviolence, and gay rights. He was born and raised in West Chester, Pennsylvania. He was part of many organizations such as: Fellowship of Reconciliation, Congress of Racial Equality, War Resisters League, Southern Christian Leadership Conference, Social Democrats USA (National Chairman), A. Philip Randolph Institute (President), and the Committee on the Present Danger.

Rustin died in New York City on August 24, 1987 from appendicitis at the age of 75.

[[Kathryn Hays]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, People from Joliet, Illinois, Actors from Illinois

Kathryn Hays (born July 26, 1933) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as Kim Hughes on the CBS soap opera, As the World Turns from 1972 to 2010. He was born in Princeton, Illinois and grew up in Joliet. Her career was mainly active at sitcoms during the 1960s and 1970s. 

Hays was married to actor Glenn Ford from 1966 to 1969.

Hays' other appearances include guest roles in Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, Law & Order, Marcus Welby, M.D, Bonanza, and Branded.

[[Don Hastings]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Singers from New York City, Writers from New York City, Actors from New York City

Donald Francis Michael "Don" Hastings (born April 1, 1934) is a American actor, singer, and writer. He was born in New York City. His brother was actor Bob Hastings.

Hastings is best known for his 50-year role as Dr. Robert "Bob" Hughes on the CBS soap opera As the World Turns. Hastings was the third actor to play Hughes and is the longest serving cast member of an American television soap opera, after the death of matriarch Helen Wagner of the same series.

His career began in 1947. He is married to actress Leslie Denniston. Hastings has four children: three from his first marriage and one with Denniston. 

Hastings lives in Millerton, New York.

[[Sander Levin]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, United States representatives from Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, 20th-century American politicians, 21st-century American politicians

Sander Martin "Sandy" Levin (born September 6, 1931) is an American politician. Heserved in the United States House of Representatives from 1983 to 2019, representing Michigan. Levin, a member of the Democratic Party from Michigan. He was the former ranking member on the House Ways and Means Committee; he was Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee from 2010 to 2011.

His brother, Carl Levin, was the United States Senator from Michigan until retiring 2015.

Levin ran for Governor of Michigan twice, in 1970 and 1974, both times loosing to William Milliken.

In December 2017, Levin announced that he would retire from Congress at the end of his current term, and not seek re-election in 2018.

[[Matt Morson]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Canadian singers

Matt Morson is a Canadian musician based from Ontario. Matt Morson is known for traditional country music with a some rock and roll added.

[[Post Malone]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, American rap musicians from New York, American musicians, Singers from New York, People from Texas, American pop singers, American singer-songwriters, American actors

Austin Richard Post (born July 4, 1995), known professionally as Post Malone, is an American rapper, singer, songwriter and actor. He has gained acclaim for blending musical genres including pop, hip hop, trap, and rock, his introspective songwriting, and his laconic vocal style. Born in Syracuse, New York and raised in Grapevine, Texas, Post first attained recognition in 2015 following the release of his debut single "White Iverson", which peaked in the top 20 on the US Billboard Hot 100. He subsequently earned a recording contract with Republic Records.

Malone's debut studio album Stoney (2016), which featured the single "Congratulations", peaked at number four on the Billboard 200. His second album, Beerbongs & Bentleys (2018), debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and broke several streaming records upon release. It was nominated for Album of the Year at the 61st Annual Grammy Awards. In 2018, he collaborated with Swae Lee on the song "Sunflower" for the soundtrack to the film Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse, which also reached the top of the Billboard Hot 100. Malone released his third album, Hollywood's Bleeding, in late 2019, and it became his second number-one album.

Malone has sold 60 million records in the US. He received a Diamond certification by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for "Congratulations". He has won many awards, including three American Music Awards, a Billboard Music Award and a MTV Video Music Award. Additionally, he has received six Grammy Award nominations during his career.

[[Scheduling (computing)]]

CATEGORIES: Combinatorial optimization

In computer science, and combinatorial optimisation, the term scheduling usually refers to solutions of the problem that a plan needs to be made. It follows in what order and for how long a number of tasks run on a number of machines.

[[Kajsa Ollongren]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Democrats 66 politicians, Deputy Prime Ministers of the Netherlands, Aldermen of the Netherlands, Dutch civil servants, Dutch LGBT people, Dutch mayors, Dutch nobility, Dutch women politicians, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Lesbians, LGBT politicians, People from Leiden, Politicians from South Holland, Swedish people

Karin Hildur "Kajsa" Ollongren (born 28 May 1967 in Leiden) is a Dutch politician of Democrats 66 (D66) and a former civil servant. She is the current Minister of Internal Affairs and also a Deputy Prime Minister. She is a noblewoman, and has also the Swedish nationality (her mother is Swedish).

Ollongren studied economics and history at the University of Amsterdam, public administration at the École nationale d'administration in Paris and internal relations at Clingendael Institute in The Hague.

From 1992 to 2007 she worked at the Economics Ministry, and from 2007 to 2014 at the Interior Ministry (she had been leading last Ministry since 2011).

She became an alderman of the city of Amsterdam in 2014.

She has been Minister of Internal Affairs and also the second Vice Prime Minister in the Third Rutte cabinet since October 26, 2017. 

Kajsa Ollongren is a lesbian and married to a woman. Together they have two children.

[[Mastrils]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Mastrils is a former municipality of the district of Landquart in the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland.

On 1 January 2012 the former municipalities of Igis and Mastrils merged into the new municipality of Landquart.

[[Landquart, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Graubünden

Landquart is a municipality of the district of Landquart in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2012 the former municipalities of Igis and Mastrils merged into the new municipality of Landquart.

[[Trimmis]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Trimmis is a municipality of the district of Landquart in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

Since 2008, the former municipality of Says.

[[Lumnezia]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Graubünden

Lumnezia (Lugnez) is a new municipality of the district Surselva in the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland.

The former municipalities of Cumbel, Degen, Lumbrein, Morissen, Suraua, Vignogn, Vella, and Vrin merged on 1 January 2013 into the new municipality of Lumnezia.

[[Suraua]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Suraua is a former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Zizers]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Zizers (Zir or Zezras) is a municipality of the district of Landquart in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Tenczynek]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Tenczynek is a village in  southern Poland. It is in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship, in Gmina Krzeszowice. It is 25 km west of the city of Kraków.

[[Carola Schouten]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, ChristianUnion politicians, Deputy Prime Ministers of the Netherlands, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch civil servants, Dutch women politicians, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, People from 's-Hertogenbosch, Politicians from North Brabant

Cornelia Johanna "Carola" Schouten (born October 6, 1977 in 's-Hertogenbosch) is a Dutch politician of the ChristianUnion (ChristenUnie). She is the current Agriculture Minister and also a Deputy Prime Minister.

Schouten spent her youth on a farm in Giessen, a village in the Land of Heusden and Altena (a region in the very north of the Province of North Brabant).

She studied business administration at Erasmus University Rotterdam, and worked afterwards at the Social Affairs Ministry and as an assistant to the ChristianUnion parliamentary group.

In 2011 she was chosen into the Second Chamber. She participated in political negotiations in 2012 and in the government negotiations of 2017.

Since October 26, 2017 she has been Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, and also third Deputy Prime Minister in the Third Rutte cabinet. 

Carola Schouten is single with one child. She is a member of the Reformed Churches in the Netherlands (Liberated).

[[List of South Africans]]

CATEGORIES: South African people, Lists of people by nationality

This is a list of notable South Africans who are the subjects of Wikipedia articles.

[[Alice Martin]]

CATEGORIES: US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Mississippi, Politicians from Alabama, American lawyers, Living people, 1950s births

Alice H. Martin (born 1955/56) is an American politician and lawyer. In 2015, she became the Chief Deputy Attorney General of Alabama.

Martin was the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Alabama from 2001 until 2009. She was nominated by President George W. Bush in 2001. During her term the office established a healthcare fraud task force. The task force collected about $750M in settlements. It also obtained over 125 convictions of elected and appointed officials and contractors in public corruption prosecutions.

In 2017, Martin served as the acting Attorney General of Alabama for two days.

[[Emeryville, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Alameda County, California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area

Emeryville is a small city in Alameda County, California. It is along the shore of the San Francisco Bay between Oakland and Berkeley.

[[Gay Talese]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Writers from New Jersey, Journalists from New York City

Gay Talese (t; born February 7, 1932) is an American writer and journalist. He was a journalist for The New York Times and Esquire magazine during the 1960s. Talese's most famous articles are about Joe DiMaggio and Frank Sinatra.

[[Nan A. Talese]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Editors, Writers from New York

Nan Talese (née Ahearn; born December 19, 1933) is an American editor. Talese is the Senior Vice President of Doubleday. Since 1990, Talese has been the Publisher and Editorial Director of her own imprint, Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, known for its literary works.

In 1959, Talese married The New York Times journalist Gay Talese.

[[Lothar Thoms]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2017 deaths, East German sportspeople, German cyclists, German Olympic gold medalists, Sportspeople from Brandenburg

Lothar Thoms (18 May 1956 – 5 November 2017) was an East German track cyclist. 

He represented his native country at the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, Russia. He won the gold medal in the men's 1,000m time trial. 

In 1981 he was elected East German Sportspersonality of the year.

Thoms was born in Guben, Brandenburg. He died in Berlin at the age of 61.

[[Karin Dor]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Actresses who played Bond girls, Actors who played Bond villains, Entertainers from Hesse, German movie actors, German stage actors, German television actors, People from Wiesbaden

Karin Dor (Kätherose Derr; 22 February 1938 – 6 November 2017) was a German actress. She was born in Wiesbaden, Germany. She starred in the James Bond movie You Only Live Twice and the Alfred Hitchcock movie Topaz. 

Dor died at a nursing home in Munich, Germany on 6 November 2017 at the age of 79.

[[Shadia]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Deaths from respiratory failure, Egyptian movie actors, Egyptian singers, People from Cairo

Fatima Ahmad Kamal (فاطمة أحمد كمال), better known by her stage name Shadia, (8 February 1931 – 28 November 2017) was an Egyptian actress and singer. She was famous for her roles in light comedies and drama in the 1950s and 1960s. Her first appearance was in the movie el-Aql Fi Agaza (The Mind on Vacation). She retired after her last movie La Tas'alni Man Ana (Don't Ask Me Who I Am). She was born in Cairo.

Shadia was hospitalized on 4 November 2017 after suffering a massive stroke in Cairo. She was placed under intensive care and on 9 November was in stable condition. On 28 November 2017, Shadia died at hospital in Cairo of respiratory failure, aged 86.

[[Cardi B]]

CATEGORIES: American rap musicians from New York, American hip hop musicians, American songwriters, Musicians from the Bronx, Atlantic Records artists, Television personalities, American Internet celebrities

Belcalis Marlenis Almanzar (born October 11, 1988), known by her stage name Cardi B, is an American singer, rapper, songwriter and actress.  She is known for her breakout single, "Bodak Yellow", which reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States in 2017.  She became only the second female rapper to reach number one without a featured artist since Lauryn Hill with "Doo Wop (That Thing)" in 1998.  Almanzar also has appeared on the VH1 reality series Love & Hip Hop: New York. Cardi has earned five number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100: "Bodak Yellow", "I Like It", "Girls like You" (with Maroon 5), "WAP" (with Megan Thee Stallion), and "Up".

On January 2, 2018, Billboard announced that Cardi became only the third artist in history to have their first three singles in the top ten at the same time, with the songs "Bodak Yellow", "MotorSport", and "No Limit".  The first two artists to do so were the Beatles and Ashanti.

For the week ending July 14, 2018, Cardi's single "I Like It" reached the number-one position of the Billboard Hot 100, making her the only female rapper with two chart-toppers on the Hot 100. A remix of "Girls like You" by the band Maroon 5, featuring Cardi, also reached number one on the Hot 100.

Her first album, Invasion of Privacy, was released on April 6, 2018. Cardi B says that her music is a representation of what she would like to listen to.  The album won Cardi her first Grammy Award for Best Rap Album.

She released the single "Press" on May 31, 2019.  On August 7, 2020, she released "WAP" featuring rapper Megan Thee Stallion. It entered at number one on the  Billboard Hot 100, becoming Cardi's fourth chart-topper in the US. On March 22, 2021, after entering at number two, her song "Up" became Cardi's fifth number-one single on the Billboard Hot 100, extending her record for most chart-toppers by a female rapper.

She is known for her outspoken, outlandish personality. She started going viral on Instagram and social media in 2014 when she was stripping.

[[Antonio Carluccio]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths in the United Kingdom, Italian chefs, Italian writers, Restaurateurs, Italian television personalities

Antonio Carluccio, OBE OMRI (anˌtɔːnjo karˈluttʃo 19 April 1937 – 8 November 2017) was an Italian chef, restaurateur and food expert. He was born in Vietri sul Mare, Salerno, Italy. 

Carluccio has been called "the godfather of Italian gastronomy", with a career of more than 50 years. He was best known for his television appearances, including his partnership with fellow Italian chef Gennaro Contaldo, and their BBC Two television series Two Greedy Italians.

He wrote many books about cooking.

Carluccio died on 8 November 2017 from complications of a fall in London at the age of 80.

[[Roger Grenier]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in France, French essayists, French journalists, French novelists, French playwrights, People from Caen

Roger Grenier (19 September 1919 – 8 November 2017) was a French writer, and journalist. He was Regent of the Collège de ’Pataphysique. He was born in Caen, France. He was known for his work The Difficulty of Being a Dog. He worked for Combat then at France Soir.

Grenier died of complications from pneumonia in Paris on 8 November 2017 at the age of 98.

[[Brad Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American movie producers, Stuntmen, Bodybuilders, Actors from Idaho

Bradford "Brad" Harris (July 16, 1933 – November 7, 2017) was an American actor, stuntman, bodybuilder and executive producer. He was born in St. Anthony, Idaho. He appeared in 50 movies during his career. He was best known for his roles in Kommissar X, Goliath Against the Giants and in The Pirates of the Mississippi.

Harris died on November 7, 2017 at the age of 84.

[[Arrondissements of the Nord department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 6 arrondissements in the Nord department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Nord department are:

[[Constituency PK-89 (Chitral-I)]]

CATEGORIES: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Constituency PK-89 (Chitral-I) is a constituency for the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly in Pakistan.

[[Constituency PK-90 (Chitral-II)]]

CATEGORIES: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Constituency PK-90 (Chitral-II) is a constituency for the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly in Pakistan.

[[Calico (company)]]

CATEGORIES: Google, Gerontology, Research organizations in the United States, 2013 establishments in the United States

Calico is a research and development biotech company. It was started on September 18, 2013 by Google and Arthur D. Levinson. Its goal is to fight aging and diseases associated with aging.

[[Elisabeth Köstinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Former MEPs, Government ministers of Austria, Legislative speakers, People from Carinthia (state)

Elisabeth "Elli" Köstinger (born November 22, 1978 in Wolfsberg, Carinthia) is an Austrian politician of the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP). 

Köstinger has been government minister of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment, Water Management and Tourism since December 18, 2017. She has also been secretary-general of the Austrian People’s Party since May 2017, together with Stefan Steiner. 

Previously she was an MEP for Austria from 2009 to 2017, and President of the National Council  of Austria from November 9 to December 17, 2017. She has been succeeded by Wolfgang Sobotka.

Elisabeth Köstinger is single.

[[Cyrtandra (plant)]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Asia, Plants of Australia, Monocots

Cyrtandra is a genus of flowering plants containing about 600 species. These plants are native to Southeast Asia, Australia, and the Pacific Islands. Almost all species live in rainforest habitats.

[[Arrondissement of Avesnes-sur-Helpe]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Avesnes-sur-Helpe, called usually as Avesnois , is an arrondissement of France, in the Nord department, Hauts-de-France region. Its capital is the city of Avesnes-sur-Helpe.

[[Grete Berget]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Norwegian politicians

Grete Anni Berget (25 March 1954 – 9 November 2017) was a Norwegian politician. She was a member of the Labour Party. She was born in Vinstra, Nord-Fron, Oppland.

Berget was private advisor to the Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland from 1990 to 1991 and served as Minister of Children and Family Affairs from 1991 to 1996. From 2003 until her death, she was secretary general of the Norwegian European Movement.

Berget died from cancer on 9 November 2017 in Oslo at the age of 63.

[[Hans-Michael Rehberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, German movie actors, German stage actors, German television actors, People from Brandenburg

Hans-Michael Rehberg (2 April 1938 in Fürstenwalde/Spree – 7 November 2017 in Berlin) was a German actor and stage director. He appeared in more than one hundred movies from 1945 until his death in 2017. He was best known for his role as Rudolf Höss in Schindler's List (1993).

Rehberg died at the age of 79.

[[Arrondissement of Cambrai]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Cambrai is an arrondissement of France, in the Nord department, Hauts-de-France region. Its capital is the city of Cambrai.

[[Arrondissement of Douai]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Douai is an arrondissement of France, in the Nord department, Hauts-de-France region. Its capital is the city of Douai.

[[Indooroopilly Silver Mine]]

CATEGORIES: Pages created with the Article Wizard from 2017, Brisbane, Mining

The Indooroopilly Silver Mine is a historic silver mine at Indooroopilly, Brisbane, Australia

[[Explanatory variable]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

An explanatory variable is a type of independent variable. The two terms are often used interchangeably. But there is a subtle difference between the two. When a variable is independent, it is not affected at all by any other variables. When a variable isn't independent for certain, it's an explanatory variable.

[[Fritz Lichtenhahn]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Swiss movie actors, Swiss stage actors, Graubünden

Fritz Lichtenhahn (6 May 1932 – 24 May 2017) was a Swiss actor. He was born in Arosa, Switzerland. He was known for his movies Alle Jahre wieder: Die Familie Semmeling (1976), Germany, Pale Mother (1980) and Schtonk (1992).

Lichtenhahn died on May 24, 2017 in Hamburg, Germany at the age of 85.

[[Dennis Gabor]]

CATEGORIES: British engineers, British physicists, 1900 births, 1979 deaths, Nobel Prize in Physics winners

Dennis Gabor GBR (ˈ GAH; Gábor Dénes ˈɡaːbor ˈdeːnɛʃ; 5 June 1900 – 9 February 1979) was a Hungarian-British electrical engineer and physicist, most notable for inventing holography, for which he later received the 1971 Nobel Prize in Physics.

[[Water rocket]]

CATEGORIES: Toys

A water rocket is a type of model rocket using water as its working mass. The water is forced out by a pressurized gas, typically compressed air.

[[Salishan languages]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of North America

The Salishan languages are a group of languages of the Pacific Northwest. They are known for their agglutinativity and syllabic consonants.

[[History of the London Underground]]

CATEGORIES: History of London, London Underground, History of rail transport, London-related lists, History-related lists, Rail transport timelines

From its creation to the present day, London Underground's 150-year history has been an eventful one.

[[Giessen, Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in North Brabant, Former municipalities of North Brabant, Altena, Netherlands

Giessen is a village in the municipality of Altena, Province of North Brabant, the Netherlands.

About 1,500 people are living there.

It lies at the Alm River and close to the Afgedamde Maas.

[[Arrondissement of Dunkirk]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Dunkirk is an arrondissement of France, in the Nord department, Hauts-de-France region. Its capital is the city of Dunkirk.

[[Arrondissement of Valenciennes]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Valenciennes, also known as Valenciennois, is an arrondissement of France, in the Nord department, Hauts-de-France region. Its capital is the city of Valenciennes.

[[AF Waltrip]]

CATEGORIES: Auto racing, Sports clubs, 2013 disestablishments, 2011 establishments

AF Waltrip also known as AF Course-Waltrip is a former professional sportscar team. The company is as a 50–50 partnership between Michael Waltrip Racing NASCAR co-owners Michael Waltrip and Rob Kauffman. In 2011 Michael Waltrip Racing entered into a technical alliance with AF Corse to provide them sportscars to race in the FIA World Endurance Championship and Tudor United SportsCar Championship (formerly Rolex Sports Car Series). AF Course-Waltrip shut down their sportscar team in 2013 to concentrate on NASCAR.

[[Akbar Eftekhari]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Iranian footballers

Akbar Eftekhari (اکبر افتخاری) (7 December 1943 – 9 November 2017) was an Iranian football player. He played for Iran national football team.

Eftekhari died on 7 December 1943 at the age of 73.

[[Kenting National Park]]

CATEGORIES: IUCN Category II, Geography of Taiwan, National parks in Asia, 1984 establishments in Asia

Kenting National Park (墾丁國家公園), also known as just Kenting (墾丁), is a national park in Pingtung County, Taiwan. It was created on 1 January 1984. It is Taiwan's oldest and southernmost national park. It is also Taiwan's most popular national park. Five million people went to Kenting in 2016.

[[Arrondissement of Lille]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Lille is an arrondissement of France, in the Nord department, Hauts-de-France region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Lille.

[[Avon Products]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, 1886 establishments in the United States, Cosmetics companies

Avon Products, Inc. (known simply as Avon) is a direct-selling company. It sells beauty products, personal care products and cosmetics, like perfume, soap, deodorant, lipstick, powders and nail polish.

The company was founded in 1886. It was incorporated in New York City in 1916. 

In 2016, Avon sold its American business. It now operates outside of the United States. It plans to move into the United Kingdom.

The original name of the company was California Perfume Company.

In 1989, Avon phased out animal testing.

[[Kim Guadagno]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American lawyers, American police officers, Politicians from Iowa, Lieutenant Governors of New Jersey, People from Waterloo, Iowa, US Republican Party politicians

Kimberly Ann Guadagno (born as Kimberly Ann McFadden on April 13, 1959) is an American attorney, politician, former prosecutor and sheriff. She was also the Lieutenant Governor of the U.S. State of New Jersey from 2010 through 2018.

Before Lieutenant Governor, Guadagno was also the Secretary of State in New Jersey.

She was the 2009 and 2013 running mate for New Jersey Governor Chris Christie.

Guadagno was born in Waterloo, Iowa. She moved to New Jersey around 1991.

Guadagno was a candidate for Governor of New Jersey in the 2017 gubernatorial election, but lost to Democrat Phil Murphy.

[[Adela of Champagne]]

CATEGORIES: 1140s births, 1206 deaths, Kings and Queens consort of France, Regents

Adela of Champagne (Adèle; c. 1140 – 4 June 1206; also known as Adelaide and Alix) was Queen of France as the third wife of Louis VII.  She was the daughter of Theobald II, Count of Champagne, and Matilda of Carinthia. She was named after her grandmother, Adela of Normandy.

Louis and Adela married on 18 October 1160. They had two children. Their son was Philip II. Philip was Louis's only son. Their daughter was the Byzantine empress Agnes.

When Adela's husband died in 1180, her son became king. In 1190, she acted as regent while Philip was away on the Third Crusade.

Queen Adela died on 4 June 1206 in Paris, Île-de-France, France. She was buried in the church of Pontigny Abbey near Auxerre.

[[Kıvanç Oktay]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Turkish businesspeople, Living people

Kıvanç Oktay (born  1964, Istanbul) is a Turkish businessman and entrepreneur. Oktay is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Lidya Yapi, since 1993. He also is one member of the Board of Directors of Demirören Holding.

He is the son-in-law of Erdoğan Demirören.

[[Kaya Paşakay]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1943 births, Turkish businesspeople

Kaya Paşakay (born 1943, Istanbul) is a Turkish politician and businessman.

After completing his secondary education at Galatasaray High School, he went to Switzerland and studied Political and Social Sciences at Lausanne University. He entered the Foreign Office and left the ministry after his working at the Consulate General of Germany in Nuremberg. Afterwards, he started to work in the private sector. He is the grandson of Halil Kut Pasha.In 2002, his daughter, Ahu Pashakay, a famous Turkish model, ended her life by committing suicide at home.

[[Duffer Brothers]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, People from Durham, North Carolina, American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, American television directors, American television producers, American television writers, Twin people from the United States, Writers from North Carolina, Sibling duos

Matt Duffer and Ross Duffer (born February 15, 1984), better known as The Duffer Brothers, are American writers, directors and producers of movies and television. They are best known for creating the Netflix science fiction/horror series Stranger Things (2016–present). They wrote and directed the movie Hidden (2015). The Duffers also wrote episodes of the Fox series Wayward Pines (2015–2016).

The Duffers were born in Durham, North Carolina. They are twin brothers. They moved to California in 2007.

[[The Son of a Migrant from Syria]]

CATEGORIES: Murals, Steve Jobs, Refugees, Syrian people, French paintings

The Son of a Migrant from Syria is a 2015 artwork by graffiti artist Banksy. 

[[Passendale]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Belgium, West Flanders

Passendale is a village in the municipality of Zonnebeke in West Flanders, Belgium. It is close to the town of Ypres, situated on the hill ridge separating the historical wetlands of the Yser and Leie valleys.

[[Alyssa]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Alyssa is a girls name similar to the name Alice. It means beautiful. It also is similar to the flower Alyssyum.

[[Hurricane Rick (2009)]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes, Pacific Ocean, 2009 in weather

Hurricane Rick was a Category 5 major hurricane in the year 2009. It was the third most intense hurricane ever recorded in the whole Pacific.

[[Edzná]]

CATEGORIES: Maya civilization, Buildings and structures in Mexico

Edzná is a Mayan archaeological site. It is in the north of the Mexican state of Campeche. The site is open to visitors.

[[Hind bint Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Qatar Foundation people

Hind bint Hamad Al-Thani (born 15 August 1984, Doha, Qatar) is the Vice Chairperson and current CEO of Qatar Foundation. Additionally, Sheikha Hind is Chairperson of the Executive Committee of the Supreme Education Council (SEC), and the Board of Directors of the Global Social Responsibility Alliance. She is also Co-Chairperson of the Joint Advisory Board of Northwestern University Qatar.she holds a bachelor's degree from Duke University in the United States.

[[Hillsboro, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Hillsboro is a city in Ohio, United States. It is the county seat of Highland County. 6,605 people lived in Hillsboro, according to information from the 2010 census.

The plan of Hillsboro was mapped in 1807, and most likely named for the hills near the original town site.

[[Kharp]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Russia

Kharp (Харп) is an urban settlement in the Priuralsky District of the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug. This is in Western Siberia, the Asian part of Russia. It is on the bank of the Sob River. Its population in 2019 was 5,941.

[[Bekbol Sagyn]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1972 births

Bekbol Sagyn currently serves as Akim (known as head of local government) of the Aktobe District, Aktobe Region, Kazakhstan. He came to the position simply because his predecessor had moved to a new employment.

[[Shawn Levy]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Actors from Montreal, Canadian Jews, Canadian movie actors, Canadian movie directors, Canadian movie producers, Canadian television actors, Canadian television directors, Canadian television producers, Canadian television writers, Jewish writers, Writers from Montreal

Shawn Adam Levy (born July 23, 1968) is a Canadian director, producer and actor of movies and television. He directed the movies Big Fat Liar (2002), Just Married (2003), Cheaper by the Dozen (2003), The Pink Panther (2006), Night at the Museum (2006), Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian (2009), Date Night (2010), Real Steel (2011), The Internship (2013), This Is Where I Leave You (2014) and Night at the Museum: Secret of the Tomb (2014). He has also directed episodes of television shows such as The Secret World of Alex Mack, The Famous Jett Jackson and Stranger Things.

Levy was born in Montreal, Quebec. He is married to Serena and has four children. He is Jewish.

[[Taeyeon]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean singers, 1989 births, Living people, K-pop singers

Kim Taeyeon (born March 9, 1989), known simply as Taeyeon is a South Korean singer. She is the leader and main vocalist of the girl group Girls' Generation and is also a member of the sub units Girls' Generation-TTS and Girls' Generation-Oh!GG and the SM the Ballad project. Taeyeon is one of the most successful soloists in South Korea, along with Lee Hyori, BoA and Hyuna.

After winning a contest, she signed a contract with S.M. Entertainment and in 2007 she made her debut as a member of Girls' Generation with the single "Into the New World". Taeyeon debuted as a solo artist in 2015 with her first mini album, I. She ranked second in Gaon Album Chart of South Korea and her single sold more than one million digital copies. Her second mini album, Why, released in 2016, ranked second in Gaon Album Chart and her singles, "Starlight" and "Why", entered the Top 10 of Gaon Digital Chart. Her first studio album, My Voice, released in 2017 and their two singles "I Got Love " and "Fine" achieved similar success.

[[Kamehameha I]]

CATEGORIES: People from Hawaii, 1730s births, Kings and queens, 1819 deaths, Native Hawaiians

Kamehameha I (about 1736–1819) was the first king of Hawaii. 

[[Mohamed Salah]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, 2018 FIFA World Cup players, Chelsea F.C. players, Competitors at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Egypt international footballers, Egyptian footballers, Egyptian Muslims, Liverpool F.C. players

Mohamed Salah Hamed Mahrous Ghaly (Egyptian محمد صلاح حامد محروس غالي; born 15 June 1992) is an Egyptian professional footballer. He plays for Premier League club Liverpool and the Egypt national team. He plays as a forward. He was born in Nagrig, Gharbia. He married Magi Salah in 2013 and In 2014, his daughter Makkah Salah was born. His daughter was named after the holy Arabian city in Saudi Arabia.

[[Aldo Kaslowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Italian people, Turkish people

Aldo Kaslowski (born on 1937, Istanbul) is an Turkish-Italian businessman. Kaslowski  is founder and current CEO of Organik Holding. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Türk Pirelli Kablo, Ferrero group, and Member of the Board of Directors and Vice President of TÜSİAD since 1997. 

[[Göksel Gümüşdağ]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1972 births, Turkish businesspeople

Göksel Gümüşdağ (born 10 October 1972, Istanbul) is a Turkish businessman, former president of İstanbul Başakşehir and former Vice President of the Türkiye Futbol Federasyonu. He is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of LTD.

[[Michael Imperioli]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Actors from New York, American movie actors, American movie directors, American screenwriters, American television actors, American television writers, Emmy Award winning actors, People from Mount Vernon, New York

James Michael Imperioli (born March 26, 1966) is an American actor, writer and director. He is best known for the role of Christopher Moltisanti in the HBO drama series The Sopranos. The role earned him a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series in 2004. He has also had roles in movies and television shows such as Goodfellas, The Addiction, The Lovely Bones, Clockers, Law & Order, Californication and Hawaii Five-0.

Imperioli was born in Mount Vernon, New York, to an Italian American family. He married Victoria Chlebowski in 1995. The couple have three children.

[[Tigga & Togga]]

CATEGORIES: American television series, Canadian television series, 2006 American television series debuts, 2013 American television series endings, Children's television series, Animation

Tigga & Togga is a Canadian–American animated series produced by Cuppa Coffee Studios, Collideascope Digital Productions, Frederator Studios, Tigga Togga Productions and Nickelodeon Productions. The series premiere aired at 9:30 a.m. ET/PT time on February 18, 2006 on Nickelodeon's Nick Jr. block in the United States and TVOKids in Canada. The series is produced 129 episodes divided in 8 seasons.

[[Alan MacDiarmid]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2007 deaths, New Zealand scientists, New Zealand Nobel Prize winners

Alan G. MacDiarmid (April 14, 1927 – February 7, 2007) was a New Zealand chemist. He received the 2000 Nobel Prize in Chemistry together with Alan  Heeger and Hideki Shirakawa for "the discovery and development of conductive polymers". 

He was born in Masterton,  New Zealand and died in Drexel Hill, Pennsylvania, United States.

[[Denudation]]

CATEGORIES: Geology

In geology, denudation includes the procedures that reason the wearing ceaselessly of the Earth's surface by moving water, by ice, by wind and by waves, prompting a lessening in rise and in alleviation of landforms and of scenes.

[[Recruitment (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Ecosystems

Recruitment is the number of new individuals that are added to a population of animals.

[[Cyclone Dirk]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in weather, Weather events, Natural disasters, December events, 2013 in Europe

Cyclone Dirk was a large and deep European windstorm. It affected Western Europe from Iberia to Iceland. It formed on December 21, 2013 and dissipated on December 27, 2013. The storm caused 6 deaths.

On land the low pressure during the storm was measured at 936.8 on 24 December at Stornoway, Isle of Lewis off the north west coast of Scotland.

[[Shelby County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties

Shelby County is a county in the U.S. state of Alabama. The county seat is Columbiana.

[[Fred Cole]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver disease, American singer-songwriters, American rock guitarists, Writers from Washington, Writers from Oregon, Writers from Las Vegas, Nevada, Singers from Washington, Singers from Oregon, Musicians from Oregon, Musicians from Washington, Musicians from Nevada, People from Tacoma, Washington, Singers from Las Vegas, Nevada

Fred Cole (August 28, 1948 – November 9, 2017) was an American rock singer-songwriter and guitarist. He played with several bands since the 1960s, most notably The Lollipop Shoppe, Dead Moon, and Pierced Arrows.

Cole died of liver disease on November 9, 2017 at his home in Clackamas, Oregon at the age of 69.

[[Chuck Mosley]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2017 deaths, Drug-related deaths in the United States, American singer-songwriters, American rock guitarists, American heavy metal musicians, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California, Writers from Los Angeles, California

Charles Henry Mosley III (December 26, 1959 – November 9, 2017) was an American singer-songwriter. He was best known as the frontman for Faith No More from 1984 to 1988. During his time with the band, they released two albums, We Care a Lot and Introduce Yourself.

Mosley died on November 9, 2017 from complications of alcoholism in Cleveland, Ohio at the age of 57.

[[Priyan (cinematographer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian cinematographers

Priyan (April 1964 – 9 November 2017) was an Indian cinematographer. He has worked on Tamil language movies. He was born in Virudhunagar, Tamil Nadu. His best known works are Porkkaalam (1997), Desiya Geetham (1998), Vetri Kodi Kattu (1999), Thenali (2000), Star (2001) and Majunu (2001).

Priyan died of a heart attack in Chennai, India on 9 November 2017 at the age of 53.

[[Shyla Stylez]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from British Columbia, Adult models, Canadian models, Canadian movie actors, Canadian sex industry people, Erotic dancers, Pornographic actors

Amanda Friedland (September 23, 1982 – November 9, 2017), better known by her stage name Shyla Stylez, was a Canadian pornographic actress. She was born in Armstrong, British Columbia. She started as a stripper and a webcam model.

She was known for her works in My Plaything: Shyla Stylez and Pirates II. In 2010, she was named by Maxim as one of the 12 top female stars in porn. In 2005, she temporarily left the adult industry. She returned to pornography in 2006

From 2002 through 2003, Stylez was married to Bob Friedland.

Stylez was found dead at her home in Armstrong, British Columbia on November 9, 2017 at the age of 35.

[[Mikhail Nikolayevich Zadornov]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Russian writers, Comedians

Mikhail Nikolayevich Zadornov (Михаи́л Никола́евич Задо́рнов; July 21, 1948 – November 10, 2017) was a Soviet and Russian stand-up comedian and writer. He was born in Jūrmala, Latvian SSR, USSR. His humour is national stereotype and national mentality. From 2006 until his death, Zadornov had incorporated Chudinov-style wordplay into his sketches, based on folk etymology

In March 2014 he signed a letter in support of the position of the President of Russia Vladimir Putin on accession of the Crimea to Russia.

Zadornov died of brain cancer in Moscow, Russia on November 10, 2017 at the age of 69.

[[Daqing]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Daqing (大庆; used to be romanized as Taching) is a city in Heilongjiang province, China. Daqing is a prefecture-level city, which means it ranks below a province and above a county. The city is called the "Oil Capital of China" because oil was discovered at the Daqing Oil Field in 1959. It is one of China's most well-known places because of this.

The population of Daqing was 2,963,458 in 2010. Close to 1,400,000 people lived in the urban parts of town.

[[Sophia (robot)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015, Robots, Saudi Arabia

Sophia is a human-like robot. Sophia was developed by Hong Kong-based company Hanson Robotics. The robot has been designed to learn and adapt to human behavior and work with humans. Sophia has also been interviewed around the world. In October 2017, Sophia became a citizen of Saudi Arabia. This means Sophia is the first robot to receive citizenship of a country. The robot is designed to look like British actress Audrey Hepburn (1929–1993).

[[Nellie Bly]]

CATEGORIES: 1864 births, 1922 deaths, American inventors, American journalists, American novelists, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in New York City, Writers from Pennsylvania

Elizabeth Cochrane Seaman (born Elizabeth Jane Cochran; May 5, 1864 – January 27, 1922), better known by her pen name Nellie Bly, was an American journalist, novelist and inventor. She was a newspaper reporter, who worked at various jobs for exposing poor working conditions. Nellie Bly, also, fought for women's right and was known for investigative reporting. She best known for her record-breaking trip around the world in 72 days, inspired by the adventure novel Around the World in Eighty Days by Jules Verne. In the 1880s, she went undercover as a mentally ill patient in a psychiatric hospital for ten days, with the report being made public in a book called "Ten Days in a Mad-House". She was added to the National Women's Hall of Fame in 1998.

Bly was born in Cochran's Mills, Pennsylvania. She married industrialist Robert Seaman in 1895. After his death in 1904, Bly took over his company.

Bly died of pneumonia on January 27, 1922 in New York City. She was 57.

[[Carlos Dívar]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary edema, Civil servants, Spanish politicians

José Carlos Dívar Blanco (December 31, 1941 – November 11, 2017) was a Spanish government official. He was born in Málaga, Spain. He was President of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Supreme Court from September 2008 to June 2012.

He was the President of the National Court from 2001 to 2008. He resigned in June 2012 when it was uncovered a scandal of alleged misappropriation of public funds.

Dívar died of pulmonary edema in Madrid on November 11, 2017 at the age of 75.

[[Valery Rozov]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, BASE jumpers, Deaths in sport, Russian sportspeople

Valery Rozov (December 26, 1964 – November 11, 2017) was a Russian BASE jumper. He was born in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia.

On May 5, 2013, Rozov set a world record when he jumped off Changtse (the north peak of the Mount Everest massif) from a height of 7,220 metres (23,690 ft). He glided down to the Rongbuk glacier more than 1,000 meters below.

Rozov died on 11 November 2017 while jumping from a height of 6,812 meters (22,349 ft) off Ama Dablam mountain in Nepal at the age of 52.

[[Ian Wachtmeister]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Swedish businesspeople, Deaths from lymphoma, Earls and countesses, Swedish nobility, Swedish politicians

Count Ian Melcher Shering Wachtmeister af Johannishus (ˈvaktmejster; 24 December 1932 – 11 November 2017) was a Swedish businessman and politician. He was a member of the Swedish Riksdag from 1991 to 1994. He was born in Nääs, Sweden. Together with record company owner Bert Karlsson he founded the populist political party New Democracy, and as party leader achieved parliamentary representation in the 1991 general election from Örebro County.

Wachtmeister died of lymphoma on 11 November 2017 in Stockholm, Sweden at the age of 84.

[[Tamara Natalie Madden]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from ovarian cancer, Cancer deaths in the United States, Jamaican people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American painters, People from Atlanta, Georgia, People from Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Tamara Natalie Madden  (August 16, 1975 – November 4, 2017) was a Jamaican-born American painter and mixed-media artist working. Madden's paintings are allegories whose subjects are the people of the African diaspora. After her solo exhibition in 2004, Madden relocated near Atlanta, Georgia. She was born in Kingston, Jamaica. She studied at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee.

Her first solo exhibition was in 2004, and it got her an interview with the late James Auer of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. In 2007, Madden debuted a series entitled, "Kings & Queens", which focused on heightening the everyday person. Her work continues to focus on recognizing nobility, honor and respect in those often overlooked by society.

Madden died of ovarian cancer on November 4, 2017 in Atlanta, Georgia at the age of 42.

[[Jack Ralite]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Communists, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in France, French mayors, Government ministers of France, People from Grand Est

Jack Ralite (14 May 1928 – 12 November 2017) was a French politician. He was elected in 1973 to the Seine-Saint-Denis constituency for the French Communist Party. In 1981 he became Minister for Health and Minister for Employment from 1981 to 1984. In 1984 he became Mayor of Aubervilliers, a post he retained until 2003. He was born in Châlons-en-Champagne, France.

Ralite died in Aubervilliers, France of respiratory failure at the age of 89.

[[Freddy Cole]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2020 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, American jazz singers, American jazz musicians, American pianists, Singers from Chicago, Musicians from Chicago

Lionel Frederick "Freddy" Cole (October 15, 1931 – June 27, 2020) was an American jazz singer and pianist. His recording career has spanned over sixty years. He was the brother of musicians Nat King Cole and Ike Cole, father of Lionel Cole, and uncle of Natalie Cole, Timolin Cole, and Casey Cole. He was known for his moderate success of Whispering Grass in 1953.

During the 1970s, Cole recorded several albums for European and English based labels. He was the subject of the 2006 documentary The Cole Nobody Knows. In June of that year, Cole was added to the Steinway Artist roster.

Cole died from heart disease-related problems in Atlanta, Georgia on June 27, 2020 at the age of 88.

[[Ray Lovelock]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from bone cancer, Cancer deaths in Italy, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Rock musicians, Actors from Rome, Musicians from Rome

Ray Lovelock (ˈreːˌløːvˈlak; 19 June 1950 – 10 November 2017) was an Italian actor and rock musician. He was born in Rome, Italy. He performed in a rock band with longtime friend and actor Tomas Milian, where he was discovered by a talent agent.

Lovelock appeared in many movies such as: Fiddler on the Roof (1971), Let Sleeping Corpses Lie (1974), Almost Human (1974), Violent Rome (1975), Live Like a Cop, Die Like a Man (1976), The Cassandra Crossing (1976) and The Last House on the Beach (1978).

Lovelock died in Trevi, Italy on 10 November 2017 of bone cancer at the age of 67.

[[Roman calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars, Ancient Rome

The Roman calendar was a lunar calendar used by the Roman Kingdom and the Roman Republic.

[[James T. Butts Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: Pages needing to be simplified from November 2017, 1953 births, African American politicians, American mayors, American police officers, Politicians from California, People from Inglewood, California, Living people

James Thurman Butts Jr. (born August 1, 1953) is an American politician. He is currently serving as the mayor of Inglewood, California. He started out in law enforcement in Inglewood during the 1970s and 1980s and later became a captain. He worked as Chief of Police in Santa Monica, California from 1991 to 2006. After that,  in 2006, he worked in public safety  with Los Angeles World Airports. In 2010  he was elected mayor of Inglewood. In 2014 he was re-elected  with an 84% vote. He led efforts to renovate and reopen the sports stadium The Forum in Inglewood. He also worked to develop a plan for a new NFL stadium in Inglewood. Butts holds an MBA degree from California State Polytechnic University, Pomona. He also  holds a Bachelor of Science from California State University, Los Angeles.

[[Norman Hallendy]]

CATEGORIES: Nunavut, Canadian writers, Ethnography

Norman E. Hallendy is an Arctic researcher, writer and photographer.  Hallendy's Arctic journeys began in 1958 at a time when many Inuit, who traditionally lived on the land, were moving to permanent settlements created by the Federal government. Returning north year after year, he was befriended by Inuit elders who shared with him their perception of their material and spiritual world.

[[Ron Gardenhire]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, German sportspeople, Detroit Tigers managers, Minnesota Twins, New York Mets players

Ronald Clyde Gardenhire (born October 24, 1957) is the manager of the Detroit Tigers. He was born in West Germany. He was a shortstop for the New York Mets from 1981 to 1985 and managed the Minnesota Twins from 2002 to 2013. He replaced Brad Ausmus as manager of the Tigers following the 2017 season.

[[Allschwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Basel-Landschaft, Cities in Switzerland

Allschwil is a municipality of the district of Arlesheim in the canton of Basel-Landschaft in Switzerland.

[[Solothurn (city)]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn, Districts of Solothurn, Capital cities in Switzerland, Imperial free cities

Solothurn (Solothurn, Soleure, Soletta, Soloturn) is a district and the capital of the Swiss canton of Solothurn. As of December 2016, 16,697 people lived there. It is the only municipality of the district of the same name.

[[Highland County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1800s establishments in Ohio, 1805 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Highland County is a county in Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 43,589 people lived there. The county seat is Hillsboro.

[[Gholamreza Hassani]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2018 deaths, Iranian politicians, Conservatives

Ayatollah Gholamreza Hassani (غلامرضا حسنی, Qulamrza Həsəni) (30 August 1928 – 21 May 2018) was an Iranian conservative politician and cleric. He was the previous Friday prayer, first First imam of Masjid-e-Jamé mosque of the city of Urmia. He was born in Urmia, Iran. 

He was a member of the Islamic Consultative Assembly in the first term from electoral district of Urmia and representative of the Iranian Supreme Leader Grand Ayatollah Ali Hosseini Khamenei in West Azarbaijan Province.

Hassani died on 21 May 2018 in Tehran at the age of 90.

[[Mary Wells Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Businesspeople from New York City, Businesspeople from Ohio, People from Youngstown, Ohio

Mary Wells Lawrence (born Mary Georgene Berg on May 25, 1928) is a retired American advertising executive.  She was the founding president of Wells Rich Greene, an advertising agency. Lawrence was the first female CEO of a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

[[Cindy Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American activists, Models from New York City, Journalists from New York City

Cynthia "Cindy" Adams (née Sugar; later Heller; born April 24, 1930) is an American gossip columnist and writer. She is the widow of comedian/humorist Joey Adams. She was born in New York City. 

She began to work as a photographer's model in Manhattan. Since 1979, Adams has written a gossip column for the New York Post, a New York City newspaper. She also contributed to Sunday Today in New York. Adams became a syndicated newspaper columnist in 1981.

[[Edith Savage-Jennings]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, American civil rights activists, People from Jacksonville, Florida, People from Trenton, New Jersey

Edith Savage-Jennings (1924 – November 12, 2017) was an American civil rights leader from New Jersey. She was known for her association with civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr.. Savage was notable for being a guest to the White House under every President of the United States from Franklin Delano Roosevelt through Barack Obama.

Savage-Jennings was born in Jacksonville, Florida.

In 2016 she was inducted into the New Jersey Women's Hall of Fame.

Savage-Jennings died on November 12, 2017 at her home in Trenton, New Jersey at the age of 93.

[[Wojciech Zabłocki]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Polish Olympic medalists, Architects, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Fencers, Sportspeople from Warsaw

Wojciech Mikołaj Zabłocki (December 6, 1930 – December 5, 2020) was a Polish architect and fencer. He was born in Warsaw.  He was a founding member of the Art of the Olympians.

Zabłocki participated in four Olympic Games: 1952 Helsinki, 1956 Melbourne, 1960 Rome, 1964 Tokyo and won two silver (1956, 1960) and one bronze medal (1964) in team sabre fencing.

In 1963, he married actress Alina Janowska. She died in 2017.

Zabłocki died on December 5, 2020 just one day before his 90th birthday.

[[Bernard Panafieu]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in France, French Roman Catholics, People from Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Roman Catholic archbishops

Bernard Louis Auguste Paul Panafieu (26 January 1931 – 12 November 2017) Fr-Bernard Panafieu.ogg) was a French prelate of the Catholic Church. He was Archbishop of Marseille from 1995 until his retirement in 2006. He was made a cardinal in 2003. He was born in Châtellerault, France.

Panafieu died on 12 November 2017 at a hospital in Venasque, France of complications from Parkinson's disease at the age of 86.

[[List of township-level divisions of Shaanxi]]

This is a list of township-level divisions of the province of Shaanxi, People's Republic of China. After province, prefecture, and county-leveldivisions, township-level divisions constitute the formal fourth-level administrative divisions of the PRC. This list is divided first into the prefecture-level then the county-level divisions. The ten prefecture-level divisions of Shaanxi are subdivided into 107 county-level divisions (28 districts, 3 county-level cities, and 76 counties). Those are in turn divided into 1785 township-level divisions (917 towns 镇, 680 townships 乡, 98 ethnic townships, 148 subdistrcts.)

[[Photometry (astronomy)]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy

Photometry is a method of problem solving in astronomy. It aims to measure flux. When photometry is performed over broad wavelength bands of radiation, where not only the amount of radiation but also its spectral distribution is measured, the term spectrophotometry is used.

The word is combination of the Greek affixes "photo-" ("light") and "-metry" ("measure").

[[Santiago Vernazza]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Argentine footballers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Júlio Carlos Santiago "Ghito" Vernazza (September 23, 1928 – November 12, 2017) was a former Argentine footballer. He was a forward who played for Platense and River Plate until 1956, when he moved to Italy and signed for newly promoted Serie A club Palermo.

He was born in Buenos Aires.

In 1960/1961, Vernazza played for AC Milan, where he obtained a second place. In 1961/1962, he moved to Vicenza, where he played two seasons before retiring in 1963 at the age of 35.

Vernazza died in Buenos Aires on November 12, 2017 at the age of 89.

[[David Poisson]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths in sport, French Olympians, French skiers, People from Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

David Poisson (31 March 1982 – 13 November 2017) was a French World Cup alpine ski racer. He was born in Annecy, Haute-Savoie, France.

Poisson represented France at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver. At the 2013 World Championships, Poisson made his first podium, taking bronze in the downhill.

Poisson died in a crash during training in Nakiska, Alberta, Canada on 13 November 2017, aged 35.

[[Alex Azar]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Health and Human Services, Politicians from Pennsylvania, Politicians from Maryland, Businesspeople from Pennsylvania, People from Johnstown, Pennsylvania, Businesspeople from Indianapolis, Indiana, Politicians from Indianapolis, Indiana, US Republican Party politicians

Alex Michael Azar II (born June 17, 1967) is an American politician and businessman. He was the 24th United States Secretary of Health and Human Services from January 29, 2018 to January 20, 2021. He was the United States Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services under George W. Bush from 2005 to 2007. From 2012 to 2017, Azar was President of Eli Lilly and Company. He was a member of the board of directors of the Biotechnology Innovation Organization, a pharmaceutical lobby.

On November 13, 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Azar to be the next United States Secretary of Health and Human Services. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on January 24, 2018.

[[Sam Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: Purple Heart recipients, 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from natural causes in the United States, United States representatives from Texas, Politicians from San Antonio, Texas, American military personnel of the Korean War, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, Military people from Texas, US Republican Party politicians

Samuel Robert Johnson (October 11, 1930 – May 27, 2020) was an American politician. He was the U.S. Representative for TX serving in Congress from 1991 to 2019. He was a member of the Republican Party.

On January 6, 2017, Johnson announced he will not run for reelection in 2018.

He was the last Korean War veteran to serve in Congress.

Johnson died at his home in Plano, Texas on May 27, 2020 of natural causes at the age of 89.

[[President of Singapore]]

CATEGORIES: Political office-holders in Singapore

The President of the Republic of Singapore is the country's head of state. Singapore has a parliamentary system of government. Executive authority is exercised by the Cabinet who was led by the Prime Minister of Singapore. The current president is Halimah Yacob, who is the Singapore's first female president, who was elected unopposed at the 2017 presidential election.

The president's official residence and office is the Istana. However, no presidents since Yusof bin Ishak (1965–1970) have lived there. The current president, Halimah Yacob, had wanted to stay in the HDB flat at Yishun, but if she fails to comply with the security requirements, she will have to move out. She is also the first female President of Singapore and first Malay head of state in 47 years since the death of Mr Yusof bin Ishak who was Singapore's first president.

[[Tan Kah Kee MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Tan Kah Kee MRT Station is a MRT station in Singapore. It is the first station to be named after a person. It is named after Tan Kah Kee, a Chinese businessman, community leader and philanthropist. It is within walking distance of Hwa Chong Institution, Nanyang Girls' High School, Raffles Girls' Primary School, Methodist Girls' School, and National Junior College.

Prior to the opening of the station, this station was named Duchess, and all of the Hwa Chong students wished to name the station "Hwa Chong". Other Singaporeans also decided to name it Hillcrest, Watten, Namly or Coronation. In the end, it was renamed to Tan Kah Kee, in honour of the businessman and community leader who founded Hwa Chong Institution.

During the Downtown MRT Line Stage 2 open house on 5 December 2015, LTA was told that the Tamil translation of the station name was incorrect. The LTA apologized in the evening for the error. 

[[Botanic Gardens MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Botanic Gardens MRT Station (CC19/DT9) is an interchange MRT station in Singapore. It is one of four stations where commuters can transfer from the Circle MRT Line to Downtown MRT Line,

This station is located near the Singapore Botanic Gardens at the intersection of Bukit Timah Road and Cluny Park Road, hence its name. It is also near the National University of Singapore Bukit Timah campus and is behind Serene Centre. 

As Bukit Brown Station will only be operational after the Bukit Brown area has been developed enough, the section of track between Botanic Gardens and Caldecott is the longest on the Circle Line. 

As the distance between the Circle Line and Downtown Line platforms is relatively long, it has travelators, the fourth station after Dhoby Ghaut, Serangoon and Bugis to have travelators within the paid area.

[[MacPherson MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations, 2017 establishments in Asia, 2010s establishments in Singapore

MacPherson MRT Station (CC10/DT26) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit interchange station between the Circle Line and the Downtown Line in Geylang. It is located along Paya Lebar Road, near the Geylang Neighbourhood Police Centre. The station, and the nearby housing estate, is named after Colonel Ronald Macpherson, the first Colonial Secretary of the Straits Settlements in 1867.

This is one of the few stations on the network which has easy transfers between the Circle Line and Downtown Line platforms, connected through escalators.

[[Lavender MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Lavender MRT Station (EW11) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit station on the East West Line in Kallang, Singapore. It is located underneath the junction of Kallang Road and Kallang Walk. This station is within the vicinity of Bendemeer and Jalan Besar stations on the Downtown Line. It is also near to ICA Building.

It was formerly known as E2 before 2001.

[[Bugis MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Bugis MRT Station (EW12/DT14) is an underground MRT interchange station on the East West Line and the Downtown Line located at the boundary of Downtown Core and Rochor planning areas, Singapore. 

This station serves Bugis+, Sim Lim Square, Bugis Village, Bugis Junction and many housing retail and food outlets. The station is also nearby to National Library and the Kampong Glam as well as many private educational schools in the area like Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts and LASALLE College of the Arts which also situated nearby. The station is within five minutes walk of Jalan Besar Station on the Downtown Line. It is one of the stations that serves the huge demand when transferring from East West Line to Downtown Line.

[[Tanjong Pagar MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Tanjong Pagar MRT Station (EW15) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit station on the East West Line in Downtown Core, Singapore. The station caters to people, especially businessmen and residents, working and living in the Shenton Way and Robinson Road areas. Currently the station is surrounded by recent developments of Tanjong Pagar Centre, of which it is the tallest skyscraper in Singapore (290 metres). Permission is required by the authority and it is exempted from the height restrictions due to Paya Lebar Airbase.

[[Tiong Bahru MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Tiong Bahru MRT Station (EW17) is an underground station located on the East West Line of the Mass Rapid Transit in Bukit Merah, Singapore. It is the last underground MRT station on the line westwards. The station is directly connected to a shopping mall, Tiong Bahru Plaza and is at Tiong Bahru Road and Jalan Membina. The MRT Station serves the surrounding residential neighborhoods of Bukit Ho Swee, Bukit Merah View and Tiong Bahru. This station was named after the Tiong Bahru Estate, together with Tiong Bahru Market and Tiong Bahru constituency.

It was the closest station to Sentosa before the opening of North East Line station on 20 June 2003. Shuttle bus services linking Sentosa to Tiong Bahru MRT operated for several years until it was eventually withdrawn in 2004.

[[Kallang MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Kallang MRT Station (EW10) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit station on the East West Line in Kallang, Singapore. It is painted in yellow livery and located next to the Kallang River, which is famous for its water sports. This is the last above-ground station westbound until Redhill. Westward of the station towards Lavender, the tracks lose elevation until they level out when sufficiently underground. This is because of space limitations in the Central Business District.

The station is within the vicinity of Boon Keng MRT Station on the North East Line, Stadium MRT Station on the Circle Line and Geylang Bahru MRT Station on the Downtown Line. Kallang station is located next to the Lorong 1 Geylang Bus Terminal and within walking distance to the Kallang Riverside Park located at Kampong Bugis.

When Stadium MRT Station was under construction, Kallang station would be crowded when either the Singapore Indoor Stadium or the National Stadium hosted an event. After the opening of the Singapore Sports Hub, a sheltered walkway was built to connect Kallang station to the Singapore Sports Hub to ease overcrowding on Stadium station which only caters to 3-car trains.

It was formerly E3, before 2001.

[[Redhill MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Redhill MRT Station (EW18) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit station on the East West Line located in Bukit Merah, Singapore. This is the last above-ground station eastbound until Kallang station. Eastward of the station towards Tiong Bahru Estate, the tracks lose elevation until they level out when sufficiently underground. This is because of the space limitations as there is no such elevation of tracks in the Central Business District. This station is near to Enable Village for people with special needs.

Redhill is the only MRT station in which the two platforms are not parallel to each other.

[[Little India MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Little India MRT Station (NE7/DT12) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit interchange station on the North East Line and the Downtown Line located at the boundary of the planning areas of Kallang and Rochor, Singapore. The station derives its name from the ethnic district of Little India. This station and Rochor is the nearest of any station on the Downtown Line as it takes only 20-25 seconds to reach.

This station was built in the heart of Little India, with Tekka Centre within walking distance of the station.

[[Farrer Park MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Farrer Park MRT Station (NE8) is an underground station along the North East Line of the Mass Rapid Transit at the boundary of Kallang and Rochor planning areas, Singapore. It is at the north end of the ethnic neighbourhood of Little India. This station is near Mustafa Centre, Serangoon Plaza, and City Square Mall.

[[Chinese Garden MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Chinese Garden MRT Station (EW25) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit station on the East West Line in Jurong East, Singapore. It serves residents in Yuhua and Hong Kah, as well people visiting tourist attractions in Jurong Lake, including the Chinese Gardens, which give the station its name. Its station colour is yellow. The roof of the station is based on a Chinese design.

The original name for Chinese Garden was Jurong Lake.

[[Downtown MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Downtown MRT Station (DT17) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit station on the Downtown Line in Downtown Core, Singapore under Central Boulevard. It serves the south part of the Marina Bay area.

[[Telok Ayer MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Telok Ayer MRT Station (DT17) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit station on the Downtown Line in Downtown Core, Singapore under Cross Street. This station uses side platforms.

[[Rochor MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Rochor MRT Station (DT13) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit station on the Downtown Line in the planning area of Rochor, Singapore. It is near Sim Lim Square, The Verge, the Lasalle College of the Arts and Tekka Centre. The station is white and grey with a futuristic design. This station and Little India is the nearest of any station on the Downtown Line as it takes only 20-25 seconds to reach. The station opened along with other station on the DTL2 in December 2015.

This station had basement 1 reserved for the future North-South Corridor, and basement 2 and 3 are typically station levels.

[[Jalan Besar MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Jalan Besar MRT Station (DT22) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit station on the Downtown Line in Rochor planning area, Singapore. The station is under Jalan Besar, at the junction with Weld Road. The station is also called Sungei Road. Sungei Road Thieves' Market was located next to this station, together with Sim Lim Tower.

The station is within five minutes walk of Rochor station on the Downtown Line and Bugis station on both the Downtown Line and East West Line, allowing an out-of-system transfer to those stations and lines. It opened on 21 October 2017.

[[Fort Canning MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Fort Canning MRT Station (DT20) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit station on the Downtown Line at the boundary of Museum and Singapore River planning areas, Singapore. The station, is next to Liang Court shopping centre along River Valley Road. It is also within walking distance from UE Square. The station is close to Fort Canning Park. It is also near eateries and nightspots at Clarke Quay, so the Clarke Quay MRT Station is less crowded.

[[Kevin Cramer]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, United States senators from North Dakota, United States representatives from North Dakota, US Republican Party politicians

Kevin John Cramer (born January 21, 1961) is an American politician of the Republican Party. He is the junior United States senator of North Dakota since January 3, 2019.

He was a member of the United States House of Representatives for North Dakota from January 3, 2013 to January 3, 2019.

[[Gabarnmung]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian culture, Archaeological sites in Australia, Northern Territory

Gabarnmung, or Nawarla Gabarnmung, is an Aboriginal archaeological and rock art site in south-western Arnhem Land, in the Top End of Australia’s Northern Territory. The meaning of the name is "hole in the rock", "passageway", or "valley open from the centre".

[[Earl Pomeroy]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, American lobbyists, United States representatives from North Dakota, US Democratic Party politicians

Earl Pomeroy (born September 2, 1952 in Barnes County, North Dakota) is an American lobbyist for hospitals and a former politician of the Democratic Party.

He was a member of the United States House of Representatives for North Dakota from 1993 to 2011.

[[District of Eixample]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona

Eixample, also known as Expansion district in Catalan is the name of second district of Barcelona. 

It takes up  the central area of the city, in a big area of 7,46 km2 . Designed by Ildefonso Cerdà. It is the most populated district of Barcelona and of all Spain in absolute numbers (262.485 inhabitants) and the second to related to the surface (35.586 inhabitants/ km2). 

[[Mayor of Coimbatore]]

CATEGORIES: Coimbatore district, Tamil Nadu politicians, Mayors, Lists of politicians, Lists of Indian people

The Mayor of Coimbatore is the first citizen of the city of Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India.

[[Hurst-Euless-Bedford Independent School District]]

CATEGORIES: Organizations based in the United States

Hurst-Euless-Bedford Independent School District (HEB ISD) is a government organization that runs public schools. HEB ISD has students in pre-kindergarten to grade 12. Almost all students in Bedford, Euless, and Hurst go to HEB ISD schools. Some students in North Richland Hills, Colleyville, Fort Worth, and Arlington go to HEB ISD.

The district runs twenty elementary schools, five junior high schools, two large high schools, and some schools for special purposes. HEB ISD schools offer special classes about foreign language, art, science, and work skills.

In 2018, HEB ISD was rated "A" by the Texas Education Agency.

[[The War of the Worlds (radio drama)]]

CATEGORIES: Radio programs, 1938

In 1938, Orson Welles produced a radio version of the 1898 book The War of the Worlds by H. G. Wells. Wells only produced one episode of the  American radio drama anthology series The Mercury Theatre on the Air. This episode was produced as the Halloween episode. It was broadcast on Sunday, October 30, 1938. It became famous for allegedly causing mass panic, although the scale of the panic is disputed as the program had relatively few listeners.

The first two-thirds of the one-hour broadcast was presented as a series of simulated news bulletins. The first news update interrupted a program of dance music to report that a series of odd explosions had been spotted on Mars, which was followed soon thereafter by a seemingly unrelated report of an unusual object falling on a farm in Grover's Mill, New Jersey. Martians emerged from the object and attacked using a heat ray during the next interruption, which was followed by a rapid series of news reports describing a devastating alien invasion taking place across the United States and the world. The illusion of realism was increased because the Mercury Theatre on the Air was a sustaining show without commercial interruptions, and the first break in the program came almost 30 minutes into the broadcast. Popular legend holds that all of the radio audience may have been listening to Edgar Bergen and tuned in to "The War of the Worlds" during a musical interlude, thereby missing the clear introduction that the show was a drama, but research beginning in the 2010s suggests this only happened in rare instances.67–69In the days following the adaptation, widespread outrage was expressed in the media. The program's news-bulletin format was described as deceptive by some newspapers and public figures, leading to an outcry against the perpetrators of the broadcast and calls for regulation by the Federal Communications Commission. The episode secured Welles' fame as a dramatist.

[[Thruepang Palace]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures

Thruepang Palace is a royal dzong (a form of fortress) or palace in Bhutan. It is a historic building in Bhutan.

[[Monika Kørra]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Norwegian writers

Monika Kørra (born September 5, 1989) is an author and former athlete from Norway.

[[Untervaz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Untervaz is a municipality of the district of Landquart in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Levoncourt, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Levoncourt is a commune of the Haut-Rhin department.

[[Leymen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Leymen is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Liebenswiller]]

CATEGORIES: communes in Haut-Rhin

Liebenswiller is a commune. It is in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

The D9B road passes through the commune.

The commune is next to the French-Swiss border.

[[Backbend]]

CATEGORIES: Gymnastics, Human skills, Yoga

A backbend is a body movement where the spine is bent backwards, catching oneself with the hands. The backbend is used in gymnastics, contortion, or as a dance move.

[[VxWorks]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

vxWorks is the real-time operating system which based on real time constraint.

[[Sindhi writers]]

CATEGORIES: Indian culture, Sindh

Sindhi language is spoken by more than 50 million people and Sindhi literature is as rich as of any language known to human society, Shah Abdul latif Bhittai, Sachal  Sarmast and Sammi are considered as the legendary trio of Sindhi literature but here in this discussion we will concentrate more on the Sindhi writers from India. This is quite possible that Sindh, presently part of Pakistan may appear in our discussion as this has passed only 70 years since the partition of the country which forced Indian Sindhi community to leave the motherland of many generations of their forefathers. Many of the contributors to Sindhi literature - Sindhi writers were born in Sindh though they live and worked in India. This might be the Rashtriya Kavi Padam Shri Dada Hundraj Dukhayal or unparalleled Sindhi writer poet Padma Shri Prof Ram Panjwani.

When we are discussing about Sindhi writer this become essential to mention contribution of Sindhi women. Sindhi literature have revolutionary woman writer like Popati Hiranandani Sindhi Sahitya Academy Award 1982] , Indira Vaswani, Maya Rahi and many more who have contributed to enrich the Sindhi literature on Indian soil though many of Sindhi women have contributed through poetry.

We will start list of Sindhi writers from India with Tirth Basant who wrote biography of famous Sindhi Saint Bhagat Kanwarram Sahib with Title "Kanwar" and was first awardee of Sindhi Sahitya Academy award way back in 1959.

[[Sun Moon Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Taiwan, Lakes of Asia

Sun Moon Lake (日月潭; Thao: Zintun) is a lake in Nantou County, Taiwan. It is the largest lake in Taiwan. Sun Moon Lake is one of the Eight Views of Taiwan. The lake was named because the east side of the lake looks like a sun, and the west side of the lake looks like a moon.

The lake is famous because the scenery looks very beautiful. In the morning and evening, there are clouds and mist with the rising or setting sun. The area around the lake is one of Taiwan's national scenic areas.

[[Shyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory tract infection, Infectious disease deaths in India, Indian movie actors

Shyama (Khurshid Akhtar; 7 June 1935 – 14 November 2017) was a Bollywood actress. Her best known roles were in Aar Paar (1954), Barsaat Ki Raat (1960) and Tarana (1951). She was born in Lahore, Punjab, British India (now Pakistan). 

Shyama died in Mumbai, India on 14 November 2017 from complications of a lung infection at the age of 82. 

[[Eric Salzman]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, American academics, American composers, American music critics, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Columbia University alumni, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Musicians from Queens, Princeton University alumni

Eric Salzman (September 8, 1933 – November 13, 2017) was an American composer, scholar, author, impresario, music critic, and record producer. He was born in Queens, New York City.

Salzman studied at Columbia University, Princeton University, and also in Italy and Germany.

He was known for his work advancing the concept of "New Music Theater" as an independent art form. He co-founded the American Music Theater Festival and was, at the time of his death in 2017, Composer-in-Residence at the Center for Contemporary Opera in New York City.

Salzman died on November 13, 2017 from a heart attack in New York City, aged 84.

[[Madarsha Union]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladesh

Madarsha Union (মাদার্শা ইউনিয়ন) is a Union of Satkania Upazila in the Division of Chittagong, Bangladesh.

[[Jean-Pierre Schmitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple myeloma, Luxembourgian sportspeople, Tour de France cyclists

Jean-Pierre Schmitz (Jempy Schmitz; February 15, 1932 – November 14, 2017) was a Luxembourgian professional road bicycle racer. He was born in Huldange. Schmitz won the Midi Libre in 1957, the Tour de Luxembourg in 1954 and 1958, and one stage in the 1956 Tour de France. In 1955, Schmitz was second in the World Road race championship after Stan Ockers.

Schmitz died on November 14, 2017 in Luxembourg City of multiple myeloma at the age 85.

[[Orchard MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Orchard MRT Station (NS22/TE14) is a rapid transit station in Singapore. It is an underground station on the North South Line of the Mass Rapid Transit. The station is located along Orchard Road, on the boundary of Orchard and River Valley planning areas, Singapore. Its platform livery is maroon, but it is mostly clad with black marble.

This station serves the western part of Orchard Road.

The original name for Orchard was Orchard Boulevard.

[[Somerset MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Somerset MRT Station (NS23) is an underground station on the North South Line of the Mass Rapid Transit in Orchard planning area, Singapore. The station serves the central part of Orchard Road, serving 313 @ Somerset, Orchard Central and Orchard Gateway.

The section of tracks between this station and Dhoby Ghaut is the shortest between any two MRT Stations on the North South Line, taking 1 minute for a train to travel between these two stations.

[[Serangoon MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Serangoon MRT station (NE12/CC13) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) interchange station on the North East Line and Circle Line in Serangoon, Singapore. Located at the intersection of Upper Serangoon Road and Serangoon Central, this station is directly linked to Nex and Serangoon Bus Interchange.

[[Nick Begich]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 1972 deaths, People declared dead in absentia, Aviation deaths in the United States, Missing American people, Politicians from Minnesota, United States representatives from Alaska, US Democratic Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians

Nicholas Joseph "Nick" Begich Sr. (April 6, 1932 in Eveleth, Minnesota - October 16, 1972 in Alaska) was an American politician of the Democratic Party.

He was a member of the United States House of Representatives for Alaska from 1971 to 1972. He was also a member of the Alaska Senate from 1962 to 1970.

Begich died (probably) in an aircraft accident at the age of 40. He was declared dead in absentia in December 1972.

[[Kuntala Kumari Sabat]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1938 deaths, Indian poets, Indian writers, People of British India, Physicians

Kuntala Kumari Sabat (8 February 1901 - 23 August 1938)

Kuntala Kumari Sabat was born on 8 February 1901, at Jagadalpur in Bastar region. Her parents were Daniel and Monica. Shortly after her birth, her parents went to Burma with family. So Kuntala Kumari passed her early childhood at Burma with her parents and imbibed the spirit of fearlessness. Then she returned to Khurda with her mother Monica after her father got remarried at Burma. So Kuntala Kumari stayed at Khurda with her mother for a short period. She completed her early school education at Ravenshaw Girl’s School and higher study at Medical School, Cuttack. Kuntala Kumari composed beautiful poems during her school days. She came out successfully from the medical school and became popular as a lady doctor with her sincerity and simplicity.1 Although a lady physician by profession, she knew the colonial treatment of the anatomy of an enslaved nation better than her own degree.

Kailash Rao was her literary teacher who guided her literary activities. Kuntala Kumari enrolled herself as a member of ‘Nava Vidhan’, the ‘Brahmo Society’. She got wide applause when poems, ‘Anjali’ came out. She won approbation from almost all the literary figures of Orissa. A leading cultural association of women conferred on her the title ‘Utkal Bharati’. Gopal Chandra Praharaj and Pallikabi Nanda Kishore Bal loved her and adopted her as their daughter. Kuntala Kumari joined a maternity welfare centre, which was newly opened at Cuttack in 1925. Later she left for Delhi on 1st July 1928. The same year she got married to Krishna Prasad. New phase of life began, yet she did not leave her writings. She had written in English, Kuntala Kumari Sabat : A True Patriotic Litterateur and Reflection of Her Literary Works on Gandhian Movement Dr. Janmejay Choudhury Bengali and Hindi and contributed to a number of nonOriya journals and edited a number of Hindi journals at Delhi. During her stay at Delhi, she presided over the ‘All India Arya Mahila Sammilani’ at Bareli. During this time also she was invited by the Allahabad University and Benaras Hindu University to deliver lectures. She was the president of the students federation at Aligarh. She was made the chair-person of a reputed social organisation founded by Harbilash Sarada for the introduction of widow marriage and abolition of child marriage. While at Delhi she took steps to encourage, publish and project Oriya literature. At Delhi, Kuntala Kumari was also associated with eminent writers like Maitheli Saran Gupta, Yeasshpal Jee Jain, S.H. Batsayan and a host of Hindi writers. ‘Hindi Pracharini Sabha’ conferred on her the title of ‘Bharat Kavinetri.’

She upheld the essence of struggle brighter and sharper than any volume in public life. Every page of her life was a profound ambiguity of social standing. Her love for Orissa and her glorious past finds mentioned in her poems. A disciple of Gandhi she claimed independence as the birth right of Indian people. She took up the task of awakening the women. She encouraged them to join the National Movement under Gandhian leadership. She writes –

‘Senapati Aaji Deichhanti Daka Utha bharatara Biraputrajaka, Apurba Asahayoga Ranagune Arte Antakasi para Janejane, Bharatara Jete Viragunamani Chaliasu Senapati Dakasuni.’

During the noncooperation movement she gave a clarion call to the people of Orissa to fight for freedom. She was the voice of modern Orissa. In a real sense she was a visionary and a rebel. She expressed her concern for the suffering mankind and wanted to free mankind from exploitation

No doubt, Kuntala Kumari had a lot of patriotic fervour in her. She had derived a special pride in herself by portraying Gandhi, Nehru and the spinning wheel in her lucid poems. This instilled a lot of confidence to visualise a free India through the veil of the darkened British rule. She was imbibed with the true spirit of a colonial poet’s vision to awaken public consciousness like Bankim’s immortal Bengali song. The Oriya youths plunged headlong into the noncooperation movement being addicted to her war songs. It ignited the sparks in them spontaneously, so to say rapidly. Although Kuntala Kumari had a brief span of life time of thirty eight years, her creations outlived her to pioneer the cause of rooting out British misrule in India. She composed beautiful numerous patriotic poems and songs. Her first collection of poems came out in 1922. Then it was followed by ‘Uchhwas’ – 1924, ‘Archana’ – 1927, ‘Sphulinga’ – 1929, ‘Ahwan’ – 1930, ‘Prem Chintamani’ – 1930, ‘Oriyanka Kandana’ – 1937, ‘Garjat Krishaka’ – 1939.4 Her live for man, nature and nation is reflected in her poems. She had a deep hatred for superstitions and conventions, raised her voice against high and mighty. She always tried to protest against injustice and inequalities. She renounced the heartless religious dogmas and practices. She comprehends the image of glorious past of Orissa. At times it carries the romantic strain of love for liberty, equality and fraternity.

She composed the inaugural song of ‘Utkal Sammilani’, chaired by Acharya P.C. Roy in 1924. the poems in the anthology ‘Archana’ echoes the voice of poor and lowly, the depressed and the marginalized. Her poetic longing for brave new world is expressed in most of her poems. Some of her poems published in ‘Sphulinga’, inspired the youth of Orissa and infused dynamism in them. The volume ‘Ahwan’ captures the spirit of Gandhi’s clarion call to people to join the struggle for freedom. In her poems ‘Sphulinga’ she wants to inspire his fellowmen to get lessons from the past history and to get out of the present set up and dullness. Her poems in Ahwan created tremendous sensation. Her fame as a patriot and poet spread over the country. She had a transterrestrial longing for an ideal world, a golden era ruled by love, justice and beauty. The yearning for liberty is always marked in her poems like ‘Garjat Krishaka’. She expressed the poetic anguish over a cause of the elitish exploitation on the toiling mass. The entire gamut of Kuntala Kumari’s poetic works oscillate between her love for her land and people and the love for God. The poetic identification with the sufferings of common men presents two fold note at one moment she protests and revolts and at the next, she discovers the mystical design in everything and everywhere. In nature, and all its creation see could she the face of God. Her poetry, in some degree, reveals all the romantic traits : “Love of nature, love of beauty, imagination, love of past and a wearied sadness.” No doubt she has enriched the Oriya literature by her pen. Her commitment to explore the possibilities of a free world with faith in love, beauty, truth, goodness and wisdom. Her noble sentiments and her feelings for the sublime have given her poems a universal appeal. Her writings were regularly published in the ‘Samaj’ and ‘Sahakar’ under the title ‘Delhi letters’. She expresses the socio-political life of pre-independent India and makes a zealous attempts to reform the tradition ridden society. In the novel, ‘Na-tundi’, She expresses real thing of the land. ‘Raghu Arakhit’ is one of her most outstanding works. It narrates the social character regarding marriage, where a compensation was given to the bride’s family.

Kuntala Kuamri’s voice was more reflected in her poetry anthologies AHWAN (the call) and Gadajata Krishaka (Feudatory Farmer). The following stanza provides enough stimulus to adorn the spirit of mankind. Oh ! my compatriot !! The man is not born to die of reminiscence or to sink in somewhere It is never a human fate That gets terminated through a happiness living After being condemned to the fretful glooms of failure in a deprived morbid prison of ever – disciplined humiliating; Thus great Earth is never a decaying caravan or a lady nurturing death. Her poetry was a great leap towards strengthening the debilitation of Oriya race against the mighty Britishers. It is definitely a great voice to heal up the wounded psyche of several Oriyas condemned to a bonded earth under ‘British Raj’.6 She was a rebel no doubt and simultaneously a visionary. She stirred the conscience of the people through her writings. Her poems kindled a new spirit in the hearts of the people and inspired them to fight relentlessly against the Britishers.

One of the session of Utkal Sammilani was held at Balasore on 2nd August 1931 with Kuntala Kumari in chair. Jahnabi Devi was the chairperson of the reception. Nearly twelve hundred people all over Orissa attended. This meeting was also attended by more than a thousand women. In her speech as the chairman of the Reception Committee Jahnabi Devi refuted the universally accepted view of women’s inability to stand on their own.8 In this session a central executive committee, named “All Orissa Women’s Association” was set up. Here sincere efforts were made to work out a programme for the improvement of condition of women of Orissa. In an essay entitled “Kabi O Lekhakara Udeshya”, she raised the status of a poet by declaring that she is not limited to any time and clime. A true creative artist moves high above such human limitations : “The poet or the writer is nature’s representative. He is not confined to any particular nation or time. He belongs to all the nations, to all time and all humanity.9 Her death on 23rd August 1938 was a great loss for the people of Orissa. Her brief life was a saga of relentless struggle against evil and darkness. She was a talented woman poet from Orissa, second to none in her bold utterances for the cause of Indian freedom. Although she spent major part of her short life outside the state, she had enough inclination to intercede the causes of its Gods and Goddesses, aquatic landscapes, rural surroundings, and the people irrespective of rich and poor alike. Therefore, time and tide has not thrown her into the limbo of oblivion. Her ideas and concern for common man got reflected in her works. Her life and creatives made her a legendary personality in her life time itself. She championed the cause of a world-free from evil and injustice. Her passion for justice, equality, liberty and fraternity was astounding. Throughout her life she fought against injustice and exploitation.

[[Howard Wallace Pollock]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2011 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, Politicians from Chicago, United States representatives from Alaska, US Republican Party politicians

Howard Wallace Pollock (April 11, 1920 in Chicago, Illinois - January 9, 2011 in Coronado, Colorado) was an American politician of the Republican Party.

He was a member of the United States House of Representatives for Alaska from 1967 to 1971. He was also a member of the Alaska Senate from 1961 to 1963. and from 1965 to 1966.

During World War II Pollock was a lieutenant commander in the United States Navy.

[[Black Clover]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s anime

Black Clover (Japanese: ブラッククローバー Hepburn: Burakku Kurōbā) is a Japanese fantasy shōnen manga series written and illustrated by Yūki Tabata. The series is published in Shueisha's Weekly Shōnen Jump magazine in Japan, and Viz Media is publishing it in their Weekly Shonen Jump digital anthology magazine in the United States. The story centers around a young boy named Asta, seemingly born without any magic power, something that is unknown in the world he lives in. With his ambition, newfound abilities, and friends, he aims to be the Wizard king. An original video animation produced by Xebec had its first trailer released on November 27, 2016, while an anime television series adaptation by Pierrot premiered on October 3, 2017.

[[People of the Book]]

CATEGORIES: Islam

The People of the Book (Ahl al-Kitāb) is an phrase in Islam to refer to people who worship the "One True God": the God of the Christian, Muslim, Jewish, and Sabian. Zoroastrian faith is sometimes included. 

People of the Book were historically respected by Muslim leaders, starting with the Prophet Muhammed.

[[Communist Party USA]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States, Communism

The Communist Party USA is a political party in the United States that follows the far left ideology of communism.

[[Kaziranga National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in India, World Heritage Sites in India, 1974 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in India

Kaziranga National Park is a national park in India. The park is home to two-thirds of the world's great one-horned rhinoceroses. It is a World Heritage Site. It was named a Tiger Reserve by the government of India and an Important Bird Area by BirdLife International.

Kaziranga is home to large breeding populations of tigers, elephants, wild water buffalo, and swamp deer. One type of swamp deer now only exists in the park.

[[Sleeping Beauty transposon system]]

Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposon system is a non-viral vector for gene therapy (ref: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3095056/). The SB system enables high-level stable gene transfer and sustained transgene expression in multiple primary human somatic cell types, thereby representing a highly attractive gene transfer strategy for clinical use. (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28964527). Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposon-based transfection is a two-component system consisting of a transposase and a transposon containing inverted repeat/direct repeat (IR/DR) sequences that result in precise integration into a TA dinucleotide. The transposon is designed with an expression cassette of interest flanked by IR/DRs, and SB transposase mediates stable integration and reliable long-term expression of the gene of interest. It has recently been demonstrated that SB efficiently mediates gene transfer and stable gene expression in human embryonic stem (ES) cells (http://cshprotocols.cshlp.org/content/2009/8/pdb.prot5270.full).

[[André-Louis Debierne]]

CATEGORIES: French chemists, 1874 births, 1949 deaths

André-Louis Debierne (14 July 1874 – 31 August 1949) was a French chemist. He is considered the discoverer of the element actinium.

[[2017 Zimbabwean coup d'état]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in Africa, November 2017 events, Coups d'état, History of Zimbabwe

On the evening of 14 November 2017, the Zimbabwe National Army gathered around Harare, the capital of Zimbabwe, and got control of the Zimbabwe's national television station and other areas of the city.

The next day, they issued a statement saying that it was not a coup d'état and that President Robert Mugabe was safe, although the situation would only return to normal after they had dealt with the "criminals" around Mugabe responsible for the socio-economic problems of Zimbabwe. Jacob Zuma, the President of South Africa, phoned Mugabe and confirmed that he was "fine", but under house arrest.

The coup took place amid troubles in the ruling ZANU–PF party between former Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was backed by the army, and First Lady Grace Mugabe, backed by the younger G40 section, over who would replace the elderly President Mugabe. Grace Mugabe warned to a coup in October 2017.

A week after Mnangagwa was fired and forced to flee the country, and a day before troops moved into Harare, army chief Constantino Chiwenga issued a statement that purges of senior ZANU-PF officials like Mnangagwa had to stop. On November 21, 2017, Mugabe resigned as president. Emmerson Mnangagwa became the President of Zimbabwe on November 24, 2017.

[[Emmerson Mnangagwa]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Presidents of Zimbabwe, Current national leaders, Vice-Presidents of Zimbabwe

Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa (pronounced ə əm; born 15 September 1942) is a Zimbabwean politician. He became the third and current President of Zimbabwe after Robert Mugabe resigned on 21 November 2017. He served as Vice-President of Zimbabwe from 2014 to 2017. On 6 November 2017 he was removed as Vice President by Robert Mugabe, who said he had been plotting against the government. He is the president of Zimbabwe since 24 November 2017.

On 15 November 2017, Mnangagwa became leader of ZANU-PF and was reported as likely to soon become President of Zimbabwe after the coup against Mugabe. Mugabe resigned on 21 November 2017 and Mnangagwa was named to be his successor.

[[Philip Kotler]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, American educators, DePaul University alumni, Writers from Chicago

Philip Kotler (born May 27, 1931) is an American marketing author, consultant, and professor. He was born in Chicago, Illinois. He works at Northwestern University. He is the author of over 60 marketing books. He is an expert at marketing and capitalism. He studied at DePaul University.

[[Gunnar Uldall]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Politicians from Hamburg, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany

Gunnar Uldall (17 November 1940 – 14 November 2017) was a German politician. He was state minister of Economy and Labour in Hamburg from 2001 to 2008. He was born in Hamburg. He was a member of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU). He served on the Hamburg Parliament from 1966 through 1983.

Uldall died on 14 November 2017, shortly before his 77th birthday in Hamburg.

[[Luis Bacalov]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning composers, 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Cancer deaths in Italy, Italian composers, People from Buenos Aires

Luis Enríquez Bacalov (30 August 1933 – 15 November 2017) was an Argentine-born Italian composer of movie scores. He was born in Buenos Aires.

In the early 1970s, he worked with Italian progressive rock bands.  Bacalov has been nominated twice for the Academy Award for Original Music Score, winning it in 1996 for Il Postino. He was the artistic director of the Orchestra della Magna Grecia in Taranto, Italy.

Bacalov died in Rome on 15 November 2017 of leukemia at the age of 84.

[[Keith Barron]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English radio actors, Actors from Yorkshire

Keith Barron (8 August 1934 – 15 November 2017) was an English actor. He appeared in many movie roles and on television from 1961 until 2015. His television roles included the police drama The Odd Man, the sitcom Duty Free and Gregory Wilmot in Upstairs, Downstairs. He was born in Mexborough, South Yorkshire, England.

Barron died on 15 November 2017 at the age of 83.

[[Sarah Lawson]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, British movie actors, British television actors, British radio actors, Actors from London

Sarah Lawson (born 6 August 1928) is a British actress. She was born in Wadsworth, London, England. She is known for her roles in The Odd Man, The Trollenberg Terror, Bergerac, and Zero One. She made guest appearances in such series as The Avengers, The Saint,  Gideon's Way, The Professionals and Danger Man.

[[Yuri Kayurov]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Russian movie actors, Russian television actors, Russian stage actors

Yuri  Ivanovich Kayurov (Юрий Иванович Каюров; born September 30, 1927) is a Soviet and Russian movie and theater actor. He was honored with the People's Artist of the RSFSR (1979). He was born in Cherepovets. He is known for playing the role of Vladimir Lenin in the movie Lenin in Paris. He is also a stage actor in Moscow.

[[Françoise Héritier]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, French philosophers, Feminists, French educators

Françoise Héritier (15 November 1933 – 15 November 2017) was a French anthropologist, ethnologist, and feminist. She worked at the Collège de France (Chair of Comparative Studies of African Societies from 1982 to 1998). Her work deals mainly with the theory of alliances and on the prohibition of incest.

[[Wolfgang Schreyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, East German people, German novelists, German screenwriters, Nazis, People from Magdeburg, Television writers

Wolfgang Schreyer (20 November 1927 – 14 November 2017) was an (East) German writer of fiction, historic adventures mixed with documentary, science fiction for TV shows and movies. He was born in Magdeburg, Germany.

During the last years of the war he was a member of the NSDAP (1944 – 1945).

He was best known as the author of over 20 adventure stories. In 1956 Schreyer was awarded the Heinrich-Mann-Preis. From 1974 until his death, he was a member of PEN International. He was very successful in East Germany.

Schreyer died on 14 November 2017 in Ahrenshoop, Germany at the age of 89.

[[Frans Krajcberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Brazilian artists, Brazilian Jews, Deaths from pneumonia, Engravers, Environmentalists, Holocaust survivors, Jewish artists, Jewish military people, Brazilian photographers, Polish Jews, Polish military people, Polish painters

Frans Krajcberg (12 April 1921 – 15 November 2017) was a Polish-born naturalized Brazilian painter, sculptor, engraver and photographer. He was known for his environmental activism. Krajcberg was against the destruction of the Brazilian forests, using materials such as burnt wood from illegal forest fires in his artworks.

Krajcberg was of Jewish descent. During World War II he fought in the Polish army. After the war he studied in the Soviet Union and Germany, and afterwards traveled between Brazil, Spain and France. He settled in Brazil in 1956 and became a Brazilian citizen in 1957.

Frans Krajcberg died at the Hospital Samaritano in Rio de Janeiro of complications from pneumonia at the age of 96.

[[Rudi Kurz]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2020 deaths, German movie actors, German movie directors, German screenwriters, Television directors

Rudi Kurz (9 May 1921 – 2020) was a German actor, screenwriter and movie director. He was born in Ludwigshafen am Rhein, Germany. He is known for directing Das grüne Ungeheuer and Die Spur führt in den 7. Himmel. He also directed television shows such as Es geht nicht ohne Liebe. Kurz died in 2020 at the age of 99.

[[World War I Victory Medal (United States)]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 establishments in the United States, Orders, decorations, and medals of the United States, World War I

The World War I Victory Medal is a service medal of the United States military which was first created in 1919, designed by James Earle Fraser. The medal was originally intended to be created due to an act of the United States Congress.  It was initiated in April of 1921.

Description

The medal is Bronze and 1 3/8 inches in diameter. On the obverse is a winged Victory, standing full length and full face. On the reverse is the inscription “THE GREAT WAR FOR CIVILIZATION” and the United States shield with the letters “U.S.” surmounted by a fasces, and on either side the names of the allied and associated nations. The lapel button is a five-pointed star 5/8-inch in diameter on a wreath with the letters “U.S.” in the center.

Ribbon

The medal is suspended by a ring from a silk ribbon 1 3/8 inches in width, representing two rainbows placed in juxtaposition and having the red in the middle.

[[My Voice]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 albums

My Voice is the first studio album by South Korean singer Taeyeon. It was released on February 28, 2017, along with the video for the first single from the album, "Fine". Previously, the song "I Got Love" was released as a pre-single from the album on February 17, along with their video. Moments after the release, Taeyeon got all the songs from the digital album on the Korean charts, with the single "Fine" on top of many. Just 8 hours after its release, the "Fine" clip reached 1 million views on YouTube, making it the singer's fastest video to reach that mark. On April 5th the album won a luxury edition titled My Voice DELUXE Edition.

[[Tom Tauke]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American chief executives, American lawyers, Businesspeople from Iowa, United States representatives from Iowa, US Republican Party politicians

Thomas Joseph "Tom" Tauke (October 11, 1950 in Dubuque, Iowa) is an American lawyer and former politician of the Republican Party. He is a CEO of Verizon.

Tauke was a member of the United States House of Representatives for Iowa from 1979 to 1991.

He was also a member of the Iowa House of Representatives from 1975 to 1979.

[[Sohni Mahiwal]]

CATEGORIES: Prose

Sohni Mahiwal or Suhni Mehar (Punjabi: سوہنی معینوال‎, ਸੋਹਣੀ ਮਹੀਂਵਾਲ; Sindhi: سهڻي ميهار‎) is one of the four popular tragic romances of Punjab. The others are Sassi Punnun, Mirza Sahiba, and Heer Ranjha. Sohni Mahiwal is a tragic love story which reverts the classical motif of Hero and Leader. The heroine Sohni, unhappily married to a man she despises, swims every night across the river using an earthenware pot to keep afloat in the water, to where her beloved Mehar herds buffaloes. One night her sister-in-law replaces the earthenware pot with a vessel of unbaked clay, which dissolves in water and she dies in the whirling waves of the river.

The story also appears in Shah Jo Risalo and is one of seven popular tragic romances from Sindh. The other six tales are Umar Marui, Sassui Punhun, Lila Chanesar, Noori Jam Tamachi, Sorath Rai Diyach and Momal Rano commonly known as Seven Heroines (Sindhi: ست سورميون ‎) of Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai. Shah begins the story at the most dramatic moment, when a young woman cries out for help in the cold river, attacked by crocodiles. The whole chapter (Sur Sohni) is merely an extension of this dreadful and yet hoped-for moment when the vessel of her body breaks and she, faithful to her pre-eternal love-covenant with Mehar, will be forever united through death.

Sohni is one of the favourite folktales both in Sindh and Punjab.

[[Propellant]]

CATEGORIES: Gases, Propulsion

Propellant is something that expands as a gas to propel something else. Aerosol spray cans, for example, have a liquid propellant that boils into a gas to push another liquid out of the can. Guns and rockets have propellants in them that burn, creating hot gases. 

[[Liebsdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Liebsdorf is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

==Population== 

[[Lil Peep]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, 2017 deaths, Drug-related deaths in the United States, American rap musicians from New York, Bisexual people, LGBT musicians, LGBT singers, LGBT people from New York, Musicians from New York, Singers from New York

Gustav Elijah Åhr (November 1, 1996 – November 15, 2017), better known by his stage name Lil Peep, was a Swedish-American singer and Rapper. His songs "White Wine", "Benz Truck", and "The Way I See Things" have each gained over 4 million views on YouTube. He was born in Long Island, New York. In 2015, Åhr released his first mixtape, Lil Peep Part One, to limited success, generating 4,000 plays in its first week. The same year he released his first extended play, Feelz, and another mixtape, Live Forever.

Åhr came out as bisexual on August 8, 2017.

Åhr died on November 15, 2017 before a concert in Tucson, Arizona of a supposed Xanax overdose at the age of 21. After an autopsy was completed, it was confirmed that he was given fentanyl instead of Xanax.

[[List of political parties in Bulgaria]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Bulgaria

This is an article showing all the political parties in Bulgaria.

The most recent parliamentary election was in 2017.

[[Tobias Enverga]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2017 deaths, Filipino politicians, Politicians from Ontario

Tobias C. Enverga, Jr.  (December 2, 1955 – November 16, 2017) was a Filipino-born Canadian politician. He served as the Canadian senator representing the province of Ontario from 2012 until his death in 2017. He was born in Manila, the Philippines. He was co-chair of the Asian Heritage Month Celebration for the Greater Toronto Area and was previously a director of the Canadian Multicultural Council - Asians in Ontario.

Enverga died on November 15, 2017, while on a trip to Medellín, Colombia at the age of 61.

[[Franz Vranitzky]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Chancellors of Austria, Austrian businesspeople

Franz Vranitzky (born 4 October 1937) is an Austrian politician. He is a member of the Social Democratic Party of Austria (SPÖ), he was Chancellor of Austria from 1986 to 1997. In 1984, Vranitzky joined the SPÖ-Freedom Party (FPÖ) government coalition under Chancellor Fred Sinowatz as minister of finance. He is a former member of the Steering Committee of the Bilderberg Group.

[[F. David Mathews]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Health, Education, and Welfare, American educators, Politicians from Alabama, Writers from Alabama, Independent politicians in the United States

Forrest David Mathews (born December 6, 1935) is an American politician. He served as the 11th United States Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare from 1975 to 1977 during the administration of President Gerald R. Ford. Since the 1980s he has been president and chief executive officer of the Kettering Foundation. He is the author of several books on democratic practice and education.

[[Robert Hirsch]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Ile-de-France, French comedians, French Jews, French movie actors, French stage actors, French television actors, Jewish actors, Jewish comedians

Robert Hirsch (26 July 1925 – 16 November 2017) was a French actor and comedian. He was born in L'Isle-Adam, Val-d'Oise, and was of Jewish descent.

His career began in 1951. In 1990, he won César Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role for his role in Hiver 54, l'abbé Pierre. His other movie appearances include The Hunchback of Notre Dame, and in 2006/07 he appeared in Le gardien (a French adaptation of Harold Pinter's The Caretaker).

Hirsch died in Paris at the age of 92.

[[Lou Adler]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, 1933 births, Living people, American songwriters, Movie directors from Chicago, Movie producers from Chicago, Writers from Chicago

Lou Adler (born December 13, 1933) is a Grammy Award-winning American record producer, music executive, talent manager, songwriter, movie director, and movie producer. He produced the works of Carole King, The Mamas & the Papas and The Grass Roots. Adler was an executive producer of The Rocky Horror Picture Show, the longest-running theatrical movie in history. He also discovered and produced comedy albums and movies for Cheech Marin and Tommy Chong.

[[Gennady Golovkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Boxers, Kazakhstani sportspeople

Gennady Gennadyevich Golovkin (Cyrillic: Геннадий Геннадьевич Головкин; born 8 April 1982), often known by his nickname "GGG" or "Triple G", is a Kazakhstani boxer who currently holds the unified WBA (Super), WBC, IBF

and the IBO middleweight titles. In his amateur career, Golovkin won a gold medal in the middleweight division at the 2003 World Amateur Boxing Championships. He went on to represent Kazakhstan at the 2004 Summer Olympics, winning a middleweight silver medal. He is ranked as the number one middleweight boxer and number three on pound for pound.

[[Tyson Fury]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, British boxers, English Roman Catholics, Sportspeople from Greater Manchester

Tyson Luke Fury (born 12 August 1988) is a British professional boxer. He has held the WBC and The Ring heavyweight titles since beating Deontay Wilder in February 2020. Fury also won the unified WBA (Super), IBF, WBO, IBO and lineal titles when he beat Wladimir Klitschko in 2015. Fury had his IBF title taken away later that year because did not agree to fight against Vyacheslav Glazkov even though he was meant to accept the challenge. He chose to fight against Klitschko again instead. In 2016, Fury vacated the WBA, WBO, IBO, and lineal titles because of medical issues, problems in his personal life, and the Klitschko rematch being cancelled twice. As of 2021, Fury is ranked as the world's best heavyweight by BoxRec, Transnational Boxing Rankings Board and ESPN.

Having been told be could not fight for Ireland at the Olympic Games, he was allowed to fight for both Great Britain and Ireland after tracing his family back to relatives in Belfast and Galway. Fury has fought for both England and Ireland as an amateur, winning the ABA super-heavyweight title in 2008 before turning professional later that year. He has since held the British and English heavyweight titles twice each, as well as the European, Commonwealth, and Irish heavyweight titles.

[[Anthony Joshua]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Black British sportspeople, British boxers, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Hertfordshire, People from Watford

Anthony Oluwafemi Olaseni Joshua, (born 15 October 1989) is a British boxer. He is the former unified world heavyweight champion, having held the IBF, WBA (Super), IBO and WBO titles until 2019. At regional level he held the British and Commonwealth heavyweight titles from 2014 to 2016. As an amateur competing in the super-heavyweight division, Joshua represented England at the 2011 AIBA World Boxing Championships, winning a silver medal; he also represented Great Britain at the 2012 Summer Olympics at the 2012 Olympics, winning gold. In 2014, a year after turning professional, The Ring magazine named him their Prospect of the Year.

As of June 2019, Joshua is ranked as the world's third best active heavyweight. His knockout-to-win ratio stands at 91%. Joshua is the second British boxer, after James DeGale, to win both a gold medal at the Olympics and a world title by a major professional sanctioning body, as well as being the first British heavyweight to do so. He is also the second boxer, after Joe Frazier, to win a world heavyweight title whilst still reigning as Olympic champion at the top weight.

Joshua lost his world titles after an upset defeat to the American Andy Ruiz Jr.

[[Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 movies, 2010s fantasy movies, English-language movies, 2010s sequel movies, Harry Potter movies, British fantasy movies, American fantasy movies, American sequel movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by David Yates

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 is a 2010 British-American fantasy movie. It is based on the book by J. K. Rowling. The movie was directed by David Yates and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures. It stars Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, with Rupert Grint and Emma Watson.

[[Erik Meijs]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, 2017 deaths, Badminton players, Road accident deaths, Sportspeople from South Holland

Erik Meijs (April 20, 1991 in Zoetermeer - November 16, 2017 in Duisburg, Germany) was a Dutch male badminton player.

Meijs became Dutch junior master in badminton men's single in 2010, and Dutch master in badminton men's single in 2016.

He died of the wounds caused by a car accident in 2017, at the age of 26.

[[Aleksandr Salnikov]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2017 deaths, Basketball players, Soviet sportspeople, Medalists at the 1976 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1980 Summer Olympics

Aleksandr Petrovych Salnikov (Олександр Петрович Сальников; born 3 July 1949 – 17 November 2017) was a Ukrainian basketball player. He was born in Sevastopol, Ukraine. He competed for the Soviet Union in the 1976 Summer Olympics and the 1980 Summer Olympics.

Salnikov died on November 17, 2017 at the age of 68.

[[Lièpvre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Lièpvre is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Schönenwerd]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Schönenwerd is a municipality in the district Olten in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Fritz Egner]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, People from Munich, German television presenters

Fritz Egner (born 3 August 1949) is a German radio presenter. He was born in Munich, Germany. In 1978 Egner joined the regional broadcaster Bayerischer Rundfunk. At this time his two friends and colleagues Thomas Gottschalk and Günther Jauch also joined.

Since 2016 he hosts the radio shows Fritz und Hits and Stars und Hits for Bayern 3, in addition he also hosts the Christmas radio show Christmas Hits mit Fritz.

[[1996 African Cup of Nations]]

CATEGORIES: Africa Cup of Nations, Football in South Africa, 1996 in association football, 1990s in Africa, 20th century in South Africa

The 1996 African Cup of Nations was the 20th edition of the Africa Cup of Nations. The tournament was held from 13 January to 3 February in South Africa. It was also won by South Africa. The top scorer was Kalusha Bwalya, with 5 goals.

The winner of this tournament qualified for the 1997 FIFA Confederations Cup tournament in Saudi Arabia.

[[Ruth Dreifuss]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Presidents of the Swiss Confederation

Ruth Dreifuss (born 9 January 1940) is a Swiss politician. She was a member of the Swiss Federal Council from (1993–2002), representing the Canton of Geneva. In 1970 she received a Master of Economics from the University of Geneva. She was a member of the Social Democratic Party.

[[Pierre Imhasly]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Swiss poets, Novelists, Deaths from cancer

Pierre Imhasly (14 November 1939 – 17 June 2017) was a Swiss novelist and poet. He was born in Visp, Switzerland. He studied German literature in Fribourg and Zurich. His major work is The Rhone Saga an epic poem about the Rhône River. He was the principal translator of Maurice Chappaz's works.

Imhasly died from cancer on 17 June 2017 at the age of 77.

[[Paspels]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Paspels (Pasqual) was a municipality in the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the municipalities of Paspels, Almens, Pratval, Rodels and Tomils joined together and became a new municipality called Domleschg.

[[List of English-translated volumes of Découvertes Gallimard]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of books, Encyclopedias, Series of books, Non-fiction books, English-language picture books

This is a complete list of English-translated volumes of the French book collection Découvertes Gallimard. In United Kingdom, the collection was published by Thames & Hudson under the title “New Horizons”, which contains 107 volumes. In United States, Harry N. Abrams produced 111 volumes in the collection “Abrams Discoveries”.

[[Behavioural Responses to Stress in Animals]]

CATEGORIES: Biology

Real or perceived threat in the environment, elicits stress response in animals, which disrupts the internal constant environment of the animal. There are different kinds of stressors that animals can be exposed to, and there are different kinds of stress responses that animals display as a result. Physiological changes that happen because of stress cause behavioural responses in animals. There are different types of behavioural responses: impairment of response inhibition and lack of motivation, changes in social, sexual,

behaviour in animals. The extent of the impact is dependent upon the type, and duration of the stress, as well as the past experiences of the animal. Behavioural responses to prolonged stress can also be transferred across generations.

[[Taroko National Park]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Taiwan, National parks in Asia, 1986 establishments in Asia

Taroko National Park (太魯閣國家公園) is a national park in Hualien County, Taiwan. It is the fourth national park in Taiwan ever created. It is the third-biggest national park in Taiwan. It features the Taroko Gorge.

The park is well known because it has beautiful mountains and cliffs.

[[2016–17 First Professional Football League (Bulgaria)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2017 in sports, Football in Bulgaria

The 2016–17 First Professional Football League (Bulgarian: Първа професионална футболна лига 2016/17, Parva profesionalna futbolna liga 2016/17) was the 93rd season of top division football in Bulgaria. It was played from 29 July 2016 to 4 June 2017. Ludogorets Razgrad won the tournament. The top scorer was Claudiu Keșerü, with 22 goals.

[[Ligsdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Ligsdorf is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Masevaux-Niederbruck]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 establishments in France

Masevaux-Niederbruck is a new commune of the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. It was incorporated on 1 January 2016 by the combination of the former communes of Masevaux and Niederbruck.

[[Linsdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Linsdorf is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. The mayor is Serge Gaisser. In 2014, 315 people lived in the commune.

==Population== 

[[Demirören Group]]

CATEGORIES: Istanbul, Holding companies of Turkey

Demirören Holding is a Turkish holding company headquartered in Istanbul. Demirören Holding assets include the Milliyet and Vatan newspapers, Milangaz (a liquefied petroleum gas distributor with 9% of the Turkish market) and several shopping mall in Beyoğlu.

[[Erdoğan Demirören]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2018 deaths, Turkish businesspeople

Erdoğan Demirören (born 20 September 1937 in İnegöl, died on 8 June 2018 in İstanbul) is Turkish industrialist and businessman. He is owner, founder, and Chairman of the Board of Demirören Holding. Demirören also is a member of the High Advisory Council of Rumeli Administrators and Businessmen's Association.

He died of respiratory failure.

[[Linthal, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Linthal is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Canaan (son of Noah)]]

CATEGORIES: Quran, Islam

According to Islam, Canaan, son of Noah or Yam, son of Noah was the fourth son of Noah and his wife Naamah.

Canaan is not in the Jewish holy book, the Torah, or the Christian holy book, the Bible.  Those two books talk about Canaan's older brothers, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, but Canaan is only in the Muslim holy book, the Quran, or Koran.  

In the Muslim version of the story of the Great Flood, (The Quran did not mention any name for the son of Noah, the name Canaan does not exist there) Canaan did not believe in God the way his father, mother and brothers did.  They followed God's instructions and built a large boat, the arc, in time to survive the flood, but Canaan drowned instead.

Canaan is the son of Noah, son of Lamech, son of Methuselah, son of Enoch, son of Jared, son of Mahalalel, son of Kenan, son of Enos, son of Seth, son of Adam father of humans.

According to the Koran, Noah asked Canaan to come with him on the boat, but Canaan decided to climb a mountain insteadː "O my son, come aboard with us and be not with the disbelievers." Canaan said, "I will take refuge on a mountain to protect me from the water." Noah said, "There is no protector today from the decree of The Lord our God, except from whom He gives mercy." Then the Koran says Canaan drowned.

Some versions ( Christian/Jews) say Noah's wife, Canaan's mother, went to the mountain with Canaan because she loved him so much.  In this version, Canaan is still a boy small enough to be picked up.  It says when the water came, Canaan's mother held him above her head so he would live longer before he drowned.

[[Meresha]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians from Florida, American pop singers, Living people, American singer-songwriters

Meresha is an indie singer, multi-instrumentalist, songwriter and producer. 

[[Vignemale]]

CATEGORIES: Pyrenees, Mountains of France, Occitanie

The Vignemale (Viñamala, Vinhamala, Comachibosa) is the highest of the French Pyrenean summits, on the border with Spain (the highest in the whole of the Pyrenees is Pic Aneto).

The Vignemale is between the Spanish province of Huesca and the French department of Hautes-Pyrénées. It is the highest mountain in the French Pyrenees, the Occitanie region and in the Hautes-Pyrénées department.  The mountain is in the Pyrénées National Park (France) and in the Reserva de la Biosfera Ordesa-Viñamala (Spain).

[[Richard H. Watson]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American biochemists

Richard H. Watson is a New Zealand-born American Biotechnology researcher, known for introducing grass-based dairies in Georgia. Watson specializes in animal nutrition and grazing systems.

[[Invercargill]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Zealand, 1853 establishments in Oceania, 19th-century establishments in New Zealand

Invercargill (Waihōpai) is the southernmost and westernmost city in New Zealand, and one of the southernmost cities in the world. It is the commercial centre of the Southland region. It lies in the Southland Plains on the Oreti or New River some 18 km north of Bluff, which is the southernmost town in the South Island. It sits amid rich farmland that is bordered by large areas of conservation land and marine reserves, including Fiordland National Park covering the south-west corner of the South Island and the Catlins coastal region

[[Bhimbetka]]

CATEGORIES: India

The Bhimbetka rock shelters are an archaeological site of the Paleolithic. They are the earliest traces of human life on the Indian Subcontinent, and  the beginning of the Indian Stone Age. Here are many beautiful drawn drawings by the Stone Age people. There you can see some drawings of people who are hunting.

[[Malwa]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of India

Malwa is a natural region in west-central India occupying a plateau of volcanic origin. Geologically, the Malwa Plateau generally refers to the volcanic upland north of the Vindhya Range.

[[Kalibangan]]

CATEGORIES: History of Pakistan, Ancient history, History of India, History of Afghanistan

Kalibangān is a prehistoric site at 29.47 in Rajasthan. It is on the left or southern banks of the Ghaggar (Ghaggar-Hakra River), India. It is on a triangle-shaped piece of land at the confluence of Drishadvati and Sarasvathi Rivers. A report on the excavations at the site were published in 2003 by the Archaeological Survey of India, 34 years after the completion of excavations. The report said that Kalibangan was a major provincial capital in the Indus Valley. Discoveries at Kalibangan include unique fire altars and world's earliest known ploughed field. There is also evidence of two types of burials, namely circular graves and rectangular graves.

[[Jiří Kormaník]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Czech sportspeople, Wrestlers, Olympic silver medalists

Jiří Kormaník (26 March 1935 – 3 November 2017) was a Czech amateur wrestler. He competed for Czechoslovakia at the 1960, 1964 and 1968 Olympics in Greco-Roman wrestling and won a silver medal in 1964. He was born in Scăiuş, Caraș-Severin County, Romania.

Kormaník died in Chomutov on 3 November 2017 at the age of 82.

[[Wendell Eugene]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American jazz musicians, American trombonists, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana

Wendell Eugene (October 12, 1923 – November 7, 2017) was an American jazz trombonist. He was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. He was a popular trombonist on the New Orleans jazz scene and recorded with artists such as Lionel Ferbos, Harold Dejan, and Kermit Ruffins.

Eugene died on 7 November 2017 in New Orleans of pneumonia at the age of 94.

[[Bernhard Eckstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, German cyclists, German Olympians

Bernhard Eckstein (21 August 1935 – 10 November 2017) was a German cyclist. In 1960, he won the road race at the world championships and finished in 22nd place in the road race at the 1960 Summer Olympics. 

During his career he won six one-day races, four in 1958, one in 1960 (the Manx Trophy in the amateurs division), and one in 1966. He was born in Zwochau, Germany.

Eckstein died on 10 November 2017 in Berlin at the age of 82.

[[Franciszek Kornicki]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2017 deaths, Polish people, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Military people

317 Squadron (1943)

Franciszek Kornicki (18 December 1916 – 16 November 2017) was a Polish fighter pilot. He served in the Polish Air Force in Poland, France and Britain during the Second World War and later served in the Royal Air Force (RAF).

Kornicki died just a few weeks short of his 101st birthday in Worthing, England of a heart attack. He was the last surviving Polish fighter squadron commander from the Second World War.

[[Salvatore Riina]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from sepsis, Deaths from surgical complications, Italian people, Mobsters, Murderers

Salvatore "Totò" Riina (salvaˈtoːre riːna; 16 November 1930 – 17 November 2017), called Totò 'u Curtu (Totò the Short; Totò being the diminutive of "Salvatore"), was an Italian mobster and chief of the Sicilian Mafia. He known for the murder campaign that reached a peak in the early 1990s when the assassinations of Antimafia Commission prosecutors Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino occurred.

Riina advocated the killing of women and children, and killed blameless members of the public solely to distract law enforcing agencies. Assassin Giovanni Brusca estimated he murdered 100-200 people on behalf of Riina. 

After 23 years living as a fugitive he was captured.

Riina died on 17 November 2017 at the hospital in Parma of sepsis caused by surgery at the age of 87.

[[Rikard Wolff]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from emphysema, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish voice actors, Swedish stage actors, Swedish singers, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT singers

Jan Rikard Wolff (8 April 1958 – 17 November 2017) was a Swedish actor and singer. His career included both movie roles in House of Angels and its two sequels and theatre roles such as in Waiting for Godot at Royal Dramatic Theatre, and A Chorus Line at The Göteborg Opera. He was born in Farsta, Sweden.

Wolff provided the voice of Scar in the Swedish-dub of The Lion King. Wolff was openly gay.

Wolff was made a Knight of the Legion of Honour for his work with French music. His best known song was Pojken på månen from the album of the same name.

Wolff died on 17 November 2017 in Stockholm, Sweden of emphysema at the age of 59.

[[Earle Hyman]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, Cancer deaths in New Jersey, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from North Carolina, People from Rocky Mount, North Carolina

Earle Hyman (October 11, 1926 – November 17, 2017) was an American actor. He was born in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. Hyman was known for his role on ThunderCats as the voice of Panthro. He also appeared on The Cosby Show as Cliff's father Russell Huxtable. He made his Broadway stage debut as a teenager in 1943 in Run, Little Chillun.

In 1980, he was nominated for a Tony Award and in 1986, was nominated for an Emmy Award.

Hyman died on November 17, 2017 in Englewood, New Jersey of stomach cancer at the age of 91.

[[Giorgio Antonucci]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Italian physicians, People from Tuscany

Giorgio Antonucci (1933 – 19 November 2017) was an Italian physician. He was born in Tuscany, Italy. He was known for his questioning of the basis of psychiatry. In 1969 he worked at the psychiatric hospital of Gorizia. From 1970 to 1972 he directed the mental hygiene centre of Castelnuovo nei Monti in the province of Reggio Emilia. From 1973 to 1996 he worked in Imola on the dismantling of the psychiatric hospitals Osservanza and Luigi Lolli.

Antonucci died on 19 November 2017 in Florence, Italy at the age of 84.

[[Commins Menapi]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Oceanic footballers, Solomon Islands

Commins Menapi (18 September 1977 – 18 November 2017) was a Solomon Islands striker. He was last the manager of Western United. He guided them to their first and only Telekom S league title season 2014/2015. 

In the 2006–2007 season, he became the first player to be sent off in a New Zealand Football Championship Grand Final. He represented the Solomon Islands national football team on over 30 occasions, scoring a record 34 goals (including 7 against non-FIFA members). Menapi was arguably the most famous Solomon Islands footballer.

Menapi died in Honiara on 18 November 2017 of a heart attack at the age of 40. 

[[Skunk Fu!]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 television series debuts, 2008 television series endings, 2007 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in the Republic of Ireland, English-language television programs

Skunk Fu! is an Irish/American animated series produced by Cartoon Saloon, Telegael and Cartoon Network Studios. The series currently airs in the United States on Cartoon Network on September 22, 2007. The series comes in over 2 countries in 1 language. The first season of the show was produced by Cartoon Saloon, Telegael and Cartoon Network Studios. The series premiered airs at 8:30 p.m. ET/PT time on September 22, 2007 on Cartoon Network in the United States. The series is produced 26 episodes divided in 1 seasons.

[[Youssouf Ouédraogo]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, Prime Ministers of Burkina Faso, Ambassadors to the United Kingdom

Youssouf Ouédraogo (25 December 1952 – 18 November 2017) was a Burkinabe politician.

In 1992 he became the first Prime Minister of Burkina Faso since 1983, serving from 16 June 1992 to 22 March 1994. Ouédraogo, a member of the ruling Congress for Democracy and Progress (CDP), later served as Minister of State for Foreign Affairs from January 1999 to June 2007.

[[Friedel Rausch]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, German football managers, German footballers, Deaths from skin cancer

Friedel Rausch (27 February 1940 – 18 November 2017) was a German football player and manager.

In April 2006, Rausch was diagnosed with skin cancer. He died of the disease on 18 November 2017 at the age of 77.

[[Mönchsdeggingen]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Mönchsdeggingen is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Ben Riley]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, American jazz musicians, American drummers, Musicians from Georgia (U.S. state), People from Savannah, Georgia

Ben Riley (July 17, 1933 – November 18, 2017) was an American jazz drummer. He was born in Savannah, Georgia. He was known for his work with Thelonious Monk, as well as Alice Coltrane, Stan Getz, Woody Herman, Eddie "Lockjaw" Davis, Ahmad Jamal, Kenny Barron, and as member of the group Sphere.  During the 1970s he was a member of the New York Jazz Quartet.

Riley died on November 18, 2017 in West Islip, New York at the age of 84. 

[[Why Him?]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 movies, American comedy movies, Movies set in California, Movies set in Michigan

Why Him? is a 2016 American comedy movie directed by John Hamburg, written by Hamburg and Ian Helfer. It stars James Franco, Bryan Cranston, Zoey Deutch, Megan Mullally, Griffin Gluck, Keegan-Michael Key and Kaley Cuoco with Cedric the Entertainer. The movie is about a father who tries to stop his daughter's childish tech-millionaire boyfriend from asking her to marry him.

Why Him? premiered in Los Angeles on December 17, 2016, was released by 20th Century Fox in the United States on December 23, 2016 and grossed $118 million worldwide.

[[Naim Süleymanoğlu]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver failure, Deaths from cerebral edema, Turkish sportspeople, Olympians

Naim Süleymanoğlu (in Bulgaria forced to change as Naim Suleimanov (Bulgarian: Наим Сюлейманов), 23 January 1967 – 18 November 2017) was a Turkish World and Olympic Champion in weightlifting. In the 1988 Summer Olympics he set a record by lifting 190 kg in the clean and jerk. He was awarded the Olympic Order in 2001. 

In 2000 and 2004 he was elected member of the International Weightlifting Federation Hall of Fame.

On 25 September 2017, he was hospitalized due to liver failure. On 6 October, he had liver transplantation was made when a liver donor was found. On 11 November a surgery was made due to a cerebral hemorrhage which led to cerebral edema. He died on 18 November 2017.

[[Hiromi Tsuru]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from aortic dissection, Japanese movie actors, Japanese television actors, Japanese voice actors

Hiromi Tsuru was a Japanese actress. 

She was most known for voicing the character of Bulma (Dragon Ball) for over 31 years. She was born in Hokkaido, Japan.

She was also known for her roles as Ukyo Kuonji (Ranma ½),  Dokin-chan (Soreike! Anpanman), Madoka Ayukawa (Kimagure Orange Road), Miyuki Kashima (Miyuki), Reiko Mikami (Ghost Sweeper Mikami), Meryl Strife (Trigun) and Naomi Hunter (Metal Gear Solid series).

Tsuru died of an aortic dissection in Tokyo, Japan on November 16, 2017 at the age of 57.

[[Andrea Cordero Lanza di Montezemolo]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Italian Roman Catholics, People from Turin

Andrea Cordero Lanza di Montezemolo (27 August 1925 – 19 November 2017) was an Italian cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. He was archpriest of the Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls from 2005 to 2009. He was made a cardinal and made a cardinal-deacon by Pope Benedict XVI on 24 March 2006. He was elevated, according to custom, to the rank of cardinal-priest by Pope Francis on 20 June 2016. He was born in Turin, Italy..

[[Tai Chen-yao]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Taiwanese politicians

 Tai Chen-yao (戴振耀) (2 April 1948 – 19 November 2017), was a Taiwanese politician. He served three terms in the Legislative Yuan, from 1990 to 1996 and again from 1999 to 2002, and was later named vice chairman of the Council of Agriculture.

Tai died in Taipei of pancreatic cancer on 19 November 2017 at the age of 69.

[[Pancho Segura]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in California, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American tennis players, Sportspeople from California, People from Guayaquil

Pancho "Segoo" Segura (Francisco Olegario Segura; June 20, 1921 – November 18, 2017) was a leading Ecuadorian-American tennis player of the 1940s and 1950s. In 1950 and 1952, as a professional, he was the World Co-No. 1 player.  He was born in Guayaquil, Ecuador, but moved to the United States in the late 1930s. He was the only player to have won the US Pro title on three different surfaces (which he did consecutively from 1950–1952).

In later years, Segura became a tennis coach and was known for coaching Jimmy Connors.

Segura died on November 18, 2017 at the age of 96 at his home in Carlsbad, California from complications of Parkinson's disease.

[[Fernando Matthei]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiopulmonary arrest, Chilean politicians, Military people

Fernando Matthei Aubel (July 11, 1925 – November 19, 2017) was a Chilean Air Force General. He was born in Osorno, Chile. He was part of the military junta that ruled Chile from 1973 to 1990, replacing the dismissed Gustavo Leigh as Air Force Commander in Chief on July 24, 1978.

From 1976 through 1978, Matthei served as Minister of Health.

Matthei was part of the Junta from 1977 to 1990, retiring from the Air Force in July 1991.

Matthei died on November 19, 2017 in Santiago, Chile of cardiopulmonary arrest at the age of 92.

[[Hou Zongbin]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Chinese politicians, Communists

Hou Zongbin (侯宗宾; January 1929 – 14 November 2017) was a Chinese politician. He served as Governor of Shaanxi Province from 1987 to 1990, as Communist Party Secretary of Henan Province from 1990 to 1992, and as Deputy Secretary of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection from 1992 to 1998.

Hou died on 14 November 2017 in Beijing of a heart attack at the age of 88.

[[Kim Tae-yeon discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies

Taeyeon's discography consists of a studio album, two EPs, twenty singles and ten soundtracks. The singer debuted in girl group Girls' Generation in August 2007 and then in Girls' Generation-TTS in May 2012. Her solo career began in 2015 with the release of her debut mini-album entitled I. The EP was a commercial success in South Korea, where it reached number two on Gaon Album Chart and since then has sold more than 140,000 physical copies. The single of the same name managed to position itself in the first position of Gaon Digital Chart and has sold more than 1,8 million digital copies. In February 2016, Taeyeon published "Rain" as the first single from SM Station. The single reached the maximum position in Gaon Digital Chart and was ranked number three in Billboard World Digital Songs. His second EP, Why, was released in June 2016, reaching the top in Gaon Album Chart and managed to sell more than 110,000 physical copies. He produced two singles that were included in the mini album, "Starlight" and "Why". Subsequently, he released a digital single titled "11:11" in November, which was ranked second in Gaon Digital Chart.

Taeyeon released her first studio album, My Voice, in February 2017. The album won first place in Gaon Album Chart and sold more than 109,000 physical copies in its first month of release. He produced the single "Fine", which was number one on Gaon Digital Chart and reached number seven on Billboard World Digital Songs.

[[Muhammad Mansuruddin]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1987 deaths, Bangladeshi people, writers, Bangla Academy Literary Award winners, Recipients of the Ekushey Padak, Bangladeshi Muslims, Recipients of the Independence Day Award

Muhammad Mansuruddin (31 January 1904 – 19 September 1987) was a Bengali writer, literary critic, lexicographer. He is noted for his folklore collection titled "Haramoni". In 1987, he received doctor of literature degree from Rabindra Bharati University for his lifelong contribution to folklore collection and research. He also received second highest civilian honor Ekushey Padak and highest civilian honor Independence Day Award given by Government of Bangladesh in 1983 and 1984 respectively.

[[Fernando Ricksen]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Dutch footballers, People from Heerlen, Sportspeople from Limburg (Netherlands)

Fernando Jacob Hubertina Hendrika Ricksen (27 July 1976 – 18 September 2019) was a Dutch former professional footballer. He played as a right back and right midfielder. He was mostly known for his six-year spell at Rangers. He earned 12 caps for the Netherlands at international level.

[[Freddie Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2019 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, People from Staffordshire

Frederick Charles Jones (12 September 1927 – 9 July 2019) was an English character actor. He played Sandy Thomas in Emmerdale. He appeared in David Lynch's movies The Elephant Man (1980), Dune (1984), Wild at Heart (1990) as well as the short-lived TV series On the Air (1992) and the short movie Hotel Room (1993).

Jones died on 9 July 2019 at the age of 91 after a short illness.

[[Michael Aspel]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, English television presenters, English television personalities, English television actors, English radio personalities, Actors from London

Michael Terence Aspel, OBE (born 12 January 1933) is an English television presenter.He is known for his programmes such as Crackerjack, Aspel & Company, This is Your Life, Strange but True? and Antiques Roadshow. He was born in London.

[[Shane MacGowan]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Irish singer-songwriters, Irish guitarists, British singer-songwriters, British guitarists, British pianists, Writers from Kent

Shane Patrick Lysaght MacGowan (born 25 December 1957) is an Irish-British musician and singer-songwriter. He was best known as the lead singer and songwriter of Celtic punk band the Pogues. He was also a member of the Nipple Erectors and Shane MacGowan and the Popes, as well as producing his own solo material.

In the summer of 2015, MacGowan fell as he was leaving a Dublin studio, fracturing his pelvis. MacGowan has been using a wheelchair since the accident.

