[[Astelia banksii]]

CATEGORIES: Asparagales

Astelia banksii is an evergreen silver-green plant from the beaches of New Zealand. It likes it best in partial shade and in fertile and well-drained soil.

[[Barclays]]

CATEGORIES: Banks of the United Kingdom, 1690 establishments, 17th century establishments in England, 1690s establishments in Europe

Barclays is a major bank. It was founded in 1690.

[[The Beano]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines of the United Kingdom

The Beano is a weekly British children's comic. The first issue was on July 30, 1938. Annuals are released each year. 

[[Dunedin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Zealand

Dunedin is a city in New Zealand, Ōtepoti in Maori, is the second-largest city in the South Island of New Zealand, and the main city of the region of Otago. The city stands on the hills and valleys surrounding the head of Otago Harbour. The harbour and hills are the remnants of an extinct volcano. It is the home of the University of Otago.

[[Dunfermline Building Society]]

CATEGORIES: Banks of the United Kingdom, Companies of the United Kingdom, 1869 establishments in the United Kingdom

Dunfermline Building Society (which includes Dunfermline Direct) is a trading division of Nationwide Building Society. 

Nationwide Building Society is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority for life assurance, pensions, investments, insurance and regulated mortgages.

[[Big Mac Index]]

CATEGORIES: Economics, McDonald's

The Big Mac Index is an economic index which compares the purchasing power of two currencies. It looks at how expensive a Big Mac is in different countries. 

The Big Mac Index was first written about in The Economist magazine in September 1986.  They have published the index each year since then. The McDonald's Big Mac was chosen because it is made in a similar way with similar ingredients in many countries around the world.

The exchange rate between two countries can be compared by dividing the price of a Big Mac in one country (in its currency) by the price of a Big Mac in another country (in its currency).  This value is then compared with the actual exchange rate.  If the rate is lower, then the first currency is under-valued (according to purchasing power parity (PPP) theory) compared with the second currency. Conversely, if the rate is higher, then the first currency is over-valued.

For example, using figures in July 2008:

[[Economic index]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

An economic index is a number that is calculated from different economic factors, like prices or income. These numbers are calculated to be able to compare different economies in different countries. An example for such an index would be the Gross Domestic Product (or GDP).

Usually, the base is given a value of 100 and all later data is expressed in relation to this base. 

For example, the consumer price index (CPI) of a year might stand at 95 (a fall of 5 percent in the prices) or 105 (an increase of 5 percent in the prices).

Indexes (indices) also measure up and down movement of industrial production, and of the market prices of bonds, commodities, shares, etc.

[[JeOS]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Ubuntu (operating system) derivatives

JeOS is a version of Ubuntu designed for virtual machines.

[[All Hope Is Gone (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Slipknot songs

All Hope Is Gone is the second single off the album by Slipknot called All Hope Is Gone.

[[The Blister Exists]]

CATEGORIES: Slipknot songs, 2006 songs

"The Blister Exists" is the final single from Slipknot's Vol. 3: (The Subliminal Verses) album. A music video for the song was released May 21st 2004. "The Blister Exists" is known among fans for its snare drum solo. This song was used to open concerts from The Subliminal Verses tour, following a staged announcement where the audience was told that "due to unforeseen circumstances, Slipknot will not be performing this evening." The song appeared in the video game Prince of Persia: Warrior Within.

[[Fellatio]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual acts

Fellatio is oral sex performed on the penis. Fellatio is often called a blow job. The opposite of this is cunnilingus. Cunnilingus is oral sex performed on the vulva. 

Fellatio can continue until the receiver ejaculates or as part of foreplay, before actual sexual intercourse. 

[[Halo 3]]

CATEGORIES: Halo, Xbox 360 games, 2007 video games

Halo 3 is a first-person shooter video game made by Bungie Studios for the Xbox 360, published by Microsoft. The game brings an end to the story started in the two previous video games of the Halo series; Halo: Combat Evolved and Halo 2. The game came out on September 25, 2007 all over the world, except Europe and Japan where it was released on September 26.

Microsoft made 4.2 million copies of Halo 3 for the first day of sales to make sure there were enough copies.

The game's story is based around a future war between a fictional alien race known as "the Covenant" and the human race. The player takes the role of Master Chief, a genetically enhanced "super soldier" who fights for the human race. The player is helped through the story by marines and another alien race known as "the elites". The game had many new features that were not in the first two games including more vehicles, weapons and equipment.

Sales of the game added up to over $900 billion USD in its first week. More than a million people played the game on Xbox Live in the first 24 hours of its release.

By January 1, 2008 it had sold over 8 million copies making it the best selling video game of 2007.

The game was mostly well-reviewed in the press. It received a 94 out of 100 rating on Metacritic, a website that puts many reviews together and gives an average score.

[[Extremaduran language]]

CATEGORIES: Romance languages, Extremadura

The Extremaduran language (estremeñu) is the native language of Northwestern province of Cáceres. About 150,000 people speak it in Extremadura. This language is very similar to Leonese language and Asturian or Bable, spoken in other territories that once made up the Kingdom of León. Is called artu estremeñu (High extremaduran) too. The Central and Low Extremaduran (Meyu estremeñu and Bahu estremeñu) are Spanish dialects with extremaduran influences.

[[Macron Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England, 1997 establishments in England

The University of Bolton Stadium is a football stadium in the town of Horwich, near Bolton, in the county of Greater Manchester, England. It is the current home stadium of Bolton Wanderers F.C.. It opened in 1997 as Reebok Stadium, named after the club's former sponsor, the sportswear company Reebok. In 2014, after the sponsorship deal with Reebok ended, a new deal was signed with Italian sportswear company Macron, and the stadium was renamed accordingly. This has since changed to The University of Bolton Stadium.

The team is in the Football league 1.

[[Tanoli]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Pakistan, Ethnic groups in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

The Tanoli is a Pashtun 

tribe in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan, and some eastern part of Afghanistan.

The Tanoli tribe is also known as TanoKhel in Afghanistan and belong from Ghilji confederation of Pashtun.

Notable people:

Mir Jehandad Khan Tanoli, was a tribal chief of the Tanoli people

Nawabzada Farid Salahuddin Tanoli, Pakistani politician

Sanjay Khan, Indian film actor, producer, director

Akbar Khan, Indian film actor, screenwriter, producer and director

Feroz Khan, former Indian actor, film editor, producer and director

Fardeen Khan, former Indian film actor

Zayed Khan, Indian actor and producer

Added notable people in Tanoli tribe names are given below; 

Pakistan Navy Cdr Muhammad Shahidd Iqbal Tanoli

Muzaffarabad Tigers is owned by Mr. Arshad Khan Tanoli.

Abbotabad High Court Bar Association, President Haji Sabir Tanoli.

[[Jirga]]

CATEGORIES: Dispute resolution, Politics of Pakistan

A jirga (sometimes spelt jirgah) (Pashto / جرګه) is a tribal meeting of elders. The meeting makes decisions by consensus. It is mainly the Pashtun people who have theses meetings - but other people who live near the Pashtun also have these meetings to settle disputes. They are most common in Afghanistan and among the Pashtun in Pakistan near its border with Afghanistan.

[[Gujar Khan]]

CATEGORIES: Rawalpindi District

Gujar Khan (گوجرخان)  is a city in Rawalpindi District, Punjab, Pakistan. It is the capital of Gujar Khan Tehsil, one of the seven tehsils or subdivisions of Rawalpindi District. It is about 55 kilometres southeast of Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan and 220 km to the northwest of Lahore capital of Punjab.

[[Chlamydia infection]]

CATEGORIES: Sexually transmitted diseases, Diseases caused by bacteria

Chlamydia infection (from the Greek, χλαμύδος meaning "cloak") is a common sexually transmitted infection (STI) in humans. It is caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. It can be treated with antibiotics. 

The term Chlamydia infection can also refer to infections caused by any species belonging to the bacterial family Chlamydiaceae. C. trachomatis is only in humans. Chlamydia is a major infectious cause of human genital and eye disease.

The infection is one of the most common sexually transmitted infections in people worldwide – about 2.8 million cases of chlamydia infection occur in the United States each year. It is the most common bacterial STI in humans.

C. trachomatis naturally lives only inside human cells. Chlamydia can be transmitted during vaginal, anal, or oral sex. It can also be passed from an infected mother to her baby during vaginal childbirth. Many people with Chlamydia show no symptoms of infection. Between half and three-quarters of all women who have chlamydia have no symptoms and do not know that they are infected. Untreated, chlamydial infections can cause serious reproductive and other health problems with both short-term and long-term consequences.

Chlamydia conjunctivitis or trachoma is a common cause of blindness worldwide. The World Health Organization estimates that it accounted for 15% of blindness cases in 1995, but only 3.6% in 2002.

[[Ted Strickland]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Governors of Ohio

Theodore "Ted" Strickland (born August 4, 1941) was the 68th Governor of Ohio. He held the office from 2007 to 2011. He is a member of the Democratic Party.

Before he became Governor, he served in the United States House of Representatives for two terms (1993–1995 and 1997–2007).

[[Michigan Wolverines]]

CATEGORIES: American Lacrosse Conference, Big Ten Conference, Central Collegiate Hockey Association, ECAC Lacrosse, University of Michigan

The Michigan Wolverines are 24 varsity sports teams at the University of Michigan.

[[Boston Massacre]]

CATEGORIES: 1770, History of Boston, Massachusetts, Crime in the United States, Manslaughter, Massacres, 1770s in Massachusetts, March events

The Boston Massacre happened when five civilians (people who were not in the military) were shot and killed by 6 British troops on March 5, 1770. It was in Boston, Massachusetts, which was a British colony at the time. The event happened at night when a large mob got together outside of the Custom House.  One British soldier named Hugh White had hit a boy who had insulted his commanding officer.  The boy ran away and came back with a large mob of angry people.  More British soldiers came to help protect Hugh White from the people.  The mob threw snowballs with clams inside them.  As the mob got larger and larger the scene became more and more chaotic.  Someone in the crowd yelled "fire".  In the confusion, some of the soldiers fired into the crowd. Crispus Attucks, an African-American man, was one of the first people killed.

[[Dreadlocks]]

CATEGORIES: Hairstyles

Dreadlocks, also called locks or dreads, are coils of hair which are made by themselves, in all hair types, if the hair is allowed to grow naturally without grooming for a long time. They are part of some religions, like the Rastafarian religion in Jamaica. People who do not have to have dreadlocks because of their religion sometimes have dreadlocks as well. A lot of them do not let their dreads form naturally, but make dreadlocks themselves. There are different ways in which people help their hair go together to form dreadlocks. Backcombing, braiding, and twisting are some of the different techniques used to form dreadlocks.

Dreadlocks are one kind of protective hairstyle.  They can stop the hairs from breaking.

[[List of Russian football teams]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of football teams, Russian football clubs, Russia-related lists

These are some Russian football teams.

[[F.C. Dynamo Moscow]]

CATEGORIES: Russian football clubs, 1923 establishments in the Soviet Union

F.C. Dynamo Moscow is a football club which plays in Russian Premier-League.

[[Lev Yashin]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1990 deaths, Russian footballers

Lev Yashin (22 October 1929 – 20 March 1990) was a former Russian football player. He had played for Dynamo Moscow and Soviet Union national team. He is regarded as one of the greatest goalkeepers of all time, while some even considering him to be the greatest.

[[Ronaldo]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Footballers from Rio de Janeiro

Ronaldo (born 18 September 1976) is a retired Brazilian football player. During his career he played for F.C. Barcelona, PSV Eindhoven, Inter Milan, Real Madrid CF, A.C. Milan, and Corinthians. Ronaldo is widely regarded as one of the greatest players of all time. He won 2 world cups in 1994 and 2002  and the 1997 Ballon d'Or.  

[[Míchel (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Spanish football managers, Sportspeople from Madrid

Míchel (born 23 March 1963) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[League of Ireland Premier Division]]

CATEGORIES: Football League of Ireland

The League of Ireland Premier Division is a football league which is the top division in the Republic of Ireland. For historic reasons, one club based in Northern Ireland, namely Derry City, plays in the Republic's league system, and is currently in the Premier Division.

[[Japanese kickboxing]]

CATEGORIES: Kickboxing

60px|leftThe Japanese kickboxing is called in English oriental kickboxing. According to certain people, the word "kickboxing" would have been invented, in Japan, in the years 1950 by experts of karate who needed to fight with total contact.

In the year 1958, a man who practised kickboxing is the student of oriental languages, the Burmese Maung Gyi who studied martial arts from experts of bando in Burma and also from Gogen Yamaguchi - the grand person with special skill of karate, called "the cat". Maung Gyi fights in Japan under different names and makes the Burmese boxing (lethwei) known in time when the competitions of Japanese kickboxing happened.

[[Emilio Butragueño]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Madrid

Emilio Butragueño (born 22 July 1963) is a former football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Francisco Gento]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Francisco Gento is a former football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Athletic Bilbao]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, 1898 establishments in Europe, 1890s establishments in Spain

Athletic Club, most often known in English as Athletic Bilbao, is a football club which plays in Spain.

The club formed from a merger of two football clubs ; Bilbao F.C. and Athletic Club in 1903.

[[Rafael Moreno Aranzadi]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish footballers, 1892 births, 1922 deaths

Rafael Moreno Aranzadi is a former football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Telmo Zarra]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2006 deaths, Spanish footballers

Telmo Zarra is a former football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Andoni Goikoetxea Olaskoaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Spanish football managers

Andoni Goikoetxea Olaskoaga (born 23 May 1956) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Hugo Sánchez]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Mexican footballers, Mexican football managers, Sportspeople from Mexico City

Hugo Sánchez (born 11 July 1958) is a former Mexican football player. He has played for Mexico national team.

[[Tony Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, Arsenal F.C. players, English football managers, English footballers, Living people, Members of the Order of the British Empire, Premier League players, Sportspeople from London, UEFA Euro 2000 players

Tony Adams MBE (born 10 October 1966) is an English former footballer. He has played for Arsenal and the English national team.

[[Paolo Maldini]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Association football defenders, Association football full-backs, Italian footballers, Sportspeople from Milan

Paolo Maldini (born 26 June 1968) is a former Italian football player. He had played for Milan and Italy national team. Maldini is considered by many to be one of the greatest defenders of all time and, by some, to be the greatest ever. He is the second-highest appearance maker in the history of Serie A.

[[Alessandro Del Piero]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Alessandro Del Piero (born 9 November 1974 in Conegliano) is an Italian former football player. He has played for Juventus from 1993 to 2012, Sydney FC from 2012 to 2014 and Delhi Dynamos in 2014 as a striker. He was the captain of the Juventus team since 2001. He stopped playing for the national team in 2006.

Del Piero is considered among the best talents that Italian football has ever witnessed. In 2004, he was included in the FIFA 100, a list of 125 greatest living players. In 1999, he was listed 77th in the list of the best players of the 20th century published by World Soccer magazine. He is one of five Italian players to score over 300 goals (312 as pf 6 November 2010) along with Filippo Inzaghi (315), Roberto Baggio (318), Giuseppe Meazza (338) and Silvio Piola (364).

[[Football League Fourth Division]]

CATEGORIES: English Football League, Football in England, 1958 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1992 disestablishments in Europe, 1990s disestablishments in the United Kingdom

Football League Fourth Division is a former football league in England and Wales.

[[Purchasing power]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Purchasing power is a relation between labor and money. Some people have money. Adam Smith says that the purchasing power is the amount of money needed to labour (goods or services) from other people. 

[[Eratosthenes]]

CATEGORIES: 276 BC births, 194 BC deaths, Greek geographers, Ancient mathematicians, Ancient Greek astronomers

Eratosthenes of Cyrene (276 – 194 BC) was a 3rd century BC Greek mathematician, geographer and astronomer. He was head of the Library of Alexandria from 240 BC until his death: this was the most important library of the ancient world.

According to the Suda, his contemporaries nicknamed him Beta, (the second letter of the Greek alphabet), because he was the second best in the world in almost any field. Eratosthenes was a friend of Archimedes, who also lived and worked in Alexandria. Archimedes was the greatest mathematician and inventor of the age, so perhaps the Beta nickname was not unjust.

The works Eratosthenes wrote are known to us only indirectly: the great Library was destroyed, and no copies survived. Strabo (~63BC–24AD) wrote about geography in antiquity. He tells us that the works of Eratosthenes were On the measurement of the Earth and Geographica.

Eratosthenes made several remarkable discoveries and inventions. He was the first person to calculate the circumference of the Earth (with remarkable accuracy), and he invented a system of latitude and longitude. He calculated the tilt of the earth's axis (again with remarkable accuracy); he may also have accurately calculated the distance from the earth to the sun and invented the leap day. He created a map of the world based on the available geographical knowledge of the era. Eratosthenes was also the founder of scientific chronology; he wanted to fix the dates of the chief literary and political events from the conquest of Troy.

[[Tubule]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy

A tubule is a very small tube. In anatomy, a tubule is a very small tube coated with epithelium from your glands.

[[Jango Fett]]

CATEGORIES: Star Wars characters, Fictional characters introduced in 2002, Tony Hawk's (series) guest characters

Jango Fett is a Star Wars bounty hunter and the genetic template of the Clone troopers for the Clone Wars. He made his first appearance in Attack of the Clones (2002).

[[Gilf el-Kebir]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Egypt, Plateaus

Gif el-Kebir is a large plateau in Egypt. The name can be translated as the great barrier. It is located in trhe extreme south-east of Egypt, next ot Lybia and Sudan. It has about the same size as Switzerland. It rises 300 m above the rest of the desert. The plateau is very arid and difficult to access. 

There is a crater called Kebir crater in the plateau.

The Uweinat mountain range at the very south of the plateau is shared between Egypt, Libya and Sudan.

Wadis:

The Gilf Kebir is mentioned in Michael Ondaatje's novel 'The English Patient'. It was also the site of the recent discovery of a bag which had been lost in the Second World War by a dispatch rider (Alec Ross) of the Long Range Desert Group, part of the British Army. This contained the rider's personal letters and photographs, and had been well preserved.

[[HBOS]]

CATEGORIES: Banks of the United Kingdom, 2001 establishments in the United Kingdom

HBOS is a major bank. It was founded in 2001 when Halifax merged with the Bank of Scotland. It is headquarted in Edinburgh, Scotland. On 17 September 2008 it was said that Lloyds TSB would take over HBOS.

[[Must Get Out]]

CATEGORIES: Maroon 5 songs, 2006 songs

"Must Get Out" is the 5th single by Maroon 5. The song was released in 2005 of their first album Songs About Jane. 

[[Ansel Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1984 deaths, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, American photographers, Artists from San Francisco, Disease-related deaths in the United States

Ansel Easton Adams (February 20, 1902 – April 22, 1984) was a legendary American photographer and environmentalist, best known for his black-and-white photographs of the American West and primarily Yosemite National Park.

[[Dorothea Lange]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1965 deaths, American photojournalists

Dorothea Lange (May 25, 1895 – October 11, 1965) was an influential American documentary photographer and photojournalist, best known for her Depression-era work for the  Farm Security Administration (FSA).  Lange's photographs made human the tragic consequences of the Great Depression and greatly influenced the development of documentary photography.

[[Lostprophets]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s British music groups, 1997 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, 2013 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, British heavy metal bands, Musical groups disestablished in 2013, Musical groups established in 1997, Post-grunge bands, Welsh rock bands

Lostprophets were a rock band from Pontypridd, Wales. They were signed to the record label Sony BMG. They released five studio albums in their career and had two top ten hits in the UK, "Last Train Home" and "Rooftops". They won six Kerrang! Awards. They broke up in October 2013 after singer Ian Watkins was charged in December 2012 with raping a baby and other sex crimes. In November 2013, he was convicted of attempted rape and sexual assault of a child. On 18 December 2013, Watkins was sentenced to 35 years in prison.

Lostprophets' first release was their 1997 EP Here Comes the Party.

In 1999 Lostprophets were signed to a record label called Visible Noise. Their first album Thefakesoundofprogress was released on 27 November 2000. On 2 February 2004 the band's second album Start Something was released in the UK and South Korea. Six singles were released from the album. "Burn Burn" reached number seventeen in the UK Singles Chart. The band's third album, Liberation Transmission, was released in June 2006 and was the band's first album to enter the UK Albums Chart at No.1. The album was also successful in Japan. Kerrang! gave it five out of five stars. In 2009 Lostprophets did a cover of "Boys Don't Cry" on an album of The Cure covers given away free with NME.

The Betrayed, the band's fourth studio album, was released in the UK on 13 January 2010. It reached number three in the UK Albums Chart. Their last album, Weapons was released on 2 April 2012. It reached the number five in the UK Albums Chart. It got mixed reviews.

HMV stopped selling Lostprophets' albums in 2013 after Watkins was convicted of trying to rape a baby. The BBC will not play Lostprophets' music anymore.

In June 2014, the remaining members formed No Devotion with American singer Geoff Rickly as their lead vocalist.

[[Racism]]

CATEGORIES: Racism, Hatred

Racism is the belief in the natural superiority of one race over another. It may mean prejudice, discrimination, or antagonism against other people because they are of a different race or ethnicity.

Racism can also be used to describe the social, legal, cultural, economic, and political processes that are a result of those beliefs. 

During the Holocaust, Nazis in Germany believed that some races did not even deserve to exist.  These beliefs were racist.  Because of those beliefs, they killed many people who belonged to those races.  Those actions, which resulted from their racist beliefs, were also racist.

Racism has existed throughout human history. It has caused wars, slavery, the creation of nations, and laws. However, racism has never been the only cause of wars and slavery. Leaders often used racism to make their actions seem all right.  For example, the Nazis used the idea that Slavic peoples were less than human to make it seem all right to take over those people's countries. In the United States, white people used the idea that African Americans were less than them to make it seem all right to treat them as property.

[[Korba]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Settlements in Chhattisgarh

Korba is a city in the central Indian state of Chhattisgarh. The city is the center of power in the state, meaning that it is the source from which people who live there get their energy supply. It contains major power companies such as NTPC and LENCO. Apart from power projects, it is the home of the most profiting coal mines in India namely DIPKA & GEVRA which are part of SECL (South Eastern Coalfields Limited).April 2009 Vedanta group's presence is also felt through BALCO aluminium plant. 

[[Apoptosis]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

Apoptosis is the controlled death of a cell. It is an important part of tissue development. For example, during limb development in a foetus, apoptosis allows digits (fingers and toes) to separate from each other. The process is quite common until puberty begins. Apoptosis is a  regulated and controlled process which works throughout an organism's life cycle. The rate of apoptosis is balanced by the rate of cell production by mitosis.

[[Phagocyte]]

CATEGORIES: Blood cells, Physiology, Immunology

Phagocytes are the white blood cells that protect the body by eating (phagocytosing) dirt, bacteria and dead or dying cells. They are important for fighting infections. They are also important for becoming immune. Phagocytes are important in all animals and are very complex in vertebrates. One liter of human blood has about six billion phagocytes.

[[FM Static]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian punk bands, Pop punk bands, 2000s in music, Musical groups established in 2003, 2003 establishments in Canada

FM Static is a Pop punk band that makes albums with Tooth & Nail Records. The band was started by Thousand Foot Krutch (another band) lead man Trevor McNevan and Thousand Foot Krutch drummer Steve Augustine. In 2003, they made their first album called (What Are You Waiting For?). This album has sold over 60,000 copies so farJune 2008 and had the singles "Definitely Maybe" and "Crazy Mary". On August 1, 2006, FM Static started selling their second album called Critically Ashamed, which has the single "Waste of Time" on it. Their third album was announced in late April 2008. The two piece finished recording "Dear Diary" in early August 2008. It was released on April 7, 2009. 

FM Static won the Best Website Ever Made award from the Webgrammys, and they have been nominated for the GMA Canada Covenant Awards.

[[Wadi]]

CATEGORIES: Valleys

A Wadi is usually a valley, sometimes the bed of a river. The river that is part of the wadi only has water after heavy rain. Staying in a wadi can be a danger to life. This is because the water in a wadi can rise very quickly. Canyon is another name for it, used in other countries. 

[[Noble gas compound]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table, Chemistry, Noble gas compounds

A noble gas compound is a chemical compound that has an element from Group 18 of the periodic table in them. Group 18 (previously called Group 0) contains all the noble gases. 

[[Vector graphics editor]]

CATEGORIES: Graphics software

A vector graphics editor is a computer program that lets users make and change vector graphics images and save them in one of many popular vector graphics formats such as EPS, PDF, WMF, SVG or VML.

[[What Are You Waiting For?]]

CATEGORIES: Pop punk albums, 2003 albums

What Are You Waiting For? is the debut album from FM Static, a Canadian pop punk band. It was released in the summer of 2003 although there was a TFK record the same year.

Although not a bestseller or anything really great, What Are You Waiting For? did manage to sell around 60,000 copies in three and a half years. Remember, FM Static are only a side project.

[[Negev]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Israel, Deserts of Asia, World Heritage Sites in Asia

The Negev or Naqab is the southern region of Israel/Palestine. It is a desert that covers about 60% of the current state of Israel. Only about 10% of the people that live in Israel live there. The Negev has borders with Egypt and the Gaza Strip to the west, the Arabah in the Great Rift Valley in the east, and a line connecting Gaza city to Ein Gedi near the Dead Sea to the north. Beersheba and Eilat are the main cities of the Negev.

The Negev has a UNESCO World Heritage site. The Negev incense route was a trade route in the Negev. It connected Arabia to the Mediterranean in the Hellenistic-Roman period. The trade led to the development of ancient towns, forts and caravanserai en route, and agricultural development. It was proclaimed as of outstanding universal value by UNESCO in 2005.

[[Alfred Eisenstaedt]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1995 deaths, German photojournalists

[[Petrochemical]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

A petrochemical is a chemical product that is made from petroleum, natural gas or other hydrocarbons.

Some petrochemicals include alcohol, antiseptics, artificial rubber, detergents, drugs, explosives, food additives, insecticides, perfume, plastic, and textile fiber.

[[Electronegativity]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical bonding

Electronegativity, symbol χ, is a chemical property that says how well an atom can attract electrons towards itself. The electronegativity of an atom is influenced by the atom's atomic number and the distance between the atom's valence electrons (the outermost electrons that take part in chemical bonding) and its nucleus. It was first theorised by Linus Pauling in 1932 as part of his valence bond theory, and is related to other chemical properties. Generally, electronegativity increases from the bottom-left to the upper-right of the periodic table; this is known as a periodic trend.

There are many ways to calculate the electronegativity of an atom. The most common way of calculation is the one suggested by Linus Pauling, and it gives the relative Pauling scale. This scale gives elements dimensionless quantities (values) between 0.7 to 3.98, with hydrogen being at 2.20.

The opposite of electronegativity is electropositivity; the measure of how well an atom gives away electrons.

[[Linus Pauling]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1994 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Unitarians, American biochemists, Time People of the Year, American activists, American Nobel Prize winners, Writers from Portland, Oregon, Scientists from Portland, Oregon, California Institute of Technology faculty

Linus Carl Pauling (February 28, 1901 – August 19, 1994) was an American scientist, peace activist, author and educator. He was one of the most important chemists in history.

Pauling was one of the first scientists to work in quantum chemistry, molecular biology and orthomolecular medicine. He is one of a small group of people to have been given more than one Nobel Prize. He is one of only two people to receive them in different fields (the other person was Marie Curie) and the only person in that group to have been awarded each of his prizes without having to share it with another winner. 

[[Strabo]]

CATEGORIES: 60s BC births, 24 deaths, Greek geographers, Ancient Greek historians

Strabo (Στράβων; 63/64 BC – ca. AD 24) was a Greek historian, geographer and philosopher.

[[Chris Waddle]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Tyne and Wear, Premier League players

Chris Waddle is a former football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Ray Ozzie]]

CATEGORIES: American computer scientists, Scientists from Nebraska, Microsoft people, 1955 births, Living people

Ray Ozzie (born November 20, 1955) is an American computer programmer. He is the "Chief Software Architect" (the person in charge of programming) at Microsoft.

[[Ian Ure]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers, Living people, 1939 births

Ian Ure (born 7 December 1939) is a former football player. He has played for Scotland national team.

[[Skating rink]]

A skating rink may refer to:

[[Identity theft]]

CATEGORIES: Types of crime

Identity theft is a type of fraud that involves using personal details belonging to the victim. This may be a passport, social security card, student pass, credit card etc. A person who has his or her identity stolen can end up owing money when the thief spends the person's money or uses the person's credit.

Identity theft is a serious crime that affects thousands of people. Globally around 40% of the people have been targets of an identity theft crime at least once. With the pace of development in the online or the digital landscape, identity theft is becoming more sophisticated each day. As per statistics, there were 4.54 billion internet users in 2020 which is 59% of the world’s population. On average, there is a 7% rise in internet penetration annually. Meanwhile, there is a remarkable rise in online shopping, social media, and app usage. Accordingly, on average, people spend nearly 7 hours on the internet. With a wide online presence, identity theft has become inevitable in modern society. Out of all the countries, the USA has consistently topped the list with 16.7 million Identity theft victims reported in 2017 accounting for an overall loss estimated at more than USD 17 billion.

Since there is a marked rise in identity theft every year, people should be more vigilant about the potential theft of their personal and financial information. Accordingly, it is highly advisable to safeguard one’s login credentials, create strong passwords and keep the virus guards up to date. It is prudent to constantly monitor your bank accounts for any dubious transactions. Besides, special caution needs to be taken when disposing of financial statements, receipts, and credit card bills.

[[Sensor]]

CATEGORIES: Sensors, Tools, Computer hardware, Data input

A sensor is a device that measures a physical quantity and converts it into a 'signal' which can be read by an observer or by an instrument. For example, a mercury thermometer converts the measured temperature into the expansion and contraction of a liquid which can be read on a calibrated glass tube. Video cameras and a digital cameras have an image sensor.

There are many different types of sensors. Some are used in everyday objects, and some are separate.

[[Victory]]

CATEGORIES: War, Sports

Victory is winning an argument, war or test. Many songs have been made called victory songs. Victory often comes with a lot of emotion. Victory is usually celebrated after winning, although there are many times not to, like after a war. The term comes from the culture of ancient Rome, when it meant winning a war.

[[Illegal immigration]]

CATEGORIES: Population, Legal terms

An illegal immigrant is an immigrant who lives in a country without permission or in a way that is not allowed, or illegal. Millions of people around the world live in another country against the laws of that country.

Many of these people migrate to a country in secret. Many others come to the country legally as a visitor, then stay in the country when they should legally  going home. Someimes,  they work illegally and live in bad conditions.  They usually move for similar reasons as other immigrants, but they don't legally have the right to be there.

[[Francisco Castro]]

CATEGORIES: Portuguese footballers, 1979 births, Living people

Francisco Castro is a football player. He plays for Aves.

[[Stuart Murdoch]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, English footballers

Stuart Murdoch is a former football manager.

[[Chris Cornell]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2017 deaths, American Eastern Orthodox Christians, Musicians from Seattle, Washington, Musicians who committed suicide, Singers from Seattle, Washington, Soundgarden, Suicides by hanging in the United States, Former Roman Catholics

Chris Cornell (Christopher John Boyle; July 20, 1964 – May 17, 2017) was an American singer. He is best known as the singer in the grunge band Soundgarden.

He started the band in 1984 with lead guitarist Kim Thayil, and bassist Hiro Yamamoto.  Cornell is regarded as one of the greatest vocalists in rock history.

He released his debut album in September 1999,  Euphoria Morning. Later, in 2001, he began the supergroup Audioslave with the former members of Rage Against the Machine. Cornell recorded three albums as Audioslave's singer until the band's breakup in early 2007. His second solo album Carry On was released to mixed commercial success in June 2007.

Cornell was also the singer in a band, Temple of the Dog, that was formed as a tribute to a musician, Andrew Wood, who had died.

Cornell was found dead at his Detroit, Michigan hotel room shortly after performing at a concert on May 17, 2017 at the age of 52. The cause of death was determined to be suicide by hanging.

[[Curse tablet]]

CATEGORIES: Occult, Ancient Greece, Ancient Rome

A curse tablet or binding spell (defixio in Latin, κατάδεσμος katadesmos in Greek) is a type of curse. It could be found in all of Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome. Curse tablets were used to influence other people, often the gods were asked to influence someone else, or to do harm to them. This would involve magic.

Usually, texts were scratched on very thin sheets of lead using a small writing. These sheets would then be rolled up, folded, or pierced with nails.They would then be moved under ground, placed in graves, or thrown into wells, pools or lakes. Sometimes they were put on temple walls. Like an analogy the treatment done to the material should also be done to the target of the spell. 

Some of the tablets contained love spells. If they were used this way, they had to be placed in the home of the desired person, so that the spell could work.  

About 1600 tablets have been found, distributed over all the known lands in Antiquity. About 600 of them were found in Greece. 

[[Kim Thayil]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American guitarists, Soundgarden, Musicians from Seattle, Washington

Kim Thayil (born September 4, 1960 in Seattle, Washington) best known as the lead guitarist in Soundgarden.

[[Matt Cameron]]

CATEGORIES: American drummers, Soundgarden, Musicians from San Diego, California, American rock musicians, 1962 births, Living people

Matthew David Cameron (born November 28, 1962 in San Diego, California) is an American drummer best known as the drummer in Soundgarden and Pearl Jam.

In September 1986, Matt Cameron had become so popular in the local Seattle music scene that he was chosen to play for Soundgarden. He replaced drummer Scott Sundquist. Cornell said, "When I first met Matt, he was already the best drummer in town...He just seemed very confident and well-adjusted."

He also worked briefly with The Smashing Pumpkins. In 1998, he played drums for Pearl Jam's Yield Tour. Later he joined the band as a permanent member.

[[Ben Shepherd]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American guitarists, Bassists, Soundgarden, Musicians from Seattle, Washington

Ben Shepherd (born Hunter Benedict Shepherd on September 20, 1968) is an American musician, best known as the bass player in the grunge band Soundgarden from 1990 until the band's 1997 break-up.

Ben Shepherd first auditioned for the role of bassist in Soundgarden in 1989, to replace Hiro Yamamoto, who had left the band. He was turned down because he could not play the songs well enough.  But after Jason Everman was let go, Shepherd was then hired. 

Chris Cornell said that Shepherd brought a "fresh and creative" approach to the Badmotorfinger recording sessions, All the band members said that his knowledge of music and writing skills would be a help to the band. 

Before joining, Soundgarden had been Shepherd's favorite band.

[[A-Sides]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden albums, 1997 albums

A-Sides is a best-of album by Soundgarden with songs spanning the band's thirteen-year career. It was released on November 4, 1997 through A&M Records.

[[Greatest hits album]]

CATEGORIES: Greatest hits albums

A greatest hits album (sometimes referred to as a best of album) is a compilation album of successful, previously released songs by a particular music artist or band. To increase the appeal of the album – especially to people who already own the previously released material – it is common to include remixes or alternate takes of popular songs or new material, with new songs often being released as singles (and themselves sometimes becoming successful).

[[Down on the Upside]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden albums, 1996 albums

Down on the Upside is the fifth and final studio album by Soundgarden.

[[Alternative metal]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy metal subgenres

Alternative metal is a type of heavy metal in the alternative music genre. Alternative metal became popular during the 1990s.

Characteristics of alternative metal music are heavy guitar riffs, syncopation, uncommon time signatures, and unusual techniques. Alternative metal is like regular heavy music, but it can be more experimental. This is what makes it "alternative". 

Popular alternative metal bands are Jane's Addiction, Faith No More, Primus, Helmet, Alice in Chains, Nine Inch Nails, Tool, Rage Against the Machine and System of a Down.

[[Halloween (franchise)]]

CATEGORIES: Halloween movies, Horror movies

The Halloween movie series are a series of horror movies created by Moustapha Akkad in 1978. The series is about Michael Myers, who was committed to a sanitarium as a child for killing of his older sister, Judith Myers. Fifteen years later, he escapes to continue his killing spree. Dr. Loomis is a psychiatrists who helps all of Michael's victims to escape death from Myers. Only Dr. Loomis and Michael Myers appear in all movies except Halloween III: Season of the Witch.

Some novels were written about each movies, many of them were written by Dennis Etchison.

[[Turkish diaspora]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish people

The Turkish diaspora is a term used to describe the communities of Turkish people living outside of Turkey. There is an estimated 90 million Turkish people in total. There are 76 million Turkish people living in Turkey  and large Turkish communities which have been established in Europe (particularly in Germany, France, and the Netherlands), as well as North America, and Australia.

[[Anemoi]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

In Greek mythology, the Anemoi (Greek:  Ἄνεμοι – "winds") are the gods of the four winds — Boreas (the north wind), Notus (the south), Eurus (the east), and Zephryus (the west). They were the sons of Eos, goddess of the dawn, and Astraeus. They were each associated with a particular season and its weather conditions. In the form of horses they drew the chariot of Zeus.

[[Hit (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball

In baseball, a hit is when a player (called the batter or batsman) who is trying to hit the ball that is thrown (or pitched) by the thrower (called the pitcher) hits the ball in such a way as to let him move forward at least one base.

[[Shutout (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball

A shutout is a baseball game where at least one team does not score any runs. This is not always the same as a no-hitter in which the team does not get any hits. 

[[Fried rice]]

CATEGORIES: Rice dishes, Chinese food

Fried rice is a popular kind of rice in Chinese cuisine.

[[Uniform number (American football)]]

CATEGORIES: American football

In American football, uniform numbers are special numbers added to jerseys or other types of clothing to tell players from each other. They are shown in more places on the uniform than in those of other sports.

[[Flag of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols of Pakistan, National flags, Flags of Pakistan

The national flag of Pakistan was designed by Syed Amir uddin Kedwaii and was based on the original flag of the Muslim League. It was adopted by the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan on August 11, 1947, just days before independence. The flag is referred to in the national anthem as Parcham-e-Sitāra-o-Hilāl in Urdu (lit. Flag of the Crescent and Star). The flag comprises a dark green field, representing the Muslim majority of Pakistan, with a vertical white stripe in the hoist, that represents the Christians and other multi-faith communities of the country. In the centre is a white crescent moon, representing progress, and a white five-pointed star, representing light and knowledge.

[[Coat of arms of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols of Pakistan, National coats of arms

The State Emblem of Pakistan was adopted in 1954. The emblem's green colour and the star and crescent at the top are symbols of Islam, the religion with which most Pakistani citizens identify. In the center is a quartered shield, with each quarter containing a major crop of Pakistan at the time of its adoption: cotton, jute, tea, and wheat. The floral wreath around the shield is the Jasminum officinale (the National flower) represents the Mughal era cultural heritage of Pakistan. The scroll at the bottom contains the national motto in Urdu, coined by Muhammad Ali Jinnah, which reads from right to left: (ایمان ، اتحاد ، نظم) Iman, Ittehad, Nazm translated as "Faith, Unity, Discipline". Pakistan is located in the Indus Valley region of Asia. The crescent moon is the same as the one on the flag of Pakistan, except the colours are inverted. It is also the religious sign or Symbol of the Muslim faith respectively. 

[[Qaumī Tarāna]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols of Pakistan, National anthems

The Qaumī Tarāna (قومی ترانہ) is the national anthem of Pakistan. At independence, on August 14, 1947, Pakistan did not have a national anthem. When the flag was hoisted at the independence ceremony it was accompanied by the song, "Pakistan Zindabad, Azadi Paendabad". The flag itself had only been approved by the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan three days earlier. The national anthem of Pakistan was written some time later by the Urdu poet Abu-Al-Asar Hafeez Jullundhri.

[[Gloydius himalayanus]]

CATEGORIES: Reptiles of Pakistan, Vipers

Gloydius himalayanus (commonly known as the Himalayan Pit Viper) is a medium-sized gray-brown snake found in caverns and rocky crevices of forested hill sides, where it feeds on skinks and lizards. The scale pattern consists of medial dark brown blotches, alternating with lateral rows of spots.

It occurs along the southern slopes of the Himalayas from Kashmir to Nepal as far as Sikkim between 1500–3000 m altitude.

The Himalayan Pit Viper is a habitually sluggish snake that basks in sunlight and hibernates in winter.

[[Green sea turtle]]

CATEGORIES: Turtles

The green turtle (Chelonia mydas) is a large sea turtle belonging to the family Cheloniidae. It is the only species in its genus. It is one of the seven marine turtles, which are all endangered.

[[Hardella thurjii]]

CATEGORIES: Reptiles of Pakistan

The Brahminy River Turtle or Crowned River Turtle (Hardella thurjii) is a species of turtle found in northern India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh (in the watersheds of the Ganges, Brahmaputra, and Indus rivers).

[[Hydrophis ornatus]]

CATEGORIES: Reptiles of Pakistan

Ornate Reef seasnake (Hydrophis ornatus) is a species of sea snake.

[[Soundgarden discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies, Soundgarden

The discography of Soundgarden, an American rock band, consists of six studio albums, one live album, four compilation albums, seven extended plays, twenty-four singles and eighteen music videos.

This list does not include material recorded by Soundgarden band members with Skin Yard, Temple of the Dog, Pearl Jam, Hater, Wellwater Conspiracy, or Audioslave.

Soundgarden was formed in 1984 by vocalist Chris Cornell, guitarist Kim Thayil, and bassist Hiro Yamamoto. The band signed with the independent label Sub Pop and released the Screaming Life EP in 1987 and the Fopp EP in 1988. In 1988, the band signed with legendary punk record label SST Records and released its debut full-length album Ultramega OK. The band subsequently signed with A&M Records, becoming the first grunge band to sign with a major label. In 1989, the band released its first album for a major label, Louder Than Love.

In 1990, the band was joined by a new bass player, Ben Shepherd. They released Badmotorfinger in 1991. The album brought the band to a new level of commercial success, and Soundgarden found itself amidst the sudden popularity and attention being paid to the Seattle music scene. The band's next album was to be its breakthrough. Superunknown, released in 1994, debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and launched several successful singles, including "Spoonman" and "Black Hole Sun". In 1996, the band released its fifth studio album, Down on the Upside; while successful, the album could not emulate the precedent set by Superunknown.

In 1997, the band broke up because they could no longer agree on how their music sounded. The members worked on other projects for more than ten years. Soundgarden got back together in 2010. Two years later, they released their sixth studio album, King Animal.

[[Louder Than Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 albums, Soundgarden albums

Louder Than Love is the second full-length album by the American grunge band Soundgarden. It was released on September 5, 1989 through A&M Records. After touring in support of its first full-length studio album, Ultramega OK, released in 1988, the band signed with A&M and began work on its first album for a major label. The songs on the album featured a heavy rock sound with some songs featuring unusual or unorthodox time signatures.

Because of some of the song lyrics the band faced various retail and distribution problems upon the album's release, including the addition of a Parental Advisory sticker on the album packaging. Louder Than Love would become the band's first album to chart on the Billboard 200. The band supported the album with tours of North America and Europe. It was the last Soundgarden album to feature the band's original bassist, Hiro Yamamoto.

[[Ultramega OK]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 albums, Debut albums, Soundgarden albums, Heavy metal albums

Ultramega OK is the first album by the American grunge band Soundgarden. It was released on October 31, 1988 through SST Records. Following the release of the EPs Screaming Life, released in 1987, and Fopp, released in 1988, for the Sub Pop record label, the band signed with the independent record label SST and went to work on its first full-length studio album.

The resulting album contained elements of psychedelic rock, classic rock, and hardcore punk. The band supported the album with a tour of the United States as well as its first overseas tour. In 1990, the album earned a Grammy Award nomination for Best Metal Performance.

[[List of Soundgarden band members]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden, Music-related lists, Lists of entertainers

Soundgarden is an American rock band. They began in Seattle, Washington in 1984. They first had three members: singer and drummer Chris Cornell, lead guitarist Kim Thayil, and bassist Hiro Yamamoto.

At first, Cornell, played the drums while singing. In 1985 the band chose Scott Sundquist to be drummer, so Cornell could just be the singer.

In 1986, Sundquist left the band to spend time with his wife and child. He was replaced by Matt Cameron, the drummer for Skin Yard, who became Soundgarden's permanent drummer.

Yamamoto left the band  in 1989, after recording the latest album.  He went back to college to finish his Master's degree in physical chemistry.  He was replaced by former Nirvana guitarist Jason Everman. Everman was fired right after Soundgarden's tour to promote the  Louder Than Love album. His only contribution for Soundgarden was the band's cover of The Beatles song "Come Together".

In 1990, the band was joined by a new bassist, Ben Shepherd. After this, Soundgarden's line-up would not change until their break-up. In 1996, the group became unhappy while recording Down on the Upside. Thayil and Cornell seemed to not agree on a change from the heavy guitar riffs that had become the band's trademark. In 1997, the band broke up. They had not been getting along during the past half year.

In January 2010, Cornell announced that Soundgarden would be getting back together. Two years later, they released their sixth studio album, King Animal.

[[List of Soundgarden awards]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden, Music-related lists

Soundgarden was an American rock band formed in Seattle, Washington in 1984 by lead singer and drummer Chris Cornell, lead guitarist Kim Thayil, and bassist Hiro Yamamoto. Matt Cameron became the band's permanent drummer in 1986 and bassist Ben Shepherd replaced Yamamoto permanently in 1990. Soundgarden released its debut album, Ultramega OK, in 1988 through SST Records. The album earned the band its first major award nomination, a Grammy Award, in 1990. In 1989, the band released its first album for a major label, Louder Than Love. The band's third studio album, Badmotorfinger, released in 1991, was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance in 1992.

Soundgarden released its follow-up and breakthrough album, Superunknown, in 1994. The album was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Rock Album in 1995. Two singles from Superunknown, "Black Hole Sun" and "Spoonman", won Grammy Awards, and the music video for "Black Hole Sun" won a MTV Video Music Award and a Clio Award. Superunknown was ranked number 336 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time, and "Black Hole Sun" was ranked number 25 on VH1's list of the 100 greatest songs of the '90s. The band released its fifth and final studio album, Down on the Upside, in 1996. In 1997, Soundgarden received another Grammy nomination, for the lead single "Pretty Noose". Soundgarden officially broke up in 1997. The band was placed at number 14 on VH1's list of the 100 greatest artists of hard rock.

[[James Milner]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, English footballers, Liverpool F.C. players, Manchester City F.C. players, People from Leeds, Premier League players

James Milner (born 4 January 1986) is an English football player. He plays for Liverpool and the England national team.

[[Peter Osgood]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2006 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English footballers, People from Berkshire

Peter Osgood was a former football player. He has played four times for the England national team.

[[Trevor Francis]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, People from Plymouth, Premier League players, Manchester City F.C. players

Trevor Francis (born 19 April 1954) is a former football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Sub Pop]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, Seattle, Washington, 1986 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Washington (state)

Sub Pop is an independent record label founded by Bruce Pavitt and Jonathan Poneman in Seattle, Washington in 1986.

[[SST Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, Long Beach, California

SST Records is an American independent record label formed in 1978 in Long Beach, California by musician Greg Ginn. The company was initially called Solid State Transmitters through which Ginn sold electronics equipment. Ginn repurposed the company as a record label to release material by his band Black Flag.

[[A&M Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, Companies based in California, Seattle, Washington

A&M Records is an American grunge record label owned by Universal Music Group which operates through the Interscope-Geffen-A&M division. It was music set up in 1991-6 like Soundgarden albums Badmotorfinger, Superunknown and Down on the Upside.

[[Skin Yard]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, Grunge bands, Musical groups from Seattle, Washington, Musical groups established in 1985, 1985 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Washington (state), Musical groups disestablished in 1993, 1993 disestablishments in the United States, 1990s disestablishments in Washington (state)

Skin Yard was a rock band from Seattle, Washington, who were active from 1985 to 1992. The group never gained any mainstream audience, but were an influence on their contemporaries – most notably Soundgarden, The Melvins, and Green River – alongside whom they are considered the early pioneers of the sound that would later be called grunge.

[[Hater (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden, Musical groups from Seattle, Washington, American rock bands

Hater was an American rock band from the 1990s, a side project mostly under the direction of Soundgarden bassist Ben Shepherd. Additional members included Soundgarden drummer Matt Cameron, John McBain (ex-Monster Magnet and, later, partner of Cameron and Shepherd in Wellwater Conspiracy), bassist John Waterman for the title album, Alan Davis on bass for The 2nd, and Brian Wood, brother of Mother Love Bone vocalist Andrew Wood.

The band released two albums of their brand of Stooges-tinged psychedelic garage rock: their self-titled debut in 1993, and their follow-up, The 2nd, which was recorded in 1995 but released in 2005.

The band also contributed a song for the 1995 compilation album Hempilation: Freedom Is NORML called "Convicted", which does not appear on either album.  The musicians for the track were Shepherd, McBain, Davis, & Cameron (the same lineup for "The 2nd").

[[Wellwater Conspiracy]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Musical groups from Seattle, Washington, Musical groups established in 1993, 1993 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Washington (state), Musical groups disestablished in 2004, 2004 disestablishments in the United States, 2000s disestablishments in Washington (state)

Wellwater Conspiracy was a rock band featuring Matt Cameron and John McBain. The band originally featured ex-Soundgarden bassist Ben Shepherd, who left the band in 1998.

[[Temple of the Dog]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, Grunge bands, Musical groups from Seattle, Washington, Musical groups established in 1990, Musical groups disestablished in 1992, 1990 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Washington (state), 1992 disestablishments in the United States, 1990s disestablishments in Washington (state)

Temple of the Dog was an American rock band that was formed in 1990 by Chris Cornell of Soundgarden. He started the band as a tribute to his friend, Andrew Wood.  Wood died on March 19, 1990 of a heroin overdose, the day Cornell got back from a tour.

Before he died, Andrew had been the lead singer of Malfunkshun and Mother Love Bone.

Members of the band included Stone Gossard on rhythm guitar, Jeff Ament on bass guitar (both ex-members of Mother Love Bone), Mike McCready on lead guitar, Matt Cameron on drums and Eddie Vedder, providing backing vocals.

The band only released one album, which was also named Temple of the Dog. The album was released in 1991 and had two hit songs, "Say Hello 2 Heaven" and "Hunger Strike". Cornell sang the lead vocals on "Say Hello 2 Heaven" and Vedder sang the lead vocals on "Hunger Strike".

[[Bruce Pavitt]]

CATEGORIES: Businesspeople from Chicago, People from Washington, 1959 births, Living people

Bruce Pavitt (born March 7, 1959) is the Chicago-born founder of record label Sub Pop.

[[A Sound Garden]]

CATEGORIES: Works of art, Seattle, Washington, 1982 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Washington (state)

A Sound Garden  is a public art work on NOAA property adjacent to Magnuson Park in Seattle, Washington.  It was created in 1982 by Doug Hollis.  It is constructed with a number of metal tubes on weathervane-like apparatus that catch the wind and moan eerily.

The Seattle grunge band Soundgarden took their name from this art work.

Since 9/11, the facility, including the art installation, is on restricted access under threat level Yellow.  Visitors may check in with the guards and walk onto the facility, but their vehicles are not allowed. Photo identification is required in order to view the Sound Garden and access to the "Art Walk".

[[Fopp (EP)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 albums, Soundgarden albums

Fopp is the second EP by the grunge band Soundgarden, released in August 1988 on Sub Pop Records. In 1990 it was combined with the band's first EP Screaming Life (1987) and released as Screaming Life/Fopp.

[[Screaming Life]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 albums, Soundgarden albums

Screaming Life is the debut EP by the Seattle grunge band Soundgarden, released in October 1987 on Sub Pop Records. Screaming Life was later combined with the band's next EP, Fopp (1988) and released as Screaming Life/Fopp in 1990.

[[Loudest Love]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden albums, 1990 albums

Loudest Love is an EP by the grunge band Soundgarden. It was released in October 1990 through A&M Records.

[[Screaming Life/Fopp]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden albums, 1990 albums, Compilation albums

Screaming Life/Fopp is a compilation album by the grunge band Soundgarden. It was released on May 11, 1990 through Sub Pop Records.

[[Louder Than Live]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden albums, 1990 albums

Louder Than Live is a home video released by the Seattle grunge band Soundgarden. It has songs performed live at the Whisky a Go Go in Los Angeles, California on December 7, 1989 and December 10, 1989. It was released on May 22, 1990.

[[Motorvision]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden albums, 1992 albums

Motorvision is a home video released by the Seattle grunge band Soundgarden. It was released on November 17, 1992.

[[Songs from the Superunknown]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 albums, Soundgarden albums

Songs from the Superunknown is an EP by the grunge band Soundgarden. It was released on November 21, 1995 through A&M Records. It was released on the same day as the CD-ROM Alive in the Superunknown.

[[Jason Everman]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American rock guitarists, Musicians from Alaska, Nirvana members, Soundgarden

Jason Everman (born August 16, 1967 in Kodiak, Alaska) is an American guitarist who played with Nirvana and Soundgarden.

[[Hiro Yamamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Bassists, Musicians from Illinois, American rock guitarists

Hiro Yamamoto (born April 13, 1961) is an American musician. He is a bassist. In 1984, he began the grunge band Soundgarden along with Kim Thayil and Chris Cornell.  In 1989, he left the band after the completion of the Louder Than Love recording sessions.

Chris Cornell said about the recording of the album, "At the time Hiro had excommunicated himself from the band and there wasn't a free-flowing system as far as music went, so I ended up writing a lot of it." Yamamoto was becoming frustrated that he wasn't contributing much, and opted to go back to college. Cornell also said, "It seems an odd time to quit. We're doing real well. We've got a touring budget now. We don't haul amps or do such long van rides any more."

One year later, he started the independent rock band Truly with Screaming Trees drummer Mark Pickerel and Robert Roth from The Storybook Krooks.

[[Applied mathematics]]

CATEGORIES: Applied mathematics

Applied mathematics is a field of mathematics which uses mathematics to solve problems of other branches of science. The contrary notion is pure mathematics. There are many fields:

[[Scott Sundquist]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden, American drummers, Musicians from Washington, American heavy metal musicians, American rock musicians, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people

Scott Sundquist is an American musician. He was a drummer for the grunge band Soundgarden during the mid-1980s.

In 1985, Soundgarden was a recently formed three-piece band with Chris Cornell on vocals and drums, Kim Thayil on guitar, and Hiro Yamamoto on bass.  The band chose Sundquist to be their drummer so Cornell could do the singing.  They traveled around playing various gigs with this lineup for about a year.  Then they recorded three songs for a C/Z Records compilation album of grunge music by Soundgarden and five other bands, which was called Deep Six and was released in March 1986.  This album contains the only recorded Soundgarden material with Sundquist.

Sundquist, who prior to joining the band had been friends with Cornell, was asked to join the band so that Cornell could focus on singing. In 1986, Sundquist left the band to spend time with his family,  He stayed friends with Cornell and Thayil after he left the band.

[[A-ha]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, Musical groups disestablished in 2010, Musical groups established in 1982, Norwegian musical groups, Oslo, Pop music groups, 1982 establishments in Europe, 1980s establishments in Norway, 2010 disestablishments in Europe

a-ha were a Norwegian band who were formed in Oslo. They initially rose to fame during the 1980s, but have had continued success in the 1990s and 2000s. They split in 2010.

[[Professional baseball]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball

Baseball is a team sport which is played by several professional leagues all over the world. In these leagues, players are selected for their talents and are paid to play for a team. One of the most popular professional baseball leagues is Major League Baseball, which has teams in the United States and Canada. Another league is Nippon Professional Baseball, which is in Japan. MLB baseball is spilt into two leagues, the National and the American league.

[[Anglicisation]]

CATEGORIES: English language

Anglicisation or anglicization is the act of changing of spoken or written elements of another language into a form that can more easily be understood by an English speaker.

For instance, the Italian name of the city of Rome, the capital of Italy, is Roma. English speakers call it "Rome" to make it sound more English. Another example is the city of Moscow in Russia, which sounds like Moskva in Russian, though it is written much differently because Russian uses the Cyrillic alphabet (it is written in that language as Москва). Still, English speakers call the city "Moscow" because it is easier to say.

Most of these changes were made a few centuries ago. In some cases the original language was different to the modern one. Turin in the Piedmont province of Italy was called Turin in Piedmontese, the native language of the region, but is now officially known as Torino after its Italian name. The English and French name for Florence, also in Italy, is closer to the original name in Latin (Florentia) than is the modern Italian name of Firenze.

Anglicization has both a political and cultural dimension. Most Welsh and Scottish Gaelic place names were once anglicized when they were under English rule. Now that they have their own local parliaments, they changed the official names back again. In Scotland, however, few people speak Gaelic, so in most places the English versions are almost always used. On the other hand, in Wales, where there are plenty of Welsh speaking people, all road signs need to be in both English and Welsh.

[[Offensive tackle]]

CATEGORIES: American football positions

In American and Canadian football, offensive tackles (OT, T) are a part of the offensive line. As is other offensive linemen, their job is to block the players on the defense from getting to the offensive player who has the football.

[[Jeanne Rij-Rousseau]]

CATEGORIES: 1870 births, 1956 deaths, French painters, People from Pays de la Loire

Jeanne Rij-Rousseau (10 June 1870 – 22 October 1956) was a French Cubist painter and an art theoretician.

Rij-Rousseau was born in Candé. From 1890 on, she lived in Paris and moved in an artistic circle with painters of the "Ile de la Grande Jatte" in Montmartre. She was a student of Maurice Denis and Paul Sérusier. Sérusier's had ideas about the relationship of music and painting. She used these ideas to form the theory of vibrism, which is a combination  of Synthetic Cubism of the pre-war period and Larionov and Goncharova's Rayonism.

Juan Gris was a close friend of hers. From 1911 on, Rij-Rousseau showed her works in Salon d'Automne, Salon des Indépendants and Salon Tuileries. In 1920, she was a member of the artist circle called Section d'Or. She  often traveled to South France, especially to Céret, and also to Germany, Belgium and Switzerland. Her paintings were displayed in Zurich, Brussels, New York, and Boston.

In Aubusson and Beauvais' manufactories large-size tapestries designed by her were produced. In 1925, she was awarded a gold medal for one of them in the first Arts Décoratifs' exhibition.

Guillaume Apollinaire named her a "searcher", and her colour choices were admired by Florent Fels and André Salmon.

Also in 1925, Rij-Rousseau founded the Association of Modern-Age Female Painters. She exhibited with Suzanne Duchamp and Marie Laurencin, among others. Aside from Colette, Rij-Rousseau's biography was published in the book, Führende Frauen Europas by Elga Kern as a representative of French art.

Her fame did not last long, and in 1956 she died lonely, impoverished and forgotten in her great-niece's house in Savigny-sur-Braye. Her final exhibition in Château de Blois in 1959 attracted little notice, and the whereabouts of the 70 exhibited paintings are still unknown. Her estate has been scattered throughout the world. Paintings are trafficked in N.Y., Chicago, London, and Paris. Some works are in Parisan museums, in Blois, and in Grenoble, but especially in private collectors' homes.

Research on this painter of the French Modern Age is still in its beginnings.

[[Big Ten Conference football champions]]

CATEGORIES: Big Ten Conference, 1896 establishments in the United States

[[Napalm Death]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 establishments in England, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, Death metal bands, English heavy metal bands, Musical groups established in 1981

Napalm Death are a heavy metal band from Meriden, West Midlands, England. They play a very loud and angry kind of heavy metal called Grindcore - a subgenre which they pioneered. The band made the shortest song in the world: 'You Suffer', which is only 1.316 seconds long - characteristic of grindcore. Their debut album, 'Scum', was revolutionary in the metal underground and was made up of songs, which on average, were about 20-60 seconds long.

[[Chuck Schuldiner]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2001 deaths, American songwriters, American Jews, Deaths from brain cancer, Singers from Florida, Heavy metal singers

Charles Michael "Chuck" Schuldiner  (May 13, 1967 – December 13, 2001) was an American singer, songwriter and guitarist. He was a key member of the death metal band, Death. The band were a major influence on other death metal bands. He is often called  'the Father of Death metal'  He died of pneumonia in 2001, after a long battle with brain cancer. 

[[Randy Orton]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, People from Knoxville, Tennessee, Sportspeople from Tennessee

Randall Keith "Randy" Orton (born on 1 April, 1980) is an American professional wrestler. He is currently signed to the WWE.

[[Atonement]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology, Judaism

Atonement is an idea found in both Christianity and Judaism that describes how sin can be forgiven by God. In Judaism, this was done by rituals performed by the High Priest on the holiest day of the Jewish year: Yom Kippur (Day of Atonement). In Christian theology the atonement refers to the forgiving or pardoning of sins through the death of  Jesus Christ.

[[Mark Henry]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, African-American wrestlers, American Olympians, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Texas, Weightlifters, WWE wrestlers

Mark Henry (born June 12, 1971) is an American professional wrestler. He is currently signed to World Wrestling Entertainment on its Legends contract. Henry is also a 1992 Olympian and winner of the Arnold Classic strongman competition. He also had the nickname Sexual Chocolate.

[[Cold War Kids]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Soul bands, Blues bands, Indie rock bands, Musical groups from California, Long Beach, California

The Cold War Kids are an indie rock band. The members are Nathan Willett (lead vocalist, piano, guitar), Jonnie Russel (guitar, vocal, percussion), Matt Maust (bass guitar), and Matt Aveiro (drums). They met and formed the band in Long Beach, California, US.

They released their first album, Robbers and Cowards, in 2006. Their second album, Loyalty to Loyalty, was released in September 2008.

[[Of Mice and Men]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 books, 20th century American novels, English-language novels

Of Mice and Men is a novella (short novel) written by John Steinbeck. It was published in 1937. The story is a tragedy about two ranch workers called George Milton and Lennie Small. It takes place in the 1930s, in California, United States.

The book is based on Steinbeck's experiences of being a ranch worker. The title of the book is taken from a poem by Robert Burns called "To a Mouse". When the novella was published, it was very popular and it became a best seller. It was chosen by the Book-of-the-Month Club. Of Mice and Men is often banned in schools because of the bad language, racism, questionable morality and violence. It is on the American Library Association's list of the Most Challenged Books of the 21st Century.

[[Europe (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s Swedish music groups, 1980s Swedish music groups, 1990s Swedish music groups, 2000s Swedish music groups, 2010s Swedish music groups, Hard rock bands, Musical groups established in 1979, Swedish heavy metal bands, 1979 establishments in Sweden, Musical groups disestablished in 1992, 1990s disestablishments in Sweden, 1992 disestablishments in Europe

Europe is a Swedish rock band. The band was started by Joey Tempest and John Norum in 1979. Their song "The Final Countdown" was a big hit in 1986.

Europe took a break in 1992, but came back in 2003.

[[Samuel Goldwyn]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1974 deaths, American Jews, American movie producers, Businesspeople from New York, People from Warsaw

Samuel Goldwyn (1879-1974) was a Polish-American movie producer who made a lot of movies in America.

[[Edge (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Canadian professional wrestlers, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Ontario, WWE Hall of Fame, People from Asheville, North Carolina

Adam Joseph Copeland (born October 30, 1973 in Orangeville, Ontario) is a Canadian actor and retired professional wrestler. He is sign to  WWE  smackdown brand where he wrestled under the ring name Edge.

He was forced into early retirement from professional wrestling due to a injury to his neck. Copeland was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame on March 31, 2012 by his best friend and tag team partner Christian.

Since retiring, Copeland has regularly appeared on the Syfy series Haven where he plays the character Dwight Hendrickson. Edge make a shocking return to WWE January 26th 2020 in the royal rumble

On the January 27 Episode Of Raw, Edge was attacked by his former tag team partner Randy Orton. He returned defeated Orton

[[Book of Tobit]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Bible

The Book of Tobit (or Book of Tobias) is a book of biblical scripture that is part of the Catholic and Orthodox biblical canon, put forward by the Council of Carthage of 397 and confirmed for Roman Catholics by the Council of Trent (1546). It's listed in Article VI of the Thirty-Nine Articles of the Church of England. 

Likely written in the second century BC in Palestine, Tobit is regarded by Protestants as apocryphal. Also, it has never been included within the Tanakh (also known as Old Testament) as canonical by ancient Judaism. However, it is found in the Greek Old Testament (the Septuagint), and Aramaic and Hebrew fragments of the book were discovered in Cave IV at Qumran in 1952. 

Tobit goes blind and feels hopeless, but recovers his sight through the advice of an Angel called Raphael. Also mentioned is Tobit's son called Tobias, who is traveling eastward to collect money, accompanied by the Angel, Raphael, who tells Tobit of a woman named Sarah who is looking to get married. Her earlier marriages were not completed because shortly beforehand the man would always die mysteriously, which saddens Sarah. This time, though, the man does not die and in the end Tobit and Sarah are happily married. The story of Tobit is important for its teaching about guardian angels and for the need to always remain loyal to God during difficult times. 

[[Forbidden City]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Beijing, Palaces, Art museums, World Heritage Sites in China

The Forbidden City, now known as the Palace Museum, is a large historical palace and an art museum in the historical center of Beijing, China.  The site is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is very important to the history and architecture of China. The Forbidden City was the palace of the Emperor of China from the Ming Dynasty to the end of the Qing Dynasty. For almost 500 years, it was as the home of emperors and their houses, as well as the ceremonial and political center of Chinese government.  

[[List of rivers of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Lists of rivers by country, Pakistan-related lists, Lists of rivers of Asia

This is a list of rivers in Pakistan

[[Book of Zechariah]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books, Books of the Hebrew Bible

The Book of Zechariah is a book of the Bible found in the Old Testament and the Jewish Tanakh thought to be written by the prophet Zechariah.  The name "Zechariah" means "God remembered." We don't know much about Zechariah.  The book itself tells us only that his grandfather was Iddo, a priest who returned with Zerubbabel from Babylon. 

Chapters 1 to 6, written in 520 BC, start by telling the nation's history as a warning to the people. Then come eight visions, which show more about the history of Israel. These are to give the people hope. We are then told about the crowning of Joshua the priest. This showed that their religion was being restored.  Then Zechariah tells that the kingdoms of the world will someday become the kingdom of God's Messiah. 

Chapters 7 and 8 were written two years later. The people were keeping days of sorrow to remind them of the loss of their city 70 years ago.  They are told that now they can now have days to celebrate the return home and can be assured that now God is with them and will make them happy.

Chapters 9 to 11 tell of a future time when the nations around them would be destroyed by an army, but Jerusalem would be kept from destruction.  This seems to have been talking about the coming of Alexander the Great with his army which happened in 332 BC. Tyre was taken by building a land bridge from the shore to the island city which was thought to be safe from capture. He also destroyed the city of Gaza.  But Alexander did not destroy Jerusalem when he came there.  Zechariah said that after these wars the Messiah would come. 

Chapters 12 to 14 tell about the glories that await Israel in "the latter day", the final conflict and triumph of God's kingdom.

Most Christians read the predictions in chapters 7 to 14 as talking about Jesus, either directly or indirectly. These chapters helped the writers of the Gospels understand Jesus’ suffering, death and resurrection, which they quoted as they wrote of Jesus’ final days. One of these quotes is from Chapter 9, verse 9, "Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem: behold, your King comes unto you: he is just, and having salvation; lowly, and riding upon a donkey." All four Gospels tell of Jesus riding into Jerusalem on a donkey and two of them say that Zechariah told of this ahead of time. 

[[Book of Zephaniah]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible

The Book of Zephaniah is a book of the Bible and is thought to be written by “Zephaniah son of Cushi son of Gedaliah son of Amariah son of Hezekiah, in the days of King Josiah son of Amon of Judah”.

The book begins by telling of God's judgement on the Kingdom of Judah. Three times God says  "I will sweep away" in Chapter 1 verses 1 and 2.  This tells of total destruction.  In the Bible repeating three times makes the warning stronger. The mention in Chapter 1 verse 2 of "humans and animals ... the birds ... the fish" reverses the creation order in Genesis Chapter 1 verse 28, showing the creation is being undone. "From the face of the earth" is a reference to the Genesis flood story in Genesis, where it also tells of an undoing of creation. This is very strong language of the coming destruction because of the sins of the people, corruption and injustice. 

In chapter 2, Zephaniah also warns of punishment for many of the surrounding nations.  These will also be destroyed.  The nations mentioned include Philistia, Moab, Ammon,Cush and Assyria.

In Chapter 3, as is common in prophetic literature in the Bible, a "remnant" survives God's judgement in Zephaniah by humbly seeking refuge in God. The book ends in with hope and joy, as God "bursts forth in joyful divine celebration" over his people.

They will return and all the nations will rejoice over this.   

[[Song of Songs]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible

The Song of Songs is a book of the Hebrew Bible or Tanakh, and also in the Old Testament of the Christian Bible. It is one of the five megillot (scrolls). The Song of Songs is also known as the Song of Solomon or as Canticle of Canticles. It is known as Aisma in the Septuagint, which is short for ῏Αισμα ᾀσμάτων, Aisma aismatôn, "Song of Songs" in Greek.

[[Book of Isaiah]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible

The Book of Isaiah (ספר ישעיה, Sefer Y'sha'yah) is a book of the Bible thought to be written by the Prophet Isaiah, who lived in the second half of the 8th century BC. The Book of Isaiah contains many prophecies about ancient Israel, its people, and its enemies. Tradition says that all 66 chapters of the book were written by Isaiah, but other theories say that some chapters were written by one or more other people. This is mainly because they were about a later period and the text doesn't mention Isaiah after Chapter 39.

Isaiah, the son of Amoz lived in the Kingdom of Judah during the time of four kings from the mid to late 8th-century BCE. During this time, Assyria was growing to the west from what is now Iraq towards the Mediterranean, destroying first Aram (modern Syria) in 734–732 BCE, then the Kingdom of Israel in 722–721, and Judah in 701.

The defeat of Jerusalem by Babylon and the exile of its top people in 586 BCE followed. Chapters 40 to 55 are given to the Jews in exile, telling them about the hope of return. This was the time of king Cyrus the Great – in 559 BCE he became ruler of a small kingdom in what is today Iran. By 540 he ruled a big empire from the Mediterranean to Central Asia, and in 539 he conquered Babylon. Isaiah's predictions of the fall of Babylon and his talk about the glory of Cyrus as one who would help Israel mean these prophecies are about the period of 550–539 BCE.

The Persians ended the Jewish exile, and by 515 BCE some of the exiles had returned to Jerusalem and rebuilt the Temple. This is what the final chapters of Isaiah are about. 

[[Book of Nehemiah]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible

The Book of Nehemiah is a book of the Hebrew Bible, thought to be a continuation of the Book of Ezra, and is sometimes called the second book of Ezra. It is thought to be written by Nehemiah. It is about the return from exile and the rebuilding of Jerusalem. The Book talks about the struggles the Israelites face, such as when they rebuild the walls of the city, non-Israelite people are angry. Another problem is the fact that people are not obeying Jewish law.

[[Book of Obadiah]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books

The Book of Obadiah is found in the Hebrew Bible and the Old Testament of the Christian Bible where it is the shortest book, only one chapter long. It is thought to have been written by a person named Obadiah, which means “servant (or worshipper) of the Lord”. Obadiah probably wrote the book sometime between 850 and 550 B.C.

The message of Obadiah is given to Edom, a country which was made up of descendants of Esau, who was the twin brother of Jacob.  Jacob is also called Israel and is the ancestor of the Jewish people.  When foreign armies attacked Israel, the people of Edom did not come to their aid, but instead took many things that had belonged to them.  Obadiah said that God would destroy the Edomites because of this.  The Edomites lived in a city that was protected by mountains.  They also had other nations who were their allies in warfare.  They were proud of their wise leaders.  None of these things could protect them from defeat.  Obadiah said that God would give Israel back some lands including the land of the Edomites. Edom no longer exists as a country. Part of what was Edom is now in the kingdom of Jordan.  The ruins of their capitol city Petra is a tourist attraction. 

[[Book of Nahum]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books

The Book of Nahum is a book in the Bible's Old Testament and Jewish Tanakh.

We don't know much about who Nahum was. His name means "comforter", and he was from the town of Elkosh or Alqosh (Nahum 1:1), which may have been a town of northern Galilee. He was a Hebrew and may have written from Jerusalem a short time before the downfall of Assyria

Nahum wrote about the final destruction of Nineveh, the capital of the great Assyrian empire. Ashurbanipal the king was at the height of his glory. Nineveh was a large city, and was then the center of the civilization and trade of the world. Jonah had given a warning, and Nahum was followed by Zephaniah, who also told about (Zephaniah 2:4–15) the destruction of the city. The book of Jonah shows us that God had a loving concern for the people of Nineveh, while Nahum tells about the righteousness and justice of God. He says God will punish the Assyrians because of "their cruelty" (Nahum 3:19). Nineveh was burned by fire around 625 BC, after which the Assyrian empire soon came to an end. That made big changes in the political and commercial fate of many in Asia.

Chapter one shows the majesty and might of the LORD God and His goodness and severity.

Chapters two and three tell about the final fall of Nineveh, which took place in 612 BC. Nahum tells about a war and how Nineveh's army tries to stop the invaders. Nahum uses poetry to write as if he were in the battle, giving commands to the soldiers. He uses irony by mentioning the lion as an Assyrian symbol of power; Nineveh is the strong lion with a den full of dead prey but will become weak like the lion hiding in its den. The book ends with a song about the soon destruction of Nineveh and the death of the Assyrian people and end of the once great Assyrian rulers.

Nahum shows God to be slow to anger, but that God will by not ignore the guilty but will bring them to justice. God is presented as a God who will punish evil, but will protect those who trust in Him. 

[[Book of Micah]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books

The Book of Micah (Hebrew: ספר מיכה) is one of the books of the Hebrew Bible and the Christian Old Testament. 

Scholars believe it was written by Micah the prophet, about 700 years before Jesus was born. Chapter 1 verse 5 says Micah was from Moresheth (a town in southern Judah). He lived during the reigns of Yehotam, Ahaz and Hezekiah, roughly 750–700 BC.

During this time, after a long period of peace, Israel, Judah, and the other nations of the region were threatened by the Neo-Assyrian empire. Micah warns that there would be a military defeat as punishment for worshiping idols and treating poor people badly by the powerful. This happened to the kingdom of Israel (Samaria) in 721 and to the kingdom of Judah (Jerusalem) about 100 years later.  The book contains three cycles of warning about punishment and promise of restoration. 

[[Book of Joel]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books

The Book of Joel is part of the Jewish Tanakh, and also the Old Testament of the Christian Bible. Joel describes a plague of locusts in Palestine. 

It is hard to know when the Book of Joel was written since the events told about could have happened at any point in time between 850 and 400 BC. Most modern students of the Bible believe the locusts were real insects that destroyed the crops, leaving the people hungry. Others think they are a picture of big armies that will invade the land and destroy. They can also be both things, one past, the other future.  Joel calls on the leaders and people to turn from their sins and ask God to forgive them. God promises to do that both at that time and in the future whenever similar punishments are needed.

The phrase "day of the Lord" is used by Joel to refer to a period when God will punish, but then forgive his people.

[[Book of Hosea]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books

The Book of Hosea is one of the books of the Hebrew Bible and of the Christian Old Testament.

The book was written roughly between 760 and 720 BC and is about a man who was told by God to marry a woman who would not live with him as she should have done. Even though Hosea brought her back to his house and had some children with her, she kept leaving him and going away to other men.  Hosea was told that his story was a picture of the way God's people treated God, by going after other gods (idols) even though God wanted them to stay with Him and love Him. 

[[Book of Haggai]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books

The Book of Haggai is a book of the Tanakh (Hebrew Bible) and of the Old Testament, written by the prophet Haggai. It was written in 520 BCE, some 18 years after Cyrus had taken the kingdom of Babylon and made a law in 538 BCE, so that the captive Jews could return to Judea. 

Cyrus also wanted the temple in Jerusalem to be built, so that the worship there could be begun again. Haggai's told the people to begin to rebuild second Jerusalem temple. Haggai said that a recent drought was because of the people's refusal to rebuild the temple, which he sees as key to Jerusalem’s glory.  

He said that Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, was the Lord’s chosen leader. Haggai writes that three weeks after his first warning, the rebuilding of the Temple began on September 7 521 BCE. "They came and began to work on the house of the LORD Almighty, their God, on the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month in the second year of Darius the King. 

This is in Chapter 1 verses 14 and 15.  The Book of Ezra says that it was finished on February 25 516 BCE "The Temple was completed on the third day of the month Adar, in the sixth year of the reign of King Darius." (Ezra Chapter 6, verse 15) After this Haggai said that God would bless the people. (Chapter 2, verse 18-19) The book ends by telling about the future downfall of other kingdoms.

[[Book of Habakkuk]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible

The Book of Habakkuk is the eighth book of the 12 minor prophets of the Hebrew Bible. It is thought to be written by the prophet Habakkuk, in the late 7th century BC. In the first part of the book Habakkuk is talking with God about why people are allowed to do evil things. God tells him that He is going to allow the army from Babylon to come and defeat the people of Israel.  This is to punish them for their sins of turning from God and treating people badly. Habakkuk then asks God why he would use the evil nation of Babylon to punish His own people. God replies that the people of Babylon will also later be punished.  In the end Habakkuk accepts God's actions as good and responds with faith. 

Several verses in the book are well known. Chapter 2, verse 4 says "the just shall live by faith".  This verse was used by  Saint Paul in two of his letters and also by the writer of the letter to the Hebrews in the New Testament to show that we are accepted by God when we have faith in Him and this leads to right living.  At the end of Chapter 3, Habakkuk states that even if all his crops and animals die and he is left poor, he will be glad in God who saves him.  This is similar to what Job said when bad things happened to him.  

[[Book of Ezra]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books

The Book of Ezra is a book of the Bible in the Old Testament and Hebrew Tanakh. It details the return of the Jewish people from their exile in Babylon in the second half of the sixth century BC and the struggles they had. These include having to rebuild their previously destroyed temple and people failing to obey Jewish religious commandments. 

[[Aberdeen railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Aberdeen, Transport in Scotland, 1867 establishments in the United Kingdom, 19th century establishments in Scotland

Aberdeen railway station is a railway station in Aberdeen, Scotland, UK. It first opened in 1867.

[[Railway stations of Aberdeen]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Scotland, Aberdeen

Aberdeen railway station can mean one of the railway stations in the city of Aberdeen, Scotland — only the one now named simply Aberdeen railway station is still in existence:

[[Thomas Friedman]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American columnists, Journalists from Minnesota

Thomas Lauren Friedman (born July 20, 1953) is an American journalist.

Friedman is known for supporting a compromise resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, modernization of the Arab world, environmentalism and globalization.  Although an early supporter of the invasion of Iraq, he later became an outspoken critic of the war and the Bush administration.

[[Mark Bosnich]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Sydney

Mark Bosnich is a football player. He plays for Central Coast Mariners.

[[Dario Gradi]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Italian football managers, Italian footballers

Dario Gradi is a football manager. He manages Crewe Alexandra.

[[Rio Ferdinand]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, English footballers, Manchester United F.C. players, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Rio Ferdinand (born 7 November 1978) is a retired English football player.

[[Jack Charlton]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Deaths from lymphoma, English football managers, English footballers, Sportspeople from Northumberland

Jack Charlton (8 May 1935 – 10 July 2020) was an English former footballer and manager. He played for England national team.

His younger brother was Bobby Charlton.

He died on 10 July 2020 in Northumberland at the age of 85. He had dementia and lymphoma.

[[Billy Wright]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1994 deaths, 1950 FIFA World Cup players, 1954 FIFA World Cup players, 1958 FIFA World Cup players, Cancer deaths in London, Deaths from stomach cancer, English footballers, English football managers, Sportspeople from Shropshire

Billy Wright was a football player. He has played for Wolverhampton Wanderers and England national team.

[[Mick McCarthy]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Irish footballers, Irish football managers, People from South Yorkshire

Mick McCarthy (born 7 February 1959) is a former Irish football player. He has played for Republic of Ireland national team. He currently manages Ipswich Town Football Club, having brought them out of relegation in his first season there in 2012.

[[Ali Daei]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Iranian footballers, Iranian football managers

Ali Daei (born 21 March 1969) is a former Iranian football player. He has played for Iran national team.

[[Carsten Ramelow]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Berlin

Carsten Ramelow (born 20 March, 1974) is a former German football player. He has played for Germany national team.

[[Geysir]]

CATEGORIES: Iceland, Geysers

Geysir (sometimes known as The Great Geysir) is a geyser in Iceland. It is in the Haukadalur valley, Iceland. It is the oldest known geyser and one of the world's most impressive ones. The English word geyser comes from Geysir. Geysir is on the slopes of Laugarfjall hill at 64. The Strokkur geyser is about 400 metres south of Geysir.

Eruptions at Geysir can send boiling water up to 60 metres in the air. However, eruptions may be infrequent. In the past, they have in the past stopped altogether for years at a time.

[[Lens, Pas-de-Calais]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in France, Communes in Pas-de-Calais, Subprefectures in France

Lens is a city in the Pas-de-Calais department of France. Today, about 36.000 people live there. The city has an important history of mining. There is also the Racing Club de Lens, a well-known French soccer team. Paris is 200 km to the south,  Lille is 40 km to the north, Douai is 15 km to the east, and Arras is 20 km to the south.

The city is very old, though no one knows exactly how old. Ruins of Ancient Roman settlements have been found.

[[Music recording sales certification]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry

A music recording sales certification is the award system that a country uses for music sales.

Almost all countries have a type of sales certification, often using RIAA certification categories (such as gold, platinum and diamond). The number of sales that an album needs before it gets an award is different in each country, depending on the population of the country. In some sales certifications, there may be different awards for the type of music recording sold, such as albums, singles, or videos.

45% United States

45%United Kingdom

[[List of music recording sales certifications]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry, Music-related lists

The global music industry typically awards recordings with certification awards based on the total units sold. These awards and their sales requirements are defined by the various certifying bodies representing the music industry in various countries and territories worldwide. The standard certification awards given consist of various combinations of Silver, Gold, Platinum, and Diamond awards, in ascending order of sales requirements.  In most cases, a "Multi-Platinum" or "Multi-Diamond" award is given for sales in multiples of the Platinum or Diamond sales requirements.

[[Canadian Recording Industry Association]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry, Non-profit organizations

The Canadian Recording Industry Association is a non-profit trade organization that was founded in 1964 to represent the interests of Canadian companies that create, manufacture and market sound recordings in Canada. The organization is based in Toronto.

CRIA is governed by a board of directors who are elected annually by CRIA members.  To be eligible for election a candidate for the board must be among the chief executive officers of member companies of the organization.  Graham Henderson (Universal Music Canada) is the current president of the CRIA.

[[British Phonographic Industry]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry, 1973 establishments in Europe, 1970s establishments in the United Kingdom

The British Phonographic Industry (BPI) is the British record industry's trade association. Its membership comprises hundreds of music companies including all four 'major' record companies (Warner Music Group, EMI, Sony BMG, and Universal Music Group), associate members such as manufacturers and distributors, and hundreds of independent music companies representing literally thousands of labels.

It has represented the interests of British record companies since being formally incorporated in 1973 when the principal aim was to fight copyright infringement.

It founded the annual BRIT Awards for the British music industry, as well as the Mercury Prize for the Album of the Year.

[[Gramophone record]]

CATEGORIES: Audio disc, Storage devices

A gramophone record (or just record) is a type of analog storage medium. It stores recorded music (or other sounds). It was popular during most of the 20th century. Gramophone records are played on a phonograph ("record player").

A gramophone record is a flat disk that is usually made of plastic. The sound is recorded on a very fine line or groove which goes around and around in a spiral from the outside edge of the disk to the center. The phonograph plays the sound with a needle that touches the groove. A record usually has different music on each side. When made of vinyl they were also known as vinyl records. Most music made in the 20th century used this format.

Thomas Edison made early phonographs in the 1870s. He originally used tin foil to record the sound.  Soon wax cylinders were used in place of the tin foil. The cylinders could be taken off the machine and put back on without destroying the recording. Although discs were made as early as 1888, it was not until 1902 that discs became more popular than cylinder records. Discs were first made of a shellac mixture, and later of polyvinyl chloride, often abbreviated as "vinyl". Singles usually carried only one or two songs or recordings. EPs (extended play records) carried from three to five songs. Albums carried many more recordings; a dozen was normal, or from 30 to 45 minutes of playing time. These formats are still used today, with digital recordings, and playing time for singles and albums has grown considerably.

Vinyl records lost popularity but never went out of production. Now, in recent years vinyl is gaining popularity, while CD record shops have gone out of business, more and more vinyl only record shops are opening. Many argue the higher sound quality of vinyl compared to newer formats.

[[Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks]]

CATEGORIES: Billboard charts

Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks (originally called Mainstream Rock Tracks) is a ranking in Billboard of the most-played songs on mainstream rock radio stations, a category that includes stations that play primarily rock music but are not modern rock (that is, "alternative") stations, which are counted in the Hot Modern Rock Tracks chart.

[[1959–60 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 in North America, 1960 in North America

The 1959–60 NHL season was the 43rd season of the National Hockey League. The Montreal Canadiens were the Stanley Cup winners as they defeated the Toronto Maple Leafs four games to none for their fifth straight Stanley Cup. 

[[Sabellianism]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

Sabelianism is a position in Christian theology. It is against to the idea of the trinity, but embraces Morpheus. Sabellianism is also known as modalism, modalistic monarchianism, or modal monarchism. Basically, the teaching says that God has three masks, and humans see him in three different ways, but he is in fact only one. 

[[Tritheism]]

CATEGORIES: Theology

Tritheism is the belief that there are three distinct, powerful gods, who form a triad. Generally three gods are believed to have separate powers and separate supreme beings or spheres of influence but working together. In this respect tritheism differs from dualism, which typically envisages two opposed Divine powers in conflict with one another.

Ironically, there is no group that claims to believe in or teach tritheism; the term is solely used as an accusation against others, somewhat similar to the usage of the word cult, in accusing a group of holding an alternate or distorted view of the Christian doctrine of Trinity. The main branches consider tritheism heretical.

[[Book of Jeremiah]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books

The Book of Jeremiah, or Jeremiah (יִרְמְיָהוּ, Yirməyāhū), is part of the Hebrew Bible, Judaism's Tanakh, and later became a part of Christianity's Old Testament.

Books of the Old Testament Jeremiah Chapter 1, verses 1 to 3 says that the book is "the words of Jeremiah son of Hilkiah". Jeremiah is seen clearly as a real person, talking to his scribe Baruch about his role as a servant of God who had bad news for the people. His book is a message to the Jews in exile in Babylon, saying that the disaster of exile is God's response to Israel's pagan worship.  The people, says Jeremiah, are like an untrue wife and children who act badly.  This made God punish them, but He will also welcome them back if they change their ways.

Jeremiah began began his work in the thirteenth year of king Josiah (about 627 BC) and finished in the eleventh year of king Zedekiah (586 BC), when Jerusalem went into exile. During this period, Josiah reformed their religion, Babylon destroyed Assyria and Egypt briefly made Judah their subject. Then Babylon defeated Egypt and made Judah their subject (605 BC). Judah revolted several times and after the final time, Babylon destroyed Jerusalem and its Temple and took away its king and many of the leading people in 586 BC.

Besides his written warnings, Jeremiah did some strange things to call attention to his message:

Jeremiah's name is found in the Chronicles and the Book of Ezra, both written after the exile. He said that the exile would last 70 years. This was mentioned in the Book of Daniel.  

Christians believe that Jesus was a suffering prophet and that this was like what happened to Jeremiah in chapters 37–44, as well as to the suffering servant described in the book of Isaiah Chapter 53. 

[[Book of Lamentations]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books

The Book of Lamentations (Eikha, ʾēḫā(h)) is a book of the Bible Old Testament and Jewish Tanakh. It is traditionally read by the Jewish people on Tisha B'Av, the fast day that commemorates the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem.

Books of the Old Testament In Western Christianity, readings and songs from the book are used in the Lenten religious service known as Tenebrae (Latin for darkness). In the Church of England, readings are used at Morning and Evening Prayer on the Monday and Tuesday of Holy Week, and at Evening Prayer on Good Friday.

In the Coptic Orthodox Church, the book's third chapter is chanted on the twelfth hour of the Good Friday service, that commemorates the burial of Jesus.

The book has been thought to be the work of Jeremiah by Jews from 200 B.C. and by Christians from 400 A.D.  The book itself does not tell who wrote it, so the author is uncertain.  It is a series of sad poems about the destruction of Jerusalem. 

Beginning with the reality of disaster, Lamentations ends with the thought that God may have finally rejected Israel (chapter 5:22). The poet says that this suffering is a just punishment, still God is held to have had choice over whether to act in this way and at this time. Hope arises from remembering God's past goodness. The poem says that the mercies of Yahweh (the God of Israel) never end, but are new every morning (3:22–33).

The book was written in Hebrew.  That language has 22 letters in its alphabet. Each of the verses in chapters 1, 2 and 4 start with the next letter of the alphabet.  In Chapter 3 groups of 3 verses also start with the same letters.  That is why chapters 1,2 and 4 have 22 verses and chapter 3 has 66 verses.  Chapter 5 also has 22 verses, but does not follow the method of using a different letter for each verse. This type of structure is called an acrostic and may have been used as an aid to memory. 

[[Book of Ezekiel]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books, Christian eschatology

The Book of Ezekiel, Hebrew: ספר יחזקאל , is a book of the Hebrew Bible and of the Old Testament. It is named after the prophet Ezekiel.

Books of the Old Testament It belongs to the Nevi'im (Prophets) and consists of 48 chapters.

The book begins with a vision of beings with 4 heads surrounded by rings adorned with eyes. Then, God appears to Ezekiel and instructed him to warn the Israelites who at the time, were religiously rebellious.  Another well known dream that the prophet saw was a valley full of dry bones that came to life when the prophet spoke to them. This was to show that God would bring life back to the people who were being punished by being taken captive by Babylon These two stories have been made into songs.

The prophet did some strange things to warn the people that they were going to be punished for a time because they had not been faithful to God as he had told them to.

It deals among others with the revival of the Jewish people and the Land of Israel (chapters 36-37), with the war of Gog and Magog against Israel (chapters 38-39), the new Jewish temple (chapters 40-47), and the determination of the boundaries of the land and also the division of the land among the tribes of Israel (chapters 47-48).

[[Book of Daniel]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books, Eschatology, Christian eschatology

The Book of Daniel (דניאל), originally written in Hebrew and Aramaic, is a book in both the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh) and the Christian Old Testament.Books of the Old Testament 

[[Book of Amos]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament books

The Book of Amos is one of the books of the Nevi'im (Hebrew: "prophets") and of the Christian Old Testament. Amos is one of the minor prophets.

Amos lived during the time of two other prophets,Hosea and Isaiah, around 750 BC while Jeroboam was king of Israel and Uzziah was king of Judah. Amos lived in the kingdom of Judah but preached in the northern Kingdom of Israel. He wrote about social justice, God's power, judgement and eventual restoration. The message is harsh, but Amos wrote some of the most poetic parts of the Bible.

The book has 9 chapters. In the first chapter Amos says that God will punish many of the nations around Israel. Then in the second chapter he uses similar words to say the Judah and Israel will also be punished. The rest of the book tells the reasons for that punishment before ending with a promise that Israel would then be restored.

There are some well known verses in the book of Amos that religious leaders and people who work for justice have used in speeches about modern problems such as racism.

Chapter 5 verse 24, "But let judgment run down as waters, and righteousness as a mighty stream." This verse was often quoted by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr..

Chapter 6 verse 1, "Woe to you who are at ease in Zion,(Jerusalem)." This is a warning to those who think they are safe from God's judgement because things are going well at the present. 

[[Washington Mutual]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 establishments in the United States, 2008 disestablishments in the United States, Banks of the United States, Seattle, Washington

Washington Mutual (abbreviated to WaMu) (WM) was the United States' largest savings and loan association. Despite its name, it ceased being a mutual company in 1983 when it began to be publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange.

On September 25, 2008, the 119th anniversary of WaMu's founding, the United States Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) announced that it was seizing the bank and would sell most of its functional assets to JPMorgan Chase. WaMu's collapse is the largest U.S. bank failure in history.  At the time of the collapse, it was the sixth-largest bank in the United States. According to Washington Mutual's 2007 SEC filing, it held assets valued at $327.9/Billion Dollars.

[[Gray's Anatomy]]

CATEGORIES: Reference works, Anatomy, 1850s books

Henry Gray's Anatomy of the Human Body (or Gray's Anatomy) is an English-language human anatomy textbook. It was first called Gray's Anatomy: Descriptive and Surgical in the United Kingdom in 1858, and in the United States in 1859. It was written for medical students by Henry Grey and illustrated by  Henry Vandyke Carter in 1855 and published in 1858.

[[Gray's Anatomy for Students]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 books, Anatomy

Gray's Anatomy for Students is an anatomy textbook following the same idea as the famous Gray's Anatomy for medical students. The book is famous for its detailed drawings and style.April 2009

The first edition was published in 2004.

[[Killing Joke]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands, English punk bands, English heavy metal bands

Killing Joke are an industrial rock band from England. They have been called a key influence on the industrial rock genre.

[[Dave Finlay]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Former WWE wrestlers, Northern Irish sportspeople, Sportspeople from Belfast

David Finlay (born 20 October 1958) is a professional wrestler and road agent from Belfast, Northern Ireland. He is best known for his time in World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) under the ring name Finlay. He has held both the WCW World Television Championship and the WWE United States Championship.

[[Chris Jericho]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, American professional wrestlers, Canadian professional wrestlers, Canadian movie actors, Canadian rock singers, Canadian television actors, Living people, People from Winnipeg, Singers from New York, Sportspeople from New York, WWE wrestlers

Christopher Keith Irvine (born November 9, 1970), better known by his ring name Chris Jericho, is a Canadian professional wrestler, rock musician,actor, author, and radio host. He is currently signed to AEW.

Jericho is also known for his appearances with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) and internationally in Canadian, Mexican and Japanese promotions.

As a part of WWE, he is credited as being the first-ever Undisputed Champion in professional wrestling history. Also, he has won the Intercontinental Championship a record nine times. Jericho is a six-time world champion, having won the WCW World Heavyweight Championship twice, the aforementioned Undisputed Championship, and the World Heavyweight Championship three times. He is also the Ninth Triple Crown Champion and Third Grand Slam Champion.

Jericho is also the frontman of Fozzy, an American heavy metal band. Jericho uses the theme song "Break The Walls Down" as his entrance theme.

On May 24, 2012, during a match against CM Punk in São Paulo, Brazil, Jericho dropped and kicked the flag of Brazil which is a crime in that country. The police went to the ring and threatened to arrest Jericho. Jericho apologized to the crowd and was suspended by the WWE for 30 days. Jericho returned on June 25 episode of Raw, his disappearance was explained by a European tour with his band Fozzy which happened to coincide with his suspension.

On the June 30, 2014 episode of Raw, Jericho made a surprise return to the WWE and attacked The Miz who had also returned minutes earlier. Jericho was then attack by The Wyatt Family.

He currently hosts weekly podcast called "Talk Is Jericho" on PodcastOne.com.

He is best friends with Kevin Owens.

[[Charles Curtis]]

CATEGORIES: 1860 births, 1936 deaths, American Methodists, Majority leaders of the United States Senate, People from Topeka, Kansas, Presidents pro tempore of the United States Senate, United States representatives from Kansas, United States senators from Kansas, US Republican Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, 19th-century American politicians, Kansas Republicans, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Charles Curtis (January 25, 1860 – February 8, 1936) was an American politician. He was the 31st vice president of the United States from 1929 to 1933 under President Herbert Hoover. Before becoming vice president, he was a Senator and a Representative from Kansas .

Curtis is the only Native American vice president in history. Curtis was a member of the Kaw Nation. Charles Curtis was the first vice president of color; the other being Vice President Kamala Harris.  Curtis called himself "one-eighth Kaw Indian and a one-hundred percent Republican." In 1900, Kaw Chief Washungah called Curtis "one of our own men."

Curtis grew up in Kansas and spoke the Kaw language.  When he was in government, Curtis did some good things for Native Americans and some bad things.  In 1898, he sponsored the Curtis Act of 1898, which took power away from tribal leaders.

[[Big Show]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, American movie actors, American professional wrestlers, American television actors, Living people, Sportspeople from South Carolina, WWE wrestlers

Paul Donald Wight (born February 8, 1971) is an American professional wrestler and actor. He is currently signed to AEW. He is best known by his ring name, Paul Wright.

He is also best known for his career in World Championship Wrestling (WCW), where he wrestled as The Giant from June 1995 to December 1998. He is the first man in the history of wrestling to win the WWE Championship, WCW World Heavyweight Championship and the ECW World Championship, even though his ECW Title win was after the company became a WWE property. Kane is the second wrestler.

[[Robert Guiscard]]

CATEGORIES: Normans, 1015 births, 1085 deaths

Robert Guiscard (Hauteville-la-Guichard, France, 1015 - Kefalonia, Greece, July 15, 1085), was a Norman adventurer. 

[[William A. Wheeler]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1887 deaths, Vice Presidents of the United States, Politicians from New York, 19th-century American politicians

William Almon Wheeler (June 30, 1819 – June 4, 1887) was a U.S. representative from New York and the nineteenth vice president of the United States.

[[Schuyler Colfax]]

CATEGORIES: 1823 births, 1885 deaths, American abolitionists, Vice Presidents of the United States, Speakers of the United States House of Representatives, Politicians from New York City, 19th-century American politicians

Schuyler (pronounced "Sky-ler") Colfax, Jr. (March 23, 1823 – January 13, 1885) was a U.S. representative from Indiana, the 29th speaker of the House of Representatives, and the seventeenth vice president of the United States.

[[Henry Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1812 births, 1875 deaths, American Calvinists, Congregationalists, Deaths from stroke, Politicians from New Hampshire, United States senators from Massachusetts, 19th-century American politicians

Henry Wilson (February 16, 1812 – November 22, 1875) was a U.S. senator from Massachusetts and the eighteenth vice president of the United States.

[[Hubert Humphrey]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 United States presidential candidates, 1968 United States presidential candidates, 1972 United States presidential candidates, Vice Presidents of the United States, United States senators from Minnesota, US Democratic Party politicians, Deaths from bladder cancer, 1978 deaths, 1911 births, 20th-century American politicians

Hubert Horatio Humphrey, Jr. (May 27, 1911 – January 13, 1978) was an American politician. He was the thirty-eighth vice president of the United States from 1965 to 1969, under Lyndon B. Johnson.

[[Alben W. Barkley]]

CATEGORIES: 1877 births, 1956 deaths, United States representatives from Kentucky, United States senators from Kentucky, US Democratic Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, Minority leaders of the United States Senate, Majority leaders of the United States Senate

Alben William Barkley (November 24, 1877 – April 30, 1956) was a Democratic member of the U.S. House of Representatives and the United States Senate from Paducah, Kentucky, majority leader of the Senate, and the thirty-fifth vice president of the United States. He was the oldest vice president of the United States at the age of 1877. He ran for president in 1952, however the Democratic Party primaries had nominated Adlai Stevenson II instead and labor union leaders rejected him to run because of old age (74).

[[John Nance Garner]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 births, 1967 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Vice Presidents of the United States, Speakers of the United States House of Representatives, Politicians from Texas, US Democratic Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, Minority leaders of the United States House of Representatives

John Nance Garner IV nicknamed "Cactus Jack" (November 22, 1868 – November 7, 1967) was the forty-fourth speaker of the United States House of Representatives (1931-33) and the thirty-second vice president of the United States (1933-41).  Garner once described the Vice-Presidency as being "not worth a bucket of warm spit." Also, he lived to be 98 years old. That made him the oldest former vice president of the United States. 

Garner was born near the village of Detroit in Red River County in eastern Texas. His parents were John Nance Garner III and his wife, the former Sarah Jane Guest. Garner studied at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, for one semester before dropping out and returning home. He was a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. He eventually studied law, was admitted to the bar in 1890, and began practice in Uvalde, Uvalde County, Texas.

On the morning of Garner's 95th birthday on November 22, 1963, President John F. Kennedy called to wish the former vice president a happy birthday, just hours before his assassination in Dallas.

[[Thomas A. Hendricks]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1885 deaths, Governors of Indiana, Grover Cleveland, United States representatives from Indiana, US Democratic Party politicians, 19th-century American politicians

Thomas Andrews Hendricks (September 7, 1819 – November 25, 1885) was a U.S. representative and a senator from Indiana, a governor of Indiana, and the twenty-first vice president of the United States (serving with Grover Cleveland).

Hendricks died in his sleep at home in Indianapolis on November 25, 1885. Following his death, Congress changed the order of succession for the presidency by removing the leaders of the Senate and House of Representatives.

[[Levi P. Morton]]

CATEGORIES: 1824 births, 1920 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Vice Presidents of the United States, Governors of New York, United States representatives from Vermont, 19th-century American politicians, Businesspeople from Vermont

Levi Parsons Morton (May 16, 1824 – May 16, 1920) was a U.S. representative from New York and the twenty-second vice president of the United States. He also later served as Governor of New York.

[[Garret Hobart]]

CATEGORIES: 1844 births, 1899 deaths, Vice Presidents of the United States, Politicians from New Jersey, US Republican Party politicians, Legislative speakers, 19th-century American politicians

Garret Augustus Hobart (June 3, 1844 – November 21, 1899) was the twenty-fourth vice president of the United States.

[[Charles W. Fairbanks]]

CATEGORIES: 1852 births, 1918 deaths, Vice Presidents of the United States, Politicians from Ohio, United States senators from Indiana, US Republican Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, 19th-century American politicians

Charles Warren Fairbanks (May 11, 1852 – June 4, 1918) was a U.S. senator from Indiana and the twenty-sixth vice president of the United States.  

[[Thomas R. Marshall]]

CATEGORIES: 1854 births, 1925 deaths, 20th-century American politicians, American people of World War I, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Governors of Indiana, US Democratic Party politicians

Thomas Riley Marshall (March 14, 1854 – June 1, 1925) was an American politician. He was the twenty-eighth vice president of the United States. He served under Woodrow Wilson from 1913 to 1921.

[[Charles G. Dawes]]

CATEGORIES: 1865 births, 1951 deaths, Burials at Rosehill Cemetery, Vice Presidents of the United States, Directors of the Office of Management and Budget, American Nobel Prize winners, Calvin Coolidge, 20th-century American politicians, Deaths from coronary thrombosis, Ambassadors of the United States to the United Kingdom

PeaceCharles Gates Dawes (August 27, 1865 – April 23, 1951) was an American banker and politician who was the thirtieth vice president of the United States. For his work on the Dawes Plan for World War I reparations he was a co-recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize. He served in the First World War, was U.S. Comptroller of the Currency and the first director of the Bureau of the Budget, and in later life the U.S. ambassador to the United Kingdom.

[[Rainulf Drengot]]

CATEGORIES: Normans

Rainulf Drengot (dead in 1045) was a Norman adventurer. 

In 1016, Rainulf went in the South Italy where he was a mercenary. In 1030, Drengot was the first count of Aversa (near Naples) and was married to the duke of Naples’s daughter. 

[[Gregg Gillis]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Musicians from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Electronic musicians, Living people

Gregg Gillis, better known by his stage name Girl Talk, is an American musian who remixes music. Gillis, who lives in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, has released four LPs on Illegal Art and EPs on 333 and 12 Apostles record labels. He began making music while studying Biomedical Engineering at Case Western Reserve University.  He specializes in mash-up style remixes, in which he uses often a dozen or more unauthorized samples from different songs to create a new song; The New York Times Magazine has called his music "a lawsuit waiting to happen."

[[A∴A∴]]

CATEGORIES: Occult, 1907 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in the United Kingdom

The A∴A∴ (Latin: Argenteum Astrum or Greek: Άστρον Αργόν, "Astron Argon", both literally; "Silver star", alternately, Latin: Arcanum Arcanorum, is a magical order created by Aleister Crowley in 1907 after leaving the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn. It is a Thelemic magical fraternity in which the holy book of the order is The Book of the Law. Its motto is: "The method of science, the aim of religion." While the A∴A∴ was not part of Ordo Templi Orientis, the O.T.O. did consider the A∴A∴ to be a close ally.

Various lineages of the A∴A∴ survive today that can be traced back to the founders Aleister Crowley and George Cecil Jones.

[[The Book of the Law]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 books, Spiritual books

The Book of the Law is the central sacred text of Thelema, written by Aleister Crowley in Cairo, Egypt in the year 1904. Its full title is Liber AL vel Legis, sub figura CCXX, as delivered by XCIII=418 to DCLXVI, and it is commonly referred to as Liber AL vel Legis or just Liber Al. It contains three chapters, each of which was written down in one hour, beginning at noon, on April 8, April 9, and April 10.

[[Ordo Templi Orientis]]

CATEGORIES: New religious movements, Secret societies, 20th-century establishments

Ordo Templi Orientis (O.T.O.) (Order of the Temple of the East, or the Order of Oriental Templars) is an international fraternal and religious organization founded at the beginning of the 20th century. Originally it was intended to be modelled after and associated with Freemasonry, but under the leadership of Aleister Crowley was reorganized based on the Law of Thelema as its central religious principle along with The Book of the Law. Similar to many secret societies, O.T.O. membership is based on an initiatory system with a series of degree ceremonies that use ritual drama to establish fraternal bonds and impart spiritual and philosophical teachings.

O.T.O. also includes the Ecclesia Gnostica Catholica (EGC) or Gnostic Catholic Church, which is the ecclesiastical arm of the Order. Its central rite, which is public, is the Gnostic Mass.

[[Luther Bible]]

CATEGORIES: Bible versions, Protestantism in Germany, History of Germany, Martin Luther

The Luther Bible is a German Bible translation by Martin Luther, first printed with both testaments in 1534. 

[[Wycliffe's Bible]]

CATEGORIES: Bible versions

Wycliffe's Bible is the name now given to a group of Bible translations into Middle English, that were made under the guidance of John Wycliffe.  They appeared over a period from about 1382 to 1395. Although unauthorized, the work was popular.  Wycliffite Bible texts are the most common manuscript literature in Middle English.  More than 250 manuscripts of the Wycliffite Bible survive.

These Bible translations were the chief inspiration and chief cause of the Lollard movement, a pre-Reformation movement that rejected many of the distinctive teachings of the Roman Catholic Church.

The Catholic Church started a campaign to suppress it. In the early 15th century, Henry IV, Archbishop Thomas Arundel, and Henry Knighton put into law some of the severest religious censorship laws in Europe at that time. Manuscripts of the Wycliffe Bible, if inscribed with a date before 1409 (the date of the ban) circulated freely and were widely used by clergy and laity.

Wycliffe's Bible was edited later in stages to bring it closer to spoken English of the day. His translation followed the Latin word order very closely, which is different from English word order:

Wyclif's Bible was followed later by William Tyndale, who translated the Bible into a more modern form of English, and used Greek manuscript sources for the first time. He was pursued for many years by Thomas More, whose agents finally caught him near Brussels in 1535. He was arrested, tried, convicted and executed by garrotte. His body was burnt at the stake.

[[Jens Jeremies]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, 2002 FIFA World Cup players, German footballers, Living people, Sportspeople from Saxony, UEFA Euro 2000 players, UEFA Euro 2004 players

Jens Jeremies (born 5 March, 1974) is a former German football player. He has played for Germany national team.

[[Ferenc Puskás]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2006 deaths, 1954 FIFA World Cup players, 1962 FIFA World Cup players, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Hungary, Hungarian footballers, Hungarian football managers, Medalists at the 1952 Summer Olympics, Olympic gold medalists, People with Alzheimer's disease, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Budapest

Ferenc Puskás (2 April 1927 - 17 November 2006) was a Hungarian football striker, regarded as one of the greatest footballers of all time. He played for Hungary national team and Spain national team. He died of pneumonia at the age of 79.

There is an award named after him. The award is called the FIFA Puskás Award. It is awarded to the player who scored the best goal in each year. In 2018, the award was won by Mohamed Salah. 

[[Michel Platini]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, French footballers, French football managers, Presidents of UEFA

Michel Platini (born June 21, 1955) is a retired French footballer. He was the president of UEFA between 2007 and 2015. In 2015, he was banned from football due to ethics violations. He is regarded as one of the greatest footballers of all time. He was the all-time top scorer for France between June 19, 1984 (when he overtook Just Fontaine's record) and October 17, 2007 (when Thierry Henry became France's top scorer). 

As a player, he played for Nancy-Lorraine, A.S. Saint-Étienne, and Juventus. He won 3 Ballon d'Ors as a player (1983, 1984, 1985).

[[Hidetoshi Nakata]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Shonan Bellmare players, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, 2002 FIFA World Cup players, 2006 FIFA World Cup players, 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup players, 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup players, 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2000 Summer Olympics

Hidetoshi Nakata is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Relient K]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, American punk bands, Pop punk bands, Christian rock bands, Musical groups from Ohio, People from Canton, Ohio, 2000s American music groups

Relient K is an American band from Ohio. Their music has been considered Pop punk and Christian rock. They have released five studio albums and several EPs. Their album "The Bird and the Bee Sides" was released in July 2 2008.

There has been criticism about whether the band are in the Christian music genre. Not all the songs mention God or focus on Christian faith. Matt Thiessen has said "we really don't care, you can call us rock 'n roll or Christian rock or whatever, and we can tour with this band or that band, but at the end of the day, we're doing what we want, and writing from our hearts".

[[Hieronymus Bosch]]

CATEGORIES: People from 's-Hertogenbosch, Dutch painters, 1450s births, 1516 deaths

Hieronymus Bosch, (born Jeroen Anthonissen van Aken, c. 1450 – 9 August 1516) was an early Dutch painter. He lived, worked and died in 's-Hertogenbosch, a Dutch town. This was then the capital of the Duchy of Brabant, a region which included much of modern Belgium and Holland.

Many of his works depict temptation, sin and punishment in hell. The paintings have a dreamlike surreal quality, with sexual and sadistic images. The intent was probably serious, to warn of the punishment which awaited sinners in hell.

The paintings often look like, and certainly did influence, the modern art movement known as surrealism. Bosch used images of demons, half-human animals and machines, to evoke fear and confusion, and to portray the evil of man. His works contain complex, highly original, imaginative, and dense use of symbolic figures and iconography, some of which was obscure even in his own time.

Today only 25 paintings are known to be by him; Philip II of Spain collected some of the best, which are now in the Prado Museum, Madrid.

[[Bush (band)]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands, Post-grunge bands

Bush were a British post-grunge band, formed in London in 1992. Their debut album was the self-released Sixteen Stone in 1994. They have sold well over 10 million records in the United States. The band, while hugely successful in the United States, was less well known in their native UK and enjoyed only marginal success there.

[[Fell on Black Days]]

CATEGORIES: Soundgarden, 1994 songs

"Fell on Black Days" is a song by the American rock band Soundgarden, released in 1994 as the fifth single from the band's fourth studio album, Superunknown (1994). The song peaked at number four on the Billboard Mainstream Rock Tracks chart. It would later appear on the band's greatest hits album A-Sides and the 2007 Chris Cornell compilation The Roads We Choose - A Retrospective.

[[Scarborough railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Scarborough, North Yorkshire

Scarborough railway station is a railway station in Scarborough, North Yorkshire, England. It opened in 1845. It is one of the eastern termini (end stations) of the North TransPennine route operated by First TransPennine Express. It is also at the northern end of the Yorkshire Coast Line. It has the longest station seat in the world, 152 in length.

Until 1950 it served a line to Pickering. Until 1965 it served a line from Whitby.

[[Methil]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fife

Methil is a town in Fife, Scotland. There used to be a power station there.

[[Chris Brown (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums, Debut albums, Hip hop albums, R&B albums

Chris Brown is the self-titled debut album by American R&B recording artist Chris Brown. It was released on November 29, 2005 by Jive Records. The album also earned Brown his first two Grammy nominations for Best New Artist and Best Contemporary R&B Album at the 52nd Grammy Awards in 2006. The album is mainly a hip hop and R&B album.

[[Economy of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Economy of Pakistan

Pakistan is a nation with a diverse economy that include textiles, chemicals, food processing, agriculture and other industries. It is the 25th largest economy in the world.

[[National Stock Exchange of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Stock exchanges, Economy of Pakistan, Karachi

The Karachi Stock Exchange or KSE (founded 1947) is a stock exchange in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. It is Pakistan's largest and oldest stock exchange and also South Asia's second oldest stock exchange.

[[Alexandra]]

Alexandra can refer to

[[Flora and fauna of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Pakistan, Animals of Pakistan

[[Resurrection of Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: Gospels, Jesus Christ

In the New Testament, Jesus is crucified, dies, is buried within a tomb, and resurrected (came back to life) three days later. Christians celebrate the resurrection at Easter. Easter and Christmas are the most important Christian holidays.

Christians believe that Jesus is the son of God. They believe that the best proof of this is that he came back to life after his death. In Christian theology, the death, resurrection, and return to heaven of Jesus are the most important events of the Christian faith. The Nicene Creed states: "On the third day he rose again in accordance with the Scriptures". According to Terry Miethe, a Christian philosopher at Oxford University, the question " 'Did Jesus rise from the dead?' is the most important question regarding the claims of the Christian faith." According to John R. Rice, a Baptist evangelist, the resurrection of Jesus was part of God's plan for forgiving people by paying the penalty for man's sin. The Catholic church teaches: 

All of these New Testament writers tell about the resurrection.  

[[Crucifixion of Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: Jesus Christ, Gospels

The crucifixion of Jesus is an event recorded in all four Gospels in the Bible. The crucifixion happens after Jesus' arrest at Gethsemane and trial before Pontius Pilate. It includes his scourging, crucifixion on the cross, and burial. In Christian theology, the death of Jesus by crucifixion is a major event. (See salvation).

Christians believe that Jesus was God in human form. They believe that after he died on the Cross on Friday, he went down to Hell to free the souls of the people who had died before Jesus' coming. On Sunday, Christians believe that Jesus came back to life and left the tomb where he was buried. This is called the resurrection. 

The crucifixion is, according to the Bible, necessary to Christianity. Christians believe that Jesus suffered very much on the cross as a way of paying for all of mankind's sins (bad actions, thoughts, and deeds). By taking on all of this suffering, mankind was freed from the punishment that God should have given to man (because of man's weakness and bad choices in life). Gospel Jesus

The crucifixion itself is a very sad event as Jesus had to suffer horribly. His friends and his own mother had to see it. However, Christians believe this was necessary for him to come back to life and to show that death had no power over him. Through the crucifixion, Christians believe that God has set us free and shown to the world that Jesus is God and that life is forever. According to the Bible, Jesus sacrificed himself for all of mankind not only to show his love but also to pay the penalty of our sin, restore our relationship with God, and to destroy the power of death and the grave.

A passion play is a play that tells this story of Jesus' trial and then his crucifixion. A recent version, The Passion of the Christ, was produced and released by Mel Gibson. It was and still is very popular with Christians and non-Christians alike.March 2010

[[Jim Ross]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, American television presenters, Living people, Sportspeople from Oklahoma, Sportspeople from California, People from Norman, Oklahoma, Restaurateurs, WWE people, WWE Hall of Fame, American bloggers

James William "Jim" Ross (born January 3, 1952 in Fort Bragg, California) is a professional wrestling commentator. He is also known by his nicknames Good Ol' J.R. or simply J.R.. Ross is a restaurateur, former professional wrestling commentator and former company executive. He is most well known for working for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) as a play-by-play commentator.

He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2007 and is widely regarded as one of the greatest commentators in wrestling history.

[[King of the Ring]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment pay-per-view events, 1985 establishments

King of the Ring is a professional wrestling single-elimination tournament held by World Wrestling Entertainment. The tournament was held annually from 1985 to 2002 (except for 1992), and from 1993 until 2002, the tournament was produced as a pay-per-view event.

[[John Layfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Texas, Former WWE wrestlers, American Internet celebrities

John Charles Layfield (born November 29, 1966) known by his ring name's John "Bradshaw" Layfield and JBL, is a retired American professional wrestler that is currently working for the WWE as a color commentator and host. 

Outside of wrestling, he works as a financial analyst for Fox News and has also commentated and hosted for the mixed martial arts promotion Vyper Fight League. He is the longest reigning World Champion in SmackDown history longest reigning WWE Champion in SmackDown history which he held for 280 days.

[[Mary J. Blige]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American rap musicians from New York, American movie actors, African American actors, Democrats (United States), Singers from New York City, Actors from New York City

Mary Jane Blige (or simply Mary J Blige, born January 11, 1971) is an American R&B, hip hop and soul singer. She released 11 studio albums, 82 singles, and 8 other albums.

[[Dancing Beijing]]

CATEGORIES: Symbols, 2008 Summer Olympics

Dancing Beijing is the name of the symbol of the 2008 Summer Olympics, in Beijing in China. It was shown in August 2003 in a ceremony attended by 2,008 people in Beijing.

[[Exploration]]

CATEGORIES: Exploration

Exploration is the act of searching an unfamiliar area in order to learn about it. It involves the discovery of new information. Human beings explore even when they have everything they need where they are. They are the only mammal that does this. 

Neanderthals existed for hundreds of thousands of years in Eurasia. But their range was limited compared to modern humans. In less than 500,000 years humans have explored and spread out to all the continents. Exploration had its most dramatic rise during the Age of Discovery. This is when European explorers sailed and charted much of the rest of the world. Humans have explored geographically even into outer space. They explore ideas, art, even the very nature of life.

[[Lactobacillus]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Lactobacillus is a genus of bacteria. Most Lactobacillus species are non-spore-forming and ferment glucose into lactose. This genus also contains several bacteria that make up part of the natural flora of the human vagina.

It is really helpful in the gut. It is a rod-shaped non-spore forming bacteria. It can be found in foods like yogurt. 

[[Waterford United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Irish football clubs, Waterford

Waterford United F.C. is a football club which plays in Republic of Ireland.

[[Montpellier HSC]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, Montpellier, 1974 establishments in Europe, 1970s establishments in France

Montpellier H.S.C. is a football club which plays in France.

[[AS Monaco F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs

A.S. Monaco F.C. is a football club which plays in Monaco.

[[Olympique de Marseille]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, Marseille, 1899 establishments in France

Olympique de Marseille (Occitan: Olimpic de Marselha) is a football club from France. The club competes in Ligue 1. It was founded in 1899. Its home stadium is Stade Vélodrome in Marseille.

Olympique de Marseille has won the Ligue 1 9 times, the French Cup 10 times and 2 League Cups. It has also won the UEFA Champions League in 1993.

[[Arsène Wenger]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, French footballers, French football managers, Arsenal F.C.

Arsène Wenger (born 22 October 1949) is a French football manager. He has been managing Arsenal (1996-2018). 

He has won the  Premier League and the FA Cup and also made it to the Champions League final.

[[John Arne Riise]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Norwegian footballers

John Arne Riise (born 24 September 1980) is a Norwegian football player. He played for Roma and the Norway national football team before retiring in 2016

[[Patrick Vieira]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Arsenal F.C. players, Manchester City F.C. players, French footballers, Senegalese footballers, French football managers, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, 2006 FIFA World Cup players, People from Dakar

Patrick Vieira (born 23 June 1976) is a French professional football head coach and former player. He is the manager of Crystal Palace. He played for Arsenal and France national team.

[[David Seaman]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Arsenal F.C. players, Dancing on Ice participants, English association football goalkeepers, Manchester City F.C. players, People from South Yorkshire, Sportspeople from Yorkshire, Premier League players

David Seaman (born 19 September 1963) is an English retired football player. He has played for England national team as well as many other league teams.

Seaman was a contestant on the first series of Dancing on Ice in 2006.

[[Luther Blissett]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Caribbean footballers, English footballers, Jamaican sportspeople

Luther Blissett is a Jamaican-born former English football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Chinese architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese culture, Architecture

Chinese architecture refers to the architecture of China.  Sometimes it might also mean architecture outside of China but built in the same style.  Chinese architecture is very influential in East Asia where many other countries and cultures' architecture also modeled upon it.  Well known example of Chinese architecture are the Great Wall of China and the Forbidden City.

[[Jimmy Greaves]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, English footballers, Sportspeople from London

Jimmy Greaves (20 February 1940 – 19 September 2021) was an English football player. He played for England national team. 

[[Eugenio Corini]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Eugenio Corini (born 30 July 1970) is a former Italian football player.

[[Vasile Miriuţă]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Hungarian footballers

Vasile Miriuţă is a former football player. He has played for Hungary national team.

[[Jerzy Dudek]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Polish footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Jerzy Henryk Dudek (born 23 March 1973) is a retired Polish football player. He retired in 2011.

[[Henrik Larsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Swedish footballers, People from Helsingborg

Henrik Larsson (born 20 September, 1971) is a former Swedish football player. He has played for the Sweden national team.

[[Ian Wright]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Sportspeople from London, Black British sportspeople, English footballers, English television presenters, Premier League players, Arsenal F.C. players, Crystal Palace F.C. players, West Ham United F.C. players

Ian Wright is a footballer turned television personality. He has played for England national team. He is the adopted father of Shaun Wright-Phillips and the father of Bradley Wright-Phillips.

[[Clyde Best]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Bermudian people, British footballers, North American footballers, Sport in Bermuda

Clyde Best is a former football player. He has played for Bermuda national team.

He was awarded an Order of the British Empire.

[[Edgar Davids]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from Paramaribo

Edgar Davids (born 13 March 1973) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Marc-Vivien Foé]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2003 deaths, Deaths from cardiomyopathy, Cameroonian footballers

Marc-Vivien Foé (1 May 1975 – 26 June 2003) is a former Cameroonian football player. He played for the Cameroonian national team.

[[Ian Hamilton]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London

Ian Hamilton is a former football player.

[[Olympique Lyonnais]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, Lyon, 1899 establishments in France

Olympique Lyonnais is a football club which plays in France.

[[F.C. Girondins de Bordeaux]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, Bordeaux, 1880s establishments in France, 1881 establishments in Europe

F.C. Girondins de Bordeaux  is a football club which plays in France.

[[Glasgow Central station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Scotland, Buildings and structures in Glasgow, 1879 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1870s establishments in Scotland

Glasgow Central station is a railway station in Glasgow, Scotland. It first opened in 1879.

[[Mary of Teck]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 births, 1953 deaths, Bailiffs Grand Cross of the Order of St John, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from lung cancer, Kings and Queens consort of the United Kingdom

Mary of Teck (Victoria Mary Augusta Louise Olga Pauline Claudine Agnes; 26 May 1867 – 24 March 1953) was the queen consort of King George V of the United Kingdom and Emperor of India. She was the mother of  Edward VIII later Duke of Windsor  George VI and grandmother of the current Queen Elizabeth II Queen of the United Kingdom and Princess Margaret, Countess of Snowdon. 

By birth, Mary was a member of the  House of Teck in Berlin, Germany, and through her mother, she was a distant member of the British Royal Family. Within her family, she was given the nickname "May" after the month of her birth.

[[Marlborough House]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in London, Royal residences in the United Kingdom

Marlborough House is a mansion in Westminster, London, England. It was built for a royal favourite, Sarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough, in 1711. Following her death, it passed to the hands of successive Dukes of Marlborough. 

In 1817, it became Crown property. It was used by members of the royal family, including Queen Adelaide. It served as a base for the predecessor of the Royal College of Art, the "National Art Training School". In 1861, Marlborough House was made the Prince of Wales's London residence. It was used by him for the next 40 years, until he became king in 1901. It continued as a royal residence, and was last used by Queen Mary until 1953. After her death, her granddaughter, Queen Elizabeth II, gave the house to the Commonwealth Secretariat, which continues to use it today.

[[Richmond Park]]

CATEGORIES: Parks in the United Kingdom, London Borough of Richmond, Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames, London Borough of Wandsworth

Richmond Park is a 955 hectare (2,360 acres) park in outer London. Originally, it was outside London, in Surrey. It is now in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames.

The park was created by Charles I in the 17th century as a deer park. It is the largest of London's Royal Parks.  It is of national and international importance for wildlife conservation.  The park is a national nature reserve, a Site of Special Scientific Interest and a Special Area of Conservation. It is included, at Grade I, on the Register of Historic Parks and Gardens of special historic interest in England. 

It is the largest of the eight Royal Parks in London, and is famous for red and fallow deer. It is about three times the size of Central Park in New York (341 hectares or 843 acres).

Notable features in the park include Pembroke Lodge, once the home of the British Prime Minister Lord John Russell. Also in the park is White Lodge, home of the Royal Ballet School and once a royal residence. One house in the park, Thatched House Lodge, is the residence of Princess Alexandra. 

The park is fully open to the public, with access by road, bicycles and pedestrians.  

[[Brantridge Park]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in England, Royal residences in the United Kingdom

Brantridge Park is a former royal residence in Balcombe, West Sussex, England. It was owned by Princess Alice, and her husband Alexander Cambridge, the first Earl of Athlone. Following the Athlone's departure to Canada as viceroy and viceregal consort, it was occupied by Princess Beatrice, the youngest daughter of Queen Victoria. Beatrice died there in 1945. It is now a hotel operated by Timeshare.

[[Osborne House]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in England, Royal residences in the United Kingdom

Osborne House is a former royal residence East Cowes on the Isle of Wight, England. It was in purchased by Queen Victoria and Prince Albert in 1845. The solent reminded by Prince Albert of the Gulf of Naples, but the old house was too small for their needs, and the house was demolished and rebuilt by Thomas Cubitt. 

The house became a family home, as Queen Victoria and Prince Albert were determined to bring their children up in a natural and loving environment. Within the grounds was a smaller structure, Swiss Cottage, which was where the royal children played and learned practical skills, such as cooking and farming. The children often entertained their parents here, and Queen Victoria used the simplicity of the cottage to deal with personal correspondence. 

Following Prince Albert's death in 1861, Osborne became an effective mausoleum in his memory. Queen Victoria used the house as a retreat away from public life. She died there on 22 January 1901, and her son, King Edward VII, gave the house to the nation. It was used as a naval training school, and then a convalescent home for officers. During the Second World War, Adolf Hitler ordered that the estate was not to be bombed because he wanted to use it as a post-war retreat. 

[[Docetism]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

Docetism is an early Christian teaching that says that Jesus only appeared to have a human body. The term comes from δοκεῖν/δόκησις dokein: to seem. 

Early Gnostics, whose teachings began to threaten Christian doctrine and theology, believed all matter was unclean. For this reason, Christ could not have a physical body, as he was seen as the eternal Logos. 

Today, it is unclear where this teaching came from. It might have been influenced by the teachings of Plato. Plato taught that only ideas mattered and that matter itself was inferior. 

Many Gnostic teachings are docetic. For a long time, people believed that docetism and Gnosticism were developed together. This is however not the case, there are also some Gnostic systems that are not docetic, as well as some docetic systems that are not gnostic. 

Today, most Christian theologians see docetism as a heresy. 

[[List of British Royal Residences]]

CATEGORIES: Royal residences in the United Kingdom, United Kingdom-related lists

This is a list of residences occupied by the British Royal family, noting the seasons of the year they are traditionally occupied.

Members of the British Royal Family live in many different residences around the United Kingdom. Some are royal palaces, owned by the state and held in trust by the monarch; others are privately owned. Balmoral Castle and Sandringham House have been inherited as private property for several generations. Other royal palaces are no longer residences (e.g. the Palace of Westminster, the Palace of Whitehall). Some remain in irregular use for royal occasions. The Royal Palaces enjoy certain legal privileges, for example there is an exemption from levying duty on alcoholic beverages sold in the bars at the Palace of Westminster and there are exemptions from Health and Safety legislation.

The occupied royal residences of are cared for and maintained by the Royal Household Property Section.  The unoccupied royal palaces of England are now within the responsibility of the Historic Royal Palaces Agency.

[[Tazz]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, TNA wrestlers, Sportspeople from New York City

Peter Senerchia (born October 11 1967) is an American retired professional wrestler and current color commentator best known by his ring name Tazz, (originally Tazmaniac and later shortened to simply Taz). He is currently under contract to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. On the 3rd April, 2009 he was dismissed by WWE.

[[Lille OSC]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s establishments in France, 1944 establishments in Europe, French football clubs, Lille

Lille O.S.C. is a football club which plays in France.

Based in the northern city of Lille founded in 1944 from the merger of the Olympique Lillois (founded in 1902) and the S.C. Fives (founded in 1901).

[[Prince Andrew, Duke of York]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, House of Windsor, Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order, Knights of the Garter, Royalty from London, United Kingdom Dukes, Elizabeth II

Prince Andrew, Duke of York, GBR (Andrew Albert Christian Edward, born 19 February 1960) is a member of the British Royal Family, the second son of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. He has been titled Duke of York since 1986, and is eighth in line to the succession to the throne of the United Kingdom.

[[Jinnah International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Pakistan, Karachi

Jinnah International Airport previously Quaid-e-Azam International Airport (IATA: KHI, ICAO: OPKC) is Pakistan's largest international and domestic airport. It is located in Karachi, in Sindh, and is also commonly known as the Jinnah Terminal.

[[Demi Lovato]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Singers from New Mexico, Writers from Albuquerque, New Mexico, Actors from Dallas, Texas, American child actors, American child singers, American television actors, Writers from Dallas, Texas, Disney actors, Musicians from New Mexico, Actors from Albuquerque, New Mexico, People with bipolar disorder, Singers from Dallas, Texas, LGBT actors, LGBT singers, LGBT musicians, LGBT writers, LGBT people from Texas, People with non-binary gender identities

Demetria Devonne Lovato (born August 20, 1992) is an American singer, songwriter, and actor. They were first in Barney & Friends (2002–2004), but became more popular from being in the television movies  Camp Rock (2008) and its sequel Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam (2010). One of the songs on the first Camp Rock movie was "This Is Me", which they sang with Joe Jonas. This song was popular and was in the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Road (sports)]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words

Road game (short for on the road), better known as an away game, is a reference to all cities and stadia/arenas/fields/venues where an athletic team plays games for which they are not the host. 

[[Parqués]]

CATEGORIES: Board games

Parqués is the Colombian board game. The game is similar to those in the Cross and Circle family (the category that includes Pachisi). The game is described as a "random thinking" one: the moves depend on the roll of the dice but players must consider possible strategies before executing their move. The objective of the game is to advance all the pieces to the end.

[[Home (sports)]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words

In sports, home is the city and stadium, arena, or field where an athletic team plays games at their own venue, not visiting other teams.

[[Hurricane Hugo]]

CATEGORIES: Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes, Hurricanes in South Carolina, Retired tropical cyclone names, Hurricanes, 1989

Hurricane Hugo was a powerful Category 5 hurricane that struck Guadeloupe, Montserrat, Puerto Rico, St. Croix, South Carolina and North Carolina in September of the 1989 Atlantic hurricane season, killing 82 people and leaving 100,000 homeless. At the time, Hurricane Hugo left the most damage for a hurricane in the Atlantic Ocean, although other storms have since caused more destruction. Hugo is currently the tenth costliest hurricane in the United States.

[[Wichita (disambiguation)]]

Wichita is the name of:

[[Jerry Lawler]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Memphis, Tennessee, WWE wrestlers, WWE Hall of Fame

Jerry Lawler (born November 29, 1949) is an American professional wrestler and wrestling commentator, known also by his nickname "The King". He has won more championship belts than any other wrestler. His son was Brian Christopher who was also a WWE wrestler.

[[We Rock (Camp Rock song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Camp Rock

We Rock is a song off the soundtrack of Camp Rock. The song also featured on the Disney Channel Original Movie Camp Rock. We Rock is also the first track on the Camp Rock Soundtrack. The song was sung by Demi Lavoto and other cast members of the movie Camp Rock''. The song was released in May 2008. The song was also the on the pre-release version of the Soundtrack.

[[Turkish alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabets, Turkey, Turkic languages

The Turkish alphabet is used for writing, speaking and reading in Turkish. This alphabet is modified from the Latin alphabet.

There are 29 letters in the Turkish alphabet of Turkey. The English letters, "Q", "W" and "X" are not in Turkish alphabet. Seven Turkish letters (Ç, Ğ, I, İ, Ö, Ş, and Ü) are in the Turkish alphabet.

There are 8 vowels in the Turkish alphabet: A,E,I,İ,O,Ö,U,Ü

There are 21 consonants in the Turkish alphabet: B, C, Ç, D, F, G, Ğ, H, J, K, L, M, N, P, R, S, Ş, T, V, Y, Z.

[[This is Me (Demi Lovato song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Camp Rock

"This Is Me" is a song sang by Demi Lovato and Joe Jonas. It is from the 2008 television movie Camp Rock. It was written and produced by Adam Watts and Andy Dodd. The song was on the Camp Rock soundtrack and was released as a single.

[[Play My Music]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Camp Rock

"Play My Music" is a 2008 song performed and recorded by The Jonas Brothers. The song was featured on the Disney Channel Original Movie Camp Rock. "Play My Music" is also on the original version of The Camp Rock Soundtrack and the pre-release album (Camp Rock Soundtrack (Pre-release)).

[[Michael]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Michael is a male Hebrew name, popular in English. It is from the angel Michael in the Bible. (See for example Book of Revelation 12:7) Michael is also popular in English speaking countries, and in modified forms, many other countries.

[[Panda (disambiguation)]]

Panda may mean:

[[Rivaldo]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Rivaldo (born 19 April 1972) is a Brazilian football player as a midfielder. He plays for Bunyodkor.

[[Peter Reid]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, Sportspeople from Liverpool, Premier League players

Peter Reid (born 20 June 1956) is an English football manager and former player. He manages for Plymouth Argyle.

[[Mehdi Mahdavikia]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Iranian footballers, Sportspeople from Tehran

Mehdi Mahdavikia (born 24 July 1977) is an Iranian football player. He plays for Steel Azin and Iran national team.

[[Ali Karimi]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Iranian footballers

Ali Karimi (born 8 November 1978) is an Iranian football player. He plays for Steel Azin and Iran national team.

[[Ray Harford]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2003 deaths, English footballers, English football managers, People from West Yorkshire

Raymond Thomas (Ray) Harford (1 June 1945 — 9 August 2003) is a former English football player.

[[John Welsh]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Liverpool

John Welsh is a football player. He plays for Hull City.

[[José Luis Chilavert]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Paraguayan footballers, Association football goalkeepers

José Luis Chilavert (born 27 July 1965) is a former Paraguayan football player. He has played for Paraguay national team.

[[Erik Nevland]]

CATEGORIES: Norwegian footballers, 1977 births, Living people

Erik Nevland is a football player. He plays for Fulham and Norway national team.

[[Bill Shankly]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1981 deaths, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers

Bill Shankly (2 September 1913 – 29 September 1981) is a former football player. He has played for Scotland national team.

He was brought up in the mining village of Glenbuck.   His dad was a miner, but Bill would not go down the mine so he went to football training instead.  Glenbuck Cherrypickers were the start of his playing job.  He then went to Scotland for a year (1938–1939).  After that he went to Preston North End.

[[Billy McNeill]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Members of the Order of the British Empire, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers, Scottish writers

William McNeill MBE (2 March 1940 – 22 April 2019) was a Scottish football player and manager. He played as a defender.

[[Edmundo Alves de Souza Neto]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Edmundo (born 2 April, 1971) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazil national team.

[[Adrian Mutu]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Romanian footballers

Adrian Mutu (born 8 January 1979) is a Romanian football player. He plays for Fiorentina and the Romania national team.

[[David Moyes]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football managers, Scottish footballers, 1963 births, Living people

David Moyes is a Scottish former footballer and is currently a manager. He is the manager of West Ham United. As a player, he played for Preston North End, Dunfermline Athletic, and Shrewsbury Town

[[Gérard Houllier]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2020 deaths, Association football midfielders, Deaths from surgical complications, French footballers, French football managers

Gérard Paul Francis Houllier OBE (3 September 1947 – 14 December 2020) was a French football manager and former player. He was the technical director of NSWL team OL Reign at the time of his death. Houllier is most known for his time at Liverpool, and is considered one of their best managers because of the trophies he won.

Houllier died on 14 December 2020 at a Paris hospital from heart surgery-related problems, aged 73.

[[Waggle dance]]

CATEGORIES: Animal communication, Bees

The waggle dance is a special 'figure-of-eight' dance that is done by the honey bee in its hive. By this, a worker tells the others where it has found nectar. This was shown by the Austrian ethologist Karl von Frisch.

The dance is a type of communication for bees. It is done to give other bees information about the direction and distance to flowers that have nectar or pollen, or both. It is also used to tell the bees where water can be found.

The dance is used for bees to get others to help them collect resources for the hive. It used to be thought that bees have two distinct "recruitment" dances. There were the "round dances" and waggle dances. Round dances were thought to be used for things that were close by and wiggle dances were for things farther away. It is now known that a round dance is only a waggle dance with a very short "waggle run" (see below).

[[Jim McLean]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Scottish football managers, Scottish footballers

James Yuille McLean (2 August 1937 – 26 December 2020) was a Scottish football player and manager. He was best known for being the manager of Dundee United F.C. for 22 years between 1971 and 1993. While he was at Dundee United, the team won the 1982/83 Scottish Football League Championship and made it to many cup finals including the 1987 UEFA Cup Final against IFK Gothenburg.

McLean died at the age of 83 on 26 December 2020 from dementia-related problems.  

[[German Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix

[[Hockenheimring]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One circuits, 1932 establishments in Europe, 1930s establishments in Germany

The Hockenheimring Baden-Württemberg is an automobile racing track near the town of Hockenheim in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Amongst other motor racing events, it holds the annual Formula One German Grand Prix in turns with the Nürburgring. Being in the Rhine valley, the circuit is almost completely flat, with very little change in height.

[[Singapore Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Events in Singapore, Formula One Grands Prix, Sport in Singapore

The Singapore Grand Prix is a Formula One race staged in the Marina Bay area of Singapore, the race is Formula One's first night race. The first race was won by Spanish driver Fernando Alonso of the Renault F1 team on 28 September 2008. 

[[Morrissey]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, Lyricists, Musicians from Manchester, People with cancer, The Smiths members

Steven Patrick Morrissey (born 22 May 1959), known by the stage name of Morrissey from his surname, is an English musician, singer and songwriter. He helped form and sang lead for the English band The Smiths from 1982 to 1987. After the band's breakup, he went on to become a successful solo artist. Morrissey has had many Top 10 hits. In 2013 Morrissey released his autobiography. Morrissey is known for his support of animal rights.

[[Hernando de Soto Polar]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, People from Lima, Economists, Peruvian politicians

Hernando de Soto Polar (born June 2, 1941 in Lima) is an economist and politician from Peru. He has become known for what he wrote and said on the Informal economy and property rights.

In 2020, he announced his candidacy for President of Peru for the 2021 general election. He ultimately placed fourth in an atomized race of 18 nominees. 

[[Belgian Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix

The Belgian Grand Prix is an motor race, part of the Formula One World Championship.

The first national race of Belgium was held in 1925 at the Spa region's race course, an area of the country that had been associated with motor sport since the very early years of racing before the turn of the century. To accommodate Grand Prix racing, the Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps race course was built in 1921 but it was only used for motorcycle racing until 1924. After the 1923 success of the new 24 hours of Le Mans in France, the Spa 24 Hours, a similar 24 hour endurance race, was run at the Spa track.

[[Hernando de Soto]]

CATEGORIES: 1490s births, 1542 deaths, Spanish explorers, People from Extremadura

Hernando de Soto (Jerez de los Caballeros, Badajoz, Spain, c.1496/1497–May 21, 1542) was a Spanish explorer and conquistador. He lead the first European expedition deep into the territory of the modern-day United States and was probably the first European to discover the Mississippi River.

The expedition was looking for gold and for a way to China. They explored the southern United States. De Soto died in 1542 on the banks of the Mississippi River at present-day Lake Village, Arkansas. Hernando de Soto was born to parents who were hidalgos in Extremadura, a region of poverty and hardship from which many young people looked for ways to seek their fortune elsewhere. His parents were poor, too. Two towns, Badajoz and Jerez de los Caballeros, claim to be his birthplace. All that is known with certainty is that he spent time as a child at both places. In his will, he wanted to be buried at Jerez de los Caballeros, where other members of his family were also buried. The age of the Conquerors came on the heels of the Spanish reconquest of the Iberian peninsula from Islamic forces.  Spain and Portugal were filled with young men begging for a chance to find military fame after the Moors were defeated. With discovery of new lands to the West (which seemed at the time to be far East Asia), the whispers of glory and wealth were too compelling for the poor.

De Soto sailed to the New World in 1514 with the first Governor of Panama, Pedrarias Dávila. Brave leadership, unwavering loyalty, and clever schemes for the extortion of native villages for their captured chiefs, became De Soto's hallmark during the Conquest of Central America. He gained fame as an excellent horseman, fighter, and tactician, but was notorious for the extreme brutality with which he wielded these gifts.

During that time, Juan Ponce de León, who discovered Florida, Vasco Núñez de Balboa, who discovered the Pacific (he called it the "South Sea" below Panama), and Ferdinand Magellan, who first sailed that ocean to the Orient, profoundly influenced de Soto's ambitions.

[[Circuit de Monaco]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One circuits, Monte Carlo

Circuit de Monaco is the name given to a motor racing circuit laid out on the city streets of Monte Carlo and La Condamine around the harbor of the principality of Monaco. It is commonly referred to as "Monte Carlo" because it is largely inside the Monte Carlo neighborhood of Monaco.

[[Dutch Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix

The Dutch Grand Prix was a Formula One motor race held at Circuit Zandvoort, from 1952 to 1985.

In 1985 the company that ran the circuit (CENAV) went out of business. This marked the end of Circuit Zandvoort. The municipality of Zandvoort took over ownership. Part of the grounds and track were sold in 1987 to Vendorado, a Bungalow park developer.

[[United States Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix

The United States Grand Prix is a motor race which has been run on and off since 1908, when it was known as the American Grand Prize. The race later became part of the Formula One World Championship. From 2000 to 2007, the race was held at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway road course. the United States Grand Prix was dropped from the Formula One calendar starting in 2008.

In 2010, the FIA announced that the race would return to the United States at a new circuit near Austin, Texas. The new track, known as the Circuit of the Americas, hosted its first U.S. Grand Prix in 2012.

[[Spanish Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix

The Spanish Grand Prix (Gran Premio de España) is a Formula One race currently held at the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya. The race is one of the oldest in Formula 1 racing.

[[Canadian Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix

The Canadian Grand Prix (known in French as the Grand Prix du Canada) is an auto race held in Canada since 1961. It has been part of the Formula One World Championship since 1967.  It was first staged at Mosport Park in Bowmanville, Ontario as a sports car event before it alternated between Mosport and Circuit Mont-Tremblant, Quebec after Formula One took over the event.  After 1971 safety concerns led to the Grand Prix moving permanently to Mosport. In 1978 the Canadian Grand Prix moved to its current home on Circuit Île Notre-Dame in Montreal. In 1982, the track was renamed to Circuit Gilles Villeneuve. This was to honour Canadian Formula One driver Gilles Villeneuve, following his death in 1982.

[[Anantnag District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

Anantnag (ضلع اسلام آباد) is a district in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir in northwestern India. It is one of six districts which make up the Kashmir Valley. The district headquarters is Anantnag.

[[Pakistan International Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia, Karachi, National symbols of Pakistan, Transport in Pakistan

Pakistan International Airlines Corporation, more commonly known as Pakistan International Airlines or PIA (پی آئی اے or پاکستان انٹرنیشنل ایرلاینز), is the flag carrier and national airline of Pakistan.

[[Islamabad International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Pakistan

Islamabad International Airport is the main international airport serving the Islamabad-Rawalpindi metropolitan area and surrounding suburbs. It is Pakistan's largest airport, after Jinnah International Airport in Karachi and is built 20 km away from the twin cities of Islamabad and Rawalpindi near the Kashmir Highway and Motorway Interchange.

The airport commenced full operations on 3 May 2018, replacing the defunct Benazir Bhutto International Airport which now forms part of the Pakistan Air Force Base Nur Khan.

[[International Air Transport Association]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation

The International Air Transport Association is an international industry trade group of airlines. It is headquartered in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, where the International Civil Aviation Organization also is. The main goal of the organization is to assist airline companies to achieve lawful competition and uniformity in prices.

[[Indian Sign Language]]

CATEGORIES: Sign languages, Languages of India, Languages of Pakistan

Indian Sign Language (ISL) is possibly the predominant sign language variety in South Asia, used by at least several hundred thousand deaf signers (2003).

[[1935–36 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 in North America, 1936 in North America

The 1935–36 NHL season was the 19th season of the National Hockey League (NHL). Eight teams each played 48 games. The Detroit Red Wings were the Stanley Cup winners as they beat the Toronto Maple Leafs three games to one in the final series.

[[Coppins]]

CATEGORIES: Royal residences in the United Kingdom

Coppins is an English country house in the village of Iver in Buckinghamshire. It was changed for Princess Victoria, a daughter of King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra. After her father's death, Princess Victoria stayed with Queen Alexandra at Sandringham House as her mother's companion. After Queen Alexandra's death in 1925, Princess Victoria moved into Coppins, which had a "relaxed air of a holiday villa". Victoria lived for another ten years, dying at Coppins on 2 December 1935, aged 67. She left the house to her nephew, Prince George, the Duke of Kent, and his wife Princess Marina. It was owned by the Kent family for two generations, and was sold in 1973 to Commander Eli Gottlieb.

[[Bagshot Park]]

CATEGORIES: Royal residences in the United Kingdom

Bagshot Park (Grid reference: 490816_164304) is a royal residence. It is eleven miles south of Windsor. It is located in Bagshot, Surrey, and is the current home and official residence of Prince Edward, the Earl of Wessex and Sophie, Countess of Wessex. Bagshot Park is a few miles from Sunninghill Park, the former home of Prince Andrew, Duke of York. 

[[Balmoral Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Royal residences in the United Kingdom, Castles in Scotland

Balmoral Castle is a royal residence in Aberdeenshire, Scotland. It was purchased by Prince Albert, Queen Victoria's husband, in 1848. Victoria and Albert paid £300,000 for full ownership of the house in 1852. Queen Victoria laid the foundation stone in 1853, signed a parchment recording the date, and placed it in the hole prepared for the stone. Today, Balmoral is owned privately by the royal family, and is one of Queen Elizabeth II's favourite summer retreats. 

[[Beech]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites, Fagales

The Beech is a large tree in the genus Fagus in the plant family Fagaceae. There are about 10 species, all native to Europe, Asia, and North America.

The flowers are small and single-sex (monoecious), the female flowers are carried in pairs, the male flowers are wind-pollinating catkins, produced in spring shortly after the new leaves appear. The bark is smooth and light grey. The fruit is a small, sharply three–anglend nut 10–15 mm long. The nuts are edible, though bitter (though not nearly as bitter as acorns). They have a high tannin content, and are called beechnuts or beechmast.

Beech grows on a wide range of soil types, acid or basic, provided they are not wet for long periods. The tree canopy casts a heavy shade, and the leaves, when dropped, cover the ground thickly. Few plant grow under beech trees.

In North America, they often form Beech-Maple forests by growing together with the Sugar Maple.

[[Fagales]]

CATEGORIES: Fagales

The Fagales are an order of flowering plants, including some of the best known trees. The order name is derived from genus Fagus, Beeches. They belong among the rosid group of dicotyledons. The families currently included are as follows:

[[Bioethics]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine, Ethics

Bioethics is a field of ethics in philosophy that studies the ethical, legal and social issues in medicine and biology. It is often used to study how the new discoveries in science will affect humans, animals and nature.

[[Caricaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Plant families, Brassicales

Caricaceae is a family of flowering plants in the order Brassicales, found in tropical regions of Central and South America and Africa. They are short-lived evergreen pachycaul shrubs or small trees growing to 5–10 m tall; many bear edible fruit.

The family comprises six genera and about 34-35 species:

[[Pollen]]

CATEGORIES: Flowers, Plant anatomy

Pollen is a powder made of pollen grains, which produce sperm cells (male cells used for reproduction) of seed plants. The pollen grains are actually haploid male gametophytes.

[[We Ski]]

CATEGORIES: Wii games, Wii-only games, 2008 video games

We Ski, also known as Family Ski in Japan and Europe is a video game for the Wii. It is the first third-party game (and second game behind Wii Fit) released that makes use of the Wii Balance Board.

A sequel, We Ski & Snowboard, which adds snowboarding to the game, was released in Japan November 13, 2008.

[[Denison, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, 1872 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Texas

Denison is a city in Grayson County, Texas, United States. The amount of people living there was 22,773 at the 2000 census, but had increased to an estimated amount of 24,103 in July 2007. It is one of two principal cities in the Sherman-Denison Metropolitan Statistical Area.

The city of Denison was founded in 1872 in conjunction with the MKT or "Katy" depot It was named after the rich Katy vice President George DenisonBecause the town was made at the intersection of the MKT and the Red River (both important conduits of transportation in the industrial era), it came to be an important commercial center in the 19th century American West.

[[Mentha]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae, Herbs

Mentha (mint) is a genus of about 25 species (and many hundreds of varieties) of flowering plants in the family Lamiaceae (Mint Family). Mint leaves are used for flavoring, such as in mint chocolate chip ice cream, mint chutney, and mint tea.

[[Lamiales]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiales

The order Lamiales is a taxon in the asterid group of dicotyledonous flowering plants. It includes about 11,000 species divided up into about 10 families. A few well-known members of this order are the lavender, the lilac, the olive, the jasmine, the ash tree, the teak, the snapdragon, and a number of table herbs such as mint, basil, and rosemary.

[[Lamiaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae

Lamiaceae or Labiatae, also known as the mint family, is a family of plants. It includes about 210 genera and about 3,500 species. It has been considered closely related to Verbenaceae but 1990s phylogenetic studies have shown that a lot of the genera classified in Verbenaceae belong instead in Lamiaceae, whereas the core genera of Verbenaceae are not closely related to Lamiaceae and are more closely related to other members of the Lamiales.

[[Nepeta]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae

Nepeta is a genus of about 250 species of flowering plants in the family Lamiaceae. 

Some members of this group are known as catnip or catmint because of their effect on house cats. The oil in the leaves of some Nepeta species gives cats euphoria, that is, it makes them feel good. They get a "high", roll around, and may cry out, jump and behave in an unusual way.

[[Garden angelica]]

CATEGORIES: Apiaceae

Garden angelica (Angelica archangelica; syn. Archangelica officinalis Hoffm., Archangelica officinalis var. himalaica C.B.Clarke, Angelica sativa Mill.) is a biennial plant from the umbelliferous family Apiaceae. Other English names are Holy Ghost, Wild Celery, and Norwegian angelica.  

People can eat the stem and roots.  It looks very similar to some poisonous species (Conium, Heracleum, and others).  Because of this it is important to know for certain it is garden angelica before eating it.

During its first year it only grows leaves.  The flowers blossom in July.  There are many small flowers that are yellowish or greenish in colour.

It grows wild in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Iceland, mostly in the northern parts of the countries.

From the 10th century on, angelica was grown as a vegetable and medicinal plant.  It is used to flavour liqueurs or aquavits, omelettes, trout and jam. The long bright green stems are also candied and used as decoration.

[[Rosemary]]

CATEGORIES: Herbs, Lamiaceae

Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis) is a woody, perennial herb with fragrant evergreen needle-like leaves. It is native to the Mediterranean region. It is a member of the mint family Lamiaceae, which also includes many other herbs.

[[Liquorice]]

CATEGORIES: Faboideae, Spices

Liquorice (UK) or licorice (US) (see spelling differences) (ˈlɪkərɪʃ, ˈlɪkərɪs, ˈlɪkrɪʃ, or /ˈlɪkrɪs/) is the root of Glycyrrhiza glabra, from which a sweet flavour can be extracted. The liquorice plant is a legume (related to beans and peas) and native to southern Europe and parts of Asia. It is an herbaceous perennial, growing to 1 m in height, with pinnate leaves about 7–15 centimetres (3–6 inches) long, with 9–17 leaflets. The flowers are 0.8–1.2 cm (1/3 to 1/2 inch) long, purple to pale whitish blue, produced in a loose inflorescence. The fruit is an oblong pod, 2–3 centimetres (about 1 inch) long, containing several seeds.

[[Faboideae]]

CATEGORIES: Faboideae

Faboideae is a subfamily of the flowering plant family Fabaceae or Leguminosae. An acceptable alternative name for the subfamily is Papilionoideae, or Papilionaceae when this group of plants is treated as a family.

This subfamily is widely distributed and members are adapted to a wide variety of environments. Faboideae may be trees, shrubs or herbs. The flowers are usually papilionaceous and root nodulation is very common. Vetch, Laburnum, and Sweet pea are all members of Faboideae.

[[Galegeae]]

CATEGORIES: Faboideae

Galegeae is a tribe of the subfamily Faboideae.  The tribe is found mostly in the northern hemisphere, but can also be found in Australia, Africa, and South America.  The type genus is Galega.

[[Glycyrrhiza]]

CATEGORIES: Faboideae, Medicinal plants

Glycyrrhiza is a genus of about 18 species in the family Fabaceae (Leguminosae). It is found in Asia, Australia, Europe, and the Americas. It is best known for liquorice (British English; licorice in American English), which is the product of G. glabra, a species from the Mediterranean region. Very little G. glabra is grown in North America, but American Licorice G. lepidota is a common native species there.  Russian Liquorice (G. echinata) and  Chinese Liquorice (G. uralensis, Chinese: gāncǎo, 甘草 lit. "sweet grass" or "sweet herb") are also grown, the latter being important in traditional Chinese medicine.

Species include:

[[Cumin]]

CATEGORIES: Apiaceae, Spices

Cumin (Cuminum cyminum) ˈkʌmɪn sometimes spelled cummin is a flowering plant, native from the east Mediterranean to East India. Its seeds are used in the cuisines of many different cultures. The use of cumin is very common in Indian and Pakistani foods.

[[Savory (herb)]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae, Herbs

Satureja is a genus of aromatic plants of the family Lamiaceae, related to rosemary and thyme. There are about 30 species called savories, of which Summer Savory and Winter Savory are the most important in cultivation.

[[Superchunk]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, American punk bands, Indie rock bands, Musical groups from North Carolina

Superchunk is an American indie rock band.  Superchunk first came together in 1989 in Chapel Hill, North Carolina with Mac McCaughan singing and playing guitar, Laura Balance playing bass, Jack McCook playing guitar and Chuck Garrison playing drums.  The members of the band are now Mac McCaughan, Laura Balance,  Jon Wurster playing drums and Jim Wilbur playing guitar.

Superchunk is well known for their style of loud and fairly simple songs that are about things that happen in ordinary life.

For their self-titled first album, Superchunk was signed to Matador Records.  Starting with their next album, No Pocky for Kitty, they have released all of their albums on a label they made themselves called Merge Records.

[[Semi-automatic]]

Semi-automatic may mean:

[[Semi-automatic firearm]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms

A semi-automatic, or self-loading firearm is a gun that requires only a trigger pull for each round that is fired, unlike a single-action revolver, a pump-action firearm, a bolt-action firearm, or a lever-action firearm, which require the shooter to manually chamber each successive round.  Also, unlike a double-action revolver, power from one shot is used load the next, instead of using power from pulling the trigger.

[[Semi-automatic rifle]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles

A semi-automatic rifle is a type of rifle that fires a single bullet each time the trigger is pulled, without the need manually to operate a bolt, lever, pump or other firing or loading mechanism. Such a rifle can fire single rounds like this until the firearm's bullets in the cartridges is gone. On the other hand, a fully automatic weapon (a machine gun, for example) keeps firing until the trigger is released, and can fire hundreds of shots for every trigger press.

[[Bolt action]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms

A bolt action gun has a breech (back part of the barrel) that is opened and closed by hand with a small handle. They can only be fired once before the breech must be opened for a new round to enter the chamber, where it can then be fired from. Many older sniper rifles, as well as many hunting rifles today, work in this way.

When the bolt is opened, the first cartridge in the gun is loaded.  After firing the gun, opening the bolt takes out the empty cartridge, and closing the bolt puts in a new one. Bolt action rifles are usually the most accurate type of small arms, leading them to be used widely as marksman rifles.  The rifle won't cycle a round without the shooter doing it manually, causing less movement of parts and gases while the round is being fired.  This improves accuracy, but also increases recoil compared to automatic rifles of the same caliber.

Despite being significantly slower to fire than lever-action rifles, which were invented around the same time, militaries across the world chose to replace their muzzleloader muskets with bolt action guns rather than lever action ones, because bolt action rifles are loaded over the barrel.  This allows easier loading by a shooter lying on the ground, without affecting aim.  With lever action guns, on the other hand, the ground is in the way of loading downwards, and to load the gun would mean to throw off the shooter's aim since the gun must be turned sideways.

Famous bolt action rifles include the Springfield M1903, the G98, the Lee-Enfield, and the Mosin-Nagant.

[[Trigger]]

Trigger may mean:

In psychology and ethology:

In computing:

In physics:

In music:

[[Trigger (firearms)]]

CATEGORIES: Firearm components

A trigger is a mechanism that you pull on a firearm to shoot. Triggers almost always have levers or buttons for the index finger.

[[Afghanistan War]]

The terms Afghan War or War in Afghanistan may mean:

[[Diatomic molecules]]

CATEGORIES: Stereochemistry

Diatomic molecules are molecules made only of two atoms, of either the same or different chemical elements.

Two atoms are bonded together to form a unit known as a diatomic molecule.

Examples are hydrogen (H2), nitrogen (N2) and oxygen (O2), and carbon monoxide (CO). 

[[Fragile Future]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Hawthorne Heights albums

Fragile Future is the third album by Hawthorne Heights. It was released in 2008. It was their first album without Casey Calvert, because he died in late 2007. Casey was the backing vocalist who used death growls in the songs. This album has no death growls or harsh vocals at all because the band decided not to replace Casey with a new person who could do death growls.

Hawthorne Heights did not have a lot of success on the singles, but it was seen as a new start for the band.

While much of the album was inspired by things that had been happening to the band, it never says the words "Casey" or "Victory Records"

The album art includes a picture of Casey Calvert near a lamppost.

[[Dundalk]]

CATEGORIES: County towns in Ireland, County Louth

Dundalk (Dún Dealgan) is a town in County Louth, Republic of Ireland, near the border with Northern Ireland. It takes its name from Dún Dealgan, "Dalga's fort" and officially became a town in 1189. It is located at a ford on the Castletown River. The town's crest reads "Mé do rug Cú Chulainn Cróga"  (I gave birth to brave Cú Chulainn)

Dundalk is twinned with the town of Rezé in France.

Dundalk has a large population of 29,037 inhabitants.http://www.cso.ie/census/documents/census2006_volume_1_pop_classified_by_area.pdf  In 2003, Dundalk was amongst nine cities and towns to be given "Gateway status" in the Irish Government's "National Spatial Strategy". "Gateway towns" will be the first to get funding for improving their towns.

[[County Louth]]

CATEGORIES: County Louth

County Louth (Contae Lú) is a county on the east coast of Ireland, on the border with Northern Ireland.

The county town is Dundalk, which is also the largest town in Louth. Most people that live in Louth live in the two biggest towns, Dundalk and Drogheda. The 2006 Census showed that Dundalk and Drogheda as not only the largest towns in the Louth, but also the second and third largest towns in Ireland.

Louth is nicknamed "the Wee County" because it is the smallest county in Ireland ("wee" means small).

[[Robot Chicken]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 American television series debuts, 2000s American comedy television series, 2000s satirical television series, 2010s American comedy television series, 2010s satirical television series, Adult Swim, American animated television series, American satirical television series, English-language television programs

Robot Chicken is an American adult animated stop-motion sketch comedy television series. It is shown on a part of Cartoon Network called Adult Swim. It was created by Seth Green and Matthew Senreich.

[[Victor Hammer (businessman)]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1985 deaths, People from New York City, American philanthropists

Victor Hammer (1901 in New York City - July 21, 1985), was a businessman, founder and owner of the famed Hammer Galleries in New York City, and the younger brother of Armand Hammer.

Victor attended Princeton University, where he graduated in 1921 with a degree in Art History.

Victor was business partner to his brother Armand Hammer on several business ventures, including Hammer Galleries in New York City, founded in 1928 as a way to funnel profits made in Soviet Russia out of that country.  At one point, British Intelligence believed Hammer Galleries was a front for Soviet Intelligence.  The Hammer brothers had been in contact with Soviet authorities for a number of reasons, such as famine relief as well as when the Soviets sought a buyer for the treasures of the Hermitage as a way to earn hard currency.  Victor was responsible for acquisitions for Hammer Galleries, including the so-called Romanov Treasures and Fabergé eggs.  In 1937, Time Magazine described Victor and Armand as "Two of the most startling characters in the U. S. art world are the Brothers Armand and Victor Hammer, one with a medical degree, both friends of Soviet Russia.".

Victor Hammer was a prolific philanthropist.  He, along with his brothers Harry and Armand, purchased Campobello Island and donated it to the US and Canada as the countries' first joint park, known as Roosevelt Campobello International Park

[[MySims]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, Nintendo DS games, Windows games, The Sims, Wii games

MySims is a video game for the Wii and Nintendo DS.

[[The Sun (United Kingdom)]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 establishments in the United Kingdom, Newspapers published in the United Kingdom, English-language newspapers

The Sun is a tabloid daily newspaper published in the United Kingdom and Ireland. By circulation it is the eighth largest newspaper in any language in the world. It is published by News Group Newspapers of News International, itself a subsidiary of Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. The Sun has many different categories, for example Sport.

There is also a Scottish (The Scottish Sun), Irish (The Irish Sun) and Polish (the Polski Sun) edition. 

[[M2 Browning]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy machine guns, Machine guns of the United States

The M2 Machine Gun, or Browning .50 Caliber Machine Gun is a heavy machine gun. It was nicknamed Ma Deuce by US troops or simply called "fifty-cal." due to its caliber.

John Moses Browning (1855–1926) of Ogden, Utah, was the inventor. His military arms were considered to be outstanding. German Field Marshal Hermann Göring said, "If the Luftwaffe (German Air Force) had the Browning .50-caliber, the Battle of Britain would have turned out differently". 

Browning began work on the .50-caliber machine gun in July 1917 and it was introduced in 1918. It was a belt-fed, automatic weapon that came in both air-cooled and water-cooled versions. The gun was capable of single-shot or fully automatic fire. The U.S. Army, Army Air Forces, and Navy all adopted it immediately. 

The Browning .50 caliber machine gun has been used as a vehicle weapon and for aircraft by the United States from the 1920s to the present day. It was used during World War II, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, as well as during operations in Iraq in the 1990s and 2000s. It is the primary heavy machine gun of NATO countries, and has been used by many other countries. It is still in use today, with only a few modern improvements. Right now, it is the longest serving machine gun in the US military.

[[Stealth]]

Stealth may refer to:

Stealth technology, technology used to conceal ships, aircraft, and missiles

[[Stealth technology]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft

Stealth technology also known as LOT (Low Observability Technology) is a sub-discipline of military (like Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine, Coast Guard and National Guard in the North American United States) electronic countermeasures which covers a range of techniques used with aircraft, ships and missiles, in order to make them less visible. 

For example, stealth technology was developed to make aircraft difficult to detect with radar. 

[[Pakistan Peoples Party Parliamentarians]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Pakistan

The Pakistan People's Party Parliamentarians (PPPP) is a political party created by Makhdoom Amin Fahim. The party is an electoral extension of the Pakistan Peoples Party.

[[Bangladesh Nationalist Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Bangladesh, Nationalist organizations in Bangladesh

Bangladesh Nationalist Party (Bengali: বাংলাদেশ জাতীয়তাবাদী দল Bangladesh Jatiotabadi Dôl, BNP) is the immediate past ruling political party of Bangladesh.

[[Rosmarinus]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae

Rosmarinus is a small genus of woody, perennial herb with fragrant evergreen needle-like leaves in the family Lamiaceae, native to the Mediterranean region.

[[Apiales]]

CATEGORIES: Asterids

The Apiales are an order of flowering plants. The families given at right are typical of newer classifications, though there is some slight variation, and in particular the Torriceliaceae may be divided. These families are placed within the asterid group of dicotyledons.

[[Apiaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Apiaceae

The Apiaceae or Umbelliferae is a family of mostly aromatic plants with hollow stems. They are umbellifers. 

The family includes cumin, parsley, carrot, coriander/cilantro, dill, caraway, fennel, parsnip, celery, anise, Queen Anne's Lace and other relatives. It is a large family with about 300 genera and more than 3,000 species.

The family has a number of food plants, and some poisonous plants. Several poisonous plants go by the name of hemlock, and have rather similar paralysing effects. The chemical is  "photoactive": when it absorbs light, the absorbed energy produces molecular changes that cause toxicity (phototoxicity). 

[[Angelica]]

CATEGORIES: Apiaceae, Herbs

Angelica is a genus of about 50 species of tall biennial and perennial herbs in the family Apiaceae, native to temperate and subarctic regions of the Northern Hemisphere, reaching as far North as Iceland and Lapland. They grow to 1-3 m tall, with large bipinnate leaves and large compound umbels of white or greenish-white flowers. 

[[Blephilia]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae

Blephilia (Downy Pagoda Plant or Wood Mint) is a genus of three species of flowering plants in the family Lamiaceae. They are all herbaceous plants native to eastern North America. The species are most often found in thin woods and in granite and limestone soils. Blephilia hirsuta and Blephilia ciliata are considered threatened or endangered in some states.

[[Ballota]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae

Ballota (horehound) is a genus of about 35 species of flowering plants in the family Lamiaceae, native to temperate regions of Europe, north Africa and western Asia, with the highest diversity in the Mediterranean region. They are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera including Coleophora case-bearers: C. ballotella, C. lineolea (which has been recorded on B. nigra) and C. ochripennella.

[[Agastache]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae, Herbs, Medicinal plants

Agastache, is a genus of 9–12 species of perennial herbs in the family Lamiaceae, native to eastern Asia (one species) and North America (the rest).

[[Acrocephalus (plant)]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae

Acrocephalus is a genus of plants in the family Lamiaceae, containing about 130 species.

[[Acinos]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae

Acinos is a genus of ten species of annual and short-lived evergreen perennial woody plants native to southern Europe and western Asia. Its name comes from the Greek word akinos, the name of a small aromatic plant. They are small, tufted, bushy or spreading plants growing to 10–45 cm tall. The 2-lipped, tubular flowers are borne on erect sprikes in mid-summer.

[[Acanthomintha]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae

Acanthomintha is a genus of the Lamiaceae, or mint family.  The Acanthomintha genus is commonly referred to as Thornmint.  There are a number of species within this genus, including the endangered species Acanthomintha duttonii. All four thornmints are native to the California Floristic Province.  The origin of the genus name is from the identical Greek word meaning thornmint.

There are four species of Acanthomintha:

[[Franz von Papen]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1969 deaths, Chancellors of the Weimar Republic, Ambassadors of Germany, German military personnel of World War I, German Roman Catholics, Government ministers of Nazi Germany, Majors, Members of the Reichstag (Nazi Germany), Members of the Reichstag (Weimar Republic), Prime Ministers of Prussia, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia, Politicians of the Nazi Party, Vice Chancellors of Germany

Franz Joseph Hermann Michael Maria von Papen zu Köningen (29 October 1879 - 2 May 1969) was a German nobleman, Catholic monarchist politician, General Staff officer, and diplomat. He was Chancellor of Germany in 1932 and as Vice Chancellor of Germany in 1933-1934. He was a member of the Catholic Centre Party of Germany until 1932. 

Papen was one the people who believed and said that they (the conservative elite and the military) could control Adolf Hitler when he becomes Chancellor of Germany; and was responsible for his rise to power along with Reich President Paul von Hindenburg, when he persuaded Hindenburg, that the other alternative to Hitler was Communist rule, which they saw as more dangerous. 

As a result, Hindenburg appointed Hitler as Chancellor on 30 January 1933. But von Papen's belief in controlling Hitler and his assurances to Hindenburg did not happen, because Hitler started to control them and gain more power. In March Hindenburg signed the Enabling Act of 1933 which gave special powers to Hitler and his government, and he became a dictator. Von Papen and the conservatives lost all influence, though most of them stayed as members in Hitler's cabinet with no powers, until the fall of the Third Reich.

Before and during World War II he was an ambassador, from 1934 to 1938 in Austria, and from 1939 to 1944 in Turkey.

Von Papen was one of the 24 people charged at the Nuremberg Trials. The court decided he was not guilty.

[[Lemon balm]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae, Herbs

Lemon balm (Melissa officinalis) is a perennial herb in the mint family Lamiaceae, native to southern Europe and the Mediterranean region. It grows to 70–150 cm tall. The leaves have a gentle lemon scent, related to mint. At the end of the summer, little white flowers full of nectar appear and attract bees.  Its flavour comes from the terpenes citronellal, citronellol, citral, and geraniol.

[[Bronchitis]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems, Respiratory system

Bronchitis is inflammation of the bronchi caused by irritation. It may also refer to acute bronchitis or chronic bronchitis. It can be caused by infection or other causes such as smoking, or being exposed to cigarettes.

[[Kashmiri people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in India

The Kashmiri people are a Dardic ethnic group living in the central valley of Kashmir in the disputed state of Jammu and Kashmir. They speak the Kashmiri language. Kashmiri is an Indo-Aryan language. The Kashmiris are also known as Koshur.

There are about 7.1 million people speaking the Kashmiri language. About 6.7 million of them live in Jammu and Kashmir, and about 350,000 in Azad Kashmir and the Federally Administered Northern Areas (FANA) in Pakistan.  Although all residents of Azad Kashmir call themselves 'Kashmiri', most residents of Azad Kashmir are not ethnic Kashmiris.

[[Hastings]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in East Sussex

Hastings is a town on the coast of East Sussex in England. It is the administrative centre for the borough of the same name.

50.85971044158446Hastings gave its name to the Battle of Hastings in 1066.

[[Malvern College]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, 1865 establishments in England

Malvern College is a coeducational British public School, founded in 1865. It is in Malvern, Worcestershire.

[[UN peacekeeping missions involving Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan

UN peacekeeping missions involving Pakistan covers a long and cherished history of Pakistani involvement with the United Nations. Pakistan joined the United Nations on 30th September, 1947. Since 1960, Pakistan has been actively involved in most of the UN Peacekeeping missions and today stands at the top with 10,175 troops and observers serving in current missions. Some of the major contributions were in Somalia, Sierra Leone, Bosnia, Congo and Liberia.

[[Pakistan Army]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Pakistan, Armies

The Pakistan Army (پاک فوج) is the largest branch of the Pakistani military set up, and is mainly responsible for protection of the state borders, the security of administered territories and for defending the national interests of Pakistan within the framework of its international obligations.

The main fighting regiments of the Pakistan Army comprise the Infantry and the Armoured Corps. The main Infantry regiments of the army are:

Armoured Corps units include:

The Pakistan Army, along with the Pakistan Navy and the Pakistan Air Force, combine to make the world's sixth largest military force.

Every year in Pakistan, 6 September is celebrated as 'Defence of Pakistan Day', or 'Pakistan Army Day'.

[[Web of the City]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 books, Books by Harlan Ellison, Brooklyn in fiction

Web of the City (first called Rumble) is the first book that was written by Harlan Ellison.  The book follows the story of Rusty Santoro, a teenage member of the Cougars street gang in the 1950s Brooklyn, New York.  In order to create the book, Ellison spent time in a real street gang in Brooklyn.

[[Pakistani military]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Pakistan

The Pakistan Armed Forces (پاک عسکری) are the overall unified military forces of Pakistan. The Pakistani military was first formed when the nation achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1947.

Its component branches are:

Approximately 620,000 people are on active duty in the military which is the world's 7th largest armed force as of 2007. Combined with the 302,000 strong Paramilitary forces and the Coast Guard, the Military of Pakistan has a total size of nearly 1,000,000 people.

[[Pakistan Navy]]

CATEGORIES: Navies, Military of Pakistan

Pakistan Navy (پاک بحریہ) is the naval branch of the military of Pakistan. It is responsible for the defense Pakistan's 1046 coastline along the Arabian Sea and the defense of important harbors. It operates a wide range of ships ranging from cruisers to destroyers as well as submarines. Navy day is celebrated on September 8 in commemoration of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965.

[[Spider Kiss]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 books, Books by Harlan Ellison, English-language novels

Spider Kiss (first called Rockabilly) is a 1961 book that was written by Harlan Ellison.  The story follows the fast rise and fall of an early rock 'n' roll singer named Stag Preston.

[[Pakistan Air Force]]

CATEGORIES: Air forces, Military of Pakistan

Pakistan Air Force (پاک فضائیہ, Pak Faza'ya) (PAF) is the Aviation branch of the Pakistan armed forces and is responsible for defending Pakistani air-space from intrusions. It also provides air support for ground troops. Every year on the 7th of September, the day after the annual celebration of the Pakistan Defense Day, the day is celebrated as the Air Force day in Pakistan. That day air shows and other programs mark the PAF's role in defending the nation.

[[The Vines]]

CATEGORIES: Australian alternative rock bands, Post-grunge bands, Musical groups from Sydney

The Vines are an Australian garage rock band from Sydney, Australia, notable for creating a musical combination of '60s rock and '90s alternative music. They have won an ARIA in 2002 for Breakthrough Artist and received nominations for six other awards in the same amount of years.

They also appeared on the cover of Rolling Stone in October 2002 (the first Australian band to do so since Men At Work in 1983) with the words "Rock is Back: meet the Vines" boldly emblazed underneath.

[[The Libertines]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 establishments in England, 2004 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, English rock bands, Musical groups established in 1997, Musical groups from London

The Libertines were an indie rock band from London, England.  They were formed in 1997 and broke up in 2004. The Libertines released two albums. Their second album The Libertines went straight to number one in the UK. It is in the book 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die. The first single from the album, "Can't Stand Me Now", reached number two in the UK Singles Chart.

[[The Hives]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish rock music groups, Punk bands

The Hives are a Swedish rock band that started in 1993 but rose to fame in the early 2000s as a leading group of the garage rock revival, playing garage punk. Their breakthrough came with the release of the "best-of" compilation Your New Favourite Band, featuring their most commercially successful song "Hate to Say I Told You So".

[[Interpol (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, Musical groups established in 1997, Musical groups from New York City

Interpol is an alternative rock band from New York City. Popular songs include Evil, PDA and NYC. The band's current members are Paul Banks, Daniel Kessler, and Sam Fogarino. Bassist Carlos Dengler departed the band in 2010.

[[Editors]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands

[[A Clash of Kings]]

CATEGORIES: A Song of Ice and Fire, 1998 books, 20th century American novels, Fantasy books

A Clash of Kings is the second of seven planned books in A Song of Ice and Fire, a fantasy series written by George R. R. Martin. It was first released on 16 November 1998 in the United Kingdom, but the first United States edition did not come out until March 1999. It won the Locus Award in 1999 for Best Novel and was nominated for the Nebula Award in 2000 for Best Novel.

[[A Storm of Swords]]

CATEGORIES: A Song of Ice and Fire, 2000 books

A Storm of Swords is the third of seven planned books in A Song of Ice and Fire, a fantasy series written by George R. R. Martin. It was first released on 8 August 2000 in the United Kingdom, and in November 2000 in the United States.

A Storm of Swords won the 2001 Locus Award and 2002 Geffen Award for Best Novel and was nominated for the 2002 Nebula Award for Best Novel. It was also put up for the Hugo Award, but it lost to JK Rowling's novel Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.

[[A Feast for Crows]]

CATEGORIES: A Song of Ice and Fire, 2005 books, 21st century American novels, Fantasy books

A Feast for Crows is the fourth of seven planned books in A Song of Ice and Fire, a fantasy series written by George R. R. Martin. The book was first released on 17 October 2005 in the United Kingdom, and in the United States on 8 November 2005.

Like A Storm of Swords, A Feast for Crows was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Novel,  and was also the first book in the series to get to the top of the New York Times bestseller list.

[[Zest (ingredient)]]

CATEGORIES: Food ingredients, Citrus

Zest is the outer skin of citrus fruit. Cooks use it to add strong flavor to foods.

[[Paprika]]

CATEGORIES: Spices

Paprika is a spice made from the grinding of dried sweet red bell peppers. The word comes from a Turkish word meaning "pepper". In many non-English speaking European countries, the word paprika also refers to bell peppers themselves.  The seasoning is used in many cuisines to add color and flavor to cooked foods.

[[Clove]]

CATEGORIES: Myrtaceae, Spices, Indonesia, Herbs, Medicinal plants

[[Myrtales]]

CATEGORIES: Myrtales

The Myrtales are an order of flowering plants. They are a basal group of dicotyledons.  

[[Myrtaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Myrtaceae

The Myrtaceae or Myrtle family are a family of dicotyledon plants, placed within the order Myrtales. Myrtle, clove, guava, feijoa, allspice, and Eucalyptus belong here. All species are woody, with essential oils, and flower parts in multiples of four or five. One notable character of the family is that the phloem is on both sides of the xylem, not just outside as in most other plants. The leaves are evergreen, alternate to mostly opposite, simple, and usually with an entire (not toothed) margin. The flowers have a base number of five petals, though in several genera the petals are minute or absent. The stamens are usually very conspicuous, brightly colored, and there are many of them.

[[Government of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan

The Government of Pakistan (حکومتِ پاکستان), uses a federal parliamentary system, with a President as the Head of State and an indirectly-elected Prime Minister as the Head of Government.

[[Syzygium]]

CATEGORIES: Myrtaceae

Syzygium is a genus of flowering plants, belonging to the myrtle family Myrtaceae. The genus comprises about 1100 species, and has a native range that extends from Africa and Madagascar through southern Asia east through the Pacific.

[[Junoon (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Rock bands, Pakistani entertainers

Junoon (جنون, meaning "obsession" in Urdu and "madness" in Arabic) is one of Pakistan's most popular rock bands. It is from the city of Lahore. It was formed in 1990 by guitarist/songwriter/medical doctor Salman Ahmad. It comes in the genre of Sufi rock.

[[Transportation in Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Pakistan

Transportation in Pakistan is extensive and varied but still in its developing stages. It serves a population of over 170 million people. Construction of new airports, roads, and railway provides jobs for many people.

[[List of companies based in Tulsa, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Tulsa, Oklahoma, Oklahoma-related lists

Companies headquartered in Tulsa, Oklahoma

This list is very out of date and incomplete.

[[ONEOK]]

CATEGORIES: Tulsa, Oklahoma, 1906 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in Oklahoma Territory

ONEOK, Inc. (pronounced like 'one oak') (OKE) is a diversified Fortune 200 corporation based in Tulsa, Oklahoma.  Founded in 1906 as Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, it is one of the largest natural gas distributors in the United States.

[[Ashley Force]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American racecar drivers, Yorba Linda, California, Sportspeople from California

Ashley Force (born November 29, 1982) is a funny car drag racer. She is the daughter of 14-time NHRA Funny Car division champion John Force and his wife Laurie Force.

[[Cottontail rabbit]]

CATEGORIES: Lagomorphs, Mammals of North America, Mammals of South America

Cottontail rabbits live in America. They are any of several North, Central and South American rabbit species of the genus Sylvilagus.

[[Selhurst Park]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in London

Selhurst Park is a football stadium in the London Borough of Croydon. It is home to Crystal Palace Football Club.

[[Zack de la Rocha]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Singers from California, People from Long Beach, California

Zack de la Rocha (born January 12, 1970) is the lead singer of American rock band Rage Against the Machine.  He was born in Long Beach, California.

[[Fire triangle]]

CATEGORIES: Fire

The fire triangle is used to show the rule that a fire needs three things to burn. These things are heat, fuel, and oxygen. If one of these three is removed, the fire will be put out. In the middle of the fire triangle there is also a chemical reaction.

Without heat, a fire cannot begin. If fire becomes cool enough, it will not keep burning. Heat can be removed by using water. This only works on some types of fire. Separating burning fuels from each other can also reduce the heat. In forest fires, burning logs are separated and placed into safe areas where there is no other fuel. Turning off the electricity in an electrical fire removes the heat source, but other fuels may have caught fire. They will continue burning until the firefighters deal with them and their fire triangles. Without oxygen, a fire can not start. Oxygen may be removed from a fire by covering it in some way. Some foams and heavy gases (for example, carbon dioxide) are often used for this. The fire can also be closed off away from a source of oxygen. Once all the oxygen in the closed off area is used by the fire, it will go out if it cannot get more oxygen because it needs oxygen.

[[Modus ponens]]

CATEGORIES: Rules of inference

Modus ponendo ponens  is a valid, simple argument form in classical logic sometimes referred to as affirming the antecedent or the law of detachment. It is closely related to another valid form of argument, modus tollens or denying the consequent.

Modus ponens is a very common rule of inference, and takes the following form: 

[[Angelo State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Texas, 1928 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in Texas

Angelo State University is a public university in San Angelo, Texas. It started in 1928. As of 2008, it had about 6,150 students.

The sports teams at Angelo State are called Rams for the men and Rambelles for the women.

[[Nicaragua]]

CATEGORIES: Nicaragua, Spanish-speaking countries

Nicaragua is a country in Central America. It is officially called the Republic of Nicaragua (República de Nicaragua). It has a size of 129,494 square kilometres. It is the largest country in Central America. It borders Honduras to the north and Costa Rica to the south. The capital of the country is Managua. Managua is the third-largest city in Central America. It is also the biggest city of Nicaragua. Almost a quarter of the population lives in the capital city. 

The population of Nicaragua is approximately 6 million. The population is multicultural. The population includes indigenous native tribes from the Miskito Coast, Europeans, Africans, and Asians. The main language is Spanish. Some native tribes on the eastern coast speak their native languages. Some of these languages are Miskito, Sumo, and Rama. Some people speak English Creole. Creole is a curious mix-match of English, Dutch, French, Portuguese and Spanish. It dates back to the days when pirates hid out among the islands and cays that make up the coastline. The mixture of cultures has created diversity in art and literature. Some famous Nicaraguan writers are Rubén Darío, Ernesto Cardenal, and Gioconda Belli. The International Poetry Festival held each February in Granada attracts poets and fans from all over the world. Unlike the majority of Latin American countries, Nicaraguans do not see soccer as their main sport. Baseball is king here, an influence from the years of United States occupation in the early 20th century. Music in Nicaragua is the same as elsewhere in the region. The traditional Latin styles like salsa and meringue rule. The Caribbean side has its own Caribbean Island vibe, as well as the traditional Garifuna Punta style. 

The biological diversity, warm tropical climate, and active volcanoes make Nicaragua an increasingly popular tourist destination.

[[Battle of the Bands]]

CATEGORIES: Music competitions

In music, a Battle of the Bands is a contest where many bands compete against each other to see who is the "best" band. Battles of the Bands are most common with rock music bands. The winner is usually chosen by judges or by the reaction of the audience to a band's performance. The winner can then receive a prize which could be money or a recording contract.

[[Lalon Shah Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Bangladesh, Bridges

'Lalon Shah Bridge is the second longest bridge in Bangladesh. Prime Minister Begum Khaleda Zia inaugurated the bridge at a ceremony held at Paksey. The bridge directly connects the north-western and south-western regions of the country by road. The river Padma had separated the two regions.

The 1.8 K.M long bridge has been constructed parallel to historic Hardinge Railway Bridge over the river Padma with the financial assistance from Japan. To construct the bridge, the Government of Japan through JBIC extended soft ODA Yen loan to Bangladesh in two phases. The first phase loan agreement was signed between Bangladesh and Japan on July 01, 1997 while the second phase loan agreement on March 31, 2001. The total cost of the bridge is US $ 184 million of which JBIC contributed US $ 141 million, which is about 80% of the total cost.

An inauguration ceremony was held at the bridge site at Paksey on May 18, 2004. Prime Minister Begum Khaleda Zia was the Chief Guest while Ambassador of Japan to Bangladesh H.E. Mr. Matsushiro Horiguchi spoke as the special guest. Mr. Ryutaro Koga, Deputy Director General of JBIC Tokyo read out the message from JBIC Governor Mr. Kyosuke Shinozawa in the ceremony. Mr. Tsutomu Uchida, Chief Representative of JBIC Dhaka was present, among others, in the function.

The Lalon Shah Bridge has some of the deepest concrete piles in the world and the longest continuous segmental deck in the world, erected by using the balanced cantilever technique.

[[Charlotte Moore Sitterly]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1990 deaths, American astronomers, Scientists from Pennsylvania

Charlotte Emma Moore Sitterly (September 24, 1898 – March 3, 1990) was an American astronomer.

Charlotte Moore was born in Ercildoun, Pennsylvania. She graduated from Swarthmore College in 1920 and went on to Princeton to assist Henry Norris Russell. During this time, she worked at the Princeton University Observatory and the Mt. Wilson Observatory. She worked much on solar spectroscopy, studying the spectral lines of the Sun and identifying the chemical elements in the Sun. She earned a Ph.D. in astronomy in 1931 from the University of California, Berkeley on a Lick Fellowship. She then returned to Princeton.

During her second stay at Princeton, she met and married Bancroft W. Sitterly, who became a physics professor. She joined the then National Bureau of Standards (NBS) in 1945. Her tables of atomic spectra and energy levels, published by NBS, have remained essential references in spectroscopy for decades.

Later in her life, it became possible to launch instruments on rockets and she extended her work to the ultraviolet spectral lines.

[[Widzew Łódź]]

CATEGORIES: Polish football clubs, Łódź, 1910 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Poland

Widzew Łódź is a Polish football (soccer) club from Łódź, Poland.

The club was started in 1910 and currently plays in the Polish First League. They have won the Polish league four times (1981, 1982, 1996 and 1997). Their official colours are red-white-red.

[[Palestinian territories]]

CATEGORIES: Palestinian territories, Palestine

The Palestinian territories usually refers to the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Their final status has yet to be determined. The territories were originally part of the Israeli Civil Administration, until the Oslo Accords in 1993. They were captured and occupied by Jordan and by Egypt in the late 1940s. Israel captured and occupied the areas in the Six-Day War in 1967.  Palestinian territories borders Jordan in the east, Israel in the west. It also borders Egypt on the southwest, which shares the maritime boundary of the Dead Sea.

After the Oslo Accords were signed in 1993, parts of the territories have been governed by the Palestinian National Authority (PNA). Both Israel and the PNA claim East Jerusalem, which was captured by Israel in 1967. In 1980, Israel made a law to include East Jerusalem as part of Israel. This has not been recognized by any other country. Part of the West Bank is ruled by the Israeli 'Judea and Samaria Civil Administration'. This has not been recognized by any other country.

Since the Palestinian Declaration of Independence in 1988, about 130 UN members have recognized the State of Palestine. Israel and the United States have not.

[[West Indies Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Former countries in North America, 1958 establishments in North America, 1962 disestablishments, 20th century disestablishments in North America

The West Indies Federation, also known as the Federation of the West Indies, was a short-lived Caribbean federation.  It lasted from January 3, 1958 to May 31, 1962. It was made of several Caribbean colonies of the United Kingdom. The expressed intention of the Federation was to make a political unit that would become independent from Britain as a single state—possibly similar to the Canadian Confederation, or Australian Federation. Before that could happen, the Federation collapsed due to internal political conflicts.

[[A Little Bit Longer]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums

A Little Bit Longer is the third hit studio album by American teen pop-rock band The Jonas Brothers. The album was released August 12, 2008 in the United States. The title of the album, A Little Bit Longer, comes from their song of the same name, which Nick Jonas wrote about his dealings with having type one diabetes. The album artwork was released by Team Jonas, the Jonas Brothers' official fan club, to fan club members via an e-mail newsletter on June 20, 2008. Like their last album, this one also features that includes more than 30 pages of bonus features with exclusive video performance, 60 printable photos, complete album lyrics, downloadable graphics, and hidden links. In addition, the packaging of the album is made from 100% recycled materials.

[[A Little Bit Longer (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs

A Little Bit Longer is a song by the pop band Jonas Brothers. The song is the last original track on the album A Little Bit Longer. 

[[Antioxidant]]

CATEGORIES: Health, Chemical processes

An antioxidant is a molecule that can slow or stop the oxidation, or electron transfer, of other molecules. 

Antioxidants can be found in food.

Antioxidants are molecules that relieve oxidative stress by preventing the formation and oxidation of free radicals. Antioxidants donate one of their electrons or hydrogen to free radicals, stopping their chain reaction. Found in our diet (for example, in vitamins) or formed inside our body (like enzymes), antioxidants can protect us from the damaging effects of free radicals.

The best way to combat free radicals is to have a diet of fresh fruits and vegetables, red wine, and green tea. These functional foods are rich in phytochemicals with antioxidant properties. Health supplements enriched with antioxidants are also now widely available.

[[Marshmallow]]

CATEGORIES: Desserts

Marshmallow is a candy that is made of sugar or corn syrup, water, gelatin that has been pre-softened in hot water, dextrose, and flavorings, whipped to a spongy consistency. Marshmallows are used in several types of candies, on foods, and on some drinks such as hot chocolate.

[[Coen brothers]]

CATEGORIES: American movie directors, Living people, American Jews, Writers from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Academy Award winning directors

Joel David Coen and Ethan Jesse Coen are movie directors, producers and screenwriters. They are brothers and always work together. They have won many awards including the Academy Award (Oscar) four times and the Palme d'Or at the Cannes International Film Festival. Their movies are different genres. They sometimes make movies that are funny like Raising Arizona or movies with a lot of violence like No Country for Old Men. They can also mix both styles like, for example in Fargo.

They write, direct and produce their movies and they share the credits. People sometimes call them "A two-headed director" because when actors who work in their movies have a question they can ask either Joel or Ethan and get the same answer.

[[Find a Way (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Rock songs, 1998 songs

"Find a Way" is a single released off of the album by alternative rock band The 10th Day called Makes Me Wonder.

[[The Picture of Dorian Gray]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 books, British novels, Horror novels, English-language novels

The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published book written by Oscar Wilde. It was first published in Lippincott's Monthly Magazine on June 20, 1890. Later, Wilde was asked to edit this version, and it was published again in April 1891. The story is often incorrectly called The Portrait of Dorian Gray.

[[The Little Red Book]]

CATEGORIES: Non-fiction books, China

The Little Red Book (official title Quotations from Chairman Mao Zedong 毛主席语录) is a book of the sayings of Mao Zedong.

It was put out by the military newspaper of the People's Republic of China from April 1964 until about 1976. The book is a collection of quotes taken from Mao Zedong's speeches and books. Its popular title The Little Red Book describes its size and appearance: it was specially designed for easy carrying.

[[Scouting for Boys]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 books, Non-fiction books, Scouting

Scouting for Boys: A Handbook for Instruction in Good Citizenship is the first book on the Scout Movement, put out in 1908. It was written by Robert Baden-Powell, the starter of the Scout Movement. It is the fourth bestselling book of the 20th century.

[[Wii Sports Resort]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, Wii games, Sports video games

Wii Sports Resort (also known as Wii Sports Beach) is a sports video game for the Wii. It is a sequel to Wii Sports and was released in Summer 2009. The game is part of a series of games sometimes referred to as the Wii Series. The game comes bundled with the MotionPlus device and another Wii Remote Jacket, both of which are also sold separately. The game is set in beach resort called Wuhu Island.

[[Wii Chess]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Wii games

Wii Chess is a  video game for the Wii console. It was made by Nintendo. The game was released on January 18, 2008 in Europe. Under the name Tsuushin Taikyoku: World Chess, it was released as a downloadable WiiWare title in Japan on September 30, 2008.

[[Naked Lunch]]

CATEGORIES: Beat Generation

Naked Lunch (sometimes referred to as The Naked Lunch) is a novel by William S. Burroughs originally published in 1959. This is the third novel written by the Beat Generation writer, although only his second to be published.

The book was originally published with the title The Naked Lunch in Paris in 1959 by Olympia Press. An American edition by Grove Press followed soon after in 1962. The American edition was titled Naked Lunch and was different from the Olympia Press edition.

Time magazine included the novel in its "TIME" 100 Best English-language Novels from 1923 to 2005".

[[On the Road]]

CATEGORIES: Beat Generation, English-language novels, American novels

On the Road is a novel by American writer Jack Kerouac, written in April 1951, and published in 1957. Most of it is autobiographical and was written based on the road trips of Kerouac and his friends across mid-century America and is often considered a defining work of the postwar Beat Generation.

When the book was originally released, the New York Times hailed it as "the most beautifully executed, the clearest and most important utterance" of Kerouac's generation.  The novel was chosen by TIME Magazine as one of the 100 best English-language novels from 1923 to 2005.

[[William Faulkner]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1962 deaths, Writers from Mississippi, Pulitzer Prize winners, American Nobel Prize winners

William Faulkner (born William Cuthbert Falkner), (September 25, 1897–July 6, 1962) was an American author. One of the most influential writers of the twentieth century, he was awarded the 1949 Nobel Prize in Literature. His reputation is based on his novels, novellas, and short stories. However, he was also a published poet and also was a screenwriter. He is now deemed among the greatest American writers of all time.

[[Arthur Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2005 deaths, American atheists, American playwrights, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from heart failure, Jewish American writers, Jewish atheists, Pulitzer Prize winners

Arthur Miller (October 17, 1915 – February 10, 2005) was an American playwright. His best known plays are All My Sons, Death of a Salesman and The Crucible. He also wrote for the movie The Misfits while married to Marilyn Monroe. She acted in this movie.

[[Oral sex]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

Oral sex is when one partner uses the tongue, mouth or throat to excite the other partner's sex organs. For males it can include placing the penis in one's mouth and for females licking the vaginal area.

Sometimes oral sex is performed as a way of getting ready for intercourse, but it may be done as an alternative to intercourse. 

If someone is performing oral sex on a male, he or she may decide to swallow the semen if the male ejaculates in the mouth. There is no risk of pregnancy from swallowing semen.

One can get sexually transmitted diseases from oral sex, such as herpes simplex (which can be passed between mouth and groin or the other way). Some STDs, like HIV, are much harder to pass through oral sex, but it is still possible.

The technical term for oral sex is fellatio if performed on a male and cunnilingus if performed on a female. Slang for oral sex is common in Western cultures, for example: "going down on" or "giving a blowjob" or "giving head." 

[[Chartreuse (color)]]

Chartreuse green is the color halfway between yellow and green on the RGB color wheel.

Chartreuse green (the web color known as chartreuse since the X11 colors were created in 1987 and then renamed the X11 web colors in 1991) is a web color that was named because it looked like the green color of a French liqueur called green chartreuse, made since 1764. Before 1987, this color was called yellow-green, but that name is now used for the web color "yellow-green", a medium dark shade of chartreuse green shown in the color chart below. 

The color chartreuse yellow (the traditional color originally called chartreuse since 1892) is a yellow color mixed with a small amount of green that was named because it looked similar to the yellow color of a French liqueur called yellow chartreuse, introduced in 1838.  The color chartreuse yellow is shown on the color chart below. Chartreuse yellow is the color halfway between lime and yellow on the RGB color wheel. 

[[Clyde F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football clubs, North Lanarkshire, 1877 establishments in Scotland

Clyde Football Club is a Scottish professional football team based in the town of Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire. They are members of the Scottish Football League and currently play in Scottish League One.

[[Jouke de Vries]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Dutch columnists, Dutch political scientists, Writers from Friesland

Jouke de Vries (born September 26, 1960 in Deersum) is a Dutch academic.

He studied political sciences at the University of Amsterdam and has been working at the group Leaderships Art  at the University of Leiden since 1984. De Vries was promoted and got his degree in 1989 from H. Daudt. en H. Daalder for the article he wrote on "Ground Politics and Cabinet Crisis in the Netherlands". He almost became faction leader of the Partij van de Arbeid (the Dutch Labour Party), but narrowly lost to Wouter Bos.  He teaches students at Leiden University. He is a professor on Political Sciences (Dutch:Hoogleraar) and teaching is his profession. He is a columnist for a Dutch language website. 

Jouke de Vries lives in Leiden near the University where he teaches. He married in 1986 and has two sons and a daughter. 

[[Dundee F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Premier League clubs, Dundee, 1893 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1890s establishments in Scotland

Dundee Football Club, founded in 1893, are a football team based in the city of Dundee, Scotland. They are nicknamed The Dee or The Dark Blues and play their home matches at Dens Park. Their home shirt colour is dark blue.

Dundee FC currently play in the Scottish Championship, having been relegated from the Scottish Premiership in 2019. The team is currently managed by James McPake. 

Unusually for a city of its size, Dundee supports two senior professional football teams, Dundee FC and Dundee United. Their grounds are within a few hundred yards of each other and are the two closest professional football grounds in the United Kingdom.

[[Siamang]]

CATEGORIES: Apes, Mammals of Asia

The Siamang (Symphalangus syndactylus) is a tailless, black furred gibbon native to the forests of Malaysia, Thailand, and Sumatra. It lives in trees, that's why it is called arboreal. The Siamang is the largest of the lesser apes. It can grow to be twice the size of other gibbons. Siamangs grow to about 1 m in height, and weigh up to 23 kg. The Siamang is the only species in the genus Symphalangus.

The Siamang is different form other gibbons. In Siamangs, two fingers on each hand are fused together, that's where  the name "syndactylus" is from. Siamangs have large  "gular sacs". These can be found in both males and females. The gular sac is a throat pouch that can be inflated to the size of its head. This allows the Siamang to make loud resonating calls or songs.

There may be two subspecies of the Siamang. If so, they are the nominate Sumatran Siamang (S. s. syndactylus) and the Malaysian Siamang (S. s. continentis, in peninsular Malaysia). Otherwise, the Malaysian individuals are only a population. The Siamang is the only gibbon which occurs sympatrically with other gibbons; its two ranges are entirely within the combined ranges of the Agile Gibbon and the Lar Gibbon.

The Siamang can live over 30 years in captivity.

While the illegal buying and selling of pets takes a toll on wild populations, the main threat to the Siamang is habitat loss in both Malaysia and Sumatra. Palm oil production is clearing lots of forest, reducing the habitat of the Siamang, along with that of other species such as the Sumatran Tiger.

[[Caroline Unger]]

CATEGORIES: 1803 births, 1877 deaths, Singers from Vienna, Contraltos, European opera singers

Caroline Unger (28 October 1803 in Vienna - 23 March 1877 in Florence) was an Austrian singer.

She studied music in Italy. Her first scene was in her hometown in 1821. She plays a role in Cosi fan tutte written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. 3 years later she was singing in the symphony No. 9 of Ludwig van Beethoven.

In 1841, she married François Sabatie. She then stopped performing.

[[Jeremias Gotthelf]]

CATEGORIES: 1797 births, 1854 deaths, Swiss writers

Albert Bitzius (October 4, 1797 – October 22, 1854) was a  Swiss novelist and pastor. He is probably more famous by his pen name Jeremias Gotthelf. He was born in Murten, where his father was pastor.

In 1804 the home was moved to Utzenstorf, a village in the Bernese Emmental. Bitzius gew up there and  received his early education. He also had to  help his father to cultivate his glebe. In 1812 he went to complete his education at Bern, and in 1820 was received as a pastor. In 1821 he visited the University of Göttingen, but returned home in 1822 to act as his father's assistant. When his father died in 1824, he went to Herzogenbuchsee as a priest. In 1829, he went to Bern. Early in 1831 he went to help the old pastor of the village of Lützelflüh, in the Upper Emmenthal (between Langnau and Burgdorf). In 1832 he was chosen as his successor. He  married one of his granddaughters in 1833. He spent the rest of his life there, leaving three children (the son was a pastor, the two daughters married pastors).

His first work, the Bauernspiegel, appeared in 1837. It claimed to be the life of Jeremias Gotthelf, narrated by himself, and this name was later adopted by the author as his pen name. It is a living picture of Bernese (or, strictly speaking, Emmenthal) village life, true to nature, and not attempting to gloss over its defects and failings. It is written (like the rest of his works) in German, but contains expressions from the Bernese dialect of the Emmenthal.  Unlike Auerbach, Bitzius was not a peasant by birth, but belonged to the educated classes. He reproduces what he had seen and learnt, and not what he had himself personally experienced. The book was a great success, as it was a picture of real life, and not of fancifully beribboned eighteenth-century villagers.

His best known work is without doubt the short novel Die Schwarze Spinne (The Black Spider), a semi-allegorical tale of the plague in form of the titular monster that devastates a Swiss valley community; first as a result of a pact with the devil born out of need and a second time due to the moral decay that releases the monster from its prison again.

Among his later tales are the Leiden und Freuden eines Schulmeisters (1838-1839), Uli der Knecht (1841), with its continuation, Uli der Pächter (1849), Anne-Bäbi Jowäger (1843-1844), Käthi, die Großmutter (1846), Die Käserei in der Vehfreude (1850), and the Erlebnisse eines Schuldenbauers (1853). He also published several volumes of shorter tales.

One slight drawback to some of his writings is the echo of local political controversies, for Bitzius was a Whig and strongly opposed to the Radical party in the canton, which carried the day in 1846.

He died on October 22, 1854 in Lützelflüh in Canton of Bern.

Lives by C. Manuel, in the Berlin edition of Bitzius's works (Berlin, 1861), and by J. Ammann in vol. i. (Bern, 1884) of time Sammlung Bernischer Biographien. His works were issued in 24 vols. at Berlin, 1856-1861, while 10 vols., giving the original text of each story, were issued at Bern, 1898-1900.

[[CBBC]]

CATEGORIES: BBC television channels

CBBC (Children's BBC) is the name of the BBC's television programmes that are for children. It is also the name of a television channel that often shows these programmes. The programmes are meant for children that are between 6 and 12 years old. The "Children's BBC" name began on 9 September 1985. Before then there were BBC children's programmes, but they were not branded under one name. The name "CBBC" was used informally since 1990, and became the official name in 1997.

CBBC programmes are shown on BBC One, BBC Two and the CBBC Channel. CBBC has a sister brand, CBeebies, for children under 6. The CBBC brands for BBC One and BBC Two are "CBBC One" and "CBBC Two".

CBBC is run by the BBC Children's department, who make the programmes for children up to the age of 16. Most of their offices are in the East Tower of the BBC Television Centre, with some programmes coming from Scotland and Bristol. CBBC produces a whole range of programme types, including drama, news, entertainment and educational programmes.

Since February 2006, the Controller of the BBC Children's department has been Richard Deverell. The department splits output into age groups:

Anne Gilchrist is Creative Director of CBBC, and Michael Carrington is Creative Director of CBeebies.

[[Brisingr]]

CATEGORIES: Inheritance Cycle, 2008 books, American novels, English-language novels, Fantasy books

Brisingr or The Seven Promises of Eragon Shadeslayer and Saphira Bjartskular is the third book of the Inheritance Cycle by Christopher Paolini. It comes after the books Eragon and Eldest. It was released on September 20, 2008. The title means "fire" in the fictional Ancient Language of Alagaesia.

The book sold 550,000 copies on its first day of sale, the most ever for a Random House Children's Book.

[[Mermaid]]

CATEGORIES: Mythology

A mermaid is a mythological creature with a female human head and upper body and the tail of a fish. Mermaids are said to live mostly in the water, although sometimes they are known to come out of the water and sit on the large rocks above the sea. It was thought that they would make boats crash with their siren-like calls.

[[University of Edinburgh]]

CATEGORIES: Universities in the United Kingdom, Edinburgh, 1583 establishments, 1580s establishments in Europe, Establishments in Scotland

The University of Edinburgh is a university in Edinburgh, Scotland.

[[Inheritance Cycle]]

CATEGORIES: Inheritance Cycle

The Inheritance Cycle is a series of fantasy books written by Christopher Paolini. 

[[Continental Congress]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century in Philadelphia, Legislatures, 1770s in Pennsylvania, Legislative branch of the United States government

The Continental Congress was a convention of delegates from the Thirteen Colonies. It governed the colonies before and during the American Revolution and met three times from 1774 to 1789.

[[Take This to Your Grave]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Fall Out Boy albums, Fall Out Boy

Take This to Your Grave is the second studio album by rock band Fall Out Boy. The album was released 2003. Credits are Patrick Stump, Pete Wentz, Joe Trohman, and Andy Hurley.

[[Stephen Guernsey Cook Ensko]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1969 deaths, Businesspeople from New York City

Stephen Guernsey Cook Ensko (May 9, 1896 – December 18, 1969) also known as Stephen G.C. Ensko, was an expert on American antique silver. His book is the standard reference work for antique silver.

[[Will Turner]]

CATEGORIES: Pirates of the Caribbean characters

William Turner Jr. is a fictional character in the Pirates of the Caribbean movies. He appears in The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003), Dead Man's Chest (2006), At World's End (2007), and Dead Men Tell No Tales (2017). He is played by Orlando Bloom.

William Turner is a blacksmith's working in Port Royal, Jamaica. His love interest is Elizabeth Swann, the governor's daughter and upper class. Will is the son of Bootstrap Bill Turner. He works to free his father from service to Davy Jones. 

He marries Elizabeth Swann in At World's End, and they have a son named Henry (played by Brenton Thwaites).

[[Jack Sparrow]]

CATEGORIES: Pirates of the Caribbean characters

Jack Sparrow is a fictional character and the main character of the Pirates of the Caribbean movie series. The character was created by screenwriters Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio. He is played by Johnny Depp. 

[[Elizabeth Swann]]

CATEGORIES: Pirates of the Caribbean characters

Elizabeth Swann (later Elizabeth Turner) is a fictional character in the Pirates of the Caribbean movie series. She appears in The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003) and three of its sequels, Dead Man's Chest (2006), At World's End (2007) and Dead Men Tell No Tales (2017). She is played by Keira Knightley. She is married to Will Turner.

Elizabeth is the only child to Weatherby Swann, the love interest (later wife) to Will Turner, mother to Henry Turner and daughter-in-law to William “Bootstrap Bill” Turner.

Swann becomes the Pirate king and captain of Singapore's pirate fleet in At World's End. 

[[Tom Hollander]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Musical theater actors

Tom Hollander (born 25 August, 1967) is an award-winning English actor. He had roles in productions such as Enigma, Gosford Park, Cambridge Spies, Pride and Prejudice and Pirates of the Caribbean.

[[Jack Davenport]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Actors from London, English movie actors, English television actors

Jack Davenport (born 1 March 1973) is a English movie and television actor. His first important role was in the mid-1990s in the television series This Life. He has since become best known for his roles in the Coupling television series and the Pirates of the Caribbean series of movies. He has also appeared in many other Hollywood movies such as The Talented Mr. Ripley . He often plays pompous or clumsy characters. He played a lead character in the TV series Swingtown.

Davenport married actress Michelle Gomez on 1 May 2000. Their son was born in 2010. The couple divorced in 2012.

[[Yulia MacLean]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Contraltos, Russian singers, New Zealand singers, Volgograd

Yulia (full name Yulia MacLean) is a Russian-born New Zealand crossover singer. Her first Solo Album 'Into The West' went platinum in its first week of sales in New Zealand, achieving four times platinum sales. She won 2 NZ Music Awards; 'Best female solo artist' and '42Below Best selling album in New Zealand'. She has supported Amici and Russell Watson with 2 sold-out tours in Tokyo. Yulia's albums "Into the West" and "Montage" had three top 40 radio hits in New Zealand, "Into the West", "Angel" & "We're All Alone".  Yulia is known for her amazing contralto singing voice. 

She was also the lead singer in a pop duo with her husband Glyn MacLean, called the MacLeaNZ.

[[Tia Dalma]]

CATEGORIES: Pirates of the Caribbean characters

Tia Dalma is a fictional character from the movies Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest and Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End. She is the sea goddess Calypso in human form. She is played by Naomi Harris.

Tia Dalma is a voodoo priestess with black teeth and blue lips, and she has her hair in dreadlocks. She speaks in Jamaican Patois. 

[[Shasta Dam]]

CATEGORIES: Dams in the United States, Buildings and structures in California, Shasta County, California

Shasta Dam is a dam on the Sacramento River in California. It was built from 1938 to 1945. It is 602 high and 3460 long. It creates a lake called Shasta Lake. It is a popular spot for boating and fishing.

[[Herman Melville]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1891 deaths, 19th-century American novelists, 19th-century American poets, Writers from New York City

Herman Melville (August 1, 1819 – September 28, 1891) was an American novelist, short story writer, essayist and poet. He is best known for writing Moby-Dick.

[[Martin Heidegger]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1976 deaths, 20th century philosophers, German academics, German philosophers, Nazis, People from Baden-Württemberg

Martin Heidegger (26 September 1889 – 26 May 1976) was a German philosopher.

His best known book, Being and Time, is considered one of the most important philosophical works of the 20th century. It is a very difficult book, even for the German reader.

In it, and later works, Heidegger maintained that our way of questioning defines our nature. But philosophy, western civilization's chief way of questioning, has lost its way. Finding ourselves "always already" fallen in a world of presuppositions, we lose touch with what being was before its truth became "muddled".  As a solution to this condition, Heidegger advocated a return to practical life in the world, allowing it to reveal, or "unconceal" itself.

[[Parmenides]]

CATEGORIES: Presocratic philosophers

Parmenides (also Parmenides of Elea) (Παρμενίδης ο Ἐλεάτης, early 5th century BC) was an ancient Greek philosopher born in Elea, Italy and was the founder of the Eleatic school of philosophy. His only known work is a poem, but only bits and pieces have survived. In it, he describes two views of reality. These thoughts strongly influenced Plato, and later, the whole of western philosophy. His philosophy was based on materialistic monism. Materialistic monism is the belief that everything in the universe is made of a single substance. Parmenides' biggest argument was that change does not exist. Parmenides' explanation is that we think we see change, but our senses are not reliable, and they create the illusion of change.

[[Democritus]]

CATEGORIES: Presocratic philosophers

Democritus (Δημόκριτος) was an ancient Greek philosopher. He was born in Thrace, Greece, circa 460 BC.

He was a rich citizen of Abdera, in Thrace, and a student of Leucippus, another Greek philosopher. He studied natural philosophy in Thrace, Athens and Abdera. He liked to study geometry and he travelled to many places, including Egypt, Babylon and India. He wrote many books and never married.

Democritus is famous for his atomic theory of the universe. He said the universe is made up of two elementsː the atoms, and the space where they exist and move". He believed that all matter is made up of atoms. They are eternal, indestructible and invisible particles. They are made of different shapes, different properties and they are always moving. He believed the number of atoms is infinite.

Democritus didn't have any scientific evidence. He had these ideas thinking about them. However, his ideas were close to the discoveries made 2000 years after his death.

He died ca. 370 BC.

[[Leucippus]]

CATEGORIES: Presocratic philosophers, 5th century BC births, 5th century BC deaths

Leucippus or Leukippos (Λεύκιππος, first half of 5th century BC) was a Greek philosopher. He was an early philosopher of atomism, the idea that everything is made up of many tiny things which always continue to exist.

Leucippus was born at Miletus or Abdera, although apparently Epicurus said he never existed. There has long been a controversy about this.

Leucippus may have been the first person to suggest the idea of empty space (a vacuum). It is difficult to know which ideas come from him, and which come from Democritus.

[[Olympus]]

CATEGORIES: Biosphere reserves, Balkan Mountains, Mountains of Greece, Greek mythology

Mount Olympus (Όλυμπος; also transliterated as Ólympos, and on Greek maps, Óros Ólimbos) is the highest mountain in Greece. It is 2919 high. Since its base is at sea level, it is one of the highest mountains in Europe in terms of topographic prominence, the relative altitude from base to top.

In Greek mythology the mountain was regarded as the "Home of the Gods", specifically of the Dodekatheon, the twelve principal gods of the ancient Hellenistic world.

[[Kate (text editor)]]

CATEGORIES: KDE

Kate is a text editor for the KDE desktop environment. The name is an acronym for "KDE Advanced Text Editor."  It was first put in the KDE 2.2 release, on August 15, 2002.

[[Ronald David Laing]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1989 deaths, Psychiatrists, Scottish people

Ronald David Laing (born Glasgow (Scotland, 7th of October 1927; died 23rd August 1989), was a Scottish psychiatrist who described mental illness, especially psychosis. 

Laing is known for his theories on the causes of the mental perturbations. His theory on the "schizogenous" (?) parents or schizophrenia was to exclude him from the psychiatric orthodoxy of his times. He often was connected in thought with the movement against psychiatry called antipsychiatry, although he rejected that epithet.

[[Alcoholic drink]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink

An alcoholic drink is a drink that contains 0.5% or more ethanol. In chemistry there is a whole class of substances known as alcohols. The alcohol used in alcoholic drinks is known as ethanol or grain alcohol. Grain alcohol is generally made through a process called fermentation. In fermentation, bacteria change sugar to make ethanol or vinegar. Other kinds of alcohol are usually harmful to drink, so the only kind of alcohol used in alcoholic drinks is grain alcohol. Since most people do not have to use any other kind of alcohol except ethanol, they will use the word "alcohol" to mean only ethanol. Sometimes people also use the word "alcohol" to talk about any drink containing ethanol, such as whiskey, vodka, or gin.

Fermenting grain can only make a drink that is 20% alcohol. To get higher amounts of alcohol in drinks, distillation is used. This allows to get substances that are made of alcohol to about 80-85% (Certain kinds of Rum used for cooking are at 70–80% alcohol). When beverages are sold, the amount of alcohol is listed as alcoholic proof rather than percentage. 

Generally, alcoholic drinks are divided into three classes:

Most countries limit the sale of the different kinds of alcohol. Usually there are two limits, one for wines and beers, and the other for distilled alcoholic drinks. 

Alcopops are very sweet, and usually do not contain much alcohol (most have less than beer), but many governments make it illegal to buy them in certain places or at certain times because they have distilled alcohol mixed into them. They are controversial because some people think that they might be popular among young people.

Drinking ethanol causes a person to feel relaxed. Ethanol is very commonly used, and has been made by humans for thousands of years. It is one of the oldest and most used recreational drug (drugs used for fun) in the world. People may overuse it for the same reason. The addiction to alcohol is called alcoholism. Alcoholic drinks can be dangerous. If a person drinks a lot of alcohol, they become intoxicated, meaning that they get drunk. People who are drunk may do or say strange or dangerous things and may not be able to control themselves. The amount of alcohol that it takes to get somebody drunk is different from person to person. All alcohols are toxic, but ethanol is less toxic because the human body can break it down quickly. Some strong alcohols can also cause intoxication and impairment.

[[Hapoel asi gilboa]]

CATEGORIES: Israeli football clubs

Hapoel Asi Gilboa is an Israeli football club based in Prazon on Mount Gilboa. The club currently plays in the northern division of Liga Alef. Their main rivals are Hapoel Afula.

In 2001 the club won the Liga Bet North B division and was promoted to Liga Alef after 18 years in Liga Bet. 

[[Amy Lee]]

CATEGORIES: Singer-songwriters from California, American pianists, Grammy Award winners, Singers from Arkansas, Mezzo-sopranos, 1981 births, Living people, Evanescence

Amy Lynn Hartzler (née Lee; born December 13, 1981) professionally known as Amy Lee, is an American singer and songwriter. She is the lead vocalist and co-founder of the rock/metal band Evanescence. She is also a classically trained pianist and a multi-instrumentalist.

Lee is musically influenced by musicians and artists of different genres, from classical artists such as Mozart to modern artists like Björk, Portishead, Danny Elfman, Korn and Tori Amos. Lee is the main lyricist and composer in the band and won the National Music Publisher's Association's Songwriter Icon Award in 2008 for her achievements as a songwriter. As of mid-2007, she is the only original band member who is still in the band.

Lee is the spokesperson of the Epilepsy Foundation. She started a campaign called "Out of the Shadows". She advocates for the "To Write Love on Her Arms" organization. She was chosen as the 2012 recipient of the Luella Bennack award at United Cerebral Palsy's 11th annual Women Who Care luncheon for her community projects and social impact.

Lee ranked at #69 in Hit Parader's list of "Top 100 Metal Vocalists of All Time". She was #49 in VH1's "100 Greatest Women in Music". She was listed by About.com as one of the greatest female rock artists. She won the 2012 Revolver's Golden Gods award for best vocalist, and was named the 2012 "Rock Goddess of the Year" in the Loudwire Music Awards.

[[Wild Dances]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 songs, Eurovision Song Contest

Wild Dances is a song by Ukrainian pop-star Ruslana Lyzhichko (Ruslana).  It won the Eurovision Song Contest in 2004.

[[Lancaster]]

Lancaster may be

[[Rocket-propelled grenade]]

CATEGORIES: Explosives

A rocket-propelled grenade or an RPG is the name for any kind of weapon, held on the shoulder that fires rockets that have an explosive warhead. These warheads are attached to a rocket motor and the rocket has fins which help it to fly straight. Some types of RPG are reloadable, while others are used only once and then thrown away. RPGs, with the exception of self-contained versions, are muzzleloaders, loaded from the front end. 

RPGs with High explosive anti-tank warheads are very effective against armored vehicles such as armored personnel carriers (APCs). They can also be used against tanks, as long as the shooter targets a weak part of the tank, such as the tracks or the top door of the turret. 

In general, the front armour on a tank is too thick to be penetrated by an RPG warhead. In some cases, teams attacking tanks with RPGs will have multiple RPG users fire at the same tank, which may penetrate the armour. Insurgents have sometimes successfully used RPGs to shoot at helicopters.

[[Tibetan Plateau]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of China, Plateaus

The Tibetan Plateau, also known as the Qinghai-Tibetan (Qingzang) Plateau, is a vast, high plateau in Central Asia. It covers most of the Tibet Autonomous Region, the Qinghai Province in China, and Ladakh in Kashmir, India.

The Tibetan Plateau occupies an area of around 1,000 by 2,500 kilometers, and has an average elevation of over 4,500 meters. It is the highest and largest plateau in the world.

It was formed by the same forces which formed the Himalayas, namely, the movement of the Indian continental plate into Asia. The Plateau has an great effect on climate, and is the main cause of the monsoon rains.

[[Heraclitus]]

CATEGORIES: Presocratic philosophers

Heraclitus of Ephesus or Herakleitos (c.535 – 475 BC) was a pre-Socratic Greek philosopher. He was a native of Ephesus, Ionia, on the coast of Asia Minor.

His teaching, as we have it now, is a series of epigrams. This means his teachings are sayings and remarks, rather than systematic essays. Heraclitus is famous for his doctrine of change being central to the universe. His famous sayings, "All is flux", and "You cannot step twice into the same river" is still remembered today. Another of his sayings appeals to some psychologists:

Often it is difficult to understand what he was trying to say. He believed in the unity of opposites, stating that "the path up and down are one and the same".

His utterance that "all things come to be in accordance with this logos," (literally, "word," "reason," or "account") has been the subject of many interpretations.

Logos became a technical term in philosophy, beginning with Heraclitus, who used the term for a principle of order and knowledge.

Diogenes Laërtius states that Heraclitus' work was "a continuous treatise On Nature, but was divided into three discourses, one on the universe, another on politics, and a third on theology." Theophrastus says (in Diogenes) "... some parts of his work are half-finished, while other parts make a strange medley".

Diogenes also tells us that Heraclitus deposited his book as a dedication in the great temple of Artemis, the Artemisium, one of the largest temples of the 6th century BC, and one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. Ancient temples were regularly used for storing treasures, and were open to private individuals under exceptional circumstances. Many later philosophers refer to the work.

[[Thales]]

CATEGORIES: Presocratic philosophers

Thales of Miletus, about 624 BC – 546 BC, was a pre-Socratic Greek philosopher. He was from Miletus in Asia Minor. Many, notably Aristotle, regard him as the first philosopher in the Greek tradition.

According to Bertrand Russell, "Western philosophy begins with Thales".  Thales attempted to explain natural phenomena without reference to mythology and was tremendously influential in this respect. Almost all of the other pre-Socratic philosophers follow him in attempting to provide an explanation of ultimate substance, change, and the existence of the world—without reference to mythology. Those philosophers were also influential, and eventually Thales' rejection of mythological explanations became an essential idea for science.  He was also the first to define general principles and set forth hypotheses. As a result he has been called the "Father of Science", though maybe Democritus is more deserving of this title.

In mathematics, Thales used geometry to solve problems such as calculating the height of pyramids and the distance of ships from the shore. He is the first known individual to whom a mathematical discovery has been attributed. Also, Thales was the first person known to have studied electricity.

[[Hardancourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vosges

Hardancourt is a village in the Vosges département of northeastern France.

[[Anaximander]]

CATEGORIES: 610 BC births, 546 BC deaths, Presocratic philosophers

Anaximander (æ; Ἀναξίμανδρος Anaximandros; c. 610 – c. 546 BC) was a Pre-Socratic Greek philosopher who lived in Miletus, a city of Ionia. He belonged to the Milesian school and learned the teachings of his master Thales. He succeeded him and became the second master of that school where he counted Anaximenes and Pythagoras amongst his pupils.

Little of his life and work is known today. According to available historical documents, he is the first philosopher known to have written down his studies, although only one fragment of his work remains. Fragmentary testimonies found in documents after his death provide a portrait of the man.

[[Anaximenes of Miletus]]

CATEGORIES: 585 BC births, 525 BC deaths, Presocratic philosophers

Anaximenes (Άναξιμένης) of Miletus (c. 585 BC-c. 525 BC) was a Greek Pre-Socratic philosopher from the latter half of the 6th century, probably a younger contemporary of Anaximander, whose pupil or friend he is said to have been.

[[Eberhardt del’Antonio]]

CATEGORIES: German writers, 1926 births, 1997 deaths

Eberhardt del’Antonio (April 21, 1926 in Lichtenstein - February 22, 1997 in Dresden) was a German writer.

[[Gorgias]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophers, Presocratic philosophers, 5th century BC births, 4th century BC deaths

Gorgias (Γοργίας, ca. 487-376 BC), Greek sophist, presocratic philosopher and rhetorician, was a native of Leontini in Sicily. Along with Protagoras, he forms the first generation of sophists. Several doxographers report that he was a pupil of Empedocles, although he would only have been a few years younger.

His theory was subjected of critique by Plato in his work Gorgias.

[[Sophism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

Sophism can mean two very different things. In Ancient Greece, sophism was practiced by sophists, who were a group of teachers of philosophy and rhetoric. In the modern definition, a sophism is a confusing or slightly incorrect argument used for deceiving someone.

[[Protagoras]]

CATEGORIES: Presocratic philosophers, Philosophers, 5th century BC births, 5th century BC deaths

Protagoras (Πρωταγόρας) (ca. 490–420 BC) was a pre-Socratic Greek philosopher. He is called one of the sophists by Plato, the Greek philosopher who followed Socrates. In Plato's dialogue Protagoras, he credits Protagoras with having invented the role of the professional sophist or teacher of virtue.

[[Joshamee Gibbs]]

CATEGORIES: Pirates of the Caribbean characters

Joshamee Gibbs (known as Mr. Gibbs or Master Gibbs) is a fictional character in the Pirates of the Caribbean movie series. Alongside Jack Sparrow and Hector Barbossa, he is one of the few characters to appear in every movie. Gibbs is played by Kevin McNally in the movies.

Writer Terry Rossio has said he actually thinks that Gibbs to be the most important character in the series.

Gibbs is first seen as a Royal Navy warrant officer aboard the vessel carrying Governor Weatherby Swann and his young daughter Elizabeth from England to Port Royal. Gibbs is highly scared of pirates.

[[Pirate code]]

CATEGORIES: Piracy, Ethics

A pirate code is a code of conduct for pirates - a set of rules for how to behave. Some of these codes were used by real pirates; others are from movies.

[[Hallelujah (Leonard Cohen song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 songs, Leonard Cohen songs, Rock songs, Songs written by Leonard Cohen

Hallelujah is a folk-rock song by Canadian singer/guitarist Leonard Cohen. It was first released on his 1984 album Various Positions.

Following its increased popularity after being featured in the movie Shrek (2001), it has been re-recorded by many different artists including Jeff Buckley, Anand Bhatt, Rufus Wainwright, Allison Crowe, k.d. lang, Tori Kelly, and Damien Rice.

[[Islamic State of Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: History of Afghanistan

The Islamic State of Afghanistan was the name given to the nation of Afghanistan during the rule of the United Islamic Front for the Salvation of Afghanistan government. After 2001, the country was renamed Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.

[[Leonard Cohen]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, Canadian Jews, Canadian novelists, Canadian singer-songwriters, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from leukemia, Folk musicians, Folk singers, Jewish musicians, Jewish writers, Leonard Cohen, Musicians from Montreal, People from Westmount, Quebec, Canadian poets, Rock musicians, Rock singers, Writers from Montreal

Leonard Norman Cohen (September 21, 1934 – November 7, 2016) was a Canadian singer, songwriter, musician, poet, novelist, and painter. His work was mostly about religion, politics, sexuality, and personal relationships most notably seen in his best known work "Hallelujah". 

Cohen was added into both the Canadian Music Hall of Fame and the Canadian Songwriters Hall of Fame as well as the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. He was a Companion of the Order of Canada, the nation's highest civilian honor. In 2011, Cohen received one of the Prince of Asturias Awards for literature and the ninth Glenn Gould Prize.

[[Jeff Buckley]]

CATEGORIES: Accidental deaths by drowning in the United States, American folk musicians, American guitarists, American rock musicians, Musicians from California, Singers from California, 1966 births, Former Roman Catholics, 1997 deaths

Jeffrey Scott "Jeff" Buckley (November 17, 1966 – May 29, 1997) was an American singer and guitarist. His father was Tim Buckley. He was also a musician. 

Buckley died after drowning in the Wolf River in Memphis at the age of 30. His body was found on 4 June. 

[[Stigmata]]

CATEGORIES: Stigmata

Stigmata are marks on a person's body, that are like the wounds Jesus got from being crucified.

They supposedly happen to other religious people like Saint Francis of Assisi, as well as Jesus. The marks include nail holes in the hands and feet, as if the person had been crucified, but without that having happened. 

[[Flag of Turkmenistan]]

CATEGORIES: Turkmenistan

The flag of Turkmenistan was adopted on January 24, 2001 as Turkmenistan's national flag. It is often described as the most detailed national flag in the world. 

It features a green field with a vertical red stripe near the hoist side, containing five carpet guls (designs used in producing rugs) stacked above two crossed olive branches similar to those on the flag of the United Nations; a white waxing crescent moon, typical of Turkic symbology, and five white five-pointed stars appear in the upper corner of the field just to the fly side of the red stripe.

The green and red colors appear in this flag because they have been venerated historically by the Turkmen. The waxing crescent moon symbolizes the hope of the country for a shining future and the stars represent the five provinces (Welayatlar) of Turkmenistan-Ahal, Balkan, Dashhowuz, Lebap, and Mary.

The five traditional carpet designs along the hoist represent the five major tribes or houses, and form motifs in the country's state emblem and flag. These Turkmen tribes in traditional order (as well as top to bottom) are Teke (Tekke), Yomut (Yomud), Arsary (Ersary), Chowdur (Choudur), and Saryk (Saryq). The Salyr (Salor), a tribe that declined as a result of military defeat before the modern period, are not represented, nor are several smaller tribes or subtribes.

The wreath is one of the odder parts of the flag, added against the rules of heraldry and breaking up the carpet pattern. It was added as an afterthought to represent the "status of permanent neutrality," which was accepted by the United Nations General Assembly on December 12, 1995.

[[Philolaus]]

CATEGORIES: Presocratic philosophers

Philolaus (ca. 480 BC – ca. 385 BC, Φιλόλαος) was a Greek Pythagorean and Presocratic. He argued that all matter is composed of limited and unlimited things, and that the universe is determined by numbers. He is credited with originating the theory that the earth was not the center of the universe.

[[Coat of arms of Turkmenistan]]

CATEGORIES: Turkmenistan, National coats of arms

The coat of arms of Turkmenistan was created after Turkmenistan gained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. The eight-point green starburst (known as the star of Rub El Hizb (۞), a symbol of Islam, to which a majority of Turkmen profess) with golden edges features in its center a red circular disc which carries sheaves of wheat, five carpet guls, and centered upon that a smaller blue circle with a lifelike (rather than heraldized) depiction of an Akhal-Teke horse, a source of pride for the Turkmen people. A variant of the emblem, which included different colors and rounded, was used from 1992 until 2003. http://www.statesymbol.ru/abroad/cis/20050803/39598373.htmlhttp://eh.lenin.ru/arms/3as/turkmenistan/tkm-ax.gif

The five traditional carpet motifs on the red disc represent the five major tribes or houses, and stand for the traditional and religious values of the country. These Turkmen tribes in traditional order are Teke (Tekke), Yomut (Yomud), Arsary (Ersary), Chowdur (Choudur), and Saryk (Saryq). The Salyr (Salor), a tribe that declined as a result of military defeat before the modern period, are not represented, nor are several smaller tribes or subtribes. 

The green and red colors appear in this shield because they have been venerated historically by the Turkmen. The central elements are surrounded by sheaves of wheat that allude to the custom to welcome to guests with salt and bread. Atop the wheat and the red circle appear a waxing crescent moon of white, typical of Turkic symbology, and five five-pointed stars also of white. The waxing crescent moon symbolizes the hope of the country for a shining future and the stars represent the five provinces (Welayatlar) of Turkmenistan-Ahal, Balkan, Dashhowuz, Lebap, and Mary. Most of the elements of the coat of arms are present in the national flag.

Before independence from the USSR, Turkmenistan had a coat of arms similar to all other Soviet Republics. A single carpet gul, not matching any of the tribal patterns, was represented on the Coat of arms of the Turkmen SSR.

[[Pre-Socratic philosophy]]

CATEGORIES: Presocratic philosophy

The Pre-Socratic Greek philosophers were active before Socrates.  The popular usage of the term come from Hermann Diels' work Die Fragmente der Vorsokratiker (The Fragments of the Pre-Socratics, 1903).

Most of what we know about the pre-Socractic philosophers come from quotations by later philosophers and historians. While most of them produced significant texts, none of the texts have survived in complete form.

The standard reference works in English are:

The fundamental idea which motivated most of the presocratics (as they are called) is naturalism. This is the idea that questions about life and the world can be answered without using myths, and that "the natural world is the whole of reality". 

With the Greeks we see rational thought and scientific reasoning emerge from the mists and myths of a pre-scientific age, not suddenly, but slowly and gradually.

== List of philosophers and schools== 

==Other groupings== 

[[Milesian school]]

CATEGORIES: Presocratic philosophy

The Milesian school was a school of thought founded in the 6th Century BC. The ideas associated with it are exemplified by three philosophers from the Ionian town of Miletus: Thales, Anaximander, and Anaximenes.

[[Pythagoreanism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophical movements and positions

Pythagoreanism is a term used for the esoteric and metaphysical beliefs held by Pythagoras and his followers, the Pythagoreans, who were much influenced by mathematics. They thought the world was made of numbers, and that various integers had distinct sacred meanings.

Later resurgence of ideas similar to those held by the early Pythagoreans are collected under the term Neopythagoreanism.

[[Anaxagoras]]

CATEGORIES: 500 BC births, 428 BC deaths, Presocratic philosophers

Anaxagoras (Ἀναξαγόρας, fl. 480 BC – 450 BC) was a Pre-Socratic Greek philosopher. Anaxagoras was an Ionian Greek. He was born in Asia Minor, in Clazomenae. This was a town in what is now Turkey.

Anaxagoras was the first known atheist. He also introduced the concept of νούσ (nous, or mind), the ordering force behind the Universe. But he did not take this idea any further.

He held that the Sun was not a god, but just material. It was a "red-hot mass many times larger than the Peloponnese". The Moon was a solid body with geographical features, and made of the same substance as the Earth.

Anaxagoras was eventually arrested and prosecuted for freethought. He was banished from Athens for impiety in 450 BC. However, his works were available in Socrates' day for a drachma.

[[Miletus]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Turkey

Miletus (mī lē' təs) (Ancient Greek: Μίλητος, literally  transliterated Milētos, Latin Miletus) was an ancient city on the western coast of Anatolia (in what is now Aydin Province, Turkey), near the mouth of the Maeander River in ancient Caria.

[[Tooth fairy]]

CATEGORIES: Folklore

The tooth fairy is a mythical figure found in modern folklore. Around the world, families have many different traditions to celebrate the loss of a child's tooth, especially a first tooth. Many of the traditions involve throwing a tooth on a roof, under a house, burying it under a tree, or leaving it for a rodent. 

One of the most famous traditions is leaving a tooth under a pillow for the tooth fairy. This tradition is very popular in the United States as well as other countries. The tooth fairy is said to take the tooth away while the child is sleeping and leave some money in its place. Sometimes the tooth fairy may also leave a note. If the child does not go to sleep the tooth fairy will not come.

Some people tell the story that the tooth fairy is named Fatina and lives in Neverland. The belief is that Fatina creates a magic powder from children's teeth that protects the fairies from hawks who might otherwise eat them.

[[893]]

CATEGORIES: 893

[[Frederick I, Holy Roman Emperor]]

CATEGORIES: 1122 births, 1190 deaths, Holy Roman Emperors

Frederick Barbarossa was born in 1122 in the monastery Weingarten. He was the son of Guelph Judith. Frederick had a cousin, called "Henry the Lion", who was his greatest enemy. In the year 1152, Frederick Barbarossa was crowned King of Germany.

Today people know Frederick Barbarossa as a powerful soldier, who tried to conquer Jerusalem and return it to the Christians. 

He was born in 1122 in a monastery in Altdorf, which is now called Weingarten. During the Middle Ages, most women returned to their birth country, so it is very likely that Frederick’s mother had been born in Altdorf, too.

Frederick's nickname was Barbarossa (“Redbeard”). This was because of his remarkable beard, which was red. “Barba” is the Latin word for beard. “Rossa” is also Latin and means “red”.

Frederick was raised formally and strictly. On 4 March 1142, at the age of 20, Frederick was crowned King of Germany. His cousin, Henry the Lion, was Frederick’s enemy for many years. Henry wanted to become King of Germany, too and therefore was angry when he found out that Barbarossa was to be king and also Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire.

In 1156, he married Lady Beatrix. They had many children. Frederick participated in the third crusade. He never actually reached Jerusalem. It is said that he drowned in the River Saleph in 1190. His soldiers carried his dead body to Jerusalem and buried him there.

[[1036]]

CATEGORIES: 1036

[[BBC Weather]]

CATEGORIES: BBC Online, Weather services

BBC Weather is the BBC's department in charge of preparing and broadcasting weather forecasts and is now part of BBC News. The broadcast meteorologists are employed by the Met Office. The longest serving presenter of BBC weather was Michael Fish, now retired, who appeared for 30 years between 1974 and 2004.

[[Cheap Trick]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 establishments in the United States, 1970s American music groups, 1970s establishments in Illinois, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American hard rock bands, American pop music groups, American rock bands, Musical groups established in 1973, Musical groups from Illinois, Rockford, Illinois, Warner Bros. Records artists

Cheap Trick are a rock band from Illinois, USA. They were very popular in the 1970s and 80s. Some of their hits include: Surrender, Dream Police and I Want You to Want Me. They are still very big in Japan and are called the "American Beatles" in Japan. April 2009

[[Strychnine]]

CATEGORIES: Poisons, Chemical compounds, Toxicology

Strychnine is a poisonous substance which is naturally produced by the plant Strychnos nux-vomica. Together with brucine, another poison, strychnine is found in the leaves and seeds of this plant. They are a rather extreme example of the way some plants protect themselves against herbivores. The substances were discovered early in the 19th century, but it took about 150 years before Robert Robinson worked out their structure.

When purified, strychnine is a very toxic colorless crystalline alkaloid. It is very poisonous, the LD50  is about 10 mg. Strychnine is soluble in alcohol and chloroform, but not in water.

Strychnine has few uses today. It can act as a stimulant, much like caffeine, and is on the list of substances tested for doping in sports. 

It was used as a pesticide, for killing small vertebrates such as birds and rodents.

[[Alkaloid]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds, Biochemistry

An alkaloid is a chemical compounds that can be made naturally. They contain basic nitrogen atoms. The name comes from the word alkaline and was used to describe any alkaline containing nitrogen. Alkaloids are made by a large variety of organisms, such as bacteria, fungi, plants, and animals and are part of the group of natural products (also called secondary metabolites). Many alkaloids can be purified from basic substances by acid-base extraction. Many alkaloids are toxic to other organisms. Some alkaloids have a bitter taste.

[[Quinine]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds, Drugs

Quinine  is an alkaloid which can reduce fever, work against malaria, pain and swelling. The bark of the Cinchona family of trees contains quinine. Quinine can be made artificially, but this is more expensive than extracting it from the bark of the tree.  This tree is found in the Andes, South America, Indonesia, and Congo.

Quinine was the first treatment for malaria, known from 1631 in Europe, and probably much earlier to the native peoples of South America. Even today, quinine is used to treat certain forms of malaria, when other drugs fail or are unavailable. In that way, quinine is currently one of the best treatments for malaria tropica, which is caused by plasmodium falciparum. For the other forms of malaria, quinine is no longer used, as other drugs have replaced it.

[[Progressive bluegrass]]

CATEGORIES: Music genres

Progressive bluegrass is a type of bluegrass music which became popular in the 1960s and 1970s. The four important elements (not always all present) of progressive bluegrass are instrumentation (usually including electric instruments, drums, piano, and more), songs imported or styles imitated from other musical genres (like jazz, rock and others), non-traditional chord progressions, and lengthy "jam band"-style improvisation.

Bands such as Nickel Creek produce music in this style.

[[Hot Country Songs]]

CATEGORIES: Record charts

Hot Country Songs is a chart published weekly by Billboard magazine in the United States.

This 60-position chart lists the most popular country music songs, calculated weekly mostly by airplay and occasionally commercial sales. Currently, the chart does not count digital downloads towards chart tabulation (although singles that are only available as downloads do chart if they receive enough airplay).

[[Neverland]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional locations

Neverland is a fictional island that is the setting for the novel Peter Pan by J.M. Barrie. Peter Pan, his gang of "Lost Boys" and Tinkerbell, the fairy, live on Neverland. A gang of pirates led by Captain Hook and a band of Native Americans ("redskins" in the story) also live on the island.

Neverland is a land of fantasy where no one gets older and Peter Pan remains a child forever. To reach Neverland, Peter Pan states one must fly "second to the right, and straight on till morning". 

[[International Bluegrass Music Association]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry

The International Bluegrass Music Association, or IBMA, is a trade association to promote bluegrass music.

Formed in 1985, IBMA established its first headquarters in Owensboro, Kentucky.  In 1988 they announced plans to create the International Bluegrass Music Museum as a joint venture with RiverPark Center in Owensboro.  In 1990 IBMA established the World of Bluegrass, a combination trade show, concert, and awards presentation.  This was originally set in Owensboro, before moving to Louisville, Kentucky in 1997.  Nashville, Tennessee hosted this event in 2005 and 2006, and will continue as the host location in the future.  In 1991 IBMA established the International Bluegrass Music Hall of Honor at the International Bluegrass Music Museum to recognize lifetime contributions to bluegrass, both by performers and non-performers.  In 2003 IBMA relocated its offices to Nashville, Tennessee.

[[Country Music Association Awards]]

CATEGORIES: Music awards

The Country Music Association Awards, also known as the CMA Awards, or the CMAs, are music awards voted on by business members of the Country Music Association.

[[The Used]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, Post-hardcore bands, Emo bands, Musical groups from Utah, 2000 establishments in the United States, Musical groups established in 2000, 20th-century establishments in Utah

The Used are an American post hardcore band. They formed in the year 2000 and have released a number of albums since then. Their first album was called The Used. Their latest album is called Heartwork, and was released in 2020.

They have always been signed to one record label named Reprise. In 2004, singer Bert McCracken's girlfriend at the time was pregnant with their child and she died from a drug overdose. For that reason, their second album was named In Love and Death. Around that time, the band also took on a new drummer.

[[Bobo-Dioulasso]]

CATEGORIES: Bobo Dioulasso

Bobo Dioulasso is a city in Burkina Faso. It is the second largest city in Burkina Faso. A census taken in 2006 stated that 435,543 people lived in the city; 215,968 were male and 219,575 were female.

[[Koudougou]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Burkina Faso

Koudougou is a city in Burkina Faso. It is the third largest city in Burkina Faso. A census taken in 2006 stated that 82,720 people lived in the city; 40,229 were male and 42,491 were female.

[[Banfora]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Burkina Faso

Banfora is a city in Burkina Faso. It is the fourth largest city in Burkina Faso. A census taken in 2006 stated that 72,144 people lived in the city; 36,392 were male and 35,752 were female.

[[Ouahigouya]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Burkina Faso

Ouahigouya is a city in Burkina Faso. It is the fifth largest city in Burkina Faso. A census taken in 2006 stated that 70,957 people lived in the city; 35,017 were male and 35,940 were female.

In July 2010, the US Government warned Americans that there was a real danger that they might be kidnapped by terrorists in the city.

[[Chirality]]

CATEGORIES: Stereochemistry

Chirality is when an object is present in two forms which are mirror images of each other.

The two forms cannot be superimposed. Human hands are chiral. The left hand is a mirror image of the right hand. You cannot turn or move one of your hands to look exactly the same as the other. This is why you can not put a left handed glove on your right hand, or shake the right hand of a person using your left hand.

[[Londrina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraná State

Londrina is a city in Brazil. It is found in the northern area of the state of Paraná. It is 369 km away from the capital, Curitiba. Londrina has 510.707 people living in the city. This makes it the second biggest city of Paraná and the third biggest city in Southern Brazil.

[[Kaya]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Burkina Faso

Kaya is a city in Burkina Faso. It is the sixth largest city in Burkina Faso. A census taken in 2006 stated that 51,778 people lived in the city; 25,898 were male and 25,880 were female.

[[Superimposition]]

CATEGORIES: Graphics, Printmaking

In graphics, superimposition is when an image or video is put on top of an already-existing image or video. This is  usually done to add to the overall image effect or to hide something (such as when a different face is superimposed over the original face in a photograph). 

This technique is used in cartography to produce photomaps by superimposing grid lines, contour lines and other linear or textual mapping features over aerial photographs.

Superimposition of 2D images containing correlated periodic grid structures may produce moiré patterns. Superimposition of two correlated layers comprising parallel lines or curves may give rise line moiré patterns. The movement of one of the layers results in a faster movement of the line moiré superimposition image. Such optical acceleration is known as moiré speedup (check for the formulas of optical speedup for curved patterns). When superimposing two identical layers comprising randomly spaced parallel lines, at a small angle or with a small scaling difference random line moiré patterns, namely line Glass patterns (after Leon Glass, 1969) appear. Similarly, when superimposing two identical layers of randomly scattered dots at a small angle or with a small scaling difference random dot Glass patterns, namely random dot moiré, appears. When one of the layers embeds complex shapes, such as sequences of symbols forming a text, and another layer contains parallel lines or curves, the superimposition image may gives rise to magnified shapes, called shape moiré patterns.

[[Maringá]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraná State

Maringá is the third largest city in the state of Paraná, in the Southern Region of Brazil. About 400,000 people live there. It has an area of 3,179.987 km² (1,227.8 sq mi).

[[Tenkodogo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Burkina Faso

Tenkodogo is a city in Burkina Faso. It is the seventh largest city in Burkina Faso. A census taken in 2006 stated that 40,839 people lived in the city; 20,093 were male and 20,756 were female.

[[Fada N'gourma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Burkina Faso

Fada N'gourma is a city in Burkina Faso. It is the eighth largest city in Burkina Faso. A census taken in 2006 stated that 40,815 people lived in the city; 20,796 were male and 20,019 were female.

[[Ponta Grossa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraná State

Ponta Grossa is a Brazilian city, in the southern region of the country, in the state of Paraná. With a population of over 300,000 inhabitants, it is the 4th most populated city of Paraná.

The city is home town of the Parque Estadual da Vila Velha ("State Park of Old Town"), a park made up of rocky formations formed over millions of years.

Other attraction of the city is the Münchenfest - A National Stout Festival with national and international concerts that lasts a whole week and occurs at late November and the beginning of December.

[[Dédougou]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Burkina Faso

Dédougou is a city in Burkina Faso. It is the ninth largest city in Burkina Faso. A census taken in 2006 stated that 37,793 people lived in the city; 18,778 were male and 19,015 were female.

[[Houndé]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Burkina Faso

Houndé is a city in Burkina Faso. It is the tenth largest city in Burkina Faso. A census taken in 2006 stated that 34,669 people lived in the city; 17,418 were male and 17,251 were female.

[[Foz do Iguaçu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraná State

Foz do Iguaçu (fɔs do igwa'su) is the 4th largest city of Paraná state, in the south region of Brazil. 309,000 people live there. It is about 650 west of Curitiba, Parana's capital city, on the border with Argentina and Paraguay. The people who live there are known as iguaçuenses.

The city is known for the Iguaçu Falls and the Itaipu Dam, the largest dam of the world was built.

[[Cascavel]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraná State

Cascavel is a city in western Paraná state, in the south region of Brazil. It has, approximately 300.000 inhabitants.

The city is on a plateau 781 meters above sea level. It is 504 km west of the state capital of Curitiba, 605 km west of the sea port of Paranaguá and 140 km from Foz do Iguaçu/ the 3 borders (Paraguay, Argentina and Brazil).

[[Julen Guerrero]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Julen Guerrero (born 7 January, 1974) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Athletic Bilbao and Spain national team.

[[Emile Heskey]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, 2002 FIFA World Cup players, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, Aston Villa F.C. players, Black British sportspeople, Liverpool F.C. players, Sportspeople from Leicester

Emile William Ivanhoe Heskey (born 11 January 1978) is an English footballer. He currently plays for Bolton Wanderers in the Football League Championship. 

At the pinnacle of his career, he played for Leicester City, Liverpool and Birmingham City. he later he played for Wigan Athletic and Aston Villa, then Newcastle Jets in the Australian A-League. For a while he was a regular member of the England national team, striking up a good partnership with fellow forward Michael Owen, where he was often deployed as a 'Target Man' due to his immense strength, good first touch and passing skills. 

[[Jan Koller]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Czech footballers

Jan Koller (born March 30 1973) is a Czech football player. He plays for Cannes and Czech Republic national team.

[[Rüştü Reçber]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Turkish footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Rüştü Reçber (born 10 May 1973) is a Turkish football player. He plays for Beşiktaş and Turkey national team.

[[William Regal]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, WWE wrestlers, English professional wrestlers

Darren Kenneth Matthews (born May 10, 1968) also known by his ring name William Regal, is an English professional wrestler, currently signed to the World Wrestling Entertainment where he is the commissioner of the NXT brand.

[[Bryan Robson]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, Manchester United F.C. players, Sportspeople from County Durham, Premier League players

Bryan Robson is a former football player born on 11 January 1957. He has played for England national team.

[[Robbie Fowler]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, Sportspeople from Liverpool, Premier League players

Robbie Fowler (born 9 April 1975) is an English former professional football player.

[[Hernán Crespo]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Hernán Crespo (born 5 July 1975) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Parma.

[[Kevin Keegan]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, England national football team managers, People from South Yorkshire

Kevin Keegan (born 14 February 1951) is a former English football player. He has played for England national team in the seventies.

[[Bob Holly]]

CATEGORIES: American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from California, 1963 births, Living people, People from Glendale, California

Robert William "Bob" Howard (born January 29, 1963) better known by his ring name Hardcore Holly, is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for his 15-year job he had with  World Wrestling Entertainment.

While in WWF/E, Holly has held the WWF/E Hardcore Championship six times, the WWF/E Tag Team Championship three times (with the 1-2-3 Kid, Crash Holly and Cody Rhodes), and the NWA World Tag Team Championship once with Bart Gunn.

[[Raúl González]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Madrid

Raúl González Blanco (born 27 June 1977) is a retired Spanish football player.

[[Luís Figo]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

Luís Filipe Madeira Caeiro Figo OIH (born 4 November 1972) is a former Portuguese football player. He had played for Portugal national team and last played for Inter Milan.

[[Rudi Völler]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, German football managers, German footballers, People from Hanau, Sportspeople from Hesse

Rudi Völler (born 13 April 1960) is a former German football player. He has played for Germany national team.

[[Freddy Adu]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, American footballers, Ghanaian people

Freddy Adu (born June 2, 1989) is an American soccer player from Ghana. He plays for Aris Thessaloniki and the American national team.

[[Eamon Dunphy]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Irish footballers, Sportspeople from Dublin

Eamon Martin Dunphy (born 3 August 1945) is an Irish professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player. He has played for Republic of Ireland national team.

[[Murat Yakin]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Swiss footballers, Swiss football managers, Sportspeople from Basel

Murat Yakin (Murat Yakın; born 15 September 1974) is a former football player. He has played for Switzerland national team. He is the manager of Switzerland national football team since 2021.

[[Salmonella]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Salmonella is a genus of bacteria. It is a major cause of illness throughout the world. The bacteria are generally passed on to humans by eating or drinking food of animal origin which has the bacteria in it, mainly meat, poultry, eggs and milk. Bacteria from the genus Salmonella can cause diseases, such as diarrhea, cholera and typhus. These bacteria are zoonotic, meaning they can infect both animals and humans. 

Salmonella is closely related to the Escherichia genus and are found worldwide in cold- and warm-blooded animals (including humans), and in the environment. They cause illnesses like typhoid fever, paratyphoid fever, and foodborne illness.

Salmonella is also extremely dangerous, and like most diseases, weaker humans like the old and young could easily die from it. Salmonella can only be killed in food by cooking at high temperatures. This is called denaturation.

[[Paul Sturrock]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers

Paul Sturrock is a former football player. He has played for Dundee United and Scotland national team.

[[Avi Ran]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 1987 deaths, Association football goalkeepers, Israeli footballers, Jewish Israeli sportspeople

Avi Ran (אבי רן) was an football player. He has played for Maccabi Haifa and Israel national team. He was killed in a boat accident in the Sea of Galilee.

[[Mark Viduka]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Melbourne

Mark Viduka (born 9 October 1975) is an Australian football player. He has played for Australia national team.

[[Baichung Bhutia]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Indian footballers

Baichung Bhutia (born 15 December 1976) is an former Indian professional footballer.   He played for the India national football team.

Bhutia retired from international competition in 2011.

[[Matthew Le Tissier]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, English footballers, Guernsey

Matthew Le Tissier is a former football player. He has played for Southampton and England national team.

[[Amarok (software)]]

CATEGORIES: KDE

Amarok is a music player for the KDE desktop environment. Unlike most KDE programs, it has its own schedule for releasing versions, so a new version of Amarok might not be released when a new version of KDE comes out. Amarok's first stable version was released in 2003. They are now on version 2.4.3.

[[Caesar]]

Caesar or Cæsar may mean:

[[Ignoratio elenchi]]

CATEGORIES: Figures of speech, Logical fallacies

Ignoratio elenchi (also known as irrelevant conclusion or irrelevant thesis) is the informal fallacy of presenting an argument that may in itself be valid, but does not address the issue in question. "Ignoratio elenchi" can be roughly translated by ignorance of refutation, that is, ignorance of what a refutation is; "elenchi" is from the Greek έλεγχος, meaning an argument of disproof or refutation. (Some sources give by ignorance of the issues or even by ignoring the issues as a translation of ignoratio elenchi.)

Aristotle believed that an ignoratio elenchi is a mistake made by a questioner while attempting to falsify a respondent's argument. He called it an ignorance of what makes for a refutation. For Aristotle, ignoratio elenchi amounts to ignorance of logic. In fact, Aristotle goes so far as to say that all logical fallacies can be reduced to what he calls ignoratio elenchi.

Modern use limits this term much more narrowly to the kind of mistake described in the first paragraph above.

[[Informal fallacy]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies, Critical thinking

An informal fallacy is an logical argument whose  premises fail to support their conclusion. Informal fallacies often come about because of an error in reasoning. The premises are then incorrectly linked to the conclusion.  

In contrast to a formal fallacy, the error has to do with issues of inference. Because language is used to state the propositions, natural language allows one to say more than  formal logic can represent. All informal fallacies of deductive reasoning contain a disconnect between the premises and the conclusion. This  makes the argument invalid. The disconnect happens because there is a hidden co-premise. If this co-premise were stated, it would make the argument valid.

Inductive informal fallacies are rather different from their deductive counterparts. Their merit rests in the inductive strength of the premiseconclusion link, not the presence of hidden premises. For instance, the fallacy of hasty generalization, can be roughly stated as:

If the populations of P and Q are both too large to sample completely, then the statement is inductive. In such a case, a hasty generalization occurs when the number of Ps and Qs does not represent the respective populations. It is important to distinguish between a principle of reasoning (deductive or inductive) and the premise of an argument.

[[Great Western Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in Great Britain, Defunct railway companies of the United Kingdom, 1833 establishments, 1948 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1830s establishments in the United Kingdom

The Great Western Railway (GWR) was a railway company in the United Kingdom, that was started in 1833. It was engineered by Isambard Kingdom Brunel.

The railway company also ran bus services and owned ships and hotels. In 1948, the government took control of the company and Great Western Railway then was renamed the Western Region of British Railways.

The first railway line built by the Great Western Railway opened in 1838. It started in London and ended in Maidenhead which was 22.5 west. By 1841, the area of service had been made much longer and so their trains went farther west to the towns of Reading, Swindon, Bath and Bristol. By 1852, the railway line had become 305 long and went to Penzance. Penzance railway station is both the farthest south and farthest west in Great Britain.  

In 1923, the GWR took over several smaller railways (most of them in Wales) and became one of the Big Four British railway companies. In 1948, Britain's railways were nationalized and the GWR became the Western Region of British Railways.

[[Stimulant]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry, Drugs

A stimulant is any of a group of drugs that can increase alertness and awareness, usually for a short time only. Most stimulants have more side-effects than other drugs. Some are classified as illegal drugs, most can cause addiction. For this reason, most legal stimulants are only available on prescription. Stimulants act on the nerves: Stimulants cause more neurotransmitters to the synapse (this is the gap between different nerves)

Most stimulants fall into one of the following groups:

Some of the substances mentioned above can be used to treat certain diseases. Some are mostly used as illegal drugs.

[[Benzylpiperazine]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Benzylpiperazine, commonly referred to as BZP is an recreational drug. It is also available with trade names such as "A2", "Frenzy" and "Nemesis", It is a stimulant and may cause Euphoria. People believe it works in a way similar to MDMA. The effects produced by BZP are comparable to those produced by amphetamine. Side-effects include acute psychosis, problems with the kidneys

Adverse effects have been reported following its use including acute psychosis and seizures. It does not appear to be very addictive and no deaths have been reported following taking BZP once. There have been at least two deaths  which resulted from the combination of BZP and MDMA. Its sale is banned in a few countries, including the United States, Australia, New Zealand and in parts of Europe. However, its legal status is currently less restrictive in some other countries such as Ireland and Canada. The European Union is currently changing its laws to regulate this substance more.

[[Turkish new lira]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish currency

The Turkish new lira (Yeni türk lirası) is the currency of Turkey and the unrecognised Turkish Northern Republic of Cyprus. The new lira is subdivided into 100 new kurush (yeni kuruş), the equivalent of American Cents or British Pennies. The symbol for the currency is YTL.

In the last few years the Turkish lira stabilised and even rose against the U.S. Dollars and the Euro.

In late December 2003, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey passed a law that allowed for the removal of six zeroes from the currency, and the creation of the new lira. It was introduced on 1 January 2005, replacing the previous lira (which remained valid in circulation until the end of 2005) at a rate of 1 new lira = 1,000,000 old lira.

The official name of the currency is "New Turkish Lira". According to the Central Bank, the word "new" (yeni) is only a "temporary" measure. The "new" was be removed on January 1, 2009. The banknotes have "different shapes and sizes to prevent forgery".

[[Oedipus]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Incest in fiction, Mythology

Oedipus is a mythical or fictional king in Greek mythology. He is adopted as a baby. Without knowing who they are, he marries his biological mother, Then they have a baby, But before this, he kills his biological father. The psychologist Sigmund Freud had a theory and he called it the Oedipus complex, after this story.

Oedipus Tyranos, or Oedipus the King, is a well-known tragedy by Sophocles.

Oedipus has 4 children, Antigone, Polynices, Ismene and Eteocles. All of these are by his mother Jocasta. Later, they find out they are related to each other. Jocasta hangs herself and Oedipus rips out his eyes in disgust.

[[Gundam]]

CATEGORIES: Anime

Gundam is the collective name for all the different Japanese anime series about giant fighting robots called Mobile Suits. There are many series, movies, comic books and video games based on the Gundam franchise. Gundam started what is called the Real Robot genre of anime, where the robots are more like machines than in Super Robot anime.

[[Self-injury]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Self-injury (SI) or self-harm (SH) occurs when a person hurts their body on purpose. This kind of harm is not suicidal behavior. Many self-harmers hurt themselves because they feel it is the only way to stay alive. However, in some cases the self-harm becomes so bad it can lead to death, and those who self-harm are more likely to commit suicide than those who do not.

There are many different reasons why a person may hurt themselves, though it is often hard to find an exact cause. Sometimes, the self-harm helps relieve unbearable emotions, or feelings of unreality or numbness. Self-harm is often a symptom of other problems. These problems may include physical abuse, sexual abuse, or eating disorders. Self-harm may also stem from mental problems such as low self esteem or perfectionism.

Studying the causes of self-injury can be difficult or inaccurate, because many self-harmers try to hide their injuries.

[[Guildford]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Surrey, County towns in England

Guildford is the county town of Surrey, in England.  It is also the seat for the borough of Guildford.

[[Socratic method]]

CATEGORIES: Human communication, Philosophy

The Socratic Method (or Method of Elenchus or Socratic Debate), is named after the Greek philosopher Socrates. It is a form of philosophical questioning.

The central technique of the Socratic method is called an elenchus. It means argument to disprove or refute (prove wrong).

[[Bill Maher]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American stand-up comedians, American political commentators, American television talk show hosts, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, Comedians from New York City

William "Bill" Maher, Jr., (ˈmɑɹ; born January 20 1956) is an American stand-up comedian, television host, political commentator, actor,  and author. He hosted the late-night television talk show Politically Incorrect on Comedy Central and ABC, and is currently the host of Real Time with Bill Maher on HBO. The show has been nominated for more than ten Emmy Awards. On June 1, 2006, he also began hosting an Internet-exclusive talk show on Amazon.com entitled Amazon Fishbowl.

In 2013 Maher became the producer of a HBO TV series called Vice.

[[Friedrich Hund]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1997 deaths, German academics, German physicists, People from Karlsruhe

Friedrich Hund (4 February 1896  31 March 1997) was a German physicist from Karlsruhe known for his work on atoms and molecules. He worked at the Universities of  Rostock, Leipzig, Jena, Frankfurt am Main, Göttingen and was a member of the International Academy of Quantum Molecular Science.

He had published more than 250 papers and essays and made contributions to quantum theory about the structure of the atom and the structure of molecular spectra. The Hund's rule was named after him and in 1926 he discovered the later so-called tunneling effect.

[[Ubuntu Live USB creator]]

CATEGORIES: Linux software

Ubuntu Live USB Creator is an official tool to create Live USBs of Ubuntu from an iso image. The tool is already included in the repositories of Ubuntu 8.10.

[[Shigella]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Shigella is a genus of bacterium. It belongs to a small group of pathogens (including E. coli and Salmonella) that can infect the gut after the ingestion of relatively few organisms. The bacteria can cause sudden and severe diarrhea in humans.

[[Puppet]]

CATEGORIES: Puppets

Puppets are objects used in theatrical performances. They are similar to dolls. They often use strings or other means to make the puppet move and look alive. Some puppets are very simple, but others are more complicated and need skill to use. The person who works the puppet and makes it move is called a puppeteer. The audience cannot usually see this person but some, like a ventriloquist and dummy, are in full view of the audience. There are many different types of puppets to be found around the world. Puppetry is a special art form that is very important in some cultures.

[[Paranthropus]]

CATEGORIES: Australopithecines

Paranthropus  is an extinct genus of robust australopithecines. They probably descended from the gracile australopithecine Australopithecus.

[[Lake Toba]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Indonesia

Lake Toba is a lake in the caldera of a supervolcano. The lake is 100 long and 30 wide, and 505 at its deepest point.

It is in the middle of the northern part of the Indonesian island of Sumatra with an elevation of about 900. The lake stretches from 2.88 to 2.35. It is the largest lake in Indonesia and the largest volcanic lake in the world.

[[Fatimah Jinnah Park]]

CATEGORIES: Islamabad, Parks in Pakistan

Fatima Jinnah Park, sometimes known as F-9 park (pointing out the fact that the covered area is spread out through the entire sector), is a public recreational park in sector F-9 of Islamabad, Pakistan. The park is one of the largest in area in South-central Asia. It was named after the revered "Madre Millat" (Mother of the Nation) Miss Fatima Jinnah- younger sister of the founder of Pakistan.

[[Hazratbal Shrine]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in India, Srinagar

The Hazratbal Shrine (Kashmiri: حضرت بل, literally: Majestic Place), is a Muslim shrine in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, Kashmir. It contains a relic believed by many Muslims of India to be a hair of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. The name of the shrine comes from the Arabic word Hazrat, meaning holy or majestic, and the Kashmiri word bal, meaning place.

The shrine is on the left bank of the Dal Lake, Srinagar and is considered to be Kashmir's holiest Muslim shrine. The Moi-e-Muqqadas (the sacred hair) of Mohammed is believed to be preserved here. The shrine is known by many names including Hazratbal, Assar-e-Sharief, Madinat-us-Sani, or simply Dargah Sharif.

[[Jama Masjid, Srinagar]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in India, Srinagar, 1394 establishments, 14th century establishments in India

Jamia Masjid Mosque is a mosque in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, Kashmir. The Jamia Masjid of Srinagar is at Nowhatta, in the middle of the old city. It was built by Sultan Sikandar shah kashmiri shahmiri in 1394 AD Later, the son of Sultan Sikandar, Zain-ul-Abidin got the mosque extended the masurement of masjid is 381 ft by 384 ft built in area of 1,46,000 sqf  The attractions of the Jamia Masjid with is unique architecture,has mejistic courtyard and 378 wooden Deodar pillars supporting wooden ceiling with 346 pillars of 21 feet in height and 5 feet in girth and 32 pillars with 48 feet in height and 6 feet in girth. Another feature of the mosque is the peace and tranquility inside it, standing out against the hustle of the old bazaars around it. The masjid has a fountain also measurement of 33 feet by 34 feet which is also used for wadu (ablution)   Thousands of Muslims assemble at the mosque every Friday to offer their prayers. This Jamia Masjid of Kashmir, has seen a number of destructions till date. It got ruined thrice in fire and was reconstructed every time. The last restoration was carried out during the reign of Maharaja Pratap Singh.

[[Dachigam National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in India

Dachigam National Park is a national park in India. It is 22 from Srinagar, the capital city of Jammu and Kashmir. The park covers an area of 141. The name of the park means "ten villages".

[[Hemis National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in India

Hemis National Park (or Hemis High Altitude National Park) is a high altitude National Park in the Eastern Ladakh area of the state of Jammu and Kashmir in India.  It is the only national park in India north of the Himalayas.

The park is home to about 200 snow leopards. Hemis is the only refuge in India with the Shapu. The Tibetan Wolf,the Eurasian Brown Bear, and the Red Fox are also in Hemis.

[[Kishtwar National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Pakistan

Kishtwar National Park is a national park in the Doda District of Jammu and Kashmir, Northern Pakistan.

[[Salim Ali National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Pakistan

Salim Ali National Park (formerly the City Forest National Park) is a national park in Jammu and Kashmir in Asia. It covers 9.07 km² and is located in the proximity of the capital city of Srinagar. The Srinagar airport is 12 km from the park.

[[Ulysses (spacecraft)]]

CATEGORIES: NASA spacecraft, ESA spacecraft

Ulysses was a spacecraft (or space probe). It was a joint mission by NASA and ESA. The spacecraft was launched on October 6, 1990. Its main aims were to study the Sun and the planet Jupiter.

[[Dual-tone multi-frequency]]

CATEGORIES: Telephone

Dual-tone multi-frequency or DTMF is the group of special sounds a telephone makes when you push the buttons.  Each number button makes a different sound.  Telephone company equipment hears each sound and turns it back into a number.  When all the numbers in a phone number are pushed the telephone company equipment will make the other person's telephone play a loud sound so they can answer their telephone and talk to you. 

Telephones also have a star (*) button and a pound (#) button. These buttons also make different DTMF sounds.  These buttons can be used for other things like 'go' or 'do over'.  But they are not part of the phone number.

A few telephones have the letter buttons A B C and D. They also make different DTMF sounds. 

Pushing the number buttons is called dialing the telephone. When a telephone makes a loud sound for you to answer, it is called ringing.

[[Equilibrioception]]

CATEGORIES: Sensory system, Health, Fitness

Equilibrioception is the sense of balance. This is what prevents a person or animal from falling over while walking or doing other physical activity.

[[Violence in ice hockey]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey

Violence is often common in the sport of Ice Hockey. Originally a sport played by richer people, when the sport became popular it got more violent. Up until the 1950s deaths were not uncommon in Ice Hockey. 

[[Gerard K. O'Neill]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1992 deaths, American physicists, Cornell University alumni, Scientists from New York City

Gerard Kitchen “Gerry” O’Neill (February 6, 1927–April 27, 1992) was an American scientist. He taught physics at Princeton University. He invented a machine for holding subatomic particles. He also invented the mass driver, a machine used to launch things into outer space. He wrote about building cities in space.

His space station design is known as the O’Neill cylinder. He started the Space Studies Institute (SSI). SSI is a group focused on learning about space manufacturing and colonization.

In 1954 O'Neill finished school at Cornell University. Then he began his work on particle physics at Princeton.

Two years later he wrote about a device to hold very fast moving subatomic particles. In 1965 he used his device to shoot two beams of particles at each other for the first time. This experiment was done at Stanford University. Scientists used the experiment to discover the size of the electron.

While he was teaching, O’Neill became excited about humans living in outer space. He wrote about the O’Neill cylinder in “The Colonization of Space”. This was his first paper about people living in space. He met with other scientists at Princeton in 1975. There he talked with them about manufacturing in outer space. O’Neill built his first mass driver with help from scientist Henry Kolm in 1976. Mass drivers were part of his plan to mine the Moon and asteroids. His book The High Frontier won an award and got people excited about outer space. He died in 1992 after a seven year fight against leukemia.

[[Rosary]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholicism

The Rosary is a Catholic form of prayer using beads.  It is a cycle of repeated formal prayers, such as the Lord's Prayer and the Hail Mary, done while thinking about important events in the lives of Jesus and Mary.  This is called "saying the Rosary" or "praying the Rosary." A rosary can also be the series of joined beads that a person holds while saying these prayers.

The Church has always recognized the efficacy of this devotion John Paul II said “Through the Rosary the faithful receive abundant grace, as by the hands of the Mother of the Redeemer. Pope John Paul II, Rosarium virginis Mariae, 16 October 2002, Libreria Editrice Vaticana/ref

Prayer is for every person to obtain graces and consolations for oneself or for others, for the diffusion of good actions in the world, for the solution of international conflicts, for conversion and spiritual growth.

/ref Prayer, in the room of your home or into the church, at any time of the day,  is a moment of peace and serenity that distracts from the worries of the day and it is a moment of communication with Divine Mercy through the most beautiful prayers. The graces result from the experience not only of saints and religious but also of ordinary people who have left public witness of the graces received requested to the Virgin Mary.

A person who says a Rosary usually thinks about certain events from the Bible.  Each day has a traditional list of these events, called "Mysteries of the Rosary."

[[Kazakh language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Asia

Kazakh is a Turkic language that is spoken in Kazakhstan, a country in central Asia. It, along with Russian, is one of Kazakhstan's official languages.

[[Spring green]]

Spring green is a color that is the color on the color wheel that is precisely halfway between cyan and green.

Spring green is one of the official web colors.  

[[Dunfermline Athletic F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football clubs, 1885 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1880s establishments in Scotland

Dunfermline Athletic Football Club are a Scottish football team based in Dunfermline, Fife, commonly known as just Dunfermline. They play at East End Park and are nicknamed The Pars.

They are currently managed by Allan Johnston who was given the job on a permanent basis in May 2015.

[[Greenock Morton F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football clubs, 1874 establishments in Scotland

Greenock Morton Football Club are a football team, who currently play in the Ladbrokes sponsored Scottish Championship. The club was founded as Morton Football Club in 1874, making it one of the oldest senior Scottish clubs.

Greenock Morton are popularly known as "The Pride of the Clyde" - a tradition which pre-dates the club's renaming in 1994 to celebrate the links with its home town of Greenock. The club has a traditional local rivalry with St Mirren F.C.

[[Livingston F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football clubs, 1943 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Scotland

Livingston Football Club is a Scottish football team based in Livingston, West Lothian. They currently play in the Scottish Premiership.

[[Queen of the South F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football clubs, 1919 establishments in the United Kingdom, 20th century establishments in Scotland

Queen of the South Football Club is a Scottish professional football club founded in 1919. It is in Dumfries in southwest Scotland. They currently play in the Scottish First Division.

Officially nicknamed The Doonhamers, but usually referred to as Queens and sometimes as QoS (as also listed on the club badge), they have played their entire existence based at Palmerston Park on Terregles Street. 

The club has won national honours, namely the 1950-51 B Division, the 2001-02  Scottish Second Division and the 2002-03 Scottish Challenge Cup. While Queens topped Scotland's top division until Christmas in season 1953-54 their highest-ever finish in the Scottish top flight was fourth in 1933-34. Their longest cup run was in the 2007-08 Scottish Cup, in which they reached the final and finished runners up.

The club is currently managed by Gordon Chisholm.

[[Ross County F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Premier League clubs, 1929 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Scotland

Ross County F.C. are a Scottish professional football team who currently play in the Scottish Football League. They play their home matches at Victoria Park in the Highland town of Dingwall, Ross and Cromarty. 

Their manager, up until October 2005, was former Inverness Caledonian Thistle and Heart of Midlothian manager John Robertson. He left the club on the 24 October 2005, due to differences of opinion on a number of fundamental issues with the chairman. Gardner Spiers, a former Aberdeen coach, was appointed caretaker manager, but he too left in April 2006 after being told he would not be considered for appointment on a permanent basis. Director of Football George Adams took temporary charge before former Motherwell player Scott Leitch was appointed on 18 April 2006. Leitch, after winning the Challenge Cup but suffering relegation, stood down at the end of the 2006-2007 season, almost exactly one year after his appointment. Former Partick Thistle manager Dick Campbell was announced as his replacement in May 2007. However, after a good run of results to start their Division 2 campaign, Campbell and the Ross County board decided to part company on 2 October 2007. Derek Adams (son of George Adams) took over as caretaker, and was confirmed as permanent manager a month later, after the side's good form continued.

[[Irn-Bru]]

CATEGORIES: Soft drinks

Irn-Bru is a carbonated drink made by Barrs in Scotland, United Kingdom. It was invented in Glasgow in 1901. It is a bright orange colour, and is nicknamed "Scotland's other national drink" – a reference to whisky.

[[Scottish Football League First Division]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Football League, 1890 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1890s establishments in Scotland

The  Irn-Bru Scottish Football League First Division (or Scottish First Division) is a professional football competition in Scotland. It is found on the second level of the Scottish football system, below the Scottish Premier League. It is the top level of the Scottish Football League.

[[Rain gauge]]

CATEGORIES: Measuring tools

A rain gauge is an instrument used by meteorologists and hydrologists to measure  liquid precipitation (rain) in a certain amount of time. It is usually measured in millimetres and inches. Rain gauge is a meteorological instrument for determining the depth of precipitation (usually in mm) that occurs over a unit area (usually one metre square) and thus measuring rainfall amount. One millimetre of measured precipitation is the equivalent to one litre of rainfall per metre square. 

Usually a tapering funnel of copper or polyester of standard dimension allows the rain water to collect in an enclosed bottle or cylinder for subsequent measurement. The gauge is set in open ground with the funnel rim up to 30 cm above the ground surface. Some gauges are calibrated to allow the amount of rainfall to be read directly; with others it must be calculated from the depth of water in the container and the dimensions of the funnel.

The second type of rain gauge is the autographic gauge which can be either of the tilting-siphon type or the tipping-bucket type. The recording chart on an autographic rain gauge is mounted on a drum which is driven by clockwork and typically rotates round a vertical axis once per day. For a tilting-siphon rain gauge, the rainwater in a collector displaces a float so that a marking pen attached to the float makes a continuous trace on the paper. The two buckets in a tipping-bucket rain gauge rest on a pivot so that when one bucket has received 0.2 (or 0.5 mm) of rain it tips by gravity, empties the rainwater and allows the other bucket to start collection. During the tip, an electrical switch is closed and triggers a nearby autographic recorder to register each 'tilt', thus giving a fairly continuous record of precipitation and, in a more sophisticated form, even rainfall intensity. Rain gauges must be sited in as representative a location as possible, but the choice of location is difficult, since many precipitation events are highly aggregate. King Sejong the Great was the man who introduced rain gauge to the world. There are advantages and disadvantages of this instrument.

[[Zürich S-Bahn]]

CATEGORIES: Rapid transit systems, Zürich, Transport in Switzerland

Zürich S-Bahn (German S-Bahn Zürich) is a suburban rail system that links the City of Zürich to its Metropolitan area. The system started in 1990, when it was the first suburban rail system to begin operating in Switzerland.

Mid 2008, there were 380 kilometres of railway track, 171 stations and 28 lines. In 2007, about 355’653 passengers used the system every day.

Each line generally has two trains an hour. 

Since 2002, there are also 7 lines that run at night during weekends, in the nights Friday-Saturday, and Saturday-Sunday. Usually, there is one train per hour. Some lines only have one train every two hours. There are also some bus lines. Usually, traveling with these night lines requires an extra fare, which has to be bought in addition to the normal ticket.

Between 75 and 80 million people use the system every year. About 70% of the people living in the area use the system. Plans include gradually introducing 4 trains per hour on most lines, and to extend the offer to 4 trains per hour between Zürich and Winterthur during the whole day, and not just during rush hour. A new tunnel was built in Zürich main station. This tunnel allows a direct connection from Zürich main station to Oerlikon and the airport, without a change of direction. 

[[Thousand Foot Krutch]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s music groups, 1990s music groups, Christian music bands, Canadian rock bands, Nu metal bands

Thousand Foot Krutch is a Canadian Christian hard rock band who formed in 1997.

They have released a number of albums, (including 2 remix albums)the latest being Exhale, sequel to Oxygen: Inhale.

While TFK had rap influences, obvious with Trevors vocals in earlier TFK albums, "The Flame In All Of Us" and "Welcome To the Masquerade" have moved away from that, and used a more rock based sound. But "The End Is Where We Begin" returns to the band's Rap roots.

While "The Last Song" from "The Flame In All Of Us", has been thought by some to be an outro from the band, TFK still continues touring, and Trevor has said that they were very tired and it's only a sarcastic "Here it all is: love it or hate it".

[[Rosh Hashanah]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish festivals and holidays

Rosh Hashanah (ראש השנה, literally "head of the year," Biblical: ˈɾoʃ haʃːɔˈnɔh, Israeli: haʃaˈna, Yiddish: hɑˈʃɔnə) is a Jewish holiday commonly referred to as the "Jewish New Year."  It is observed on the first day of Tishrei, the seventh month of the Hebrew calendar. The festival lasts for two days.

Rosh Hashanah is the first of the High Holidays or Yamim Noraim ("Days of Awe"), or Asseret Yemei Teshuva (The Ten Days of Repentance) which are days specifically set aside to focus on repentance that conclude with the holiday of Yom Kippur. The story of Rosh Hashanah is about Abraham and his belief in God when he was told to sacrifice his son.

It is customary to send "A Good and Happy Year" greetings on Rosh Hashanah to friends and family.

[[Mass noun]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar

In linguistics, a mass noun is a common noun that refers to an amount, not an item or unit. Common mass nouns are water, chocolate, meat, time, and space. Mass nouns are always singular and uncountable. The set of uncountable nouns and mass nouns is not identical. There are uncountable nouns, such as scissors which refer to an item, are plural, and are not mass nouns.

In some languages like English, mass nouns have different grammar than countable nouns. Their requirements for determiners, for example differ. Other languages, such as Japanese, do not treat mass nouns in any special way.

[[Dianthus]]

CATEGORIES: Caryophyllaceae

Dianthus is a genus of about 300 species of flowering plants in the family Caryophyllaceae, found mainly in Europe and Asia, with a few species found south to north Africa, and one species (D. repens) in Arctic North America. Common names include carnation (D. caryophyllus), pink (D. plumarius and related species) and sweet william (D. barbatus). The name Dianthus is from the Greek words dios ("god") and anthos ("flower"), and was mentioned by the Greek botanist Theophrastus.

[[American Dream]]

CATEGORIES: American culture

The American Dream is the hope that in the United States of America, anyone can become successful if they work hard and try their very best.

[[Jason Upton]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Singers from Minneapolis, Minnesota, American singer-songwriters, Christian music singers

Jason Upton (born December 15, 1973) is an independent Christian worship leader and musician. He has a large underground following. 

He has released 12 albums since the year 2000:

[[Richard Dean Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Ohio University alumni

Richard Dean Anderson (born January 23, 1950, in Minneapolis, Minnesota) is an American television actor. He is best known for his role as the title character in the television series MacGyver, and for his role as Jack O'Neill in the television series Stargate SG-1.

[[Michael Shanks]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Living people, People from Vancouver

Michael Garrett Shanks (born December 15, 1970, Vancouver, British Columbia) is a Canadian actor, writer and director. He became famous for his role as Dr. Daniel Jackson on the television series Stargate SG-1. He also provided the voice of the character Thor for this show. He is a film and television actor.

[[Mycobacterium leprae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Mycobacterium leprae is a bacteria. It causes the disease, leprosy, also known as Hanson's Disease. The bacterium was discovered in 1873 by a Norwegian doctor named Gerhard Armauer Hansen. M. leprae is a gram-positive, aerobic rod surrounded by the characteristic waxy coating unique to Mycobacteria. In size and shape, it closes resembles  M. tuberculosis. Due to its thick, waxy coating, stains with carbol-fuchsin are used, rather than with the traditional Gram staining method.

[[Smells Like Teen Spirit]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 songs, Nirvana songs

"Smells Like Teen Spirit" is a song by the American grunge band, Nirvana, from their second album Nevermind. It is probably their most famous song, and one of the most famous songs ever. Many people thought the song represented the ideas of the people in Generation X (people born in the United States between 1965 and 1980.)

[[Mycobacterium tuberculosis]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a bacterium that causes tuberculosis. M. tuberculosis was first described on 24 March 1882 by Robert Koch. The bacterium was first called the "tubercle bacillus", and is now also known as Koch's bacillus. This disease is spread by the air and from getting coughed or sneezed on by an infected patient.

Tuberculosis used to kill over half the people who were infected. The bacterium was almost wiped out by antibiotics, but is now a threat again because strains have appeared which are resistant to all the usual antibiotics.

[[Billabong (clothing)]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Australia, Clothing companies

Billabong is an Australian brand of surf clothing which is popular with young people, in particular the Australian surf community, however, more recently of the skating, and other sporting communities.

[[Sand (disambiguation)]]

Sand may refer to:

[[George Sand]]

CATEGORIES: 1804 births, 1876 deaths, Feminists, French novelists, Writers from Paris, Pen names, French autobiographers, French culture, French feminists, French journalists, French literature, French nobility, French people, French playwrights, French socialists, French writers, LGBT writers, People from Centre-Val de Loire, People from Paris, Political activists

Amandine ''Aurore'' Lucile Dupin, later Baroness (French:baronne) Dudevant (1 July 1804 – 8 June 1876), best known by her pseudonym George Sand (ʒɔʁʒ sɑ̃d), was a French novelist and feminist.

[[Type 23 frigate]]

CATEGORIES: British warships, Military of Chile

The type 23 frigate or "Duke" class frigate is a warship operated by the Royal Navy of the United Kingdom and by the Chilean Navy of Chile.

[[Nuremberg Laws]]

CATEGORIES: History of Germany, Legislation

The Nuremberg Laws is the name for three (historically: two laws) that were set into practice in Germany in 1935, and that were valid until 1945. They are named after the city of Nuremberg where the legislative assembly met.

They were:

On the 14th of November 1935, the Nuremberg laws were expanded prohibiting Roma (Gypsies), Blacks or any of their offspring from engaging in marriage or sexual relations with 'Those of German or German related blood'.Category:History of Germany

[[Thrice]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Musical groups from California, Irvine, California, Musical groups established in 1998, 1998 establishments in California, Musical groups disestablished in 2012, 2012 disestablishments in the United States, 2010s disestablishments in California

Thrice is an American experimental rock band formed in 1998. They are always changing their sound from different albums. The four members in Thrice are the same four people as when they started 10 years ago.

In 2004, the band released a DVD about the band. In the DVD, it talks about the members. They talk about experiences with touring and being in the band. They also talk about their ideas about the future direction of the music.

Dustin Kensrue, the lead singer for the band, released a solo album in 2007.

Most recently, Thrice have released a four disc album titled The Alchemy Index (volumes Earth, Fire, Water and Air). At the end of each disc, there is a song written in a similar poem style. The  last line in that song is always sung in the same way.

[[Sidewalk]]

CATEGORIES: Transport infrastructure

A sidewalk is a path for pedestrians that runs along the side of a road. It is called a sidewalk in American English, but can also be called a pavement (mainly British English and  South African English), a footpath (Australian English, Irish English, Indian English and New Zealand English) or footway (Engineering term).

Pedestrians use sidewalks to keep them safe from vehicles on the road. Sidewalks can be made of bricks or from tarmac.

[[BMW]]

CATEGORIES: BMW, Companies listed on the DAX, 1916 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in Germany

Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW, ˈbeːˈʔɛmˈveː) is a German automobile and motorcycle maker founded on 7 March 1916. It is one of the most famous automobile makers in the world. The headquarters is in Munich, Bavaria. BMW is part of the "German Big 3" luxury automobile manufacturers, along with Audi and Mercedes-Benz.

BMW makes these automobiles:

BMW's automobiles are tuned and modified by several German Tuning Companies such as AC Schnitzer, M, and Alpina.

[[Mazda]]

CATEGORIES: Automobile companies of Japan, Hiroshima, 1920 establishments in Asia, 1920s establishments in Japan

Mazda Motor Corporation is a car manufacturer or maker based in Hiroshima, Japan. Mazda is the 15th largest car maker in the world, and 12th largest in U.S. sales. The company was started in 1920. Today it has about 44,000 employees. Sales are 2,057,614,000,000 yen.

[[Itapema]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Santa Catarina

Itapema is a city of the Santa Catarina state, in Brazil.

[[Animal testing]]

CATEGORIES: Animal rights

Animal testing, also known as animal experimentation and animal research is the use of animals for experiments. Escherichia coli, Fruit flies, and mice are often used for animal testing. About 50 to 100 million vertebrate animals and many more invertebrate animals are used around the world every year. The source of the animals are different according to the country and species. Most animals used for experiments are bred for this purpose. But others may be caught from the wild or bought from people who buy them from animal shelters.

Animals are used for experiments inside universities, medical schools, farms, large companies and other places that provide animal-testing services. People who support animal testing argue that almost every medical discovery in the 20th century used animals in some way. They say that even complex computers cannot model connections between molecules, cells, tissues, organs, organisms, and the environment. Many important discoveries were made because of animal testing. But some scientists and animal rights organizations such as PETA do not support animal testing. They say that it is cruel, poorly done, and costly. Others argue that animals have the right not to be used for experiments, and that model organisms are different from humans. The limits to animal testing is different in various countries.

[[Campylobacter]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria, Diseases caused by bacteria

Campylobacter is a genus of bacteria. It is found in the intestines of many types of animal. Campylobacter is the most common bacterial cause of diarrhea and food poisoning. It is spiral shaped, and moves by using its flagella.

Campylobacteriosis is a gastrointestinal tract infection caused by Campylobacter. It causes inflammation, sometimes bloody diarrhea, cramps, fever, and pain.

Campylobacteriosis is more common during the summer months. It also appears to be more common in males than females. It is caused by eating contaminated food or drinking contaminated water. Eating raw meat or undercooked poultry, and raw dairy products are common causes.

In January 2013, the UK's Food Standards Agency warned that two-thirds of all raw chicken bought from UK shops was contaminated with Campylobacter. It affects about half a million people annually and kills about 100.

[[Emperor Taishō]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan, 1879 births, 1926 deaths, People from Kyoto Prefecture

Emperor Taishō was the 123rd emperor of Japan according to the traditional order of succession.  His reign started in 30 July 1912 and ended with his death in 1926.

Emperor Taishō (meaning "Great Justice") was the name given to Yoshihito at the time of his coronation. Emperors of Japan receive a new name at the time of their coronation, and people start using the new name, both to refer to the emperor himself and the name of the era during which he reigned.

[[Emperor Meiji]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan, People from Kyoto Prefecture, 1852 births, 1912 deaths

Emperor Meiji was the 122nd emperor of Japan according to the traditional order of succession.  His reign lasted from 1867 until his death.

[[Trivium (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, Thrash metal bands, Metalcore bands, Musical groups from Orlando, Florida, Musical groups established in 1999, 1999 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Florida

Trivium is a heavy metal band from Orlando, Florida. They started in 1999 and became very successful. The members are: Matt Heafy (vocals, guitars), Corey Beaulieu (guitars), Paolo Gregoletto (bass) and Alex Bent (drums). 

[[Emily Browning]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Australian movie actors, Actors from Melbourne, Australian child actors

Emily Jane Browning (born 7 December 1988) is an Australian movie actress and singer. Browning made her movie start in the Australian television movie The Echo of Thunder. Later, she played recurring roles in Australian television shows Blue Heelers and Something in the Air. Her breakthrough role was in the 2002 horror movie Ghost Ship, which introduced her to a wider audience. In 2005, Browning won the Australian Film Institute International Award for Best Actress for her portrayal of Violet Baudelaire in the comedy movie Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events (2004).

Browning is also known for her roles in the horror movie The Uninvited (2009), the action movie Sucker Punch (2011), and the independent movie Sleeping Beauty (2011). Her role in Sleeping Beauty was highly praised and in 2011 was named the Breakthrough performer of the year by Hamptons International Film Festival.

[[Trivium (liberal arts)]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Ages, Liberal arts, Cultural history

The word trivium, from Latin, is made of two parts. The first part tres meant "three" and the second part vía meant "way".  

In antiquity and the High Middle Ages, there were different ways of teaching young men at the university. The trivium was three simplest ways to study the world, and so young men learned them first. After the trivium, they studied the quadrivium. Together, these subjects were called the seven liberal arts. The most difficult, and final subject studied was theology.

The three subjects were related to talking about the world. These subjects were grammar, logic and rhetoric.  They were ways of preparing for the quadrivium, which includes arithmetic, geometry, music and astronomy.

[[Ancient Greek boxing]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Boxing

thumb|Small statue of a boxer, from the 3rd or 2nd century BCAncient Greek boxing is a very old sport. It has been practiced at least since the eighth century BC. Homer wrote about it in his poem Iliad. At that time, Greece was made of many city-states that were independent. Each city state seems to have had its own version of the sport.

Today, most of the sources that talk about Greek boxing are either legends, or they are fragmentary. When a source is fragmentary, this means that part of the text has been lost, or is missing. This makes it difficult to find the rules, or where and how the activity was done. Several details are missing, but it seems boxing with gloves was an important part of the Greek athletic culture of the time.

[[London School of Economics]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 establishments in England, City of Westminster, Colleges and universities in London

The London School of Economics and Political Science (more commonly London School of Economics or LSE) is a college of the University of London in Westminster. The college opened in 1895. It joined the University of London in 1900. Today it is one of the leading universities for Law, Economics and Political Sciences. QS ranked it as the second best university in the world for social science in 2013. 

Some of the most notable people who attended the college are:

It is a member of the Russell Group. In 2011 17,654 people applied for 1,271 undergraduate places. This means there were 13.8 applicants for every place. Over half of LSE's students are postgraduates. 16 Nobel Prize winners have been LSE students or staff. It has the highest percentage of students from another country in the world and 46% of staff are from other countries.

[[Friedrich Hayek]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1992 deaths, Austrian Nobel Prize winners, British academics, British economists, British Nobel Prize winners, British philosophers, Companions of Honour, Liberals, Libertarians, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Scientists from Vienna

Friedrich August von Hayek, CH (8 May 1899 – 23 March 1992) was an Austrian-British economist and political philosopher. He became known because he strongly defended liberalism and free-market capitalism. He was against too much central control of the economy and society. He thought that forms of government like socialism were not good for the economy, and damaged freedom of the individual. Hayek's signature work, The Road to Serfdom, refers to the consequences of socialism.

He was one of the most important economists and political philosophers of the 20th century. He was one of the most important members of the Austrian School of economics. He also had many ideas in the fields of jurisprudence and cognitive science. He shared the 1974 Nobel Prize in Economics with his rival Gunnar Myrdal. The award was for their work in the theory of money and economic fluctuations; also for their analysis of the inter-dependence of economic, social and institutional phenomena. He also received the U.S. Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1991. He is thought to be one of the major causes of change from the Keynesian policies of the first part of the 20th century. Instead of governments handling the details of the economy, they went back towards classical liberalism in the 1980s and later. This happened most clearly in the 1980s in the U.S.A. (under Ronald Reagan) and the U.K. (under Margaret Thatcher).

[[Ancient Olympic Games]]

CATEGORIES: Olympic Games

The Ancient Olympic Games were a series of athletic competitions held between the city-states of Ancient Greece. They used to be called the Olympic Games (Ολυμπιακοί Αγώνες; Olympiakoi Agones) until the modern day Olympic Games started. The Ancient Olympic Games began in 776 BC in Olympia, Greece. They ran until 393 AD. Then the stadium got buried by landslides and other natural disasters.

Prizes at the games were olive wreaths, palm branches and woollen ribbons. The ancient Olympics were played in the honour of the God Zeus.  

Women were not allowed to participate or even to see the competitions.

[[Manhattan (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 comedy movies, 1979 drama movies, 1970s comedy-drama movies, 1970s LGBT movies, 1970s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American LGBT movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, BAFTA Award winners, English-language movies, Movies directed by Woody Allen, Movies set in New York City, Screenplays by Woody Allen, United States National Film Registry movies

Manhattan is a 1979 American romantic comedy-drama movie by director Woody Allen. The movie is set in New York City. The movie is about Issac Davis (played by Allen), a divorced 42-year old dating a 17-year-old girl. His ex-wife is openly lesbian.

The movie was nominated for two Academy Awards: Best Supporting Actress (Mariel Hemingway) and Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen. It also won the BAFTA Award for Best Film and was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay. The movie was #46 on American Film Institute's "100 Years...100 Laughs". In 2001, the United States Library of Congress said the movie was "culturally significant" and selected it to keep in the National Film Registry.

The movie had mostly positive reviews.

[[Match Point]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 crime movies, 2005 drama movies, 2000s crime drama movies, 2000s crime thriller movies, Adultery in movies, British crime drama movies, British thriller movies, American crime drama movies, American thriller movies, Irish movies, Luxembourgian movies, French crime movies, French drama movies, French thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies about murderers, Movies directed by Woody Allen, Movies set in London

Match Point is a 2005 British crime drama thriller movie by director Woody Allen. It is set in London and stars Scarlett Johansson and Jonathan Rhys Meyers.

[[Punching bag]]

CATEGORIES: Sports equipment, Martial arts

A punching bag is a tough bag which is supposed to be punched a lot.  It is used in exercise or stress relief to improve one of three areas: physical strength, aerobic fitness or punching technique.

[[Nocera Inferiore]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Italy, Settlements in Campania

Nocera Inferiore, is a town and comune in Campania, Italy, in the province of Salerno, at the foot of Monte Albino, 20 km east-south-east of Naples by rail, 135. above sea-level.

Nuceria Alfaterna  appears to have been the chief town in the valley of the Sarnus, Herculaneum, Pompeii, Stabiae and Surrentum all being dependent upon it. 

Hannibal destroyed the town in 216.

In 1385 Pope Urban VI was besieged in the castle of Charles of Durazzo.

At Nocera had sped a big part of they life the painter Francesco Solimena, and the writers Jacopo Sannazzaro and Domenico Rea.

Is the birthplace of the footballers Simone Barone and Raffaele De Martino.

Originally from Nocera are the parents of Italian American Warren Cuccurullo and Mario Cuomo.

[[Nevado del Ruiz]]

CATEGORIES: Andes, Volcanoes of South America, Geography of Colombia

Nevado del Ruiz, also called Mount Ruiz, is a volcano in Colombia. It is about

80 west of Bogotá, close to the town of Armero. It is the highest active volcano in Colombia.

There was a lahar after an eruption in 1985. About 23,000 people died when the lahar covered the Armero, making this the most deadly lahar in the history of the world. People who live near the volcano call it "the Sleeping Lion", because it was dormant or sleeping for nearly 150 years before the Armero lahar.

[[Tao]]

CATEGORIES: Taoism, Confucianism

Tao (Pinyin Dào ) is a metaphysical concept found in Taoism, Confucianism, and more often in ancient Chinese philosophy. The Chinese character translates as "way," "path," or "route,". In Taoism, the Tao was the origin of the whole universe. Taoists believe that the "myriad things", or everything in the universe from animals to materials to ideas, originally came from the Tao, and when something disappears, it's energy (or qi) goes back to the Tao to be absorbed and re-birthed in a different form. 

The Tao is a cosmic force that can't be named or described, which is the natural harmony between all living things, and the way they all move together. Taoists thought that if someone "forgot themselves", and let go of intentions, they would be able to "move effortlessly" (wu wei, or "non-action"), and be in harmony with the Tao, like the animals, plants, and everything else. This harmony is the ultimate goal of Taoism.

[[Vitaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Plant families, Vitaceae

Vitaceae are a family of dicotyledonous flowering plants including the grape and Virginia creeper. The family name comes from the genus Vitis.  The name sometimes appears as Vitidaceae, but Vitaceae is a conserved name and therefore has priority over both Vitidaceae and another name sometimes found in the older literature, Ampelidaceae.

The relationships of Vitaceae are unclear and the family does not appear to have any close relatives. In the Cronquist system, the family was placed near the family Rhamnaceae in order Rhamnales. The family was placed in the Rosid clade, but not classified in an order, by the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group (APG). The Angiosperm Phylogeny Web places Vitaceae in its own order, Vitales. Recent phylogenetic analyses support Vitaceae as the sister-group to all other rosids (Jansen et al. 2006).

Most Vitis species have 38 chromosomes (n=19), but 40 (n=20) in subgenus Muscadinia, while Ampelocissus, Parthenocissus, and Ampelopsis also have 40 chromosomes (n=20) and Cissus has 24 chromosomes (n=12).

The family is economically important as grapes (Vitis species) are an important fruit crop and, when fermented, produce wine.

Species of the genus Tetrastigma serve as hosts to parasitic plants in the family Rafflesiaceae.

Leea, sometimes classified in its own family, Leeaceae, is included in Vitaceae by the APG and the Angiosperm Phylogeny Web.

[[Vitis]]

CATEGORIES: Vitaceae

Vitis is a genus of about 60 species of vining plants in the flowering plant family Vitaceae.  The genus is made up of species most often found in the Northern hemisphere. It is economically important as the source of grapes, both for direct consumption of the fruit and for fermentation to produce wine. The cultivation of grapevines is called viticulture. A farm or garden where grapes are grown is a vineyard.

[[Smiley Smile]]

CATEGORIES: The Beach Boys albums, 1967 albums, Rock albums, Pop albums

Smiley Smile is the twelfth studio album by The Beach Boys. It was released in 1967.

[[Sulfur dioxide]]

CATEGORIES: Sulfur compounds, Oxides

Sulfur dioxide (also sulphur dioxide) is the chemical compound with the formula SO2.  It is a gas. It smells like burnt matches. It also smells suffocating. Sulfur dioxide is produced by volcanoes and in various industrial processes. It is also used to protect wine from oxygen and bacteria. It can be produced by burning sulfur. It dissolves in water to produce sulfurous acid. It can be oxidized to trioxide, which is dissolved in sulfuric acid to make more sulfuric acid. It is used to make sulfites.

[[Foreign policy]]

CATEGORIES: International relations

A country's foreign policy (also called the international relations policy) is a set of goals about how the country will work with other countries economically, politically, socially and militarily. It includes such matters as international trade, foreign aid, military alliances, and war.  

Foreign policy also involves dealing with groups that are not countries but that are still important. These are called non-state actors, and might include religious groups, large companies, or even terrorist groups. The study of foreign relations is known as foreign policy analysis (FPA) and the work is called diplomacy. Most counties have a foreign minister who directs these things, with help from other officials.

[[Philip II]]

Philip II may mean:

[[Dolná Krupá]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Slovakia

Dolná Krupá is a village in the Trnava region of Slovakia. It is in the Danubian Hills at around 12 km from the city of Trnava.

The important sights in the village are:

[[Little Carpathians]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of the Carpathians, Mountains of Austria, Geography of Slovakia

The Little Carpathians or Lesser Carpathians are a mountain range that are about 100 kilometers long. They are found in the western part of Slovakia, between Bratislava and Nové Mesto nad Váhom, and in Northeastern Austria.

[[Danubian Hills]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Europe, Geography of Slovakia

The Danubian Hills is an area in Slovakia. It is between the Danube plain to the south and the Little Carpathian Mountains to the north. The most important towns of the area are Trnava, Topoľčany, Nitra, Levice, Dudince and Štúrovo.

[[Human nature]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Humans

Human nature refers to the characteristics of mankind. This means ways of thinking, feeling and acting which humans have naturally.

What these characteristics are, what causes them and how fixed human nature is, are good questions. They among the oldest and most important questions in western philosophy. These questions affect ethics, politics and theology. Human nature is a source of advice on how to live well, but it also puts limits and obstacles on living a good life.

The complex implications of such questions are also dealt with in art and literature, while the humanities inquire into human nature, and what it means to be human.

[[Krupá River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Slovakia

The Krupá River is a tributary of the Blava River in Slovakia. This means it flows into the Blava River.

[[Belly dance]]

CATEGORIES: Dances

A belly dance is a Middle Eastern type of dancing. In the Arabic language, it is called raqs sharqi (which means "oriental dance"). Many boys and girls in countries where belly dancing is popular will learn how to do it when they are young. The dance involves movement of many different parts of the body; usually in a circular way.

The term "Belly dance" is translated from the French "danse du ventre". However, this dance is done by every part of the body. The most featured body part usually is the hips. Belly dancing is very different depending on country and region, both in costume and dance style.

[[Atreyu]]

CATEGORIES: American heavy metal bands, Metalcore bands, Musical groups from California, Roadrunner Records, Yorba Linda, California, Musical groups established in 1998, 1998 establishments in California, Musical groups disestablished in 2012, 2012 disestablishments in the United States, 2010s disestablishments in California

Atreyu are an American heavy metal band. They are signed to Roadrunner Records. They took their name from a character called Atreyu in a book called The Neverending Story.Sound Tracks

Compilations

Magazine cover compilations

'Atreyu' is an American metal core band with melodic death metal and hardcore influences from Orange County, California. Contrary to popular belief, the band did not intentionally name itself after Atreyu, a character from Michael Ende's novel, The Never-ending Story. Rather, the name was suggested to them by a friend of the band. 

[[Michael Laudrup]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Danish footballers, Danish football managers

Michael Laudrup (born 15 June 1964) is a former Danish football player. He has played for Denmark national team.

[[Clive Charles]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2003 deaths, English footballers, Sportspeople from London

Clive Charles is a former English football player.

[[Paul Gascoigne]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 1990 FIFA World Cup players, English autobiographers, English footballers, English football managers, Living people, People with bipolar disorder, Sportspeople from County Durham, Sportspeople from Tyne and Wear, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players, Premier League players

Paul Gascoigne (born 27 May 1967) is an English retired football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Marcel Desailly]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, French footballers, People from Accra

Marcel Desailly (born 7 September 1968) is a former French football (Soccer player) player. He has played for France national team.

[[Vinnie Jones]]

CATEGORIES: Celebrity Big Brother contestants, English footballers, English movie actors, English television actors, 1965 births, Living people, Premier League players, Actors from Hertfordshire, Sportspeople from Hertfordshire, People from Watford

Vinnie Jones (born 5 January 1965) is a former English football player. He played for Wales national team. Jones is now an actor. He played Juggernaut in Marvel's X-Men: The Last Stand. Jones was a housemate in the 2010 UK series of Celebrity Big Brother.

[[Peter Schmeichel]]

CATEGORIES: Danish footballers, Association football goalkeepers, Manchester City F.C. players, Manchester United F.C. players, Strictly Come Dancing participants, 1963 births, Living people

Peter Schmeichel (born 18 November 1963) is a former Danish football player. He has played for Denmark national team.

Schmeichel was a contestant in the 2006 series of Strictly Come Dancing.

[[Peter Shilton]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 1982 FIFA World Cup players, 1986 FIFA World Cup players, 1990 FIFA World Cup players, English football managers, English association football goalkeepers, Living people, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Sportspeople from Leicester, Strictly Come Dancing participants, West Ham United F.C. players

Peter Leslie Shilton UK (born 18 September 1949) is an English former footballer. He has played for England national team. He has 125 caps for the England national team. This is more than any other player.

Shilton was a contestant in the 2010 series of Strictly Come Dancing.

Shilton remains England’s most capped player and the world record holder having played the most competitive games.

Peter and his wife Steph Shilton run a successful consulting company.

[[Chris Coleman]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Welsh footballers, Welsh football managers, People from Swansea, Crystal Palace F.C. players

Chris Coleman (born 10 June 1970) is a former Welsh football player. He has played for Wales national team.

[[Marcus Hahnemann]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American footballers, Sportspeople from Seattle, Washington, Association football goalkeepers

Marcus Hahnemann is an American soccer player. He plays for Reading and United States national team.

[[Kit Symons]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, English footballers, Welsh footballers, English football managers, Welsh football managers, People from Basingstoke, Sportspeople from Hampshire, Premier League players, Crystal Palace F.C. players, Manchester City F.C. players

Kit Symons (born 8 March 1971) is an English former footballer. He played for Wales national team.

[[Tim Howard]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American footballers, Sportspeople from New Jersey, Association football goalkeepers

Tim Howard (born 6 March 1979) is an American soccer player. He plays for Everton and United States national team.

[[Marcelo Salas]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Chilean footballers, People from La Araucanía Region

Marcelo Salas (born 24 December 1974) is a former Chilean football player. He has played for Chile national team.

[[Duncan Edwards]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 1958 deaths, Aviation deaths, English footballers, Manchester United F.C. players, Sportspeople from Worcestershire

Duncan Edwards (1 October 1936 - 21 February 1958) was an English footballer. He played for Manchester United and the England national team.  Edwards was one of the eight "Busby Babes" who died in the Munich air disaster.

[[Roger Milla]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Cameroonian footballers

Roger Milla (born 20 May 1952) is a former Cameroonian football player. He has played for Cameroon national team.

[[Toni Turek]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1984 deaths, German association football goalkeepers, People from Duisburg, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Toni Turek is a former football player. He has played for West Germany national team. In 1954 he became world champion. He is called "Fußballgott" ("football god").

[[Arthur, Prince of Wales]]

CATEGORIES: 1486 births, 1502 deaths, House of Tudor

Arthur Tudor (19 or 20 September 1486 - 2 April 1502) was the oldest son of Henry VII and Elizabeth of York.

As the oldest son, Arthur was to be King of England after the death of his father. In 1501, he married Catherine of Aragon, a princess from Spain. He died a few months later. His younger brother, Henry, became heir to the throne. After Henry became king in 1509, he married Arthur's widow, Catherine. 

[[Farah River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Afghanistan

The Farah River (Persian Farāh Rud) is a river in western Afghanistan. The river originates in the Band-e Bayan Range and flows for 560 km to the Helmand swamps on the Afghanistan-Iran border. The town of Farah is located on the river.

[[Asuwa River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Japan

The Asuwa River is a river in Fukui Prefecture, Japan. It stretches 61.7 from Mount Kanmuri in the town of Ikeda to the Hino and the Kuzuryū rivers.

[[Sagami River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Japan

The Sagami River is a river in Kanagawa and Yamanashi Prefectures on the island of Honshū, Japan.  

[[American Museum of Natural History]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in New York City, 1869 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in New York (state), Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks, Natural history museums

The American Museum of Natural History is a museum about science. It is one of the biggest and most-visited museums in the world.

The museum is made of 25 connected buildings in Theodore Roosevelt Park on the Upper West Side, Manhattan, New York, USA. It has 46 exhibition halls, a lot of laboratories, a research library, and more than 34 million specimens and artifacts.

More than 200 scientists work at the museum, researching biology, paleontology, earth science, astrophysics, and anthropology. Its graduate school awards doctorate degrees in biology and masters degrees in education. The museum also provides education programs for children and adults, including for teachers.

Famous people who have worked at the museum include Teddy Roosevelt, Franz Boas, Margaret Mead, and Neil DeGrasse Tyson.

[[Janis Joplin]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 1970 deaths, American rock singers, American rock guitarists, Singer-songwriters from Texas, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, Mezzo-sopranos, Bisexual people

Janis Lyn Joplin (January 19, 1943 – October 4, 1970) was an American singer, songwriter, and music arranger, from Port Arthur, Texas. She rose to prominence in the late 1960s as the lead singer of Big Brother and the Holding Company, and later as a solo artist.  In 2004, Rolling Stone magazine ranked Joplin #46 on its list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time. Her vocal range was mezzo-soprano. 

[[Ukulele]]

CATEGORIES: Plucked string instruments

The ukulele (ˌjʉːkəˈlɛɪli from the Hawaiian ʻukulele, pronounced /ˈʔukuˈlɛlɛ/) is a musical instrument with four strings. It is also called the uke for short. Ukuleles are part of the guitar family of instruments. The strings are usually tuned G, C, E, A' or A, D, F#, B.  Ukuleles normally have nylon strings or gut strings. 

Ukuleles commonly come in four sizes: soprano, concert, tenor and baritone. Sopranino and bass ukuleles also exist. Sopraninos are tuned to standard tuning, however, baritone ukuleles are tuned to D, G, B, E (the top four strings of a guitar). Bass ukuleles are tuned E, A, D, G (bass guitar and double bass tuning).

The ukulele was invented in the 19th Century in Hawaii, where people got the idea from small guitar-like instruments known as cavaquinhos brought to the island by Portuguese sailors. 

[[Gary Glitter]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, British prisoners, British sex offenders, Buddhists, Child sexual abusers, English criminals, English rock musicians, English singers, Musicians from Oxfordshire, Operation Yewtree, Vegetarians

Gary Glitter, born Paul Francis Gadd, (born 8 May 1944 in Banbury, Oxfordshire) is a British former glam rock singer whose career ended in late 1990s by criminal charges and convictions for child sexual abuse offenses.  Glitter recorded a very popular song called "Rock and Roll, Parts 1 and 2", often known as "The Hey Song", which was frequently played at sporting events.

His mother was a cleaner who was unmarried and she raised him with the help of her mother and he knew his father and he was hard to control because of his antisocial behaviour along with his brother and he was taken with his brother into local authority care when he was 10 years old. Although a Protestant he went to a Roman Catholic school. He got in trouble at school as a child, he also often ran away and went to London to clubs where his glam rock career started and he started calling himself Paul Raven in 1960 when his glam rock career started and then Gary Glitter in 1971 which he is known as. He has become infamous after being convicted of possessing child pornography and of child sexual abuse. Glitter has also been investigated for claims of child abuse dating back to the 1950s, connecting to the activities of the deceased child abuser Jimmy Savile. He was briefly married to Anne Merton with who he had 2 children, a son called Paul and a daughter called Sarah but Glitter and Merton divorced. Later when he lived in Cuba he had a Cuban girlfriend called Yudenia Sosa Martinez with who he had another son in 2001 called Gary Glitter Jr. In the 1970s Giltter was also convicted of driving under the influence and had used drugs such as cocaine and had a drug overdose.

Glitter who became a vegetarian and embraced Buddhism lived in Cambodia until 2002 when he was extradited to Vietnam where he was sentenced to three years jail in early 2006 for child sex offences he committed in Vietnam but on appeal twice with his Vietnamese lawyer he was released in November 2008. He has since returned to the United Kingdom where the British Government has decided that he can't travel overseas and several countries around the world have banned him and he gave in his passport to the government officials as required. Gary Glitter was placed on the UK Sex Offender Registry for life as a registered sex offender showing his real name Paul Francis Gadd and his other name of Gary Glitter. He was also arrested in 2012 by police investigating complaints against Jimmy Savile and questioned and has been monitored by Police in an investigation code named Operation Yewtree and is one of the most hated people. Others arrested include Dave Lee Travis, Stuart Hall, Wilfred De'ath, Ted Beston, Jimmy Tarbuck, Jim Davidson, Freddie Starr, Max Clifford, Paul Gambaccini and Rolf Harris. In June 2014, Glitter was charged with eight child sex offences dating back to the 1970s. Glitter was sentenced to 16 years in prison in February 2015.

[[Rick Astley]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, English pop musicians, English singers, Musicians from Merseyside, Rick Astley

Rick astley (born 6 February 2007) is a British singer, songwriter and musician. He born in England and grew up in saint peters primary school and swin highschool. Astley has also lived in.... 

[[Swallows and Amazons (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books, Children's books

Swallows and Amazons is a series of children's books by the English writer Arthur Ransome. The series is named after the title of the first book in the series. The 12 books are about the adventures by groups of children during school holidays. Events mostly take place in England and Scotland between the World War I and World War II. The stories usually are about outdoor activities, especially camping, fishing and sailing.

[[Rick Astley discography]]

CATEGORIES: Rick Astley, Discographies

This article presents the discography of the pop singer Rick Astley.

[[Arthur Ransome]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 births, 1967 deaths, English writers, British journalists

Arthur Michell Ransome (born 18 January 1884 in Leeds - died 3 June 1967) was an English writer and journalist. He is best known for writing the Swallows and Amazons series of children's books. 

Ransome was born in Leeds. His father was Professor of History there. His father's death in 1897 affected Ransome for a long time. He always tried to get past his belief that his father had did not think his abilities were very good.

Ransome got his formal education first in Windermere. He then studied at the Rugby School (where he lived in Lewis Carroll's study room). He did not fully like his time there because of his poor vision, lack of skills at sports, and limited achievement. He attended Yorkshire College, his father's college studying chemistry. After a year there, he stopped going to the college. He went to London to become a writer. He took low-paying jobs as an office assistant in a publishing company. He also worked as editor of a magazine, Temple Bar Magazine, that was not making much money. During this time, he was writing and became a member of the literary scene of London.

[[Never Gonna Give You Up]]

CATEGORIES: Rick Astley songs, 1987 songs

"Never Gonna Give You Up" is a dance-pop song originally made by Rick Astley. It was released as a single from Astley's multi-million selling debut album, Whenever You Need Somebody, which was written and produced by Stock Aitken Waterman. The song was a worldwide number-one hit, initially in the singer's native United Kingdom in 1987, where it stayed at number one for five weeks and was the best-selling single of that year.

The music video for the song has become the basis for the "Rickrolling" internet meme.

[[Stanley Cup playoffs]]

CATEGORIES: Stanley Cup playoffs, National Hockey League, Stanley Cup

The Stanley Cup playoffs are an elimination tournament in the National Hockey League.

To win the Stanley Cup, a team must win 16 playoff games, 4 in each of the 4 rounds. 

The playoffs have 4 rounds. Each round is a best-of-seven series. This means up to seven games are played until one team wins 4 of the games. The first three rounds decide which team from each conference will move on to the last round. The last round is called the Stanley Cup Finals. The winner of that set of games becomes the NHL and Stanley Cup winner. 

The first round of the playoffs is called the Conference Quarterfinals. There are four games in each conference. The winners of the first round advance to the second round. The third round is the Conference Finals. The two teams left in each conference (Eastern Conference and Western Conference) play each other. The conference champions advance to the Stanley Cup Finals.

For the first three rounds, the higher-seeded team has home-ice advantage. In the Stanley Cup Finals, it goes to the team with the better regular season record. The team with home-ice advantage hosts games 1, 2, 5 and 7, while the opponent hosts games 3, 4 and 6 (games 5–7 are played "if needed").

Unlike regular season games, which have an altered format for overtime games (3 skaters and a goalie per side), playoff games have regular squads (5 skaters and a goalie per side) and are all played as sudden death format.

[[Deepak Chopra]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Indian writers, Physicians, HuffPost writers and columnists, People from New Delhi

Deepak Chopra (दीपक  चोपड़ा; born October 22, 1946) is an Indian medical doctor and writer. He has written about spirituality and topics in mind-body medicine. Chopra says that he has been influenced by the teachings of Vedanta and the Bhagavad Gita, as well as by Krishnamurti Jiddu, and by the field of quantum physics.

[[Prime Minister of Israel]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Israeli people, Lists of prime ministers, Prime Ministers of Israel

The Prime Minister of Israel is the head of government and chief executive of Israel. The prime minister holds the de facto most senior office in the state and is usually the leader of the majority party or coalition in the Parliament of Israel. The current Prime Minister is Naftali Bennett who took office in June 2021.

[[Abukuma River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Japan

The Abukuma River (阿武隈川, Abukuma gawa or Abukumagawa) is a river in the Tōhoku region of Japan.  It has a length of 234 kilometers. It is the second longest river in the Tōhoku region of Japan and the 6th longest river in Japan. It rises from springs in the peaks of the Nasu Mountains. It collects water from tributaries leaving the Ōu Mountains and the Abukuma Highlands (阿武隈高地). Then, it empties out into the Pacific Ocean as a major river. It has a 5,390 km² area watershed. About 1.2 million people live along its basin.

[[Agano River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Japan

The Agano River (Aganogawa) is a river which flows from Fukushima Prefecture to Niigata Prefecture in Japan. It is called the Aga River or the Ōkawa River  in Fukushima. It is 210 km long with 7,710 km² watershed.

In 1927, the Agano River was recognized as one of the 100 Landscapes of Japan which best showed Japan and its culture in the Shōwa period.

[[Arakawa River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Japan

The Arakawa River (荒川) is one of the principal rivers flowing through Tokyo, the capital city of Japan. The point of origin is on Mount Kobushi in Saitama Prefecture, and the Arakawa empties into Tokyo Bay, spanning 173 kilometers.  The drainage basin covers 2,940 square kilometers. The widest section of the river ranges 2,537 meters at around Gonari Bridge and ranks number one in the nation.

The Arakawa is a sister river with the Potomac River in the United States.

[[Chikugo River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Japan

The Chikugo River is called "Chikushijirō" as a nickname.  This river flows through Kumamoto, Ōita, Fukuoka and Saga prefectures in Japan. It rises under the Mount Aso, is 143 km long and is the longest river of Kyūshū. It enters to the Ariake Bay.

[[The Replacements (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, American punk bands, Musical groups from Minnesota, Musicians from Minneapolis, Minnesota

The Replacements were an American rock band. They began in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in 1979, and are best known for being early pioneers of alternative rock.

[[Fuji River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Japan

The Fuji River flows from Yamanashi Prefecture to Shizuoka Prefecture in Japan. It is 128 km long and has a drainage area of 3990 km². With the Mogami River and the Kuma River, it is regarded as one of the three most rapid flows of Japan. This river is not well known by people over the world. It is near Mt. Fuji.

In 1927, the Fuji River was recognized as one of the 100 Landscapes of Japan which best showed Japan and its culture in the Shōwa period.

[[Hino River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Japan

The Hino River is a major river in the western part of Tottori Prefecture. The river flows east-northeast for 1004m beginning from Mikuniyama in Nichinan in southern Tottori Prefecture. At Kofu, the river turns north-northwest before finally discharging into Miho Bay at Heizu near Yonago. Approximately 60,800 people use the water from the Hino River.

[[Jinzū River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Japan

The Jinzū River is a river which flows from Gifu Prefecture to Toyama Prefecture in Japan. It is called Miya River (宮川 Miya-gawa) in Gifu. It is 120 km long and has a watershed of 2,720 km².

[[Uono River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Japan

The Uono River is a river in Niigata Prefecture in Japan. It flows into the Shinano River,  which is the longest in Japan. It is a good river for sport fishing and maybe rafting but not for swimming.

[[Ibi River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Japan

The Ibi River is a tributary of the Kiso River in Gifu and Mie Prefectures in Japan. Along with the Nagara and Kiso rivers, the Ibi is the third of the Kiso Three Rivers of the Nōbi Plain. It is one of Japan's first class rivers. The former Tōkaidō post station of Kuwana-juku was on the western banks of this river during the Edo period.

[[Steely Dan]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Jazz bands, Pop rock bands, Musical groups from New York

Steely Dan is an American jazz rock band. They are from Annandale-on-Hudson, New York.  They were active from 1971 to 1981.  They reunited in 1993 to play their music live at concerts.

[[Mastodon (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American heavy metal bands, Musical groups from Atlanta, Georgia, Musical groups established in 2000, 2000 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Mastodon is an American heavy metal band from Atlanta, Georgia. This band was formed in 1999.

[[Tony Chimel]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, WWE people, People from New Jersey, People from Pennsylvania

Anthony (Tony) Chimel  is an American professional wrestling ring announcer. He currently works for the SmackDown, Superstars and NXT brands as a ring announcer. He has also been the ring announcer for the ECW before it went defunct in 2009. 

[[Latin alphabet in Turkic countries]]

CATEGORIES: Latin alphabet, Turkey, Kazakhstan

The Latin alphabet in Turkic countries is the common alphabet officially used in most countries with Turkic languages. Turkic languages can also be written in Arabic, Persian and Cyrillic.

[[Listeria]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Listeria is a genus of bacteria with about ten species. It is named after Joseph Lister. Listeria are very common, they occur almost everywhere. Two of the ten species are pathogens: they can cause a disease called listeriosis in decaying food.

In 2011, 21 people died from listeriosis by eating cantaloupes from a Colorado farm.  In 1998, hot dogs and possibly deli meats made by Bil Mar Foods, a subsidiary of Sara Lee Corp., also had listeria and killed 21 people.  In 1985, listeria in Mexican-style soft cheese was linked to 52 deaths.

[[American Eagle Outfitters]]

CATEGORIES: American clothing companies, 1977 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Pennsylvania

American Eagle is a clothing store in the United States and Canada. Most people who buy clothing from American Eagle are teenagers and young adults. The store opened in 1977 and the headquarters is in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

[[American Eagle]]

American Eagle may mean:

[[Church of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Presbyterianism, Establishments in Scotland, 1560s establishments in Europe, 1560 establishments

The Church of Scotland is the national church of Scotland, established by law.  It is Presbyterian. The Presbyterian Church of Scotland is  distinguished from the Anglican Church in a number of ways. It does not have bishops or archbishops; nor is the British monarch its head. The leading minister is called the Moderator, who is the chair of the General Assembly for one year. Ministers of the Kirk, as it is called, may be called Rectors.

The established kirk has suffered schism (breaks), and this has given rise to the "Wee Frees": the Free Church of Scotland, and (a further schism) the Free Church of Scotland (continuing) (the Wee Wee Frees); and the Free Presbyterian Church of Scotland (also, confusingly, called the Wee Wee Frees). 

The Scottish Presbyterian church was formed when it broke away from Rome in 1560. Its theology (beliefs) were based on the ideas of John Knox, a disciple of John Calvin. The free kirks tend to take the Bible more literally. 

About 10% of the people in Scotland are members of this church, but when asked in a census, 47% of people said this was their religion.

[[Malcolm Young]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2017 deaths, AC/DC, Deaths from dementia, Australian guitarists, Musicians from Glasgow, Musicians from Sydney, Australian songwriters, Australian rock musicians

Malcolm Mitchell Young (6 January 1953 – 18 November 2017) was a Scottish-born Australian guitarist. He was the rhythm guitarist for the band AC/DC.

Young left AC/DC in April 2014 to receive treatment for dementia. In September 2014 the band's management announced that his departure would be permanent.

His brothers are George and Angus Young.

Young died on 18 November 2017 at the age of 64 at Lulworth House in Elizabeth Bay. Young's elder brother George Young died a few weeks earlier, on 22 October 2017.

[[A & C Black]]

CATEGORIES: Publishing companies of the United Kingdom, Book publishing companies, 1807 establishments, 1800s establishments in the United Kingdom

A & C Black is a British book publishing company.

The company was founded in 1807 by Adam and Charles Black in Edinburgh. It moved to the Soho district of London in 1889. In 1851, the company bought the copyright of Walter Scott's Waverley Novels for £27,000. In 1902, it published P. G. Wodehouse's first book, The Pothunters.

People know the company best for being the publisher of the Who's Who, printed every year since 1897 and also, since 2002, the Whitaker's Almanack.

A & C Black bought both Christopher Helm Publishers and later the Pica Press, which are publishers of the Helm Identification Guides, written by Christopher Helm.

The company is now part of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc. 

[[Lush]]

CATEGORIES: English pop music groups, Musical groups from London

Lush was an English band.  They were active from 1988 to 1996.

[[Disturbed]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 establishments in Illinois, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, Musical groups established in 1994, Musical groups from Chicago

Disturbed is a rock band from Chicago, Illinois. They were formed in 1994 and have sold over 11 million albums in the United States alone and almost 20 million around the world.  All of Disturbed's albums have been number one on the Billboard 200.  Four of their albums have been number one on their first week on the Billboard 200.

[[Survivor (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 establishments in the United States, 1970s American music groups, 1970s establishments in Illinois, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups established in 1978, Musical groups from Chicago

Survivor is a rock band from Chicago, Illinois. They were active from 1978 to 1989. They reunited in 1993. Their best-known single was Eye of the Tiger, which was the theme song to the movie Rocky III.

[[Herne Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent

Herne Bay is a small seaside town in Kent, South East England. It is about 108 from London. The town has a population of about 35,000. It is near Canterbury, Whitstable and the historic villages of Herne and Reculver. Up until 1978, the town had the second-longest pier in the United Kingdom. However, in 1987 it was destroyed by a storm.

[[Murten]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Fribourg, Imperial free cities

Murten (French: Morat) is a city in the canton of Fribourg in Switzerland. It is a historic city on the south side of Lake Morat. The name of the city first appears in 515 as Muratum. The name is probably related to Celtic Moridunum. This is made from Mori (lake), and dunum (castle, fortification). The city used to be part of the duchy of Burgundy. It got city rights in 1337.

Today, about 6,000 people live there. Almost all of the old parts of the city still exist.  In 2000, about 77% of the people spoke German, 13% spoke French, and about 2% spoke Italian. About 19% of the people living there are foreigners.

On 1 January 1975 the former municipality of Burg bei Murten merged into the municipality of Murten. It was created on 1 January 1991 by the former municipality of Altavilla and on 1 January 2013 by the former municipality of Büchslen. On 1 January 2016 the former municipalities of Courlevon, Jeuss, Lurtigen and Salvenach merged into Murten.

[[Herne]]

Herne may mean:

[[NOT gate]]

CATEGORIES: Logic gates

A  NOT gate (also often called Inverter) is a logic gate. Each NOT gate has only one input signal. Logically with NOT gates, the input and the output swap, so if you input 1 it outputs as 0; likewise if you input 0 it outputs as 1.The NOT gate negates the values of data or signal in its input. It will always output the opposite signal. Its main function is to interchange logic.

In the 20th century an inverter was often made of a discrete transistor with other components, or several inverters were packaged in an integrated circuit.

[[Paul Breitner]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Bavaria

Paul Breitner (born 5 September, 1951) is a former German football player. He has played for West Germany national team.

[[Bobby Convey]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, American footballers, Sportspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Bobby Convey (born May 27, 1983) is an American soccer player. He plays for San Jose Earthquakes.

[[Bruce Arena]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American footballers, American football managers, Sportspeople from New York City, Association football goalkeepers, Cornell University alumni

Bruce Arena (born September 21, 1951) is a former American soccer player. He played for Tacoma Tides and the United States Men's national team. Arena graduated from Cornell University in 1973. He last coached the United States Men's national team. 

[[Jimmy Glass]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, English association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Surrey

Jimmy Glass is an English retired football player.

[[Miklós Fehér]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2004 deaths, Deaths from cardiomyopathy, Hungarian footballers

Miklós Fehér is a former Hungarian football player. He has played for Hungary national team.

[[Åge Hareide]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Norwegian footballers

Åge Hareide is a former Norwegian football player. He has played for Norway national team.

[[Moussa Hojeij]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Lebanese footballers, People from Beirut, Football managers

Moussa Hojeij is a Lebanese football coach and former player. He played for the national team between 1998 and 2002. Currently he is the manager of Lebanese club Nejmeh.

[[Paul Mariner]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, English footballers, Sportspeople from Lancashire, English football managers

Paul Mariner (22 May 1953 – 9 July 2021) was an English football player. He played for England national team from 1977 until 1985.

[[Reculver]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent

Reculver is a small coastal town in Kent, South East England near Herne Bay and a few miles north of Canterbury. Its main features are the ruins of a Roman fort, a ruined medieval church which is constantly threatened by coastal erosion.

[[Whitstable]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent, Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom

Whiststable is a small seaside town in Kent, southeast England. It is a few miles north of Canterbury, near Herne Bay. The town is famous for its oysters which have been collected there since the Roman period.

[[Herne, Kent]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Kent

Herne is a small historical village, near Herne Bay in Kent, South East England.

The hamlet of Bullockstone is about one mile to the west.

[[Pier]]

CATEGORIES: Transport buildings and structures

A pier is a raised walkway across water. It can be a simple light wooden structure which has no effect on the current and tides, or a major structure with buildings and as long as a mile out to sea. In the United States, these may be referred to as docks. A pier can be made of wood, concrete, or other materials.

[[CM Punk]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, American atheists, American mixed martial artists, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Chicago, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Phillip Jack Brooks (born on March 26, 1978), better known by his ring name CM Punk, is an American retired mixed martial artist and [[professional wrestling | 

professional wrestler]]. He is currently signed with  All Elite Wrestling and is best known for his time with the WWE where he worked for them from 2005 until his abrupt walk-out from the company on January 27, 2014. During his time there, he was credited as being "the longest-reigning WWE Champion of the modern era" and held the championship for 434 days. He is also recognized as the sixth-longest reigning champion of all time. He was also a one-time ECW Champion, three-time World Heavyweight Champion, two-time WWE Champion, one-time World Tag Team Champion with Kofi Kingston, one-time Intercontinental Champion, Mr. Money in the Bank in 2008 and 2009 (the only wrestler to win the match twice), and won the Slammy Award for Superstar of the Year in 2011.

After he retired from professional wrestling, Punk signed a deal to fight with the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), and he began to pursue a career in mixed martial arts. He planned to begin fighting for them in 2015.

Punk is Straight edge and is an Atheist

[[Charlie Haas]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, American Christians, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Houston, Texas, Former WWE wrestlers

Charles Doyle "Charlie" Haas II (born  on March 27, 1972) is an American professional wrestler and former amateur wrestler.

[[Impossible object]]

CATEGORIES: Illusions, Art

An impossible object is a kind of optical illusion. Impossible objects are also known as undecidable figures. In this kind of illusion, a person looks at a two-dimensional picture. The vision center of the brain does much of its work subconsciously  and automatically. It interprets the figure as a three-dimensional object.

The viewer usually knows such an object is impossible soon after looking at the figure. However, the impression of a 3D figure may still remain even when the viewer knows it is impossible in reality.

Some of these figures are more subtle. In these cases it is not obvious that they are impossible right away. The viewer carefully needs to look at the geometry of the object to find out that it is indeed impossible.

Impossible objects are of interest to psychologists, mathematicians and artists.

[[Van Halen]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Grammy Award winners, American hard rock bands, American heavy metal bands, Musical groups from California, Pasadena, California, Musical groups established in 1972, 1972 establishments in California, Warner Bros. Records artists

Van Halen was a hard rock group from Pasadena, California.  They were formed in 1972.  Guitarist Eddie Van Halen's style of playing changed the guitar world.  He used lots of new techniques such as shredding and tapping. They made history with their first self-titled debut album in 1978, producing 4 major hits. The band released twelve studio albums, which have sold 80 million records worldwide.

Eddie Van Halen died on October 6, 2020, from cancer. His son, Wolfgang Van Halen, confirmed that the band had broken up.

[[Alliance for the Future of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Austria

The Alliance for the Future of Austria (Bündnis Zukunft Österreich, shortenend to BZÖ) is a political party in Austria that was led by Jörg Haider until he died in October 2008. The current leader is Josef Bucher.

[[Idealism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophical movements and positions, Reality

Idealism is the philosophy that believes the ultimate nature of reality is ideal, or based upon ideas, values, or essences. The external, or real world cannot be separated from consciousness, perception, mind, intellect and reason in the sense of science. 

In some doctrines of idealistic thought the ideal relates to direct and immediate knowledge of subjective mental ideas, or images. 

[[Empiricism]]

CATEGORIES: Epistemology, Philosophical movements and positions

In philosophy, empiricism is a theory that states that all knowledge comes from experience. 

'Experience' is sometimes translated as 'sense data', i.e. we cannot know anything except by information which comes through our senses.

The British philosophers John Locke, George Berkeley and David Hume, clarified some of its basic ideas in the 17th and 18th century, building on the ideas of classical philosopher Aristotle. 

Empiricism is one of several competing views about how we know things, part of the branch of philosophy called epistemology, or "study of knowledge". Materialism and physicalism share some of attitudes of empiricism.

[[Stoicism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophical concepts

Stoicism was a school of Hellenistic philosophy. It was founded in Athens by Zeno of Citium in the early third century BC. It concerns the active relationship between cosmic determinism and human freedom. This philosophy claims that it is virtuous to maintain a will (a determination, prohairesis) which is in accord with nature. 

Stoic doctrine was popular in Greece and the Roman Empire from its founding until all the schools of philosophy were ordered closed in 529 AD by the Emperor Justinian I, who thought their pagan character was at odds with his Christian faith.

[[William Godwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1756 births, 1836 deaths, English philosophers, English journalists, Anarchists

William Godwin (3 March 1756 – 7 April 1836) was an English journalist, political philosopher and novelist. He is considered one of the first exponents of utilitarianism, and one of the first modern proponents of philosophical anarchism. Godwin is famous for two books that he published within the space of a year: An Enquiry Concerning Political Justice, an attack on political institutions, and Things as They Are or The Adventures of Caleb Williams, which attacks aristocratic privilege, but also is virtually the first mystery novel. He was also married to Mary Wollstonecraft, with whom he had two children.

[[Rose garden]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture, Roses, Gardening

A Rose garden or Rosarium is a garden or park, often open to the public, in which roses are grown. While some rose gardens have only a decorative purpose, most of them are used to present and grow various types of roses.

The first known rose garden was planted by French empress Joséphine de Beauharnais in Malmaison. When she died, in 1814, the garden had around 250 types of garden roses. Another old rose garden is the Rosenhöhe Park in Darmstadt, Germany created in 1810 by Princess Wilhelmine of Baden

Growing roses for commercial purposes started in the 19th century. The important rose gardens created for commercial rose breeding were:

[[Peter Kropotkin]]

CATEGORIES: Anarchists, Russian writers, 1842 births, 1921 deaths

Prince Peter (Pyotr) Alexeyevich Kropotkin (Пётр Алексе́евич Кропо́ткин) (9 December 1842 - 8 February 1921) was a Russian anarchist, philosopher, revolutionary, scientist, geographer, and one of the first advocates of anarcho-communism.

[[Anarcho-communism]]

CATEGORIES: Communism, Anarchism

Anarcho-communism, also known as anarchist communism, is the belief that hierarchies, money, and social classes should not exist, and that the means of production should be held in common by society. Anarcho-communists support direct democracy and a network of voluntary associations, workers' councils, decentralized economic planning and a gift economy in which everyone will be free to satisfy their needs.

Some well-known anarcho-communist writers are Peter Kropotkin, Ricardo Flores Magón and Nestor Makhno. Anarcho-communism is opposed to more authoritarian forms advocated by Leninists and Maoists. These groups have violently clashed in Russia, Korea and Spain over their beliefs. Some examples of anarcho-communism in practice include the Free Territory of Ukraine, Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone, Shinmin Autonomous Region, and the  Revolutionary Spain.

[[Johann Baptist Martinelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1701 births, 1754 deaths, Austrian architects, People from Vienna

Johann Baptist Martinelli (February 8, 1701, Vienna - June 21, 1754, Vienna) was an Austrian architect and constructor of Italian descent.

[[Agorism]]

CATEGORIES: Anarcho-capitalism, Libertarianism

Agorism is a free-market anarchist political philosophy founded by Samuel Edward Konkin III that believes the ultimate goal as bringing about a society in which all "relations between people are voluntary exchanges– a free market." The term comes from the Greek word "agora," referring to an open place for assembly and market in ancient Greek city-states. Agorist theory divides people into two classes: people who make their living through the market, and people who make their living by coercing others (called the "economic class" and "political class", respectively). They support a nonviolent overthrow of the second class by the first, through peaceful black market and grey market activity, known as counter-economics.

[[Anton Pius Riegel]]

CATEGORIES: 1789 births, 19th century deaths, Austrian architects, Year of death unknown

Anton Pius Riegel (1789-?) was an Austrian architect of the 19th century. He is known for his design of the György Károlyi palace in Budapest Hungary (now housing the Hungarian Museum of Literature) and the mansion of Dolná Krupá in Slovakia.

[[Hesperomannia arbuscula]]

CATEGORIES: Asteraceae

The Maui Hesperomannia (Hesperomannia arbuscula) is a species of flowering plant in the Asteraceae family.

It is found only in the United States.

Its natural habitats are subtropical or tropical wet low lying land forests and subtropical or tropical dry shrubland (an area with mostly bushes and few trees).

It is in danger due to the loss of its natural area of habitat.

[[Eureka Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Melbourne, Skyscrapers in Australia, 2006 establishments in Australia

Eureka Tower is a 297.3 metre (975 foot) tall skyscraper in Melbourne, Australia and is the tallest building in Australia when measured to its roof. Q1, on the Gold Coast, Queensland is the tallest building in Australia because it has a spire that makes its total height 322.5 metres. Eureka Tower has 91 storeys and one floor underground.

Construction of the tower started in 2002 and opened on 11 October 2006.

The top 10 floors of the building have windows coated in gold plating and golden toilets. The viewing deck on floor 88 is the tallest public observation deck in the Southern Hemisphere. It is 285 metres (935 feet) above the ground and people have a large view of the city of Melbourne.

[[Tay Zonday]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Singers from Minneapolis, Minnesota, American Internet celebrities

Adam Nyerere Bahner (born July 6, 1982), often called by the pseudonym Tay Zonday, is an American keyboardist. His song "Chocolate Rain", and its YouTube video, became a popular Internet meme in July 2007. He has won YouTube Awards and Webby Awards.

[[Antoine Dufour]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Canadian guitarists, Folk musicians, Living people, Musicians from Quebec

Antoine Dufour is a French-Canadian guitarist. Dufour is famous for his fingerstyle guitar playing. Until now Dufour has made 3 studio albums, Naissance, Development and Existence. He has a strong fanbase because of his YouTube videos.

[[Vheissu]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums

Vheissu is an album by experimental band Thrice. It was released in 2005. The album introduced a new sound to the bands post-hardcore roots. It also used many new elements from music boxes to chain gangs and has much softer, dreamy songs such as "Atlantic"

The songs on Vheissu use many biblical themes but Thrice does not think of themselves as a Christian band. Some of the statements from the album which are clearly from the bible include:

The album artwork was created by author Dave Eggers and artist Brian McMullen. It includes pictures of various things and quotes lyrics from different Thrice songs found on the album.

[[The Artist in the Ambulance]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums

The Artist in the Ambulance is the third album by the post-hardcore band Thrice. It was released on July 22 2003.

Like previous Thrice albums, some of the money made from selling The Artist in the Ambulance was given to a charity. The album's booklet features individual cards that have lyrics from Thrice songs, notes, photographs and comments from the band members and the producer.

"Stare at the Sun" is a main single from the album.

[[Chuck Palumbo]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, People from West Warwick, Rhode Island, Sportspeople from Rhode Island

Charles Ronald "Chuck" PalumboDecember 2007 (born June 15, 1971)December 2007 is an American professional wrestler, who is currently signed to World Wrestling Entertainment wrestling on its Raw brand.

[[Vince J. McMahon]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1984 deaths, Businesspeople from New York City, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, WWE people, WWE Hall of Fame

Vincent James McMahon (better known as Vince McMahon, Sr., (July 6, 1914 –May 24, 1984) was a U.S. professional wrestling promoter. He is best known for founding the American promotion, World Wrestling Entertainment, of which his son, Vincent Kennedy McMahon, is now the Chairman of the Board of Directors.

[[René Adler]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, German association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Saxony

René Adler (born January 15, 1985 in Leipzig)  is a German footballer. He plays on the position of a goalkeeper for Bayer Leverkusen. Leverkusen is a city in Germany. The club Bayer Leverkusen plays in the Bundesliga, the first football league in Germany.

On October 11, 2008, Adler made his first match in the German national team against Russia (2-1).

[[Kreator]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s establishments in Germany, 1980s German music groups, 1990s German music groups, 2000s German music groups, 2010s German music groups, Essen, German heavy metal bands, Musical groups established in 1982, Thrash metal bands

Kreator is a German Thrash metal band from Essen. They formed in 1982 as Tormentor and are counted to the big three German Thrash Metal bands together with Sodom and Destruction.

[[Gojira]]

CATEGORIES: Death metal bands

Gojira is a death metal/thrash metal band from Bayonne, France. They formed in 1996 and were called Godzilla until 2001. Gojira is known for its lyrics about the environment, which is very unusual for a death metal band.

[[Colin Barnett]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Premiers of Western Australia, People from Perth, Western Australia, Liberal Party of Australia politicians

Colin James Barnett (born 15 July 1950) is the 29th Premier of Western Australia. He was Premier from 23 September 2008 until 17 March 2017. He is from the Liberal Party.

[[Nathan Rees]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Premiers of New South Wales, Politicians from Sydney, Australian Labor Party politicians

Nathan Rees (born 12 February 1968) was the 41st Premier of New South Wales. He was premier from 5 September 2008 until 4 December 2009. He is from the Labor Party.

[[Anna Bligh]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Premiers of Queensland, Australian Labor Party politicians

Anna Maria Bligh (born 14 July 1960) is an Australian politician who was the 37th Premier of Queensland from 13 September 2007 to 24 March 2012. She is from the Labor Party. She is the first female to be Premier of Queensland. On 16 August 2012 it was announced that Bligh was moving with her husband Greg Withers and the rest of her family to Sydney. 

[[Mike Rann]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Premiers of South Australia, People from Adelaide, Australian Labor Party politicians

Michael David Rann (born 5 January 1953) was the 44th Premier of South Australia. He was premier from 5 March 2002 until 21 October 2011. He is from the Labor Party. He is how Australian High Commissioner to the United Kingdom. 

[[David Bartlett]]

CATEGORIES: Premiers of Tasmania, People from Hobart, 1968 births, Living people, Australian Labor Party politicians

David John Bartlett (born 19 January 1968) was the 43rd Premier of Tasmania. He became premier on 26 May 2008. He is from the Labor Party.

Bartlett resigned, for family reasons on 24 January 2011, and was replaced as premier by Lara Giddings. She is also the Treasurer and Minister of the Arts.

[[John Brumby]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Premiers of Victoria, Politicians from Melbourne, Australian Labor Party politicians, Australian educators

John Mansfield Brumby (21 April 1953) was the 45th Premier of Victoria. He became Premier on 30 July 2007. He is from the Labor Party. After being defeated in the 2010 elections, Brumby was replaced as Premier by Ted Baillieu on 1 December 2010.

[[Quentin Bryce]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Australian lawyers, Governors of Queensland, Australian Governors-General, Politicians from Brisbane, Knights of Grace of the Order of St John, Order of Australia

Dame Quentin Alice Louise Bryce AD, CVO (née Strachan; born 23 December 1942) was the 25th Governor-General of Australia, from September 2008 to March 2014. She was the first woman to be the Governor-General. Before this she was the Governor of Queensland and she used to be a lawyer.

For her community works she was created a Dame of Grace of the Order of St John in 2003. If she were not already a Dame, she would have become a Dame of Justice when she became Prior of the Australian Priory of the Order of St John.

[[Crich Tramway Village]]

CATEGORIES: Derbyshire, Tram transport in the United Kingdom, Open air museums, Museums in England

Crich Tramway Village is an open-air museum of trams and tramways, in Crich, (En-crich.ogg), Derbyshire, England. It is the home of the National Tramway Museum. It is set up as an Edwardian village and has a street with shops which include a sweet shop, café and gift shop. Other buildings in the open-air museum are the Red Lion Pub from Stoke-on-Trent, Derby Assembly Rooms, Burnley Tramways Offices and the tram sheds and displays. There are tram lines which go out for about 1 from the village. There is also a collection of old street furniture from around the United Kingdom.

The trams that are in the museum used to run on tramlines along the streets of different towns and cities. Most of the trams at Crich were used in the United Kingdom before the 1960s. Some are from other countries. Many were saved and restored after the tram services in the cities stopped.

[[Blue-baby syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Syndromes

Blue-baby syndrome, or blue baby is usually caused by a heart defect which laymen often call "a hole in the heart". Normally, oxygenated blood from the lungs is separated from deoxygenated blood from other tissues. Because of a defect in the heart ventricle walls, deoxygenated blood sometimes  mixes with the blood from the lungs. The resulting blood going through the aorta has less oxygen than usual. The baby then looks blue. An operation is usually done to fix this. 

There are several heart defects which produce this syndrome. There are also some causes which are not related to heart conditions.

On November 29, 1944, the first successful operation for the heart condition was done at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. In 1976, the university awarded the surgeon an honorary doctorate.

[[Kings of Leon]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Musical groups from Oklahoma

Kings of Leon are a rock band from Oklahoma, USA. Their members are all related, three brothers and their cousin. They have released 6 albums. Their sixth album, Mechanical Bull, was nominated for Best Rock Album at the 2014 Grammy Awards.

[[Saria]]

The name Saria can mean a number of things:

[[Plaster]]

CATEGORIES: Materials

Plaster is a material similar to mortar and cement.  Plaster of Paris is one kind, made from gypsum by heating it. It is used to make copies of footprints, fossils, skeletons, and to set fractured bones. Other kinds of plaster are used for buildings and other purposes. Decorative plaster is more usually called stucco.

[[Minaret]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements, Islamic architecture

A minaret is  a tower. Many mosques have minarets. Muezzins to call Muslims to prayers from minarets five times a day.

[[Omi]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, Japanese language

Omi was a very old Japanese title of both someone's rank and their political rank it was only allowed for use by the most powerful clans during the Yamato time of Japanese history. The title Omi, was given to a man's son when the father died.

[[Mining feasibility study]]

CATEGORIES: Mining

A mining feasibility study is normally done before to a mining company buying land and is done to lower the risk of failure and reduce losing money for a mining company.

[[Free market]]

CATEGORIES: Economic markets, Libertarianism

A free market is a system in which the prices for goods and services are determined by the open market and consumers, in which the laws and forces of supply and demand are free from any intervention by a government, price-setting monopoly, or other authority. It is a result of a need being, then the need being met. A free market contrasts with a regulated market, in which government intervenes in supply and demand through non-market methods such as laws creating barriers to market entry or price fixing. In a free-market economy, prices for goods and services are set freely by the forces of supply and demand and are allowed to reach their point of equilibrium without intervention by government policy, and it typically entails support for highly competitive markets and private ownership of productive enterprises.

Although free markets are commonly associated with capitalism within a market economy in contemporary usage and popular culture, free markets have also been advocated by free-market anarchists, market socialists, and some proponents of cooperatives and advocates of profit sharing.1 

[[Quba Mosque]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Saudi Arabia, Religion in Saudi Arabia

Quba Mosque is a mosque in Medina. It is the oldest mosque in the world. When Muhammad and his friends were coming to Medina, they stopped over in Kuba. Muhammad started to build the mosque after his friend helped him.  Umar II added a minaret and enlarged the mosque. Suleiman the Magnificent destroyed the mosque and rebuilt it.

[[Alan Carpenter]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Premiers of Western Australia, Australian Labor Party politicians

Alan John Carpenter (born 4 January 1957) was the 28th Premier of Western Australia from 26 January 2006 to 23 September 2008. He is from the Labor Party. He is still in the Western Australian parliament.

[[Geoff Gallop]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Premiers of Western Australia, Australian Labor Party politicians

Professor Geoffrey Ian Gallop (born 27 September 1951) was the 27th Premier of Western Australia from 16 February 2001 to 25 January 2006. He was from the Labor Party.

[[Renton, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Renton is a city in King County, Washington, United States.  It is 13 miles (21 km) southeast of Seattle, Washington. Renton is on the southeast shore of Lake Washington. At the 2000 census, 50,052 people lived there. As of April 1, 2008, there were about 78,780 people.  The number of people increased a lot because of the addition of the Benson Hill communities directly southeast of the city.  According to the data from the Office of Financial Management, Renton is the 11th largest city in Washington, and 5th largest in King County.

Based on per capita income, Renton ranks 100th of 522 areas ranked in the state of Washington.

[[Premier of Western Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Premiers of Western Australia

The Premier of Western Australia is the leader of the Western Australian government. He or she is the most powerful politician in the Australian state of Western Australia.

The current Premier is Mark McGowan from the Labor Party.

[[Christian Heinrich Nebbien]]

CATEGORIES: 1778 births, 1841 deaths, German architects, People from Lübeck

Christian Heinrich Nebbien, sometimes referred to as Heinrich Nebbien or Henrik Nebbien, (September 22, 1778 in Lübeck - December 2, 1841 in Glogau) was a German landscaping architect.

His most important project was the Városliget park at the end of Andrássy ut in Budapest (1817).

Other projects for which he is known are:

He also wrote a book on the methods of increasing agricultural output, published in Prague in 1835.

[[Krompachy]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Slovakia

Krompachy (German: Krompach, Hungarian: Korompa) is a town in Slovakia, located on the valley of the Hornád River. Until the end of the 20th century it was a centre of mining and metallurgy, particularly iron and copper. It is now an alpine resort, close to the Plejsy ski center.

[[Kingfisher]]

CATEGORIES: Coraciiformes

Kingfishers are small birds of the order Coraciiformes. There are about 90 species, mostly in the Old World and Australasia, Most species are tropical in distribution.

Their feathers are often bright colours, such as blue or orange. They have large heads, long, sharp bills, short legs, and stubby tails.

Most species have bright plumage with little differences between the sexes. Most are found only in forests. They eat a wide range of prey, including fish. They usually catch prey by swooping down from a perch. Many live near rivers and eat fish, but most species live away from water and eat small invertebrates. Like other birds  of their order they nest in holes, usually tunnels dug into the natural or artificial banks in the ground. A quarter of all kingfishers nest in disused termite nests.

[[São José dos Pinhais]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraná State

São José dos Pinhais is a Brazilian city, the second largest in the Greater Curitiba, in southern state of Paraná. In 2008 the population was more than 280.000 inhabitants.

The city is on a plateau 906 meters above sea level, and an area of 945,717 km². Is just 7 km away from the capital, Curitiba.

It is the third largest automotive pole of Brazil, housing assembly of Volkswagen, Audi, Nissan and Renault. The city is also home of the Afonso Pena International Airport, the main airport in southern Brazil.

[[Yone Minagawa]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese supercentenarians, 1893 births, 2007 deaths, People from Fukuoka Prefecture

Yone Minagawa (January 4, 1893 – August 13, 2007) was a Japanese supercentenarian and the world's oldest living person between January 29, 2007, and Minagawa's death at age 114 years 221 days. 

Minagawa became Japan's oldest person in April 2005, following the death of 114-year-old Ura Koyama. With the death of 114-year-old Emma Tillman on January 29, 2007, Minagawa became the world's oldest living person. She was 114 years 25 days old at the time. Following her death, then 114-year-old Edna Parker became the new world's oldest living person.

[[Richard G. Hovannisian]]

CATEGORIES: American historians, Living people, 1932 births

Richard G. Hovannisian (born 1932, Tulare, California) is an American historian. 

He received his M.A.(1958) degree from the University of California, Berkeley, and his Ph.D.(1966) from University of California, Los Angeles. He was also Associate Professor of History at Mount St. Mary's College, Los Angeles, from 1966 to 1969. In 1987, Professor Hovannisian was appointed as the first holder of the Armenian Educational Foundation Endowed Chair in Modern Armenian History at the UCLA. His biographical entries are included in Who's Who in America and Who's Who in the World among other scholarly and literary reference works.

[[Armenians in the Ottoman Empire]]

CATEGORIES: History of Armenia

The Ottoman rule of Armenia or Ottoman Armenia begins with the initial accession of Mehmed II, but it was during the rule of Selim II (1524 – 1574) that Armenia become an integral part of the Ottoman Empire. This condition ended after 300 years when following the Russo–Turkish War (1828–1829), Eastern Armenia was ceded to the Russian Empire. Western Armenia remained under Ottoman rule until the Ottoman Empire itself fell in World War I.

On April 24, 1915, Armenian intellectuals were arrested by Ottoman authorities and, with the Tehcir Law (29 May 1915), eventually a large proportion of Armenians living in Anatolia died in what has become known as the Armenian Genocide.

[[Armenian Question]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian Genocide

The term "Armenian Question" refers to powers of Europe's involvement to the Armenian subjects of the Ottoman Empire beginning with the Russo-Turkish War of 1877-78. However, in specific terms, the Armenian question refers to the protection and the freedoms of Armenians from their neighboring communities.

The "Armenian Question", like the "Eastern Question", remained a factor (issue) in international politics, first with Great Britain and Germany; then Russia taking on the role of Ottoman Armenians protector. 

[[Annihilation]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear physics, Antimatter

Annihilation is the name given to the process that occurs when a particle and its antiparticle equivalent collide. The collision between these two particles makes energy release. Two types of this include the annihilation of electrons and positrons (the antiparticle for electrons), and the annihilation of protons and antiprotons.

[[South Asian river dolphin]]

CATEGORIES: River dolphins

The South Asian river dolphin (Platanista gangetica) is a freshwater or river dolphin found in India, Bangladesh, Nepal and Pakistan.

It is split into two subspecies, the Ganges river dolphin (P. g. gangetica) and Indus river dolphin (P. g. minor). 

From the 1970s until 1998, they were regarded as separate species; however, in 1998, their classification was changed from two separate species to subspecies of a single species. The idea was to wait until genetic analysis had decided how best to classify them.

[[Phone Booth (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 crime movies, 2000s crime thriller movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American crime thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Joel Schumacher, Movies set in New York City

Phone Booth is a 2003 American movie about a man trapped in a telephone booth by a sniper. It stars Colin Farrell and Kiefer Sutherland and was directed by Joel Schumacher. It is set in New York City. It was originally to be released in 2002 but was delayed because of the Beltway sniper attacks.

[[Beltway sniper attacks]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 in the United States, 2000s in Maryland, 2000s in Virginia, 2000s in Washington, D.C., Crime in Virginia, Crime in Washington, D.C., Murder in 2002, Murder in the 21st century in the United States, Murders by firearm in the United States, October events, Terrorist attacks in the United States, Terrorist incidents in the 2000s

The Beltway Sniper attacks were a series of sniper attacks on civilians over three weeks in October 2002 in the Mid-Atlantic United States. The shootings all took place in the Maryland and Virginia area, mainly in and around Washington, D.C. The shootings were carried out by American John Allen Muhammad (1960-2009) and Jamaican Lee Boyd Malvo (born 1985).

[[Ulmus wallichiana]]

CATEGORIES: Plants and animals of Kashmir, Ulmaceae

The Himalayan Elm (Ulmus wallichiana) Planch., also known as the Kashmir Elm, found in Kashmir.

[[Central Karakoram National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Pakistan

Central Karakoram National Park or Karakoram National Park is a National Park in the Northern Areas of Pakistan.

[[Chitral National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Pakistan

Chitral National Park is one of the national parks of Pakistan. It is located in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan at the side of Chitral River, just at a distance of two hours drive from the Chitral city.  The word, Gol in local language means ' the valley'. This park has many valleys thereby the name, Chitral Gol National Park.

[[Richard Court]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Premiers of Western Australia, Liberal Party of Australia politicians

Richard Fairfax Court (born 27 September 1947) was the 26th Premier of Western Australia from 16 February 1993 to 16 February 2001. He was from the Liberal Party. His father, Charles Court, was also a Premier of Western Australia.

[[Hazarganji-Chiltan National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Pakistan

Hazarganji Chiltan National Park is a park in the Quetta District on the west side of Balochistan Province. It is in western Pakistan.

[[Hingol National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Pakistan

Hingol National Park or Hungol National Park (ہنگول) covers about 1650. and is the largest of the National Parks of Pakistan and lies on the Makran coast in Balochistan approximately 190 from Karachi.

The area was declared a reserve in 1988.  

The Hingol River runs though the park. 

[[Khunjerab National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Pakistan

Khunjerab National Park is a National park in the Northern Areas of Pakistan. It is one of the highest altitude parks in the world.

[[Kirthar National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Pakistan

Kirthar National Park is in Kirthar Mountains range. It is second biggest National Parks of Pakistan, the Hingol National Park being the biggest. It is also the first National Park from Pakistan to be included in the 1975 United Nation's list of National Parks around the world.

[[Lehri Nature Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Pakistan

Lehri Nature Park is in Jhelum District, northern Punjab, Pakistan.

[[Carmen Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Premiers of Western Australia, Australian Labor Party politicians, Government ministers of Australia

Dr Carmen Mary Lawrence (born 2 March 1948) was the 25th Premier of Western Australia from 12 February 1990 to 16 February 1993. She was from the Labor Party. She became Premier after Peter Dowding resigned. She was the first woman to become Premier of an Australian state and she is Western Australia's only woman Premier. After she was Premier she became of member of the Australian parliament. She served as federal Health Minister from 1994 to 1996, under Paul Keating.

[[Machiara National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Pakistan

Machiara National Park is a national park in Pakistan. It is one of three globally important national parks chosen for a Global Environment Facility sponsored project. The goal of the project is to create management models showing good natural resource conservation.

[[Margala Hills National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Pakistan

The Margalla Hills National Park is in Northern Pakistan. It is at the foothills of the Himalayas, north of Islamabad.

[[Cholistan desert]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts of Pakistan

Cholistan Desert (صحرائے چولستان, also locally known as Rohi) sprawls thirty kilometers from Bahawalpur, Punjab, Pakistan and covers an area of 16000. It is next to the Thar Desert extending over to Sindh and into the Republic of India.

[[Peter Dowding]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Premiers of Western Australia, Politicians from Melbourne, Australian lawyers, Australian Labor Party politicians

Peter M'Callum Dowding SC (born 6 October 1943) was the 24th Premier of Western Australia from 25 February 1988 to 12 February 1990. He was from the Labor Party. He became Premier when Brian Burke resigned. He had a difficult time as Premier because some people in his government broke the law. He is now a lawyer. He got a Centenary Medal in 2001.

[[Indus Valley Desert]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts of Pakistan

The Indus Valley Desert is a desert ecoregion of northern Pakistan. The Indus Valley desert covers an area of 19,500 square kilometers (7,500 square miles) in northwestern Punjab Province, lying between the Chenab River and Indus rivers. The Indus Valley Desert is drier and less hospitable than the Northwestern thorn scrub forests that surround it.

[[Kharan desert]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts of Pakistan

Kharan Desert (خاران) is a desert in Kharan District, Balochistan, Pakistan.

[[Thal desert]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts of Pakistan

The Thal desert is in Punjab, Pakistan. It is a large area mainly between the Jhelum River and Sindh rivers near the Pothohar Plateau. It has little vegetation — mostly thorny bushes — over a breadth of 70 miles. In Thal the people are very poor because the whole land is arid and depends upon the weather conditions. They cultivate grains only. It is the most illiterate area in Punjab Province. 

Noor Pur Thal has ten Union councils.

[[Flag of Texas]]

CATEGORIES: United States state flags, Texas

The Texas flag is known as the "Lone Star Flag". This flag was introduced to the Republic of Texas on December 28, 1838, by Senator William H. Wharton. It became its national flag on January 24, 1839.

When Texas became the 28th state of the United States of America on December 29, 1845, its national flag became the state flag. Each color means a special symbol on the flag: blue stands for loyalty, white for purity, and red for bravery.

[[Benny Benson]]

CATEGORIES: People from Alaska, Deaths from myocardial infarction, 1913 births, 1972 deaths

John Ben "Benny" Benson, Jr. (called Benny Benson) (1913-1972) was born in Chignik, Alaska. When he was three years old, his mother died.  Then, his father sent him and his brother Carl to boarding school. This was because Benny's father could not take care of them. Benny grew up in Unalaska and later in Seward.

[[Bowling for Soup]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 establishments in Texas, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, American punk bands, Musical groups established in 1994, Musical groups from Texas, Pop punk bands

Bowling for Soup is an American pop punk band from Wichita Falls, Texas.  

The band was formed in 1994 by Jaret Reddick, Chris Burney, Erik Chandler and Lance Morrill. The name of the band is from one of Steve Martin's comedy acts. They released their self-title debut album, Bowling for Soup, in September 1994.

[[Flag of Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: United States state flags, Alaska

The Flag of Alaska has eight gold stars on dark blue. These stars form the Big Dipper and the North Star.

[[2005 civil unrest in France]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 crimes, 2005 in Europe, 2000s crimes in Europe, 2000s in France, 2000s riots, Crime in France, November events, October 2005 events, Riots in Europe

The 2005 civil unrest in France was a series of riots in October and November. Many cars and public buildings, for example schools were burnt. The riots started on October 25, 2005 in Clichy-sous-Bois, a suburb of Paris. Afterwards they spread to other parts of France. Together they lasted for about 3 weeks. The riots were a reaction to the accidental deaths of two teenage boys and the serious injuries of another. The three boys hid in a power substation and got an electric shock, after being chased by police. However the boys did not commit a crime.

[[ASCII]]

CATEGORIES: Data input, Encodings

ASCII (pronounced "az-kee", "ass-key" if American), is a table of characters for computers. It is binary code used by electronic equipment to handle text using the English alphabet, numbers, and other common symbols. ASCII is an abbreviation for American Standard Code for Information Interchange. 

ASCII was developed in the 1960's and was based on earlier codes used by telegraph systems.

The code includes definitions for 128 characters: most of these are the printable characters of the alphabet such as abc, ABC, 123, and ?&!. There are also control characters that cannot be printed but instead control how text is processed, to start a new line for example.  Those are in the left column in the table below.  Most of the control characters are no longer used for their original purpose.  There is no real formatting control (for bold or Italics, etc.) 

Sometimes someone talks about a file or document in ASCII, meaning it is in plain text.

ASCII usually uses 7 binary digits (bits) to represent characters: 1000001 (or 41 in hexadecimal or 65 in standard base-10 numbers) represents the upper-case letter A; 1000010 represents B; 1000011 represents C; and so on in sequence.  Eight bits allowed a parity bit to be included in each byte sent over a serial port or modems, this bit is used for avoiding errors.  This was more important years ago when connections were often noisy.

[[Vantage Point]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, American movies, Multilingual movies

Vantage Point is a 2008 mystery thriller movie from Columbia Pictures, written by Barry Levy and directed by Pete Travis. It stars Dennis Quaid, Matthew Fox, Forest Whitaker with Sigourney Weaver, Édgar Ramírez and William Hurt. It was released on February 22, 2008.

[[Flag of Hawaii]]

CATEGORIES: United States state flags, Hawaii

The flag of Hawaii (Hawaiian: Ka Hae Hawaiʻi) is the official flag of Hawaii as a U.S. state, as it was kingdom, protector government, republic, and territory. It is the only state flag of the United States to have the Union Flag of the United Kingdom on it.

[[2010 FIFA World Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA World Cup, 2010 in association football, Football in South Africa, 2010s in South Africa

The 2010 World Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup, the world championship between 32 men's national football teams. It was held in South Africa from 11 June to 10 July 2010. In the host selection, only African countries may be selected as host of this tournament. In 2004 FIFA selected South Africa to become it the first African country hosted FIFA World Cup.

The matches were played in 10 stadiums in 9 cities around the country. The final was played at the Soccer City, Johannesburg

All countries (except South Africa that qualified as host nation) took part in qualification tournament to qualify to the World Cup. In the first round all teams were divided to eight groups of four teams where team played with other three teams in group. Two best teams from each group qualify to knockout stage where teams need to win 3 matches to reach the final.

In the final Spain, the European champions, won the tournament. They defeated Netherlands 1-0 in extra time with Andrés Iniesta's goal in the 116th minute. Spain got their first World Cup title and they also became the first European team won the World Cup outside Europe. They also became the first team to win the World Cup after losing their first match. Host nation of this tournament South Africa, winner (Italy) and finalist (France) of previous World Cup were all failed the group stage. It was the first time when host nation was not qualified to knockout stage. New Zealand was only team that did not lose any matches but it also did not advance to knockout stage

[[Cody Rhodes]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), Former WWE wrestlers, People from Marietta, Georgia

Cody Garrett Runnels (born June 30, 1985), better known by his ring names Cody Rhodes and more recently Stardust, is an American professional wrestler currently signed by WWE. He has twice been a WWE Tag Team Champion, once with Drew McIntyre and once with his half-brother Goldust. He is also a former three-time World Tag Team Champion, once with Hardcore Holly and twice with Ted DiBiase, Jr. His father is Dusty Rhodes.

[[Jimmy Reiher, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Fijian sportspeople

James William Reiher, Jr., (born September 1, 1971) better known as Jimmy Snuka, Jr., is an American professional wrestler and the son of professional wrestler "Superfly" Jimmy Snuka. He is probably best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Entertainment where he worked on its Raw brand under the ring name Deuce. He is a former WWE Tag Team Champion with his former partner Domino.

[[Jim Duggan]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from New York, WWE Hall of Fame, People from Glens Falls, New York

James Stuart Duggan (born January 14, 1954 in Glens Falls, New York), better known by his ring name "Hacksaw" Jim Duggan, is an American professional wrestler, who is best known for wrestling for World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF/E). Duggan will also be inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2011 by Ted DiBiase Sr.. Duggan was the winner of the first ever Royal Rumble in 1988. He is known for entering the arena with a 2x4 piece of lumber and yelling "Hooo!" while the fans chant "U-S-A!".

In November 2018, Duggan was hospitalized in the intensive care unit for an unknown reason.

[[JTG]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from New York City

Jayson Anthony Paul (born December 10, 1984) is an American professional wrestler  better known by the ring name JTG. He is best known for his time working with the WWE. During his time there, he was a member of the tag team Cryme Tyme along with Shad Gaspard.

His last match was on the September 20, 2013 episode of Superstars where he lost against Santino Marella. On June 12, 2014, JTG was released from his WWE contract.

[[Lance Cade]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths from cardiomyopathy, American professional wrestlers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from heart failure, Drug-related deaths in the United States, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Omaha, Nebraska

Lance Kurtis McNaught (March 2, 1980 – August 13, 2010) was an American professional wrestler. He was best known for his time working for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), where he wrestled under the ring names Garrison Cade and Lance Cade. Cade was trained by Shawn Michaels and made his professional wrestling debut along with Bryan Danielson in 1999 for Frontier Martial-Arts Wrestling (FMW) in Japan.

Cade signed a developmental contract with World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in 2001 and began working for their developmental territory Memphis Championship Wrestling (MCW). In the summer, he was sent to Heartland Wrestling Association (HWA). When the WWF dropped HWA as their developmental territory, Cade moved the then-renamed WWE's main developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). In 2003, he debuted on an episode of Sunday Night Heat in a match against Lance Storm who forced him to submit to the sharpshooter. During his WWE career, he was known to team with Mark Jindrak and then later Trevor Murdoch. Cade was released from the company on October 14, 2008. Jim Ross stated on his blog that Cade "made a major league mistake while utilizing bad judgment" and that it was a factor in his departure. Ross also mentioned Cade having a seizure on a plane and him needing emergency medical care as a part of this.

He was a three-time World Tag Team Champion with Trevor Murdoch.

On August 13, 2010, Cade died at the age of 29 of apparent heart failure in San Antonio, Texas. On October 13, the medical examiner in San Antonio ruled that his death was "accidental," and stated that intoxication from mixed drugs complicated a cardiomyopathy and caused his death.

[[Matt Striker]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from New York City

Matthew Robert Kaye (born June 26 1974) is an American professional wrestler and commentator. He is best known for working for the WWE from 2005 to 2013 under the ring name, Matt Striker. He currently works as a commentator for Championship Wrestling from Hollywood.

He has also won a Slammy Award in 2008 for Announce Team of the Year which he shared with Todd Grisham.

On June 20, 2013, he left the WWE when the company did not renew his contract.

[[Sicko]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, American documentary movies, American independent movies

Sicko was a 2007 documentary movie made by Michael Moore. It explores the American health care system, and compares it to the United Kingdom's, Canada's, France's and Cuba's. It made $24.5 million, making it the third-highest grossing documentary of all time.

[[Flag of Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: United States state flags, Alabama

The flag of Alabama was adopted by the Alabama state legislature on February 16, 1895.

[[Flag of Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: Mexico

The Flag of the United Mexican States or Mexico is a tricolor of green, white, and red with an eagle charged in the center of the white stripe. While the meaning of the colors has changed over time, these three colors were adopted by Mexico following independence from Spain during the country's War of Independence. The current flag was adopted in 1968, but the design has been used since 1821. The current law of national symbols, Law on the National Arms, Flag, and Anthem, that governs the use of the national flag has been in place since 1984. Red, white, and green are the colors of the national liberation army in Mexico. The central emblem is the ancient Aztec symbol for Tenochtitlan (now Mexico City), the center of the Aztec Empire. It recalls the legend that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island. The form of the coat of arms was most recently revised in 1968. Aztec legend held that they should found their city on the spot where they saw an eagle on a cactus, eating a snake. There is a ribbon in the national colors at the bottom of the coat of arms.

[[Flag of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, Flags of the United Kingdom

The flag of the United Kingdom is the national flag of the United Kingdom. It is also known as theUnion Flag or Union Jack. The Union Flag is the national flag of the United Kingdom. It has had the same design since the Act of Union 1800. The flag is made from the flags of the kingdoms of England, Scotland, and Ireland.

There are different flags for use on land and at sea. The flag's measurements at sea are 1:2 (the flag is twice as long as it is wide). On land, it is normal for the flag's proportions to be 3:5.

The use of the flag started (with a different design) in 1606, after James VI and I became the first king of the whole of Great Britain in 1603. Between 1606 and 1801, the Union Flag's design was different to the present flag. At that time, the Kingdom of Ireland was a separate kingdom. (Between the execution of Charles I and the Restoration of Charles II, there was no personal union between Scotland and England, so the Union Flag was not necessary.) Scotland and England became the United Kingdom of Great Britain in 1707. Anne, Queen of Great Britain, chose the Union Flag as the flag of the new kingdom. The United Kingdom and Ireland joined together in 1801. The use of the present British flag started then.

The first Union Flag from 1603 combined the flag of Scotland with the flag of England. The flag of Scotland is a Saint Andrew's Cross because Saint Andrew is the patron saint of Scotland. The flag of England is Saint George's Cross because Saint George is the patron saint of England. When the present United Kingdom started in 1801, the Saint Patrick's Cross started to be a part of the Union Flag. Saint Patrick's Cross was a flag representative of Ireland because Saint Patrick is the patron saint of Ireland. Saint Patrick's Cross is a red saltire (a diagonal cross) with a white background. The flag of Scotland is blue with a white saltire. The flag of England is white with a red horizontal cross. Together they make the Union Flag.

The flag did not change as result of the independence of the Republic of Ireland. The flag did not change when the United Kingdom's name changed from the "United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland" to the "United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland". The flag does not contain anything that represents Wales. (In 1603, Wales had long been a part of the kingdom of England.) Some people want a new design because of this. 

[[Tommy Tynan]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Liverpool

Tommy Tynan is a former football player.

[[Lennie Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, English football managers, People from Brighton, Sportspeople from Sussex

Lennie Lawrence (his real name is Robin Michael Lawrence) is an English former football manager.

[[Neil Warnock]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, People from Sheffield

Neil Warnock (born 1 December 1948) is a former football player born on 1 December 1948. He then managed football teams. He is currently managing Cardiff City.

[[John Gregory]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, Sportspeople from Lincolnshire

John Gregory is an English footballer turned manager. He has played for the England national team.

[[Roberto Carlos]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Association football defenders, Association football full-backs, Brazilian footballers

Roberto Carlos (born 10 April 1973) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team. He often plays left back.

[[Bob Wilson (footballer, born 1941)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Scottish footballers, British association football goalkeepers

Bob Wilson (born 30 October 1941) is a former football player. He has played for Scotland national team.

[[Sepp Maier]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, German association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Bavaria

Sepp Maier (born 28 February 1944) is a former German football player. He played for Bayern Munich and the German national team. He is regarded as one of the greatest goalkeeper of all time.

[[Bob Stokoe]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2004 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, English footballers, Sportspeople from Northumberland

Bob Stokoe (21 September 1930 – 1 February 2004) was an English footballer and football manager.

In 1955, he won an FA Cup winner's medal with Newcastle United.

[[Lothar Matthäus]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, German football managers, German footballers, Sportspeople from Bavaria

Lothar Herbert Matthäus (born 21 March 1961) is a former German football player. He has played for the German national team. He currently holds a record for the most appearances for the German team.

[[Douglas Haig, 1st Earl Haig]]

CATEGORIES: 1861 births, 1928 deaths, British Army generals, People from Edinburgh, Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, Knights of the Thistle, Order of Merit, Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order, Knights Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire

Field Marshal  Douglas Haig, 1st Earl Haig KT GCB OM GCVO KCIE ADC (born in Edinburgh, Scotland on 19 June 1861, died in London on 29 January 1928) was a British Army general in World War I.

He was the senior commander of the British forces in France from 1915 until the end of the war. Most notably, he led them during the Battle of the Somme, the Third Battle of Ypres (Passchendaele), the Spring Offensive and the final Hundred Days Offensive.

Historians have often argued over whether Haig was a good general. In the years after the war, he was popular. After his death, some historians and politicians wrote books criticising Haig. They argued he made mistakes that led to a lot of casualties among British troops, especially at the Somme and Passchendaele; he has been nicknamed 'Butcher Haig' or 'the Butcher of the Somme'. David Lloyd George, the Prime Minister during the later years of the war, also did not agree with Haig. One of the best known books criticising Haig was Alan Clark's book The Donkeys (1961). This is known as the 'lions led by donkeys' view: the idea that Britain had great soldiers but bad generals.

All the same, some veterans, and academic historians have argued that Haig was a great general. For example, John Bourne notes that Haig helped the army use new weapons and technology. John Terraine argues that while the British Army lost a lot of men, this is not surprising given the size of the fighting, and other countries lost far more. Likewise, Gordon Corrigan argues that as a percentage of the population, Britain lost half as many people in the war as France and Germany.

[[John Charles]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2004 deaths, Welsh footballers, Welsh football managers, People from Swansea

John Charles (27 December 1931 - 21 February 2004) was a Welsh football player. He has played for Wales national team.

[[Fredrik Ljungberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Swedish footballers, Swedish football managers

Fredrik Ljungberg (born 16 April, 1977) is a Swedish football player. He has played for the Swedish national team. He is currently the interim manager of the Premier League club Arsenal F.C..

[[Martin Peters]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in London, English footballers, Sportspeople from London

Martin Stanford Peters UK (8 November 1943 – 21 December 2019) was an English footballer and manager. He played for England national team.

In 2016, it was announced that Peters had Alzheimer's disease. Peters died on 21 December 2019 in London from the disease  at the age of 76.

[[Dmitri Sychev]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Russian footballers

Dmitri Sychev is a Russian football player. He is currently playing for Lokomotiv-Kazanka Moscow. He has been called the "Russian Michael Owen" because of his fast pace and brilliant agility.

[[José Eulogio Gárate]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish footballers

José Eulogio Gárate is a former football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Shinji Ono]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo players, FC Ryukyu players, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, 2002 FIFA World Cup players, 2006 FIFA World Cup players, 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2004 Summer Olympics, 2000 AFC Asian Cup players, AFC Asian Cup-winning players

Shinji Ono is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Iker Casillas]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Spanish association football goalkeepers, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, Sportspeople from Madrid

Iker Casillas (born 20 May 1981) is a retired Spanish football player. He used to play for F.C. Porto and Spain national team.

[[Jamie Murphy]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Manchester

Jamie Murphy is a former English footballer.

[[List of presidents of Turkey]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Turkey, Lists of heads of state

This is a complete list of presidents of Turkey. The list includes all eleven heads of state that lead the country after the Turkish War of Independence. For a list of rulers of the predecessor Ottoman Empire, see the Ottoman Dynasty.

[[Weightlifting]]

CATEGORIES: Weightlifting

Weightlifting first started in the so-called Dark Ages of the human history. It was usually done by the strongest men in villages all over Europe. It was considered to be a sport for the lower classes, however since then it has changed into the sport for other people as well.  It has been in the Olympic Games since 1896.

[[Mullet]]

CATEGORIES: Teleosts

A mullet is a kind of fish. Mullet often jump out of water. People are not sure why, but it might be because they are trying to see where they are going.

In recent years, "mullet" also came to be a slang word for a hairstyle that is short at the front and top, and long at the back.  This slang word is said to have been started by Mike D of the Beastie Boys in 1995, and after 2000 was spread by a small group of people in San Francisco through the Internet.

[[Flag semaphore]]

CATEGORIES: Flags, Messaging, Signalling

Flag semaphore is a system of spreading information at a distance by using two flags. Information is told by the positions of the flags. Each set of positions has a meaning. 

[[Asparagales]]

CATEGORIES: Asparagales

Asparagales is an order of flowering plants. The order must include the family Asparagaceae, but other families included in the order have varied markedly between different classifications. No one is sure, but it is supposed that this group of plants evolved between the late and early Cretaceous. But because of the difficult classification of the families, it is not entirely certain when they evolved. Asparagales have a many families, including Ashphodelaceae (Xanthorrhoeaceae), which includes daylilies and New Zealand flax.

[[Asparagaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Asparagales

Asparagaceae is the botanical name of a family of flowering plants. Such a family has been recognized by quite a few taxonomists, but hardly universally: often the plants involved are treated as belonging to the family Liliaceae. 

[[Hesperocallis]]

CATEGORIES: Agavaceae

Hesperocallis is a genus of flowering plants that includes a single species, Hesperocallis undulata, the desert lily, found in the desert areas of the southwest of North America.

Hesperocallis has traditionally been classified in Liliaceae but until recently its relationships have been unclear. Other classifications have included it in Hemerocallidaceae or Funkiaceae.  In 1972, Hamilton Traub created the family Hesperocallidaceae with Hesperocallis as the sole included genus.  The APG II system includes it in the family Asparagaceae in the order Asparagales in the monocots clade but allows for the optional segregation of Hesperocallidaceae as a monophyletic family when several other families are likewise segregated.  Recent molecular systematic studies have confirmed a close relationship with Agave and its inclusion in family Agavaceae has been recommended (Pires et al. 2004).

[[Laurales]]

CATEGORIES: Trees, Magnoliopsida

The Laurales are an order of flowering plants. They are a basal group of dicots. They are related to, and sometimes included in, the Magnoliales.

The order includes 85-90 genera from seven families of trees and shrubs. Most of the species are tropical and subtropical, though a few genera reach the temperate zone. The best known species in this order are those of the Lauraceae (for example bay laurel or Laurus, cinnamon or Cinnamomum, avocado or Persea, and Sassafras), and the spice bush or Calycanthus of the Calycanthaceae.

The earliest lauraceous fossils are from the Cretaceous. It is possible that the ancient origin of this order is one of the reasons for its highly diverged morphology. Indeed, at present no one trait is known which would unify all the members of Laurales. This used to cause much argument among botanists about the correct limits of the order. The presently classification is based on recent molecular and genetic analysis.

[[Hasbro]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Rhode Island, Rhode Island

Hasbro is an American toy company. It is one of the biggest toy makers in the world (including board games), only Mattel is larger. Hasbro also makes Monopoly, a popular board game. Their main office is in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, United States. The company is best known for their popular 1990's electronic audio game Bop It, which got re-designed in 2008 with a series of designs which one is released each year. Hasbro has also joined up with many other companies such as Tiger Electronics who made the following audio games: Brain Warp, Brain Bash, Brain Shift and Bogoey Ball. They also make a popular memory game called Simon which involves memorizing flashing lights and sounds. The game Simon Swipe was released in 2014 and was copyrighted in 2013. There is also a Micro Series version that was released in 2014.

[[Bay leaf]]

CATEGORIES: Herbs, Lauraceae

Bay leaf (plural bay leaves), (Greek Daphni, Romanian Foi de Dafin) is the aromatic leaf of several species of the Laurel family (Lauraceae). Fresh or dried bay leaves are used in cooking for their distinctive flavor and fragrance. 

[[Ginger]]

CATEGORIES: Monocots, Spices

Ginger is a flowering plant whose rhizome, ginger root or ginger, is used as a spice and a folk medicine.

It is a herbaceous perennial which grows annual pseudostems. These are false stems made of rolled leaves: about one meter tall with narrow leaf blades. The inflorescences come directly from the rhizome on separate shoots.

Ginger is used as a cooking spice throughout the world. The ginger plant has long long been cultivated. It came from China and spread to India, Southeast Asia, West Africa, and the Caribbean.

Ginger is also a term used to describe a red-brown colour, as in ginger hair.

[[Revenue]]

CATEGORIES: Income

Revenue (or revenues) is income that an organization receives from its normal business activities. In the case of a corporation this is usually from the sale of goods and services to customers. In the case of a government, revenue usually comes from various taxes. It does not include the cost required to create these goods and services, which is considered "profit". In addition to sale of goods and services, some companies also receive revenue from interest, dividends or royalties paid to them by other companies.

[[Net income]]

CATEGORIES: Income

Net income is equal to the income that a company has after subtracting costs and expenses from the total revenue. Net income can be distributed among holders of common stock as a dividend or held by the firm as retained earnings.

[[Real time (media)]]

CATEGORIES: Media

Real time in a narrative is where the events in the story take the same amount of time to happen as they do for the audience to experience them. If a movie told in real time is two hours long, as in Rope, then the plot of that movie covers two hours of fictional time. For example, in the TV series 24, an hour long episode represents an hour of events on the program.

[[Southern Cone]]

CATEGORIES: South America

December 2020

The term Southern Cone (Cono Sur, Cone Sul) refers to a geographic region composed of the southernmost areas of South America, below the Tropic of Capricorn. Due to geographical affinities, natural, economic and social, the Southern Cone is usually understood as the region that includes all of Argentina, Chile and Uruguay, the southern states of Brazil (and sometimes part of São Paulo state, because have several features in common: proximity, the high rate of industrialization and urbanization and the high GDP). In rare exceptions - just because geographical reasons -  sometimes also includes Paraguay and southern Bolivia, although both have fundamentally different characteristics of other countries (such as standards of living, industrialization, ethnicity, etc.)

[[1936–37 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 in North America, 1937 in North America

The 1936–37 NHL season was the 20th season of the National Hockey League (NHL). Eight teams each played 48 games. The Detroit Red Wings were the Stanley Cup winners as they beat the New York Rangers three games to two in the final series.

[[William M. Jennings]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 1981 deaths, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, People from New York City

William M. Jennings (December 14, 1920 – August 17, 1981) was an owner in the National Hockey League.

Born in New York, New York, Jennings was owner of the New York Rangers from 1959 until his death in 1981.  The William M. Jennings Trophy was named in his honour.  Jennings also helped initiate the Lester Patrick Trophy in 1966, which he would win in 1971.  He was elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1975, and the United States Hockey Hall of Fame in 1981.

[[Robert Esche]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, American Hockey League players, Living people, Ontario Hockey League players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Phoenix Coyotes players, Sportspeople from New York, American ice hockey goaltenders

Robert Esche (born January 22, 1978 in Whitesboro, New York) is an American professional ice hockey goaltender currently playing for the Kontinental Hockey League's St. Petersburg SKA.

[[Concussion]]

CATEGORIES: Brain

Concussion is an injury to the brain caused by being hit on the head, as often happens in motor vehicle collisions, fights or contact sports such as football. It is the most common form of traumatic brain injury. Related terms include mild brain injury, mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI), mild head injury (MHI),  and minor head trauma. Patients with severe concussion are occasionally monitored in hospital. The main reason for this is the risk of bleeding in the brain, which can be life-threatening. 

Common symptoms of concussion include: headache, dizziness, fatigue, problems with vision, confusion and loss of consciousness. A person with a mild concussion may have nothing more than a headache or brief confusion. In more severe cases, symptoms tend to last longer, and may include loss of consciousness. Other associated symptoms are: worsening headache, inability to wake, dilation of the eyes, vomiting, nausea, loss of coordination and weakness of extremities. 

Symptoms may last less than a week in minor cases, but recovery from more severe concussions can take up to 4 weeks. The most common causes of concussions are accidents; in some cases, wearing a helmet can help prevent major damage. 

[[Mercury-in-glass thermometer]]

CATEGORIES: Medical equipment, Measuring tools, Thermometers

The mercury-in-glass thermometer was invented by Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit in Amsterdam (1714). It is a bulb containing Mercury attached to a glass tube of narrow diameter. The volume of mercury in the tube is much less than the volume in the bulb. The volume of mercury changes slightly with temperature. The small change in volume drives the narrow mercury column up the tube. The space above the mercury may be filled with nitrogen or it may be at less than atmospheric pressure, a partial vacuum.  

Mercury cannot be used to measure temperatures lower than -39˚C (as mercury freezes at that point) or temperature higher than 356.7˚C (the boiling point of mercury). Mercury has been replaced largely by alcohol for use in thermometers. Ethanol is cheaper and safer than mercury and can be used as low as -80˚C. However, ethanol boils at 78°C (172.4°F), which means its upper limit is much lower than mercury thermometers.

[[Language reform]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics

Language reform is a type of language planning. Language reforms make big changes to a language. These changes are usually done to make a language simpler to understand or to write. Sometimes changes are done to make the language purer; that is, to get rid of foreign parts of the language, or to get rid of parts of the language that are not grammatical.

Simplification makes the language easier to use. It tries to regularise spelling, vocabulary, and grammar. Purification makes the language similar to a version of the language that people think is more pure.

Sometimes language reforms were done to unite the people speaking the language. For this reason, many language reforms happened in 19th century Europe when there was a rise of nationalist movements.

[[Beaufort scale]]

CATEGORIES: Winds

The Beaufort scale is a scale for measuring wind speeds. It is based on observation rather than accurate measurement. It is the most widely used system to measure wind speed today. The scale was developed in 1805 by Francis Beaufort, an officer of the Royal Navy and first officially used by HMS Beagle.

There are twelve levels, plus 0 for "no wind". From 1946 to 1970, there were also beaufort levels 13 to 17. All of them were labelled as Hurricane. Because they were only used in special cases, they are no longer in use internationally. China, and Taiwan still use them, because they often have typhoons. 

The wave heights given are for waves on the open ocean, not near the shore.

The Douglas Sea Scale and Douglas Wind Scale are similar, but they separate the sea from the wind.

[[The Wheel of Time]]

CATEGORIES: Fantasy books, Series of books

The Wheel of Time is a long running fantasy series of novels written by American author Robert Jordan. The first in the series, The Eye of the World was published in 1990,  and the last, A Memory of Light, was published in 2009. Jordan died while he was writing the last book, so it was finished by Brandon Sanderson. A Memory of Light was split into three parts as the book length was too long.

[[Robert Jordan]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2007 deaths, Deaths from amyloidosis, Disease-related deaths in South Carolina, Pen names, People from Charleston, South Carolina, Writers from South Carolina

Robert Jordan (October 17, 1948 – September 16, 2007) was the pen or writing name of the American fantasy author James Oliver Rigney Jr. He was most famous for writing the long, epic fanasy series The Wheel of Time. He died from amyloidosis before he was able to finish the series. The last volume A Memory of Light was split into three and was completed by fellow American fantasy writer Brandon Sanderson.

[[Brian Burke]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Premiers of Western Australia, People from Perth, Western Australia, Australian Labor Party politicians, Australian journalists

Brian Thomas Burke (born 25 February 1947) was the 23rd Premier of Western Australia from 25 February 1983 to 25 February 1988. He was from the Labor Party. He worked as a journalist before becoming a politician. As Premier he was popular at first but later on his government was involved in a number of private companies that failed. He resigned to become an ambassador. During the 1990s he was convicted of committing crimes while he was Premier and spent time in prison. 

[[Ray O'Connor]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2013 deaths, Australian criminals, Fraudsters, Liberal Party of Australia politicians, People from Perth, Western Australia, Premiers of Western Australia

Raymond James O'Connor (6 March 1926 - 25 February 2013) was the 22nd Premier of Western Australia from 25 January 1982 until 25 February 1983. He was from the Liberal Party. He became Premier when Charles Court resigned. Later he was convicted of fraud and spent time in prison.

[[Charles Court]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, Premiers of Western Australia, People from Sussex, Liberal Party of Australia politicians

Sir Charles Walter Michael Court (29 September 1911 – 22 December 2007) was the 21st Premier of Western Australia from 8 April 1974 to 25 January 1982. He was from the Liberal Party. He became a politician in 1953. His son, Richard, was also a Premier.

[[Chang'an]]

CATEGORIES: History of China, Cities in China

Chang'an was the capital of ancient China of more than ten dynasties in Chinese history. Chang'an literally means "Perpetual Peace" in Classical Chinese. During the Xin Dynasty, the city was renamed "Constant Peace"; yet after its fall in the year 23 AD, the old name was restored. During the Ming Dynasty, the name was changed to its present name Xi'an, meaning "Western Peace".

[[John Tonkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1995 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, Australian Labor Party politicians, Australian educators

John Trezise Tonkin (2 February 1902 – 20 October 1995) was the 20th Premier of Western Australia from 3 March 1971 to 8 April 1974. He was from the Labor Party.

He was born in Boulder City in 1902. Educated in local schools Tonkin became a teacher in rural Western Australia. An active member of the Labor Party, he was Prime Minister John Curtin's campaign manager for the 1943 election. He was elected to the Western Australian parliament for the seat of North East Fremantle (1933–1950), and for the seat of Melville (1950–1977). He was a Cabinet Minister (1943–1947), Deputy Premier (1953–1959), Leader of the Opposition (1967–1971 and 1974–1976), and Premier (1971–1974). He retired from parliament in 1977 and died in 1995.

[[David Brand]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1979 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, Liberal Party of Australia politicians

Sir David Brand (1 August 1912 – 15 April 1979) was the 19th Premier of Western Australia from 2 April 1959 to 3 March 1971. He was from the Liberal Party.

[[Albert Hawke]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1989 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, Politicians from South Australia, Australian Labor Party politicians

Albert ("Bert") Redvers George Hawke (3 December 1900 – 14 February 1986) was the 18th Premier of Western Australia from 23 February 1953 to 2 April 1959. He was from the Labor Party. His nephew, Bob, became Prime Minister of Australia in the 1980s.

[[Ross McLarty]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1962 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, Liberal Party of Australia politicians

Sir Duncan Ross McLarty (17 March 1891 – 22 December 1962) was the 17th Premier of Western Australia from 1 April 1947 to 23 February 1953. He was from the Liberal Party.

[[Frank Wise]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1986 deaths, Administrators of the Northern Territory, Premiers of Western Australia, Politicians from Queensland, Australian Labor Party politicians

Frank Joseph Scott Wise (30 May 1897 – 29 June 1986) was the 16th Premier of Western Australia from 31 July 1945 to 1 April 1947. He was from the Labor Party.

Wise was born in Queensland and after finishing high school he became a tropical fruit farmer. He joined the Queensland Department of Agriculture, and later moved to Western Australia to work with the WA Department of Agriculture. He brought banana plants from Queensland to grow in the Gascoyne region around Carnarvon. He was elected to the Western Australian parliament in 1933 and became the Minister for Agriculture in 1936.

He became Premier of Western Australia after John Willcock resigned in 1945. His government was defeated in the 1947 election. He then became Leader of the Opposition for four years. He resigned from parliament in 1951 to become the Administrator of the Northern Territory.

[[Early modern Europe]]

CATEGORIES: History of Europe

The early modern period is a term used by historians for the period in Western Europe and its first colonies which spans the three centuries between the Middle Ages and the Industrial Revolution.

The early modern period is characterized by the rise to importance of science and technological progress, civic politics and the nation state.  Capitalism began its rise, beginning in northern Italian republics such as Genoa. The early modern period also saw the rise and dominance of the economic theory of mercantilism. As such, the early modern period represents the decline and eventual disappearance, in much of the European sphere, of feudalism, serfdom and the power of the Catholic Church.

The period includes the Protestant Reformation, the Thirty Years' War, the European colonization of the Americas and the peak of the European hunt of witches.

The beginning of the early modern period is not clear-cut, but is generally accepted to be in the late 15th century or early 16th century. Significant dates in this phase from medieval to early modern Europe are:

The end date of the early modern period is associated with the Industrial Revolution, which began in Britain in about 1750, or the beginning of the French Revolution in 1789, which drastically transformed the state of European politics.

Among the most important political changes of this time are the abolition of serfdom and the change of kingdoms into nation-states. Then the Reformation, that meant that Christendom was no unified entity any more. Many kings and rulers used this radical shift in the understanding of the world to further consolidate their sovereignty over their territories. For instance, many of the Germanic states (as well as English Reformation) converted to Protestantism in an attempt to slip out of the power of the Pope.

The intellectual developments of the period included the creation of the economic theory of mercantilism and the publication of works of political and social philosophy, such as Machiavelli's The Prince (1513) and Thomas More's Utopia (1515).

[[Kevin Moore (rugby league)]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Australian rugby league players, Sportspeople from Sydney, Coaches

Kevin Moore (born 30 November 1965, in St Johns Lakemba, New South Wales, Australia) is a rugby league coach and former player. He was the head coach for the Bulldogs in the NRL from 2009 to 2011. As a player, he played as a scrum-half.

[[Roman Čechmánek]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Philadelphia Flyers players, American Hockey League players, Swedish Hockey League players, Czech ice hockey goaltenders

Roman Čechmánek 'ʧɛxma:nɛk (born March 2, 1971 in Gottwaldov (now called Zlín), Czechoslovakia) is a Czech professional ice hockey goaltender.

[[Jaromír Jágr]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Art Ross Trophy winners, Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy winners, Boston Bruins players, Calgary Flames players, Czech ice hockey players, Czechoslovak ice hockey players, Dallas Stars players, Florida Panthers players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Medalists at the 2006 Winter Olympics, New Jersey Devils players, New York Rangers players, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Philadelphia Flyers players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Stanley Cup champions, Washington Capitals players

Jaromír Jágr (pronounced Cs-Jaromir Jagr.ogg, born February 15, 1972 in Kladno, Czechoslovakia, now the Czech Republic) is a Czech professional ice hockey right winger, who plays for the Florida Panthers in the National Hockey League (NHL). Jágr formerly played in the National Hockey League with the Pittsburgh Penguins, Washington Capitals, New York Rangers, Philadelphia Flyers, Dallas Stars, Boston Bruins, and the New Jersey Devils. Jágr is currently in the top ten among players in NHL career goals, assists, and points, and is regarded as one of the game's all-time great players.

[[Spinning jenny]]

CATEGORIES: Machines, Tools

The spinning jenny is a multi-spool spinning wheel. It was invented around 1764 by James Hargreaves (c. 1720 – 22 April 1778) in Stanhill, near Blackburn, Lancashire in the northwest of England. The device dramatically reduced the amount of work needed to produce yarn. A single worker could work eight or more spools at once.

The spinning jenny was a huge success due to the fact that it could hold more than one ball of yarn, therefore making more clothing materials in a shorter amount of time while reducing the overall cost.

Thomas Highs (1718–1803) also claimed patents on the spinning jenny, and on other machines for cloth production.

[[Roman Turek]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Calgary Flames players, Czech ice hockey goaltenders, Czechoslovak ice hockey players, Dallas Stars players, Living people, St. Louis Blues players, Stanley Cup champions

Roman Turek (born May 21, 1970 in Strakonice, Czechoslovakia — now the Czech Republic) is a professional ice hockey goaltender, who played for the Dallas Stars, St. Louis Blues, and Calgary Flames in a 9-year National Hockey League career. Currently he is playing in the Czech Extraliga for HC České Budějovice.

[[Driveshaft]]

CATEGORIES: Machines, Auto parts

A driveshaft, drive shaft, driving shaft, propeller shaft, or Cardan shaft is a part of a machine that takes power from the engine or motor to a place where useful work can be done.

Most engines or motors create power as torque by making something rotate.  This can be from an internal combustion engine (as in a car), water driving a water wheel, or gas or water going through a turbine.  This rotating power is called torque.  The load that is turned creates torsion and shear stress.  Drive shafts need to be strong enough to take this stress.  A light drive shaft will more efficiently move the power to the load, so there needs to be a balance between strength and weight.

[[Power loom]]

CATEGORIES: Tools, Machines, Weaving

The term power loom, corresponds to a mechanized loom powered by a driveshaft. The first power loom was designed in 1784 by Edmund Cartwright and first built in 1785, later to be perfected by William Horrocks. It allowed textile making to be done far faster than if a human had done the same work. By 1850, over 250,000 of Cartwright's designs were used in England. James Henry Northrop invented the automatic "weft replenishment" loom. It revolutionized the weaving industry. Some 700,000 "Northrop" automatic looms were sold worldwide.

Originally, power looms used a shuttle to throw the weft across, but in the early part of the 20th century the faster and more efficient shuttleless loom came into use. Today, advances in technology have produced a variety of looms designed to maximize production for specific types of material. The most common of these are air-jet looms and water-jet looms. Computer-driven looms are now also available to individual home weavers. 

[[Ahmadiyya]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic denominations

Ahmadiyya (احمدیہ Ahmadiyya) is an Islamic movement founded in the 19th Century by Mirza Ghulam Ahmad who is considered to be a Mahdi. It was started before India was split into the modern day states of India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

Ahmad wanted to restore Islam's original message. In 1914, the movement split into two different groups, over a question of who should become the next Caliph. Both groups still exist today.

Mirza Ghulam Ahmad claimed to have fulfilled the prophecies for the Mahdi. In addition to being a Mahdi, he was also called the Mujaddid (divine reformer) of the 14th Islamic century and the promised Messiah.

Ahmadis consider themselves Muslims and claim to practice the Islam that was taught and practised by Muhammad and his followers. Mirza Ghulam Ahmad founded the movement in 1889 and named it the Ahmadiyya Muslim Jamaat (Community). His goal was to restore life into Islam.

The original Ahmadiyya movement split into two separate groups after the death of Nooruddin, the first successor of Ghulam Ahmad.

These movements are the Ahmadiyya Community and the smaller Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement for the Propagation of Islam (Ahmadiyya Anjuman Ishaat-i-Islam, AAIIL). The groups have different interpretations of Ahmad's teachings and claims. They also have different opinions on who should have come after Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, and how this person should be chosen.

The larger faction of the Ahmadiyya Movement, known as the Ahmadiyya Community is active in 190 countries of the world. The International Headquarters of the Ahmadiyya Community is currently in London, England. The smaller faction, known as the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement, is active in 17 countries of the world. They are most notable in Germany, Australia and Pakistan. The International Headquarters of the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement is in the town of Lahore, Pakistan where the Lahore Movement started. Within Lahore, Pakistan, are the "Ahmadiyya Buildings Lahore" which act as the international administrative base for the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement.

Controversial points include the Ahmadiyya view on the death and return of Jesus and their concept of Jihad. The Ahmadiyya community also has a different interpretation of verse Qur'an 33:40 of the Qur'an. This verse talks about Muhammad as the Seal of the Prophets. The members of the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement are not subject to such criticism because they do not believe Mirza Ghulam Ahmad was a prophet. For this reason, they are more close to traditional mainstream Islam. Although Muslims considers them as heretics. Ahmadis (particularly the members of the International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community) argue that their beliefs are in accordance with Islam, and using arguments from the Qur'an, Hadith and opinion of Islamic jurists and theologians, challenge the contention of the groups calling them non-Muslims.

Ahmadis have translated the Qur'an in all the main languages of the world.  They broadcast globally on their 24-hour satellite television channels such as MTA 1, MTA 2, MTA 3, (For Arab viewers) and a recently introduced MTA Africa. Ahmadis have provided teachers, doctors and humanitarian relief workers in many developing countries.  The fourth Caliph Hazrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad helped to promote homeopathy as a system of medicine by training practitioners through a regular TV class and establishing many free dispensaries around the world.  The official Al-Islam website below is a vast online resource of books and videos explaining the movement's beliefs and answering common questions.

[[Paris Métro]]

CATEGORIES: Rapid transit systems, Paris, Transport in France, 1900 establishments in France

The Paris Métro or Métropolitain (Métro de Paris) is a rapid transit system in Paris, France.  The network is mostly underground. It has 19 lines, which together are 225.1 km (139.9 mi) long. There are 304 stations. 17 of these lines are owned by RATP and 2 by Paris Airport. 

The Paris Métro is a symbol of the city. Notable is its Art Nouveau architecture at the older entrances. It is the second busiest metro system in Europe, after Moscow. It carries 4.16 million passengers a day, and an annual total of 1.52 billion (2015). 

The first line opened on 19 July 1900, during the 1900 World's Fair (Exposition Universelle). The system expanded quickly and the core was complete by the 1920s. Extensions into suburbs were built in the 1930s. The network reached saturation after World War II. The Métro introduced newer trains to allow higher traffic, but further improvements have been limited by the design of the network and in particular the short distances between stations. Besides the Métro, Downtown Paris and its urban area are served by a number of other transit systems.

[[Heroes (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 American television series debuts, 2010 American television series endings, 2000s American drama television series, 2000s science fiction television series, 2010s American drama television series, 2010s science fiction television series, American science fiction television series, American time travel television series, NBC network shows, English-language television programs

Heroes is an American television show on the network NBC in the US, BBC 2 in the UK and various other stations worldwide. It is about a group of people who have superpowers. It was shown from 2006-2010.

[[Eddie Su'a]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Australian rugby league players, Sportspeople from Sydney

Eddie Su'a (born 13 January 1983) is an Australian former rugby league player. He played for the Cronulla Sharks in the NRL in 2007. He played as a prop.

[[String (music)]]

CATEGORIES: String instrument construction

A string in music is a string made of steel, nylon, or gut which vibrates on string instruments, such as the guitar, harp, piano, or violin. They are usually under tension to help them vibrate.

[[Peter Sellers]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1980 deaths, Actors from Hampshire, British radio actors, Comedians from Hampshire, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English movie actors, English television actors, People from Portsmouth, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire

Richard Henry "Peter" Sellers,  GBR, (8 September 1925 – 24 July 1980) was an English  comedian and actor best known for his three roles in Dr. Strangelove, as "Inspector Clouseau" in The Pink Panther movies, and as Clare Quilty in the original 1962 screen version of Lolita.

[[Boris Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British journalists, Conservative MPs (UK), Current national leaders, English Anglicans, Leaders of the Conservative Party (UK), Mayors of London, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People educated at Eton College, Politicians from New York City, Privy Councillors (UK), UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–, Writers from London, Writers from New York City

Alexander Boris de Pfeffel Johnson  MP (born 19 June 1964) is a British politician and journalist. He is Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He has been the Leader of the Conservative Party since 23 July 2019. Johnson is the Member of Parliament for Uxbridge and South Ruislip. He has been since 2015. He represented the constituency of Henley from 2001 to 2008. 

In the 2008 Mayor of London election he was elected as London's second Mayor. He stopped working as mayor to run as an MP for the House of Commons in 2015. In July 2016, Johnson became Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs. He resigned this position in July 2018. This was the same day that David Davis resigned as Brexit Secretary.  Jeremy Hunt became the Secretary of State for Foreign affairs and Commonwealth Affairs after Johnson.    

Johnson was educated at Eton. He went to Balliol College, Oxford where he studied Classics. He began his journalism career with The Times. Later, he moved to The Daily Telegraph where he was assistant editor. He became editor of The Spectator in 1999. He was elected to the House of Commons in the 2001 general election. He became one of the most famous politicians in the country. He has also written several books.

Johnson served on the Conservative front bench under Michael Howard for a short time. He was the Shadow Minister for the Arts from April 2004 until November 2004. He was sacked after allegedly lying about a sex scandal. Johnson returned to the front bench when David Cameron became leader of the Conservative Party in 2005. Johnson became Shadow Minister for Higher Education. He resigned as editor of The Spectator to spend more time on his new role. 

On 26 August 2014, Johnson said he would stand as Conservative candidate for MP for Uxbridge and South Ruislip in the 2015 General Election. He won the election. He did not run for the 2016 London mayoral election. Labour candidate Sadiq Khan became the new London mayor.

Johnson was in support of Brexit during the 2016 membership referendum. The vote decided that the United Kingdom would leave the European Union.  Theresa May became the new Prime Minister. She chose Johnson as Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs in July 2016.  Johnson left May's cabinet in July 2018 after her Brexit agreements failed.

Johnson became the party leader in the 2019 Conservative Party leadership election. On 20 June, Johnson and Jeremy Hunt became the last two candidates in the election.  He became Prime Minister of the United Kingdom on 24 July 2019.  The Conservatives won the 2019 United Kingdom general election on 13 December 2019. Johnson continued as Prime Minister.

In early April 2020, Johnson was very sick due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  He returned to work in late April.

[[NUbuntu]]

CATEGORIES: Live CD, Linux distributions, Ubuntu (operating system) derivatives

nUbuntu or Network Ubuntu is a project to take the existing Ubuntu operating system and remaster it as a Live CD and Full Install with tools needed for penetration testing servers and networks. The main idea is to keep Ubuntu's ease of use and mix it with popular penetration testing tools. Besides usage for network and server testing, nUbuntu will be made to be a desktop distribution for advanced Linux users. 

[[Prussian blue]]

Prussian blue, also known as Berlin blue, is a dark blue colour that is artificially made.

It is one of the first pigments made synthetically.  It was accidentally found in 1704 by two chemists in Berlin.

The dark blue uniforms of the Prussian army were dyed this colour.

[[London Assembly]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in London, 2000 establishments in England

The London Assembly is an elected body and part of the Greater London Authority that verifies the activities of the Mayor of London. It has the power, with a two-thirds majority, to amend the Mayor's annual budget. The Assembly was established in 2000 and is headquartered at City Hall on the south side of the River Thames. The Assembly is also able to investigate other issues of importance to Londoners, publish its findings and recommendations, and make proposals to the Mayor.

The assembly is elected using proportional representation voting. 

[[Somali language]]

CATEGORIES: Cushitic languages, Languages of Ethiopia, Somalia

Somali (الصوماليه) is a Cushitic language. It is spoken by ethnic Somalis in Somalia, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Yemen and Kenya, as well as by the Somali diaspora around the world -- an estimated total population of between 10 and 16 million speakers.

The writing system of the Somali language has been Latin alphabet since 1960.

[[Gravy]]

CATEGORIES: Sauces

Gravy is an English sauce made often from the juices that run naturally from meat or vegetables during cooking. It is a smooth, non-chunky liquid. Ready-made cubes and powders can be used as a substitute for natural meat or vegetable extracts. Canned gravies are also available.  Gravy is commonly served with roasts, meatloaf, rice, and potato dishes. It it is very popular because it is used on mashed potatoes sometimes.

[[B. F. Skinner]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1990 deaths, American atheists, American autobiographers, American psychologists, Harvard University alumni, Scientists from Pennsylvania, Writers from Pennsylvania, Harvard University faculty

Burrhus Frederic Skinner (March 20, 1904 – August 18, 1990) was a leading American psychologist and author.

Skinner was the leading behaviorist in psychology; he built on the work of John B. Watson, and added the idea of operant conditioning. These two American psychologists paid no attention to mental states and 'thinking' (terms they thought  were unscientific), but dealt only with visible behaviors. Skinner's work had effects on education (programmed learning) and on behavior therapy for various psychological problems. He was the Edgar Pierce Professor of Psychology at Harvard University from 1958 until his retirement in 1974, and then Emeritus Professor until 1990.

Skinner was also a social philosopher who wanted to change society, and wrote a eutopian novel, in which the science of human behavior is used to eliminate poverty, sexual oppression, government as we know it, and create a lifestyle without war. He wrote poetry, and three volumes of autobiography.

[[Falmouth Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Massachusetts

Falmouth Academy (also known as FA) is a private preparatory school for students from grades 7-12 in Falmouth, Massachusetts on Cape Cod.

[[Breastfeeding]]

CATEGORIES: Babies, Milk, Breasts

Breastfeeding is when a mother feeds her babies milk from her breasts. The baby puts its mouth on to their mother's nipple and sucks the milk out of the breast's mammary gland. Breast milk is healthier for the baby than baby formula or cow's milk. Not all women can safely feed their baby. If a woman has AIDS, tuberculosis or takes illegal drugs, then the milk is not good for the baby. There are many reasons to breastfeed. Babies that breastfeed have a reduced risk for several diseases. In addition, it makes for cheaper feeding and health care. In both developing and developed countries, breastfeeding without giving the baby any other drinks leads to fewer deaths from diarrhoea.

[[Satyajit Ray]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 1992 deaths, Indian movie directors, Academy Award Honorary Award winners, Illustrators

Satyajit Ray (SatyajitRay2.ogg) (2 May 1921–23 April 1992) was a Bengali Indian movie director. Many people consider him as one of the greatest film-makers of 20th century movie business.

He was born in the city of Kolkata. His Bengali family was prominent in arts and letters. Ray studied at Presidency College and at the Visva-Bharati University. He started his career as a commercial artist. Ray was interested in filmmaking by meeting French filmmaker Jean Renoir and seeing the Italian movie Bicycle Thieves during a visit to London.

Ray directed thirty-seven movies. These include feature movies, documentaries and shorts. Ray's first movie, Pather Panchali, won eleven international prizes, including Best Human Document at Cannes Film Festival. This movie along with Aparajito and Apur Sansar form the Apu trilogy. Ray did scripting, casting, scoring, cinematography, art direction, editing and designed his own credit titles and publicity material. He was a fiction writer, publisher, illustrator, graphic designer and movie critic. Ray won an Academy Award in 1992.

[[Petrarch]]

CATEGORIES: 1304 births, 1374 deaths, Italian poets, Medieval poets

Francesco Petrarca  (20 July 1304 – 19 July 1374), known in English as Petrarch, was an Italian scholar, poet, and one of the earliest Renaissance humanists. 

Petrarch is often called the "father of humanism". Based on Petrarch's works, and to a lesser extent those of Dante Alighieri and Giovanni Boccaccio, Pietro Bembo in the 16th century created the model for the modern Italian language. Petrarch is credited with developing the sonnet with his Canzoniere to a level of perfection that would be unsurpassed to this day and spreading its use to other European languages. His sonnets were admired and imitated throughout Europe during the Renaissance and became a model for lyrical poetry. Petrarch was also known for being one of the first people to call the Middle Ages the Dark Ages, although the negative myth as we know it today is largely the legacy of romantic literature. 

[[Language planning]]

CATEGORIES: Languages

Language planning is the attempt to influence how a language is used. This is usually done to make it possible to use the language for more subjects. Goals, objectives and strategies are made to change the way a language is used. For many languages there are special organisations, that look after the language. Examples of such organisations are the Academie Française for French or the British Council for English.

In general, there are different forms of language planning:

For further readings Nahir's work on language planning can be read. 

[[Johnny Marr]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, English guitarists, English singer-songwriters, Keyboardists, Musicians from Manchester, The Smiths members

Johnny Marr (born John Martin Maher on 31 October 1963)  is an English guitarist, keyboardist, harmonica player, and singer. Marr was born in Ardwick, Manchester to Irish immigrants. When he was younger, he wanted to be a football player. He rose to fame in the 1980s as the guitarist in The Smiths, where he formed an influential songwriting partnership with Morrissey. In 2013 he was given NME's Godlike Genius award. He released his first solo album, The Messenger, in 2013.

[[Years of Refusal]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums

Years of Refusal is the ninth solo album by Morrissey, the former lead singer of The Smiths. The album, distributed by Decca, was released on February 16, 2009 in the United Kingdom and on February 17, 2009 in the United States.

[[Indus Waters Treaty]]

CATEGORIES: Foreign relations of Pakistan, Foreign relations of India

The Indus Waters Treaty is a water-sharing treaty between the Republic Of India and Islamic Republic Of Pakistan. The treaty was signed in Karachi on September 19, 1960 by the then Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and the then President of Pakistan Field Marshal Mohammad Ayub Khan. The World Bank is a signatory as a third party.

[[John Willcock]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1956 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, Politicians from New South Wales, Australian Labor Party politicians

John Collings Willcock (9 August 1879 – 7 June 1956) was the 15th Premier of Western Australia from 20 August 1936 to 31 July 1945. He was from the Labor Party.

[[Philip Collier]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1948 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, Politicians from Victoria (Australia), Australian Labor Party politicians

Philip Collier (21 April 1873 – 18 October 1948) was the 14th Premier of Western Australia from 17 April 1924 to 23 April 1930 and then from 24 April 1933 to 19 August 1936. He was from the Labor Party.

[[James Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1951 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, Viceroys in Australia, Nationalist Party of Australia politicians

Sir James Mitchell (27 April 1866 – 26 July 1951) was the 13th Premier of Western Australia from  17 May 1919 to 15 April 1924 and again from 24 April 1930 to 24 April 1933. He was from the Nationalist Party. After he was Premier he became the acting Governor of Western Australia until 1948 when he was made the Governor. He retired as Governor one month before he died. The Mitchell Freeway, one of the major roads in Perth (the capital city of Western Australia), is named after him.

[[Folie à Deux (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Fall Out Boy albums, Island Records albums, Rock albums

Folie à Deux is the fifth studio album by American rock band Fall Out Boy. It was released through Island Records on December 16, 2008 in the United States. The album title is French for "a madness shared by two." The album reached #8 on the US Billboard 200 album chart with 150,000 sales in its first week, making it Fall Out Boy's third top 10 album in a row. The first single was "I Don't Care" which reached #21 on the Billboard Hot 100 songs chart. It is certified gold in the US for shipments of 500,000 copies. It got positive reviews by music critics. It is the final album the band made before taking a break.

[[What a Catch, Donnie]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Fall Out Boy songs

"What A Catch, Donnie" (or for short "What A Catch") is 3rd single released off the album by Fall Out Boy called Folie à Deux. The single was released October 14, 2008.

[[Stade de Suisse]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Switzerland, Football stadiums in Europe, Football in Switzerland, Bern, 2005 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Switzerland

The Stade de Suisse Wankdorf is a football stadium in Bern, Switzerland. It is the home stadium of the Berner Sport Club Young Boys (they are often simply called the "BSC Young Boys"), which is a Swiss football team. The Wankdorf is currently the second biggest football stadium in Switzerland. The stadium has seats for 32,000 people. The field is 105 m x 68 m and has got an artificial turf surface. It was one of the venues for the European Football Championship in 2008.

[[Ken Livingstone]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, British atheists, British socialists, Mayors of London, Democratic socialists, Politicians from London

Kenneth Robert Livingstone (born 17 June 1945) is a British socialist politician. He has twice held the leading political role in London local government. First, he was leader of the Greater London Council from 1981 until the council was abolished in 1986. Secondly, he was the first Mayor of London, from its creation in 2000 until 2008. He also served as Labour Party Member of Parliament for Brent East between 1987 and 2001.

He was elected Mayor of London as an Independent candidate after the Labour Party decided not to nominate him as their candidate in the first mayoral elections. In January 2004, he was re-admitted to the Labour Party. As the official Labour Party candidate for Mayor in the June 2004 elections, he won with a total of 828,380 first- and second-preference votes. On 1 May 2008 Livingstone was defeated in his second re-election bid by Conservative candidate Boris Johnson, and his term as Mayor of London ended on 4 May 2008.

[[Vatnajökull]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Iceland

Vatnajökull (English: Glacier of Lakes) (ˈvahtnaˌjœːkʏtl ̥) is the largest glacier in Iceland. It lies in the south-east of the island, covering more than 8% of the country. 

The average thickness of the ice is 400 m, with a maximum thickness of 1,000 m. Iceland's highest peak, Hvannadalshnúkur (2,110 m), is located at the southern tip of Vatnajökull, near Skaftafell National Park. It is classified as an ice cap glacier.

Vatnajökull has been shrinking for some years now, possibly because of climatic changes and recent volcanic activity. Until 1930 it was growing. 

According to Guinness World Records Vatnajökull is the object of the world's longest sight line, 550 km from Slættaratindur, the highest mountain in the Faroe Islands. GWR state that "owing to the light bending effects of atmospheric refraction, Vatnajökull (2119m), Iceland, can sometimes be seen from the Faroe Islands, 340 miles (550 km) away". This may be based on a claimed sighting by a British sailor in 1939. The validity of this record is analysed/undermined in mathematical and atmospheric detail by J.C. de Ferranti 

[[InterCity 225]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in the United Kingdom

The InterCity 225 is an electric train operating in the United Kingdom. Its top speed is 225km/h, hence its name. From 2017, some will be replaced by the British Rail Class 800.

[[British Rail]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail, 1948 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in the United Kingdom, 1997 disestablishments in Europe, 1990s disestablishments in the United Kingdom

British Rail (BR) was the national railway company of Great Britain, from 1948 to 1997.  It was created by nationalization under the Transport Act 1947.  Britain's railways were returned to private ownership by privatization in 1997.

[[Cobra]]

CATEGORIES: Elapidae

Cobra is a  name of a snake and a girl cobra is called 'cobra Kai.' In English it is the common name for various venomous snakes. Most of those species are in the family Elapidae, and most of them can spread their neck ribs to form a flattened, widened hood.

The name "cobra" is short for cobra de capelo or cobra-de-capelo, which is Portuguese for "snake with hood", or "hood-snake".

Cobras usually live in tropical and desert regions of Asia and Africa. When feeling threatened, cobras can tilt back and flatten their heads into their warning posture. The rest of the time their heads are symmetrical and they look much like any other snakes.

Cobra may refer to:

Most so-called, and all "true", species of cobras belong to the family Elapidae

[[Cape Cobra]]

CATEGORIES: Elapidae

The Cape Cobra (Naja nivea) is a cobra inhabiting the regions of South Africa. It averages 4 feet (120 cm) long but may grow to be 6 feet (180 cm) long. The color varies from location to location, and those from the Kalahari are normally yellow with brown speck uniformly all over the body.

[[Kalahari Desert]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts, Geography of Botswana, Geography of Namibia, Geography of South Africa

The Kalahari Desert is a large arid to semi-arid sandy area in southern Kgalagadi Africa extending 900,000 km² (362,500 sq. mi.), covering much of Botswana and parts of Namibia and South Africa. It has huge tracts of excellent grazing after good rains.

The Kalahari Desert is the southern part of Africa, and the geography is a portion of desert and a plateau. The Kalahari supports some animals and plants because most of it is not a true desert. There are small amounts of rainfall and the summer temperature is very high. The driest areas usually receive 110 of rain per year, and the wettest just a little over 500.

The surrounding Kalahari Basin covers over 2.5 million km² extending farther into Botswana, Namibia and South Africa, and encroaching into parts of Angola, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The only permanent river, the Okavango, flows into a delta in the northwest, forming marshes that are rich in wildlife. Ancient dry riverbeds—called omuramba—traverse the Central Northern reaches of the Kalahari and provide standing pools of water during the rainy season. Previously havens for wild animals from elephant to giraffe, and for predators such as lion and cheetah, the riverbeds are now mostly grazing spots, though leopard or cheetah can still be found.

[[Silverstein]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s music groups, Emo bands, Canadian rock bands, Post-hardcore bands

Silverstein is a Canadian post-hardcore band formed in Ontario, Canada, in 2000. Their name come from a children-book writer, Shel Silverstein.

[[Discovering the Waterfront]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums, Punk albums

Discovering the Waterfront is the second full-length album by the band Silverstein. The album has three singles; "Smile In Your Sleep", "Discovering The Waterfront", and "My Heroine". All of the singles had music videos.

[[Pakistan State Oil (PSO)]]

CATEGORIES: Economy of Pakistan

Pakistan State Oil (PSO) is the oil market leader in Pakistan. The well established infrastructure, built at par with international standards, representing 82% of country’s storage, provides PSO an edge over its competitors.

[[Mahmud I]]

CATEGORIES: Sultans of the Ottoman Empire, 1696 births, 1754 deaths

Mahmud I (محمودالأول) (August 2, 1696 – December 13, 1754) was the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1730 to 1754. He was the son of Mustafa II (1695–1703). His mother Emetullah Sultan, (born as Evemia) was of Greek ethnic descent. Mahmud I was the older brother of Osman III (1754–57).

[[Mahmud II]]

CATEGORIES: 1785 births, 1839 deaths, Sultans of the Ottoman Empire

November 2019

Mahmud II (Ottoman Turkish: محمود ثاني Mahmud-ı sānī) (July 20, 1785 – July 1, 1839) was the 30th Sultan of the Ottoman Empire. He ruled from 1808 until his death. Mahmud was the son of Sultan Abdül Hamid I. His time as sultan is notable mostly for the major legal and military changes he caused.

Mahmud II was born in Istanbul.  He was 23 years old wheb he came to the throne.  He was a calligraphy artist, composer and poet.  He wrote poems under the pseudonym "Adli".  He was a brave, strong will, patient and prudent temperament.  He replaced the old military organization maintained by the governors of irregular auxiliaries (sekban - I Cedid).  When the soldiers shortly after arose, he defeated them with this.  The 1808 revolting insurgents killed Alemdar Mustafa Pasha. 

In 1812 the peace treaty was signed in Bucharest with the Russians.  In 1813, with the help of Muhammed Ali Pasha, he defeated the Wahhabis, who desecrated the holy places and shrines in Mecca and Medina. 

In July of 1839 the Sultan Mahmud II died as the ill effects of life experienced by him calamitous events he was afflicted with tuberculosis and died.

His body was buried in the Türbe in Divanyolu.

Mahmud II was devoted to many works of the highest degree in any field.

He opened many new schools, and ordered to build large buildings. 

All the great mosques of Istanbul were repaired in his time. 

The bridge was built in Unkapani his time. 

In Mecca, he had built a madrasa and mend the Great Mosque (Mescid-i Aksa) in the holy city of Jerusalem.

The poet and Sümbülzâde Vehbi Kececizâde Izzet Molla died at this time.

His sons: Abdülmecid I *, * Abdulaziz, 4 Sehzades names Ahmet, Bayezid, veliaht Abdulhamid, Suleyman, 2 Sehzades called Mehmed Murad Nizameddin, Abdullah Osman.

His daughters: Emine Sultan, Sultan Hamide, Hayriye Sultan, Sultan Saw, * Saliha Sultan, Ayse Sultan, Sultan Atike *, 2 Fatma Sultan, Sultan Münire, Mihrimah Sultan *, * Adile Sultan.

[[Mahmud II of Great Seljuk]]

CATEGORIES: Persian people, Kings and queens, 1100s births, 1131 deaths, Baghdad

Mahmud II (Kabızlık; died 1131) proclaimed himself the Seljuk sultan of Baghdad in 1118 after the death of Mehmed I (probably Mahmud's father). Mahmud fought against the Seljuk Sultan of Khorasan, Ahmed Sanjar, whom Mehmed I had revolted against in 1105. Mahmud was succeeded by Dawud.

[[Mahmud of Ghazni]]

CATEGORIES: 971 births, 1030 deaths, Turkic peoples, Monarchs of Afghanistan, Emperors and empresses

Mahmud of Ghazni (محمود غزنوی, fa; (2 November 971 – 30 April 1030) was the ruler of the Ghaznavid Empire from 997 until his death. He turned the former provincial city of Ghazni into the rich capital of an extensive empire which included modern-day Afghanistan, most of Iran, and parts of north-west India including modern-day Pakistan. He was also the first ruler to carry the title Sultan, signifying his break from the power of the Islamic Caliph.

Mahmud of Ghazni was known as Yāmīn al-Dawlah Maḥmūd (in full: Yāmīn al-Dawlah Abd al-Qāṣim Maḥmūd Ibn Sebük Tegīn). He was the eldest son of Emir Subuktigin. When he was young, Mahmud helped his father gain land through military campaigns against Turk nobles. In 997, he overthrew his younger brother, Ismail, who had been nominated for the throne after his father’s death. As soon as he had the throne, he went out to conquer territory.

Between 1000 and 1026, he invaded India at least 17 times. He was the first major Muslim army to invade India. His raid of Punjab was the last invasion where he increased his territory in India. From then on, most of Mahmud’s raids were to gain wealth. Mahmud's last and most famous raid was on Somnath. This is a temple city on the Gujarati coast that was also a pilgrimage site. The temple had many riches: heavy golden chains and thousands of jewels. The battle was violent, and more than 50,000 people died. Mahmud's army won.

With all his riches, Mahmud founded a university, a library, and a museum, a grand mosque and richened his capital. When Mahmud was about to die, he ordered all of his riches to be placed before him.  Mahmud died on 30 April 1030.

[[Ghaznavid Empire]]

CATEGORIES: History of Iran, History of Afghanistan, History of Pakistan, Royal dynasties, 963 establishments, 12th century disestablishments in Asia, 960s establishments in Asia, 1186 disestablishments

The Ghaznavid Empire was a Khorāṣānian Turkic Sunni Muslim state, which existed from 975 to 1187. It was centered in Ghazni, a city in present Afghanistan, and ruled much of Persia, Transoxania, and the northern parts of the Indian subcontinent.

[[Mahmud Shah (Sultan of Malacca)]]

CATEGORIES: History of Malaysia, 1528 deaths, Year of birth missing

Sultan Mahmud Shah (died 1528) ruled Malacca from 1488 to 1528. He was the son of Sultan Alauddin Riayat Shah.

[[Mahmud Shah Durrani]]

CATEGORIES: 1769 births, 1829 deaths, Afghan leaders, Kings and queens

Mahmud Shah Durrani (1769 - 1829) was the ruler of the Durrani Empire between 1801 and 1803, again between 1809 and 1818. He was the son of Timur Shah Durrani and half-brother of his predecessor, Zaman Shah. On July 25, 1801, Zaman Shah was deposed, and Mahmud Shah ascended to rulership. He then had a chequered career; he was deposed in 1803, restored in 1809, and finally deposed again in 1818. He died in 1829. Between his two stints, the country was ruled by Shoja Shah, another of his half-brothers.

[[Durrani Empire]]

CATEGORIES: History of Afghanistan, History of Pakistan, History of Iran, 1747 establishments, 1919 disestablishments, 18th century establishments in Iran

The Durrani Empire (actually Afghan Empire) was established in 1747 by Ahmad Shah Durrani at Kandahar, Afghanistan. It included the land that is now called Afghanistan, Pakistan, eastern Iran and western India. The Durrani Empire is considered the foundation of the modern state of Afghanistan, with Ahmad Shah Durrani (Ahmad Shah Baba) being the "Father of the nation". 

The Durrani dynasty diminished in the early 19th century when Afghanistan was fighting defensive wars with Persia on one side and British India on the other side. The Barakzai dynasty took over control of the kingdom but lost many of Afghanistan's territories by the end of the 19th century. It became to what is now Afghanistan after the Anglo-Afghan Treaty of 1919 when the state became officially recognized by all the major countries in the world.

[[Cognitive psychology]]

CATEGORIES: Cognition, Branches of psychology

Cognitive psychology is a branch of psychology that looks at basic actions of the mind. These are aspects of the higher brain, such as thought, feeling, problem solving, memory, and language. Cognitive psychologists often look at mental changes that happen after a stimulus (things that can be felt by the five senses) and before a behavioral response (what a person does after sensing something).

The general idea of cognitive psychology was surveyed in several 19th century works:

Cognitive psychology had its beginnings in the Gestalt psychology of Max Wertheimer, Wolfgang Köhler, and Kurt Koffka, and in the work of Jean Piaget, who came up with a theory of "stages" or "phases" that describe children's cognitive development.

[[Celâl Bayar]]

CATEGORIES: Centenarians, Presidents of Turkey, 1883 births, 1986 deaths

Mahmut Celâl Bayar (16 May 1883 – 22 August 1986) was a Turkish politician, statesman and the third President of Turkey. At the time of his death, he was the longest lived former head of state, living over 103 years (he was surpassed in 2008 by Chau Sen Cocsal Chhum).

[[Perceptual psychology]]

CATEGORIES: Cognition

Perceptual psychology is a subfield of cognitive psychology that is concerned specifically with the pre-conscious innate aspects of the human cognitive system or  perception.  A pioneer of this field was J. J. Gibson.

[[Mahmoud Abbas]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Palestinian Muslims, Palestinian nationalists, Palestinian politicians, Presidents (government), Prime ministers

Mahmoud Abbas (محمود عباس) (born November 15, 1935), also known by the Kunya Abu Mazen (ابو مازن), was elected President of the Palestinian National Authority (PNA) on January 9, 2005. He took office on January 15, 2005.

Abbas is a leading politician in Fatah. He served as the first Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority from March to October 2003. He resigned because of a lack of support from Israel and the United States as well as "internal incitement" against his government. Before becoming Prime Minister, Abbas led the Negotiations Affairs Department of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). He has served as Chairman of the PLO Executive Committee since November 11, 2004, after Yasser Arafat's death. Abbas is said to the an example of moderation in Palestine by Israel and the west.

[[Abid Hamid Mahmud]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2012 deaths, Executed people, Generals, Iraqi military people

Abid Al-Hamid Mahmud al-Tikriti (born c. 1957; died June 7, 2012) was an Iraqi lieutenant general under Saddam Hussein's deposed regime, and he was Saddam's bodyguard. He was executed on June 7, 2012.

[[Social psychology]]

CATEGORIES: Branches of psychology

Social psychology is the study in psychology of how people and groups interact. Researchers in this field are often either psychologists or sociologists. All social psychologists use both the individual and the group as their unit of analysis.

Despite their similarity, psychological and sociological researchers tend to differ in their goals, approaches, methods, and terminology. They also favor separate academic journals and professional groups. The greatest period of collaboration between sociologists and psychologists was during the years immediately following World War II. Although there has been increasing isolation and specialization in recent years, some degree of overlap and influence remains between the two disciplines.

[[Mahmoud an-Nukrashi Pasha]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1948 deaths, Prime Ministers of Egypt

Mahmoud Fahmi an-Nukrashi Pasha (1888 - 1948) (Arabic: محمود فهمي النقراشي باشا) was an Egyptian political figure. He was the Prime Minister of Egypt from 1945 to 1946 and again from 1946 to 1948. He was assassinated by the Muslim Brotherhood while he was Prime Minister.

[[Neuropsychology]]

CATEGORIES: Branches of psychology, Neurology

Neuropsychology is the scientific study that studies the function and structure of the brain related to more common psychological processes and overt behaviors. The term has been applied to lesion studies in humans and animals. It has also been applied to efforts to record electrical activity from individual cells (or groups of cells) in higher primates (including some studies of human patients).

[[Abnormal psychology]]

CATEGORIES: Human behavior, Psychology

Abnormal psychology is a part of psychology. People who study abnormal psychology are psychologists. They are scientists that investigate the mind using the scientific method. Different cultures tend to have different ideas of how strange (abnormal) any behaviour is considered. This tends to change over time within cultures, so people that live in a country at one time in history might consider abnormal what people who live in the same country consider normal years before or years later.

Abnormal psychology is often used to understand or to treat people with mental disorders to make life better for them. This is because abnormal behaviour is often defined as when someone is not able to change how they behave to fit different settings. This is often also used to define some mental disorders. When someone cannot change their behaviour to fit the people and situations around them when they need to, it can cause suffering, and the person may be uncomfortable when around people. Their behaviour can be unreasonable and hard to understand. Their behaviour can even be dangerous.

Not everyone with a mental disorder is unable to adjust to their surroundings. People who can change to fit their the environment around them more easily than most people can also have behaviour that is considered abnormal and might also have an easier life with the help of a psychologist.

[[John B. Watson]]

CATEGORIES: 1878 births, 1958 deaths, American psychologists, Scientists from South Carolina, People from Greenville, South Carolina

John Broadus Watson (January 9, 1878–September 25, 1958) was an American psychologist. He established the psychological school of behaviorism, after doing research on animal behavior. This school was extremely influential in the middle of the 20th century, when B.F. Skinner developed it further.

Watson was forced to resign his chair at Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, because his affair with a graduate student became a public scandal. After this, Watson worked for many years for J. Walter Thompson, a leading American advertising agency. He is credited with popularizing the "coffee break" during an ad campaign for Maxwell House coffee.

[[Indian English]]

CATEGORIES: Dialects of English, Languages of India, Languages of Bangladesh

Indian English or South Asian English is several dialects or varieties of English. It is spoken mainly in India, and by first-generation members of the Indian diaspora.

The dialect evolved during and after the British colonial rule of India. English is the co-official language of India, with about 90 million speakers, but with fewer than quarter of a million calling it a first language.May 2019

In 19th century India, Britain first faced the need to teach English to a body of people who were important to Britain.

There were a number of schools which taught and used English in India. They were mostly run by missionaries. Many taught European and Eurasian children and orphans. The products of these schools provided the first generation of teachers.May 2019

[[Ivan Pavlov]]

CATEGORIES: 1849 births, 1936 deaths, Physiologists, Psychologists, Russian Nobel Prize winners, Russian physicians, Soviet people, Saint Petersburg State University alumni

Ivan Petrovich Pavlov  (14 September 1849 – 27 February 1936) was a Russian physiologist, psychologist, and physician.

He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1904 for research about the digestive system. Pavlov is widely known for first describing classical conditioning.

[[Hamilton College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in New York, 1793 establishments in the United States, 18th-century establishments in New York (state)

Hamilton College is a private, independent, liberal arts college in Clinton, New York. In 2007, U.S. News & World Report ranked Hamilton the 17th best liberal arts college in the United States.

The college is known for its emphasis on writing and speaking. The school was founded in 1793, chartered as Hamilton College in 1812, and has been coeducational since 1978, when it merged with Kirkland College.

[[Jon Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, Comedians from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American television presenters, American television writers, Comedy Central personalities, Emmy Award winners, Grammy Award winners, Jewish American actors, Jewish American writers, Television talk show hosts, Writers from New York City

Jon Stewart (born Jonathan Stuart Leibowitz; November 28, 1962), is an American comedian, actor, writer, and producer. He is best known as the host of Comedy Central's The Daily Show and for his political satire. Stewart started as a stand-up comedian, but later branched out to television, hosting Short Attention Span Theater for Comedy Central. He went on to host his own show on MTV, called The Jon Stewart Show and then hosted another show on MTV called You Wrote It, You Watch It.” Stewart is Jewish.

In 2014, Stewart directed his first movie, a drama about Iran called “Rosewater.”

[[Quagga]]

CATEGORIES: Equids, Extinct species, IUCN Red List extinct species, Mammals of Africa, Odd-toed ungulates, Zebras

The Quagga (Equus quagga quagga), also Cape Quagga,  is a recently extinct zebra.

It was one of the six subspecies of plains zebra. It was a yellowish-brown zebra with stripes only on its head, neck and forebody, and looks similar to an Okapi. The Quagga was native to dry grassy plains in the south of the African continent. It was found as far north as the Orange River. It is believed to have separated from other plains zebras between 120,000 and 290,000 years ago. The name Quagga comes from the noise that they made. (kwa-ka-ka) (qua-ga-ga).

The Quagga was hunted for food, for their skin and also because farmers did not want it to eat the grass they needed for their sheep and goats. The last wild Quaggas died during a drought in 1878. The last captive Quagga died in the Amsterdam Zoo on 12 August 1883. Her body is now in a museum. There are 23 Quagga specimens in museums, seven skeletons, and some skulls and other bones.

A foundation in Africa is trying to bring Quaggas back to life by taking zebras that have very light stripes and breeding them. They began in 1987 and the first Quagga foal was born in 2005.

[[Przewalski's horse]]

CATEGORIES: Horses, Mammals of Asia

Przewalski's horse (Equus przewalskii or E. ferus przewalskii),  the Mongolian wild horse, is a close relative of the domestic horse.  The two are the only equids that can cross-breed and produce fertile offspring. Przewalski's horse is a rare and endangered subspecies of the wild horse, Equus ferus. It is native to the steppes of central Asia, especially Mongolia.

At one time extinct in the wild, it has been reintroduced to its native habitat in Mongolia from stock in zoos. It is now in several nature reserves and national parks. As of 2002, the world population of these horses was about 1,000.

[[Nation state]]

CATEGORIES: Political geography, Nationalism

The nation state is a certain form of state that has a territory where mainly one nation is located. The state is a political entity (the government, etc.); the nation is a cultural and/or ethnic entity. The term "nation state" means that the two are on the same territory, and this distinguishes the nation state from the other types of state, which existed before.

[[Joseph McCarthy]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1957 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, American Roman Catholics, Anti-Communists, Deaths from hepatitis, Disease-related deaths in Maryland, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, United States senators from Wisconsin, US Republican Party politicians

Joseph Raymond McCarthy (November 14, 1908 – May 2, 1957) was an American politician. He was a Republican U.S. Senator from the state of Wisconsin from 1947 until his death in 1957. Beginning in 1950, McCarthy became the most visible public face of a period of intense anti-communist suspicion inspired by the tensions of the Cold War.

He made claims that there were large numbers of Communists and Soviet spies and sympathizers inside the federal government and elsewhere. The term "McCarthyism," coined in 1950 in reference to McCarthy's practices, was soon applied to similar anti-communist pursuits.

During World War II he was a captain in the United States Marine Corps.

McCarthy died of hepatitis at the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center.

[[Poet laureate]]

CATEGORIES: Poets

A poet laureate is a poet officially appointed by the government of a country. He or she is responsible for writing poems for special occasions in that country, for example a coronation or military victory.

The first official Poet Laureate was Ben Jonson in 1619. There are also Poets Laureate in the United States, Canada, and New Zealand.

The Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom is Carol Ann Duffy.  She was appointed Poet Laureate on 1 May 2009 to take the place of Andrew Motion.  She is the first British woman Poet Laureate.

[[List of emperors of Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan, Lists of heads of state, Lists of Japanese people

The list of emperors of Japan presents the traditional order of succession. Records of the reigns of the emperors of Japan were compiled according to the traditional Japanese calendar, and these traditional dates have been converted into the Western calendar format.

[[Katy Perry]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Actors from California, American LGBT rights activists, American pop singers, American television actors, Brit Award winners, Katy Perry, People from Santa Barbara, California, Singers from California

Katheryn Elizabeth Hudson (born October 25, 1984), known professionally as Katy Perry, is an American singer, songwriter and television judge. She has released five studio albums and two EPs. In 2001, she released a Christian album named after herself, Katy Hudson. In November 2007, Perry released the music video for her first single, "Ur So Gay". She has a contralto vocal range. Perry became the most-followed person on Twitter in November 2013. She has earned nine number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100, five of which are from one album (she became the first female artist to achieve this record). Perry has also been nominated for 11 Grammy Awards.

[[One of the Boys]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Katy Perry albums, Debut albums, Pop albums

One of the Boys is the first album by pop singer Katy Perry. Four singles were released from it. The album's first single "I Kissed a Girl" was no.1. 

[[I Kissed a Girl]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Katy Perry songs, LGBT songs

"I Kissed a Girl" is the first single by pop singer Katy Perry from her album One of the Boys (2008), produced by Dr. Luke. Perry says it is "about the magical beauty of a woman."  On June 26, 2008, the song topped the Billboard Hot 100 chart, becoming the 1000th chart-topper of the Rock Era. The song has since become a major worldwide hit, and along with the United States it has topped the  charts in more than 20 countries, including Canada, Sweden, Australia, United Kingdom, New Zealand, Italy, Germany, and Ireland.

[[Hot N Cold]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Katy Perry songs, Dance-pop songs

"Hot N Cold" is a single by pop singer Katy Perry. The song came from the album One of the Boys. The single was released on September 30, 2008.

The song reached number one in Canada, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Switzerland, Germany, Austria, and Belgium (Wallonia). It climbed to the top three in the US and the top five in the UK, Australia, and New Zealand.

[[If I Were a Boy]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, 2000s ballads, Beyoncé songs, Pop ballads, Songs with feminist themes

"If I Were a Boy" is a song by American R&B singer Beyoncé Knowles, written by Toby Gad, BC Jean and Beyoncé Knowles for her third solo album, I Am... Sasha Fierce (2008).

==Music video== 

The music video for "If I Were a Boy" was directed by Jake Nava and portrays Knowles as an NYPD officer. It begins with Knowles and her husband reciting words such as "honesty" and "commitment". It later shows Knowles on patrol with her male partner. The video tells of the ways a both men and women hurt each other in a relationship. Knowles stated: "It's about all of the little things that mean so much in a relationship… At the end of the clip, you realize that I was acting out his life, and it all starts over again. He was a cop and everything that happened was really him doing the same thing to me."

[[Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Beyoncé songs, Songs with feminist themes

"Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)" - is a song by American R&B singer Beyoncé Knowles. It was written by The-Dream, Tricky Stewart and Beyoncé Knowles for her third solo album, I Am... Sasha Fierce (2008).

[[Secure Shell]]

CATEGORIES: Internet security, Computer protocols

Secure Shell (SSH) is an Internet communication protocol used mostly to allow users to log into other computers and run commands. It lets people exchange data using a secure channel between two computers. It is used mainly on Linux, Macintosh and Unix computers. It is a lot like Telnet, but is safer. It is less likely to be hacked than Telnet is. 

A person can make a key out of numbers. This key has two parts, a private part that should not be shared and a public part that should be. These parts are mathematically related to each. To send a message to a computer, the message is encrypted with the sender's private key and the receiver's public key. This is done in such a way that the message can only be read if the receiver has their private key and the sender's public key. This means that an attacker cannot read the messages without both keys.  

SSH was designed by Tatu Ylönen in 1995 to replace the less secure protocols rlogin, Telnet and rsh, which were used to access shell accounts on remote computers. 

[[Application programming interface]]

CATEGORIES: Software

An Application Programming Interface (API) is a set of functions, procedures, methods or classes used by computer programs to request services from the operating system, r systems, acting as a retrieve the necessary data the user is requesting from the system.

Main types of web APIs:

Types of API include web services API like the Twitter API, which allows programs to use the API to receive updates on tweets.

[[Peregrine falcon]]

CATEGORIES: Falconiformes, Birds of Pakistan, Birds of Kashmir

The peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus) is a cosmopolitan bird of prey in the family Falconidae. It can also be known just as the peregrine, and was once called the "Duck hawk" in North America. In Pakistan it is officially the military iconic symbol of the PAF and the unofficial territory bird of Gilgit-Baltistan.

The peregrin is a crow-sized falcon, with a blue-grey back, barred white underparts, and a black head and "moustache". It can go at up to 322 km/h (200 mph) in a dive, which means it is the fastest animal in the world. As with other bird-eating raptors, the female is bigger than the male. There are 17–19 subspecies recorded, and each varies slightly in appearance and where they live. There is disagreement over whether the distinctive Barbary falcon is a subspecies of the Peregrine or just a different species.

The use of certain pesticides, especially DDT was not good for the animals. It could be shown that in areas where DDT was used, the thickness of the shells of their eggs was reduced. This caused a dramatic decline in their numbers, in certain countries. Since the use of DDT has been forbidden in many countries, their numbers are increasing again. This recovery was helped because their nesting places were protected in many countries; some countries also bred these falcons in captivity and released them into the wild.

[[Mozilla Public License]]

CATEGORIES: Software licences, Mozilla

The Mozilla Public License (MPL) is a free and open source software license developed and maintained by the Mozilla Foundation. It is a weak copyleft, characterized as a middle ground between permissive free software licenses and the GNU General Public License (GPL), that seeks to balance the concerns of proprietary and open source developers. As such, it allows re-licensing. MPL software can thus be converted into a copyleft license such as the GPL, or to a proprietary license (example:KaiOS).

It has undergone two revisions, a minor update to version 1.1, and a major update to version 2.0 with the goals of greater simplicity and better compatibility with other licenses.

The MPL is the license for Mozilla Firefox, Mozilla Thunderbird, and most other Mozilla software, but it has been used by others, such as Adobe to license their Flex product line, and The Document Foundation to license LibreOffice 4.0 (also on LGPL 3+). Version 1.1 was adapted by several projects to form derivative licenses like Sun Microsystems' own Common Development and Distribution License.

The MPL license was approved as an Open Source software license by the Open Source Initiative also as a Free Software license by the Free Software Foundation.

Version 1.0 was created by Mitchell Baker when she was working as a lawyer at Netscape Communications Corporation and version 1.1 when she was working at the Mozilla Foundation.

[[Ubisoft]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of France, Video game companies, French culture

Ubisoft is a company that makes video games. They are based in France. They are famous for making many popular games including the Rayman franchise and the Tom Clancy games such as Rainbow Six and Splinter Cell.

[[Permissive software license]]

CATEGORIES: Software licences

A permissive free software licence is a free software licence for a copyrighted work that offers freedoms such as publishing a work to the public domain. In contrast, copyleft licences like the GNU General Public License require copies and derivatives of the source code to be made available on terms not more restrictive than those of the original licence.

A license tells what someone can do with something that was bought. It also tells what cannot be done with it without getting into legal trouble.

Examples of permissive licences include the MIT License and the BSD licence.

[[Hero / Heroine]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs, Boys Like Girls songs

"Hero / Heroine" is the 2nd single by rock and roll-Alternative pop band Boys Like Girls. It is off the album Boys Like Girls. 

[[Thunder (Boys Like Girls song)]]

CATEGORIES: Boys Like Girls songs, 2008 songs

Thunder is a single released by American rock band Boys Like Girls. Thunder was released May 6th, 2008 on radio airplay. The single was originally released months before May 6th, 2008 as an acoustic version. The song was released off the album Boys Like Girls.

[[1.22.03.Acoustic]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Maroon 5 albums, Compilation albums

1.22.03.Acoustic is an acoustic compilation album released by pop-rock band Maroon 5. The songs on the album are from the hit pop first album by Maroon 5 called Songs About Jane. There is a song on the compilation album called "If I Fell" which Adam Levine does a cover on by The Beatles. Another song featured in the album is called "Highway to Hell" by AC/DC, in this song Adam Levine is playing drums while Ryan Dusick (drums) sings the song. Although the album is mostly known as an acoustic album, the AC/DC cover is performed as an electric performance.

[[Live from SoHo (Maroon 5 album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Maroon 5 albums

Live from SoHo is a live album by rock band Maroon 5. The songs performed by the band are the first 6 tracks in order from track 1-6 on the album It Won't Be Soon Before Long. The album was released March 25, 2008. 

[[Alexander Berkman]]

CATEGORIES: 1870 births, 1936 deaths, American writers, Russian writers, Anarchists

Alexander Berkman (November 21 1870 – June 28 1936) was a Russian-American writer and a leading member of the anarchist movement of the 19th and early 20th centuries. He was the lover of Emma Goldman. In 1892, he tried to kill Henry Clay Frick because of his involvement with the Homestead Strike. During World War I, he was deported along with Goldman and other foreign-born American anarchists as a result of the Anarchist Exclusion Act. Continuing to write and speak to the poors, Berkman died in France in 1936.

[[Murray Bookchin]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2006 deaths, American anarchists, Jewish American writers, American historians, Green anarchism, People from Burlington, Vermont, Writers from New York City, Green thinkers

Murray Bookchin (January 14, 1921 – July 30, 2006) was an American libertarian socialist, political and social philosopher, speaker and writer. For much of his life he called himself an anarchist, although as early as 1995 he privately renounced his identification with the anarchist movement. A pioneer in the ecology movement, Bookchin was the founder of the social ecology movement within libertarian socialist and ecological thought. He was the author of two dozen books on politics, philosophy, history, and urban affairs as well as ecology.

Bookchin was a radical anti-capitalist and always favored the decentralisation of society. His writings on libertarian municipalism, a theory of face-to-face, grassroots democracy, had an influence on the Green Movement and anti-capitalist direct action groups such as Reclaim the Streets. His criticisms of "new age" Greens such as Charlene Spretnak contributed to the divisions in the American Green movement in the 1990s.

Although an anti-capitalist, Murray Bookchin often met with libertarian thinker Murray Rothbard and occasionally attended Libertarian Party (United States) conventions, endorsing their Presidential candidate Roger MacBride in 1976.

Bookchin has influenced the thinking of captured Kurdish militant Abdullah Öcalan, who has renounced violence and now wants a peaceful solution to the question of Kurdish autonomy.

[[Carlo Cafiero]]

CATEGORIES: 1846 births, 1892 deaths, Anarchist communists, People from Apulia

Carlo Cafiero (September 1, 1846 - July 17, 1892) was an Italian anarchist and friend of Mikhail Bakunin during the second half of the 19th century. 

[[Benito Juárez]]

CATEGORIES: 1806 births, 1872 deaths, Academics, Deputy mayors, Judges, People from Oaxaca, Presidents of Mexico

Benito Pablo Juárez García (March 21, 1806 - July 8, 1872) was a Zapotec who served five terms (1858–1861 as interim), (1861–1865), (1865–1867), (1867–1871), and (1871–1872), as President of Mexico. During his presidency he outlawed slavery, especially the mistreatment of the Mexican Native Americans.

His philosophy has influenced many Mexicans and Mexican Americans in the United States, who have fought for the human and civil rights of Latinos for almost two centuries.

In 1843 Benito married Margarita Maza.

[[Madeleine Albright]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, 20th-century American politicians, 21st-century American politicians, Columbia University alumni, Czech Jews, Czechoslovak people, Jewish American academics, Jewish American politicians, Jewish American writers, Jewish women politicians, Johns Hopkins University alumni, Naturalized citizens of the United States, United States Ambassadors to the United Nations, United States Secretaries of State, US Democratic Party politicians, Women diplomats, Writers from Prague

Madeleine Korbel Albright (born Marie Jana Korbelová on May 15, 1937) is a former American diplomat and politician of Czech-Jewish descent.

She was born in Czechoslovakia. Her father was Josef Korbel.  She was the first woman to become United States Secretary of State. She was appointed by President Bill Clinton on December 5, 1996.  Ninety-nine United States Senators voted to confirm her.  No senator voted against her.  She was sworn in (taking office) on January 23, 1997. She is currently a professor at Georgetown University.

Before she was Secretary of State, Albright was the United States Ambassador to the United Nations.  She began at the UN on February 6, 1993.

[[James Carville]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Georgia (U.S. state), American television personalities, Democrats (United States), American political commentators, Living people, 1944 births

James Carville (born October 25, 1944) is an American political consultant, commentator, actor, attorney, media personality and pundit. Known as the Ragin' Cajun, Carville gained national attention for his work as the lead strategist of the successful presidential campaign of then-Arkansas governor Bill Clinton. Carville was the co-host of CNN's Crossfire until its final broadcast in June 2005. Since its cancellation, he has appeared on CNN's news program, The Situation Room. As of 2008, he hosts a weekly program on XM Radio titled 60/20 Sports with Luke Russert, son of Tim Russert who hosted NBC's Meet The Press. He is married to Republican political consultant Mary Matalin.

[[Colin Powell]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, African-American military personnel, African American politicians, American generals, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, Politicians from New York City, Presidential Citizens Medal recipients, United States National Security Advisors, United States Secretaries of State

Colin Luther Powell, KCB (Honorary), MSC,

(born April 5, 1937) is a retired General in the United States Army. He was the 65th United States Secretary of State (2001-2005), serving under President George W. Bush. He was the first African American appointed to that position. As a General in the United States Army, Powell also served as National Security Advisor (1987–1989) and as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (1989–1993), holding the latter position during the Gulf War. He was the first and, so far, the only African American to serve on the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

[[United States Secretary of State]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of State, 1789 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of State (commonly abbreviated as SecState) is the head of the United States Department of State. This department deals with foreign affairs. The Secretary is a member of the President's Cabinet. This person is the highest-ranking cabinet secretary both in line of succession and order of precedence. The President chooses the person they want to be Secretary of the State. The United States Senate must agree with this choice for the person to become the Secretary of State.

The position of Secretary of State was created in April 6, 1789. Thomas Jefferson was the first Secretary. The Presidential order of succession lists the Secretary of State as the 4th person in line if something happens to the President.

[[Jacques Ellul]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1994 deaths, Anarchists, Calvinists, French Christians, French theologians, People from Bordeaux

Jacques Ellul (January 6, 1912 – May 19, 1994) was a French philosopher, sociologist, theologian, and Christian anarchist. He wrote several books about the "technological society", and about Christianity and politics, such as Anarchy and Christianity (1991) –  anarchism and Christianity are socially following the same goal. A philosopher who approached technology from a deterministic viewpoint. Ellul was professor at the University of Bordeaux. He authored some 40 books and hundreds of articles over his lifetime, the dominant theme of which has been the threat to human freedom and Christian faith created by modern technology. Ellul spoke often about the emergence of a "technological tyranny" over humanity.

Ellul has been credited with saying the phrase, "Think globally, act locally."

[[Johann Most]]

CATEGORIES: 1846 births, 1906 deaths, American anarchists, American writers, German writers, People from Augsburg, Politicians from Bavaria, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany, Socialists

Johann Joseph Most (5 February 1846 in Augsburg – 17 March 1906 in Cincinnati) was a German-American anarchist and orator. He is best known for accepting the strategy of "propaganda of the deed," which promoted direct action against a single person or institution (including the use of violence) to force revolutionary change and inspire further action by others. He travelled in Europe, and he lived in countries such as France and United Kingdom. In 1906, in Ohio, he fell sick because of a chronic case of erysipelas, a bacterial skin infection, in an era without any antibiotic treatments. Most died in a few days.

[[Francesco Saverio Merlino]]

CATEGORIES: Italian anarchists, Italian lawyers, People from Naples, 1856 births, 1930 deaths

Francesco Saverio Merlino (born 9 September 1856 in Naples; died 30 June 1930 in Rome) was an Italian lawyer, anarchist activist and theorist of libertarian socialism.  

[[Murray Rothbard]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 1995 deaths, American agnostics, American anarchists, American economists, Anarcho-capitalists, Jewish American scientists, Libertarians, Scientists from New York City

Murray Newton Rothbard (March 2, 1926 – January 7, 1995) was an American economist and writer.  He helped make the Austrian School of economics popular in the United States.

Rothbard helped to create modern libertarianism, a political belief in less government and more personal freedom. He founded a form of free-market anarchism which he called "anarcho-capitalism". Rothbard believed society should organise itself, and he didn't like central planning.

Rothbard wrote over twenty books and was an important central figure in the American libertarian movement.

[[Carlo Tresca]]

CATEGORIES: Industrial Workers of the World, American anarchists, Socialists, Italian people, American murder victims, 1879 births, 1943 deaths

Carlo Tresca (1879 - January 11, 1943 New York City) was an Italian-born American anarchist, newspaper editor, and labor agitator. Tresca was famous for the fight and the opposition to the fascism, stalinism, and the mafia. Tresca was part of the defense committee for accused murderers Sacco and Vanzetti, and frequently spoke in their defense at rallies and in articles. During the 1930s, Tresca became an outspoken opponent of Soviet Communists and Stalinism, particularly after the Soviet Union had engineered the destruction of the anarchist movement in Catalonia and Aragon during the Spanish Revolution. Before this, Tresca had supported the Bolsheviks, with the excuse of that a Communist state was preferable to a capitalist state. In early 1938 Tresca publicly accused the Soviets of kidnapping Juliet Poyntz to prevent her defection from the Communist Party USA. Tresca said that, before she had disappeared, Poyntz had talked to him about her disgust over Joseph Stalin's Great Terror.  In 1941 Tresca, in a revealing moment, admitted to Max Eastman that Nicola Sacco was guilty of the crime with which he was charged, though Vanzetti was innocent. In New York, Tresca also began a public campaign of criticism of the Mafia in his weekly newspaper, Il Martello. Tresca was killed probably by the mafia, with a gun shot. Others have thought that Tresca was eliminated by the NKVD because of the criticism of the Stalin regime of the Soviet Union.   

[[Benjamin Tucker]]

CATEGORIES: American anarchists, American philosophers, Writers from Massachusetts, 1854 births, 1939 deaths, Libertarians, American atheists

Benjamin Ricketson Tucker (April 17, 1854 – June 22, 1939) was a leading proponent of American individualist anarchism in the 19th century, and editor and publisher of the individualist anarchist periodical Liberty. In 1906, he opened Tucker's Unique Book Shop in New York City. In 1908 the books were destroyed by a fire. Tucker closed the shop. Tucker died in Monaco in 1939

[[John Zerzan]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, American anarchists, People from Salem, Oregon, Green anarchism, Writers from Oregon, Green thinkers

John Zerzan (born in 1943) is an American anarchist and primitivist philosopher and author. His works speaks about agricultural civilization. Some of his criticism has extended as far as challenging domestication, language, symbolic thought (such as mathematics and art) and the concept of time. His five major books are Elements of Refusal (1988), Future Primitive and Other Essays (1994), Running on Emptiness (2002), Against Civilization: Readings and Reflections (2005) and Twilight of the Machines (2008). Zerzan is currently one of the editors of Green Anarchy, a journal of anarcho-primitivist and insurrectionary anarchist thought.

[[2014 FIFA World Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA World Cup, 2014 FIFA World Cup

The 2014 FIFA World Cup was the 20th FIFA World Cup being held in Brazil. It was the second time that Brazil hosted the World Cup and the fourth time that a South American country hosted the FIFA tournament. Germany won the tournament after defeating Argentina 1–0. The defending champions, Spain, were eliminated from the World Cup after losing to the Netherlands and Chile in the group stage and the host country, Brazil, were eliminated after a record-breaking 1–7 loss to Germany.

[[Ephedrine]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Ephedrine (or EPH) is an alkaloid found in plants of the genus Ephedra. It can also be found in other plants like wolfsbane or the Euopean yew. 

[[Emiliano Zapata]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1919 deaths, Generals, Mexican military people

Emiliano Zapata Salazar (August 8, 1879 – April 10, 1919) was a leader in the Mexican Revolution, which started in 1910.

Zapata was ambushed and shot by Mexican troops in 1919. He is a folk hero in Mexico to this day.

Emiliano Zapata was born to Gabriel Zapata and Cleofas Jertrudiz Salazar of Anenecuilco, Morelos. Zapata's family were Mexicans of Nahua and Spanish ancestry. He was the ninth of ten children.

[[Pseudoephedrine]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Pseudoephedrine (commonly abbreviated as PSE) is a decongestant. The salts pseudoephedrine hydrochloride and pseudoephedrine sulfate are found in many over-the-counter drugs either as single-ingredient preparations, or more commonly in combination with antihistamines, paracetamol (acetaminophen) and/or ibuprofen. Sudafed is a trademark for a common brand which contains pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, though Sudafed PE does not. Drugs containing pseudoephedrine are commonly used as a treatment for Rhinitis (an inflammation of the mucous mebranes in the nose)

Unlike antihistamines, which modify the systemic histamine-mediated allergic response, pseudoephedrine only relieves nasal congestion commonly associated with colds or allergies.

The advantage of oral pseudoephedrine over topical nasal preparations, such as oxymetazoline, is that it does not cause rebound congestion (rhinitis medicamentosa); however, it is more likely to cause adverse effects, including high blood pressure.

Some countries started to replace pseudoephedrine by other drugs, such as phenylephrine. The reason for this is that pseudoephedrine can be used to make methamphetamine, which is an illegal drug.

[[Scion]]

CATEGORIES: Automobiles

Scion is a brand of small cars sold by Toyota in the United States. Scion is marketed to young car buyers.

[[Flag of Christmas Island]]

CATEGORIES: Flags, Christmas Island, Flags of country subdivisions

The flag of Christmas Island was adopted in 1986. It was designed by Tony Couch of Sydney, Australia.

[[Philippsburg]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Baden-Württemberg

Philippsburg is a city in Germany. It is in the district of Karlsruhe in Baden-Württemberg.

[[Ainsworth, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin, Langlade County, Wisconsin

Ainsworth is a town in Langlade County, Wisconsin, United States. About 571 people live in Ainsworth as of the year 2002.

[[Bex]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Bex (Beis) is a municipality in the canton of Vaud, Switzerland. It is located in the district of Aigle. It has an area of 96.60 km², an altitude of 424 m, and a population of about 5709. It is a few miles south of its sister town municipality of Aigle.

[[Erwitte]]

CATEGORIES: Soest Rural District

Erwitte is a town in the district of Soest. It is found in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.

[[John Krasinski]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Actors from Massachusetts, American movie actors, American television actors, American movie directors, American screenwriters, American voice actors, Writers from Massachusetts

John Burke Krasinski (born October 20, 1979) is an American actor, movie director and writer. He is best known for playing Jim Halpert on NBC's The Office and for directing and starring as Lee Abbott in the 2018 horror movie A Quiet Place.

Krasinski married Emily Blunt in Como, Italy on July 10, 2010. The couple's daughter was born in 2014.

[[United States Department of State]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of State

The United States Department of State, often referred to as the State Department, is the Cabinet-level foreign policy agency of the United States government, similar to foreign ministries, foreign offices, ministries of external relations, etc. in other countries.  It is administered by the Secretary of State.

[[Cabinet of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: United States Executive Cabinet

The Cabinet of the United States (usually simplified as "the Cabinet") is composed of the most senior appointed officers of the executive branch of the federal government of the United States, and its existence dates back to the first American President (George Washington), who appointed a Cabinet of four people (Secretary of State, Thomas Jefferson; Secretary of the Treasury, Alexander Hamilton; Secretary of War, Henry Knox; and Attorney General, Edmund Randolph) to advise and assist him in his duties.

Cabinet officers are nominated by the President and then presented to the United States Senate for confirmation or rejection by a simple majority. If approved, they are sworn in and begin their duties. Aside from the Attorney General, and previously, the Postmaster General, they all receive the title Secretary.

[[United States Attorney General]]

CATEGORIES: United States Attorneys General, 1789 establishments in the United States

The United States Attorney General is the head of the United States Department of Justice concerned with legal affairs and is the chief law enforcement officer of the United States government.The Attorney General is considered to be the chief lawyer of the U.S. government. The Attorney General is a  member of the President's Cabinet, but is the only cabinet department head who is not given the title Secretary.

[[United States Secretary of Agriculture]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Agriculture, 1889 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of Agriculture is the head of the United States Department of Agriculture. The position carries similar responsibilities to agriculture ministers of other governments.

[[List of United States Cabinets]]

CATEGORIES: Members of the Cabinet of the United States, Lists of politicians from the United States

The following is a list of United States Cabinets by the President of the United States under which they operated.

[[United States Secretary of Homeland Security]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Homeland Security, 2003 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of Homeland Security is the head of the United States Department of Homeland Security, the body concerned with protecting the American homeland and the safety of American citizens.  The Secretary is a member of the President's Cabinet. The position was created following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.

[[United States Department of Homeland Security]]

CATEGORIES: United States intelligence agencies, Federal law enforcement agencies of the United States

The United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS), commonly known in the United States as "Homeland Security", is a Cabinet department of the U.S. federal government with the duty of protecting the U.S. from terrorist attacks and helping when there is a natural disaster.

In 2002, because of the September 11 attacks in 2001, Congress passed a bill called the Homeland Security Act, which created the Department of Homeland Security. Tom Ridge was the first leader of the Department of Homeland Security. This was the biggest change to the federal government in 50 years.

[[United States Secretary of the Interior]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of the Interior, 1849 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of the Interior is the head of the United States Department of the Interior.  The Department of the Interior oversees such agencies as the Bureau of Land Management, the United States Geological Survey, and the National Park Service. The Secretary also serves on and appoints the private citizens on the National Park Foundation board. The Secretary is a member of the President's Cabinet. The Secretary typically comes from a western state; only one of the last 16 Secretaries is not identified with a state lying west of the Mississippi River. The Secretary of the Interior is eighth in the United States presidential line of succession.

[[United States Secretary of Commerce]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Commerce, 1913 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of Commerce is the head of the United States Department of Commerce concerned with business and industry; the Department states its mission to be "to foster, promote, and develop the foreign and domestic commerce." Until 1913 there was one Secretary of Commerce and Labor, uniting this department with the Department of Labor, which is now headed by a separate Secretary of Labor.

[[United States Department of Commerce]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Commerce, 1913 establishments in the United States

The United States Department of Commerce  is the Cabinet department of the United States government concerned with promoting economic development. It was originally created as the United States Department of Commerce and Labor on February 14, 1903. It was subsequently renamed to the Department of Commerce on March 4, 1913, and its bureaus and agencies specializing in labor were transferred to the new Department of Labor.

[[United States Department of the Interior]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of the Interior, 1849 establishments in the United States

The United States Department of the Interior (DOI) is a Cabinet department of the United States government that manages and conserves most federally owned land. These responsibilities are different from other countries' Interior Departments or ministries, which tend to focus on police or security.

[[United States Department of Justice]]

CATEGORIES: Federal law enforcement agencies of the United States, United States Department of Justice

The United States Department of Justice (DOJ) is a Cabinet department in the Federal government of the United States. Its jobs are to enforce the law, defend the interests of the United States according to law, and to ensure fair and impartial administration of justice. Parts of DOJ include the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and prosecutor offices in about a hundred districts in the United States. The DOJ is administered by the United States Attorney General, one of the original members of the cabinet.

[[United States Department of Agriculture]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Agriculture, 1889 establishments in the United States

The United States Department of Agriculture (also called the Agriculture Department, or USDA) is a United States Federal Executive Department (or Cabinet Department). Its purpose is to develop and execute policy on farming, agriculture, and food. 

[[United States federal executive departments]]

CATEGORIES: United States federal executive departments

The United States federal executive departments are among the oldest primary units of the executive branch of the federal government of the United States–the Departments of State, War, and the Treasury all being established within a few weeks of each other in 1789.

[[United States Department of Labor]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Labor, 1913 establishments in the United States

The United States Department of Labor is a Cabinet department of the United States government responsible for occupational safety, wage and hour standards, unemployment insurance benefits, re-employment services, and some economic statistics.  Many U.S. states also have such departments.  The department is headed by the United States Secretary of Labor.

[[United States Secretary of Labor]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Labor, 1913 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of Labor is the head of the Department of Labor who exercises control over the department and enforces and suggests laws involving unions, the workplace, and all other issues involving any form of business-person controversies.

[[Raster image processor]]

CATEGORIES: Printers

A Raster image processor is a component that can be found in some printers. The raster image processor receives the data in a description language, like Postscript, PCL, or PDF and converts it to a bitmap or raster image.

Raster image processing can be done in two ways: as Software running as part of the operating system, or as a special microprocessor inside the printer. Cheaper printers use a solution called host-based printing, where this is done in the operating system, more expensive printers, and those that support PCL, Postscript or a similar language have a Raster image processor inside the printer.

[[Sligo Rovers F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Irish football clubs

Sligo Rovers are an association football team in Ireland. They were founded in 1928 and now play in the League of Ireland Premier Division.

[[Eircom Premier Division]]

CATEGORIES: Football League of Ireland, Defunct sports leagues, 1921 establishments in Europe, 2006 disestablishments, 20th century establishments in the Republic of Ireland, 2000s disestablishments in Europe

The Eircom football league was a football league in the Republic of Ireland. It existed from 1921 until 2006. In 2007, it was replaced with the League of Ireland Premier Division.

[[Sligo]]

CATEGORIES: County towns in Ireland, County Sligo

Sligo is a town in County Sligo, Republic of Ireland. It is not the largest town in the country but is the second largest rural area in Connacht after Galway city. It is home to Sligo Rovers F.C. who play in the League of Ireland Premier Division and won the League in 2012 it also homes Sligo G.A.A team. Sligo Rugby Club is in Strandhill.  Sligo has a population of around 20,000 and has many tourist attractions. Sligo is at the end of the railway line from Dublin.

[[Fort Campbell]]

CATEGORIES: United States Army, Forts in the United States, Buildings and structures in Kentucky, Buildings and structures in Tennessee, 1941 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Kentucky, 20th-century establishments in Tennessee

Fort Campbell is a United States Army post on the border of Tennessee and Kentucky. It is west of Clarksville and northwest of Nashville.

The fort is named after William Bowen Campbell, the last Whig Governor of Tennessee.

[[Harlem]]

CATEGORIES: Manhattan, Neighborhoods of New York City

Harlem is a big neighborhood in the New York City borough of Manhattan. It was a village independent of New York City until 1873. Most of the people in Central Harlem are African-American. Most of the people in West and East Harlem are Hispanic.

It started as a Dutch village called Nieuw Haarlem. It was named for the city of Haarlem in the Netherlands.

In the 19th century it became an industrial suburb. In the 1920s the Harlem Renaissance happened in Harlem.

There is a lot of crime in Harlem, but there is becoming less. The most common cause of death for young black males there is getting murdered.

[[Taxane]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Taxanes are poisonous alkaloids produced by Yew plants.

Alkaloids are natural basic chemical compounds which contain nitrogen atoms. The name comes from the word alkaline and was used to describe any alkaline containing nitrogen.

Alkaloids are made by a large variety of organisms, but taxanes are produced only by plants of the genus Taxus.

Taxanes work mainly by disrupting the function of cell microtubules. Microtubules are essential to cell division, so taxanes are essentially mitotic inhibitors. This explains why taxanes have been used to produce chemotherapy drugs.

[[Brooch]]

CATEGORIES: Jewelry

A brooch is a piece of jewelry that is attached to clothes. It is usually made of metal, silver or gold but sometimes bronze and decorated with gemstones.

Brooches called "fibulae" were used for many centuries to fasten clothing. In recent centuries people more often use buttons and belts for that, so brooches have become only decorative. 

[[Flares]]

CATEGORIES: Trousers and shorts

Flares (also called bell-bottoms, loon pants, boot-cut/leg and hip-huggers) are trousers that become wider from the knees downwards. They are worn by men and women.

[[Autopsy]]

CATEGORIES: Death, Medical procedures, Forensics

An autopsy (also called a post-mortem examination) is a medical examination of a corpse to find out what killed it (disease or injury). Autopsies are done by specialised doctors, called pathologists.

Autopsies are not done all the time. They are usually done either for medical reasons, or for legal ones. One of the legal reasons why an autopsy is done is to find out if the death was the result of a crime. A medical case is to find the cause of death when it is unclear. Sometimes autopsies are done to train new doctors.

Sometimes, the cause of death can be found by simply looking at the corpse without opening it. In other cases, it may need to be opened, to find the cause of death. If it is opened, it is usually closed again; most of the time, corpses are buried. Before being buried, they are on display for some time. For this, they need to look acceptable. In certain cases, like when the corpse is opened, special permissions are perhaps necessary. These are usually given by the closest living relative, called next of kin.

[[Supro Ozark 1560 S]]

CATEGORIES: Guitars

The Supro Ozark is an old electric guitar with only one pick-up. It is most famous as being the first electric guitar Jimi Hendrix owned.

[[Stormbreaker]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books, 2000 books

Stormbreaker is a book by British writer Anthony Horowitz. It is the first book in the Alex Rider series. It was released on 4 September 2000 in the United Kingdom and on 21 May 2001 in the United States. A movie based on the book was released on 21 July 2006. It starred Alex Pettyfer as the book's main character, Alex Rider.

[[Event-driven programming]]

CATEGORIES: Software

In computer programming, event-driven programming also known as event-based programming is a programming method in which the flow of the program is determined by sensor outputs or user actions (such as mouse clicks, key presses) or by messages from other programs or threads running on the computer. 

Event-driven programs can be written using any of the computer programming languages, although the task is easier in languages that provide high-level of abstractions to support it. Some integrated development environments provide all assisting methods that automate most tasks required for events handling.

[[Leeds Bradford International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in England, Leeds

Leeds Bradford International Airport is a large airport in West Yorkshire, England. It is in Yeadon, Leeds and near Bradford. The airport was sold to Bridgepoint Capital in 2007. The airport has flights to many other cities including London, Edinburgh, Dublin, Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Rome, Milan, Madrid, Barcelona and Prague.  It is widely used for both holiday and business flights. Around 3 million people use the airport every year. The number of passengers is increasing each year.

The airline Jet2.com is based at the airport. In August 2009, Ryanair announced they would open a base at Leeds Bradford Airport. Ryan would increase their routes from 3 to 17 from March 2010.

[[Leeds Metropolitan University]]

CATEGORIES: Leeds, Universities in England

Leeds Metropolitan University is a university in Leeds, England.  It is the second largest university in the city after the University of Leeds.  The University sometimes calls itself Leeds Carnegie.  It used to be called Leeds Polytechnic.

[[Wetherby]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Yorkshire

Wetherby is a town in West Yorkshire, England.  It is part of the City of Leeds borough.  Wetherby is on the River Wharfe.  The town has a market every Thursday.  There are 11 pubs in Wetherby and many shops.  There are Morrisons and Sainsbury's supermarkets in the town.  Wetherby is on the A1 motorway.  22,000 people live in Wetherby.  Wetherby has an historic town hall.  Wetherby is also close to York and Harrogate.

[[Dynamic-link library]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Dynamic-link library (also written as Dynamic Link Library or DLL), is the Microsoft's implementation of shared libraries used by the Microsoft Windows operating systems. These libraries usually have the file extension DLL, OCX (for libraries containing ActiveX controls), or DRV (for Windows legacy system drivers).

Any of the Microsoft Windows data files having the same file format as that of the Dynamic-link library can be called a resource DLL. Examples of such DLLs include icon libraries, sometimes having the extension ICL, and the font files, having the extensions FON and FOT.

[[Jack Peddie]]

CATEGORIES: 1876 births, 1928 deaths, Scottish footballers

Jack Peddie is a former football player.

[[Nwankwo Kanu]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Nigerian footballers

Nwankwo Kanu (born 1 August 1976) is a Nigerian football player. He plays for Portsmouth and Nigeria national team.

[[Jay-Jay Okocha]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Nigerian footballers

Jay-Jay Okocha (born 14 August 1973) is a former Nigerian football player. He has played for Nigeria national team.

[[Nicky Butt]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Manchester, Premier League players

Nicky Butt (born 21 January 1975) was an English footballer. He played for Newcastle United.

[[Serie B]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in Italy, 1929 establishments in Italy

Serie B is the second highest division of Football in Italy. It was founded in 1929.

[[Michael Cole]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American journalists, Entertainers from New York, Sportspeople from New York, WWE wrestlers, People from Syracuse, New York, American Internet celebrities

Michael Sean Coulthard (born December 8, 1968) better known by his stage name Michael Cole, is an American former news journalist and the current play-by-play announcer for World Wrestling Entertainment's Raw. Cole also guest refereed a couple of dark matches and competed in his first match against Jerry Lawler at WrestleMania XXVII. In 2010, he became a heel, and turned face again in 2012.

[[Rlogin]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Computer protocols

In computing, rlogin is a Unix program that allows users to log in on another host using a network. rlogin uses TCP port 513. It was first distributed as part of the 4.2BSD release.  rlogin is also the name of the application layer protocol used by the software, also the protocol is part of the TCP/IP protocol suite.

The rlogin homepage is located at http://rlogin.sourceforge.net.

rlogin has several serious security problems, the most important are:

Due to its serious problems, rlogin was rarely used across untrusted networks (like the public internet), and rlogin distributions are no longer included by default with many Unix and Linux distributions. Many networks which were depending on rlogin and telnet have replaced it with SSH and the rlogin secured equivalent slogin.

[[Vasily Zaytsev]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1991 deaths, Autobiographers, Recipients of the Order of Lenin, Russian writers, Soviet military personnel of World War II, Soviet writers

Captain Vasily Grigoryevich Zaytsev  (23 March 1915 – 15 December 1991) was a Soviet sniper during World War II.

He is particularly notable for his activities between 10 November and 17 December 1942, during the Battle of Stalingrad. He killed 225 soldiers and officers of the Wehrmacht and other Axis armies, including 11 enemy snipers. Before the 10th  November, he had already killed 32 Axis soldiers with the standard Mosin-Nagant rifle. Between October 1942 and January 1943, Zaytsev had made 242 verified kills, but the real number may be much higher; some argue it might have been as many as 400. His military rank at the time was Junior Lieutenant.

[[Mike Adamle]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Ohio, National Football League broadcasters, College football broadcasters, Professional Wrestling broadcasters, Arena Football League broadcasters

Michael David Adamle (born October 4, 1949; pronounced ˈædəm.li) is a sports personality and former National Football League player. 

In college he became a Big Ten Most Valuable Player.  He is still thought of as one of the great players for Northwestern University. 

After a successful career with the National Football League, Adamle began working for NBC Sports.  He then worked for a variety of programs. He was host of American Gladiators and worked for World Wrestling Entertainment. 

He has worked for WMAQ-TV in Chicago since 2004. 

In February 2017, Adamle was diagnosed with dementia.

[[Port forwarding]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Computer protocols

Port forwarding, also referred to as port mapping, is a method of forwarding a network port from one network node to another. This technique can allow an external user to reach a port on a private IP address (inside a LAN) from the outside using a NAT-enabled router.

Port forwarding allows remote computers (e.g. public machines on the Internet) to connect to a specific computer within a private LAN.

For example:

Port forwarding is not necessary with IPv6, because every IPv6-enabled device has a public IPv6 address.

[[Paul Burchill]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Former WWE wrestlers, English professional wrestlers, People from Surrey

Paul Burchill (born Paul Kenneth Birchall on 8 October 1979) is an English professional wrestler best known for his time spent wrestling for the WWE.

[[Serial port]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Computer networking, Electrical connectors, Computer buses

In computing, a serial port is a serial communication physical interface through which information  transfers, either in or out, one bit at a time (in contrast with parallel port). 

During most of the personal computers history, serial ports connected computers to devices such as terminals and various peripherals.

While such interfaces as  Ethernet, FireWire, and USB all send data as a serial stream, the term "serial port" usually identifies hardware meeting the requirements of the RS-232 standard, for the purpose of interfacing with a modem or with a similar communication device. 

For many computer peripheral devices the USB interface has replaced the serial port. While nearly every server has a serial port, many modern low-end workstations and laptops often don't have one. The serial port is not present for cost savings, and is considered to be a legacy port on personal computers.

However, serial ports can be found in industrial systems, scientific analysis and laboratory equipments, point of sales and some industrial and consumer products. Network equipments (such as routers and switches) often have serial ports for configuration. Serial ports are still used in these areas as they are simple, cheap and allow communications between devices.

[[Bambi]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, American animated movies, American family movies, Bambi, Disney animated movies, English-language movies, Movies about animals, Movies based on books, Movies composed by Oliver Wallace, United States National Film Registry movies

Bambi is a 1942 American animated drama movie. David Hand was the head director (he was in charge of other directors). Walt Disney made the movie. It is based on the book Bambi, A Life in the Woods by Felix Salten. RKO Radio Pictures  sent the movie to theatres on August 13, 1942. It is the fifth movie in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. The story is about a baby deer named Bambi. He learns to grow up in the wild after hunters shoot his mother. The main characters are Bambi (a mule deer) his parents (the Great Prince of the forest and his mother), and his friends: Thumper (a rabbit), Flower (a skunk), and Faline (who becomes his wife later).

For the movie, Disney changed Bambi to a mule deer. In the book, Bambi was a Roe Deer. However, roe deer do not live in the United States, and Americans know more about mule deer. The movie was nominated for three Academy Awards: Best Sound (Sam Slyfield), Best Song (for "Love Is a Song" sung by Donald Novis) and Original Music Score. In June 2008, the American Film Institute wrote a list of its "Top 10"—the best ten movies—after asking over 1,500 people. Bambi came in third in animation. In December 2011, the movie was added to the National Film Registry of the Library of Congress.

[[Flag of the Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, Dutch culture

The flag of the Netherlands is a tricolour of red, white, and blue. It was introduced in 1572. Since 1937, the flag has officially been the national flag of the Netherlands and of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.

[[Coat of Arms of Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: National coats of arms, Dutch culture

The Greater Coat of Arms of the Realm, (or "Grote Rijkswapen"), is the Coat of Arms of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The components of the coats of arms were regulated by Queen Wilhelmina in a Royal decree of July 10th 1907.

[[Flag of the United States Virgin Islands]]

CATEGORIES: US Virgin Islands, Flags of the United States

The flag of the United States Virgin Islands was adopted in 1921. The eagle holds a branch in one talon, and three arrows in the other, meaning the three major islands: Saint Thomas, Saint John, and Saint Croix. Additionally, the colors of the flag are: yellow, showing various characteristics of the territory and the flowers; green, symbolizing the hills; white, meaning the clouds; and blue, depicting the waters.

[[Morphine (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Musical groups from Massachusetts

[[Pietro Acciarito]]

CATEGORIES: Italian anarchists, 1871 births, 1943 deaths

Pietro Umberto Acciarito (1871 - 1943) was an Italian anarchist. Born in france, he lived near Rome. Acciarito is famous because he tried to kill the Italian king, Umberto I, on 22 April 1897, for which he was sent to prison for life.

[[Good (Morphine album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums

Good is the first album by rock band Morphine. It was released in 1992.

[[Francisco Ascaso]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1936 deaths, Spanish anarchists

Francisco Ascaso Abadía (April 1 1901—July 20 1936) was a famous Anarcho-syndicalist in Spain, friend of Buenaventura Durruti. Ascaso in his life he traveled and fought as rebel, in Spain, France, Argentine, Belgium, Germany, Sweden, Latin America and was deported Canary Islands. In the Spanish Civil War, the anarchist Ascaso joined the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT) and he fought in the first time in the armed group called and then in 1922 in the group called Los Solidarios. In 1934 he became regional general secretary of the CNT. He died in the Spanish Civil War, on the first day of conflict in Barcelona. After his death, a groups of anarchists called them the "Francisco Ascaso Column".

[[Cure for Pain]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 albums

Cure For Pain was the second album released by the band Morphine. It was put out on the Rykodisc label in 1993. The tracks "Sheila" and "In Spite of Me" were part of the soundtrack of the 1994 independent movie Spanking the Monkey.

[[Marie Louise Berneri]]

CATEGORIES: English writers, Italian anarchists, 1918 births, 1949 deaths

Marie Louise Berneri (March 1, 1918 - April 13, 1949) was an anarchist activist and author. 

[[Marco Camenisch]]

CATEGORIES: Swiss activists, Environmentalists, Anarchists, Green anarchism, Green thinkers, Murderers, Prisoners, Swiss people, 1952 births, Living people

Marco Camenisch (born 21 January 1952) is a Swiss anarchist and environmental activist. He was born in Schiers. He served several years in prison for the 1989 murder of a border guard in Brusio, Switzerland and other offences.

Camenisch has maintained his political ideas during his time in prison, and he has remained a political activist.

[[Sante Geronimo Caserio]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1894 deaths, Italian anarchists, Criminals

Sante Geronimo Caserio (September 8, 1873 - August 16, 1894) was an Italian anarchist who assassinated the president of the French Third Republic, Marie François Sadi Carnot, by stabbing.

[[Pakistan Day]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan, Holidays

Pakistan Day (یوم پاکستان, lit. Yaum-e-Pakistan) or Pakistan Resolution Day, also Republic Day, is a national holiday in Pakistan. It is celebrated on 23 March each year. It is the anniversary of the commemoration of the choosing the name "Pakistan" by Choudhary Rahmat Ali.

[[Karachi Agreement]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Pakistan, 1940s in India, 1949 in Asia

The Karachi Agreement was a cease-fire agreement signed by Pakistan and India on the 27th of July 1949. It established a cease-fire line which could be monitored by observers from the United Nations. The Agreement was signed by the following:

[[Badshahi Mosque]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Lahore, Mosques in Asia, Mughal architecture, Religion in Pakistan, World Heritage Sites in Pakistan, 1671 establishments, 17th century establishments in Asia

It is one of the historical place in Pakistan. The Badshahi Mosque (بادشاھی مسجد), or the 'Emperor's Mosque', was built in 1673 by the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb in Lahore, Pakistan, near the Minar-e-Pakistan. It is one of the city's best known landmarks, and a major tourist attraction epitomising the beauty and grandeur of the Mughal It has four minerats. Two are minor and two are major. It is the fifth largest mosque in the world.

[[Minar-e-Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Lahore, National symbols of Pakistan, Pakistani culture

Minar-e-Pakistan (مينارِ پاكستان; Mīnār-ĕ Pākistān or Yadgaar-e-Pakistan) is a tall minaret in Iqbal Park Lahore, built in commemoration of the Lahore Resolution.

[[Mazar-e-Quaid]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Karachi, 1970 establishments in Asia

Mazar-e-Quaid (مزار قائد) or the National Mausoleum refers to the tomb of the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah. It is an iconic symbol of Karachi throughout the world. The mausoleum was completed in the 1960s. It is situated at the heart of the city. It is the last rest place of Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Near the tomb there is a park that has strong lights that show the tomb with lights in the night. Here  with Quaid-e-Azam, Liaquat Ali Khan and Fatima Jinnah are also buried.

Mazar-e-Quaid has been the attraction for locals and tourists. Mazar-e-Quaid became in lime light on completion of 70 years of independence in 2017. A 3d illumination show was organized with the title of Tribute to Jinnah and was categorized by the organizers as a Gift to the Nation.

[[Craig Anton]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, American television actors, Comedians from Nebraska, Actors from Omaha, Nebraska

Craig Ward Anton (born August 28, 1962 in Omaha, Nebraska) is an American actor and comedian. Anton is most notable for being the cast of comedians on the show MADtv and for his role as Lloyd Diffy in the Disney Channel Original Series Phil of the Future.

[[Queer as Folk (U.S.)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 American television series debuts, 2005 American television series endings, 2000s American drama television series, American LGBT television programs, Canadian television series, LGBT drama television series, Pittsburgh in fiction, English-language television programs

Queer as Folk is an American-Canadian drama television series that aired from 2000-2005 on Showtime. It is a remake of a British program with the same name. The series follows the lives of several gay men living in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Due to the cost of making the series, it was actually filmed in Toronto, Canada. Following its first episode, the series quickly became the most-viewed program on the Showtime network in the United States, despite its somewhat controversial and graphic depictions of gay life.

[[United States Secretary of Health and Human Services]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Health and Human Services, 1980 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of Health and Human Services is the head of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, concerned with health matters.  The Secretary is a member of the President's Cabinet.

[[United States Department of Health and Human Services]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Health and Human Services, 1953 establishments in the United States

The United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), is a Cabinet department of the United States government with the goal of protecting the health of all Americans and providing essential human services. Its motto is "Improving the health, safety, and well-being of America".

[[United States Secretary of Energy]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Energy, 1977 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of Energy is the head of the United States Department of Energy, a member of the President's Cabinet, and fifteenth in the Presidential line of succession.  The post was created with the formation of the Department of Energy on October 1, 1977 by President Jimmy Carter's signing of the Department of Energy Organization Act. The position was originally developed to focus on energy production and regulation. During the 1980s, the emphasis shifted to development of technology for better, more efficient energy sources as well as education regarding energy. As the Cold War ended, the department's efforts were more often devoted to nuclear waste disposal and maintenance of environmental quality.

[[United States Department of Energy]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Energy

The United States Department of Energy (DOE) is a Cabinet-level department of the United States government responsible for energy policy and nuclear safety. Its responsibilities include the nation's nuclear weapons program, nuclear reactor production for the United States Navy, energy conservation, energy-related research, radioactive waste disposal, and domestic energy production. DOE also sponsors more basic and applied scientific research than any other US federal agency; most of this is funded through its system of United States Department of Energy National Laboratories.

[[Dead Memories]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Slipknot songs

"Dead Memories" is the third single by Slipknot from their fourth album, All Hope Is Gone. The song was released on December 1, 2008. The music video for the single was directed by P. R. Brown and Shawn Crahan.

[[Ted DiBiase, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Mississippi

Theodore Marvin DiBiase, Jr. (born November 8, 1982) is an American professional wrestler. He was best known for his time in WWE. He is a former World Tag Team Champion with Cody Rhodes. He also starred in the sequel to "The Marine" which starred WWE wrestler John Cena.

[[Clinton, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mississippi, 1824 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Mississippi

Clinton is a city in Hinds County, Mississippi, United States. It's in the Jackson metropolitan area, and it's the tenth largest city in Mississippi. The population was 23,347 at the 2000 United States Census.

[[Apollo Beach, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Florida, Unincorporated communities in Florida

Apollo Beach is an unincorporated census-designated place in Hillsborough County, Florida, United States.  The population was 7,444 at the 2000 census.

[[Loco, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Loco is a village and former municipality in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.

In 2001 the municipality of Loco was merged with the neighboring municipalities Auressio and Berzona to form a new and larger municipality Isorno.

[[Robert Gates]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Chancellors of the College of William & Mary, United States Secretaries of Defense, Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency, Politicians from Wichita, Kansas, Presidential Citizens Medal recipients

Robert Michael Gates (born September 25, 1943) was the 22nd United States Secretary of Defense. He took office on December 18, 2006 under George W. Bush and Barack Obama's administrations until his retirement on July 1, 2011 Prior to this, Gates served for 26 years in the Central Intelligence Agency and the United States National Security Council. Under President George H. W. Bush, Gates served as Director of Central Intelligence.  He was also president of Texas A&M. He is currently Chancellor of the College of William and Mary.

[[Director of Central Intelligence]]

CATEGORIES: Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency, United States intelligence agencies

The Office of United States Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) was established by U.S. President Harry Truman on January 23 1946 with Admiral Sidney Souers occupying the position. The DCI was coordinating intelligence activities among and between the various United States intelligence agencies, also called the American Intelligence Community.

Until April 2005, the DCI also served as de-facto Director of the Central Intelligence Agency and was often referred to colloquially as the "CIA Director." After the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States and the subsequent investigation by the 9/11 Commission, a movement grew to re-organize the Intelligence Community. That movement prompted the creation, on April 21, 2005, of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), in whose purview was the job portfolio that had been performed previously by the Director of Central Intelligence. The latter position then ceased to exist.

[[Director of National Intelligence]]

CATEGORIES: United States Directors of National Intelligence

The Director of National Intelligence (DNI) is the United States government official subject to the authority, direction and control of the President who is responsible under the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 for:

[[Donald Rumsfeld]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Defense, White House Chiefs of Staff, Politicians from Chicago, Military people from Chicago, US Republican Party politicians, Permanent Representatives of the United States to NATO, 1988 United States presidential candidates, 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from multiple myeloma, Businesspeople from Chicago, Chief executives

Donald Henry Rumsfeld (July 9, 1932 – June 29, 2021) was an American businessman and politician. Rumsfeld was the 13th United States Secretary of Defense under President Gerald Ford from 1975 to 1977, and the 21st Secretary of Defense under President George W. Bush from 2001 to 2006. 

He was both the youngest (43 years old) and the oldest (74 years old) person to have held the position, as well as the only person to have held the position for two non-consecutive terms. Rumsfeld was also the second-longest serving Secretary of Defense, behind Robert McNamara.

Rumsfeld was a member of the United States House of Representatives from Illinois between 1963 until 1969. He was also the Ambassador to NATO from 1973 until 1974. He was also the White House Chief of Staff from 1974 until 1975 during the Gerald Ford presidency.

He ran for President of the United States in the 1988 election, but withdrew before any primary contests were held. He thought about running again in the 1996 election, but did not run and helped Bob Dole's campaign.

Rumsfeld died of multiple myeloma at his ranch in Taos, New Mexico on June 29, 2021 at the age of 88.

[[Robert McNamara]]

CATEGORIES: US Republican Party politicians, Businesspeople from San Francisco, Politicians from San Francisco, United States Secretaries of Defense, World Bank, 1916 births, 2009 deaths, Presidents of the World Bank Group

Robert Strange McNamara (June 9, 1916 - July 6, 2009) was an American business executive and former United States Secretary of Defense. After being an executive at Ford Motor Company, McNamara served as Defense Secretary from 1961 to 1968, during the Vietnam War under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson. After holding that position he served as President of the World Bank from 1968 until 1981. He was of Irish ancestry on his father's side.

[[James Forrestal]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Defense, United States Secretaries of the Navy, Politicians from New York, 1949 deaths, 1892 births

James Vincent Forrestal (February 15, 1892 – May 22, 1949) was a United States Secretary of the Navy and the first United States Secretary of Defense.

[[Yaoi]]

CATEGORIES: Anime and manga terms

Yaoi (やおい) is a term for fiction that shows homosexual male relationships but is usually created by men and women (can be called  Fujoshi/Fudanshi too). Most yaoi fans are male and female.

Yaoi can also show a girls relationship. This is called "yuri". It is mostly created by men. Some yaoi are real but most of are the yaoi's imagination. One example of yaoi anime is Sekaiichi hatsukoi, a good example of a great yaoi manga is "Obnoxious Hero-kun". 

[[Yuri (manga)]]

CATEGORIES: Anime and manga terms

Yuri (百合) is a genre about relationships between women in manga, anime, light novel, dōjinshi, webcomics, and other Japanese media. Yuri can be either about spirit, sex, friendship or emotions in such relationship.

"Yuri" is a jargon word and it normally means "lily" in Japanese. The terms "S-class", "Girls Love" and "shoujo-ai" are also used to describe this genre.

[[Immigration]]

CATEGORIES: Immigration

Immigration means people moving from their native regions into another country to live. People who immigrate are called immigrants. Some are illegal immigrants. Some immigrants are refugees and some ask for political asylum.  

If someone wants to immigrate to the United States, that person has to apply to become a legal citizen. If the person is accepted, they will receive a green card. A green card is a piece of evidence stating that the person is trying to legally stay within the country's borders. The person must keep the green card for at least five years in order to become a citizen of the United States of America. (USA-GOV pg. 1)  

Immigrant and emigrant both describe human migration. The same people are emigrants when they leave their own country or region, and immigrants when they arrive somewhere else.

The phrases "many people emigrated from Europe in the 19th century to America" and "many people immigrated to America from Europe in the 19th century" have the same meaning.

[[White Lion]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, Musical groups from New York City

White Lion is a rock band from New York City. White Lion is a glam metal band. White Lion broke up in 1992 but was brought back by their singer Mike Tramp in 1999 with new members. White Lion made a new album called Return of the Pride in 2008.

White Lion's biggest hits are; "Wait" and "When the Children Cry".

[[Mike Tramp]]

CATEGORIES: Danish singers, 1961 births, Living people, People from Copenhagen

Mike Tramp (born January 14, 1961 in Copenhagen, Denmark) is a Danish singer who sings for White Lion. He is the only member left in White Lion that was in the band when they were first made. After White Lion broke up in 1992 he joined a new band called Freak of Nature, after that band broke up he had a solo career. In 1999 he brought White Lion back with new members, and made a new White Lion album called "Return of the Pride" in 2008.

Mike Tramp lives in Melbourne, Australia. He is married to Ayu Azhari and has three children.

[[Delta, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Delta is a place in British Columbia, Canada. Delta is a part of Metro Vancouver. Delta is next to the cities of; Richmond to the north, Surrey to the east, and New Westminster to the north east. Delta is also next to Point Roberts to the south, Point Roberts is a part of Whatcom County, Washington, USA. Delta is the biggest place in Metro Vancouver by how much land it has, Surrey is the second biggest. The mayor of Delta is Lois Jackson.

Delta has three towns; Ladner, Tsawwassen, and North Delta.

[[Surrey, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Surrey is a city in British Columbia, Canada. It is a part of Metro Vancouver , which is  next to the cities of; Coquitlam, Port Coquitlam  to the north, Pitt Meadows to the north east , Langley to the east, New Westminster to the north west, White Rock to the south , and Delta to the west. Surrey is also next to Blaine, Washington, USA to the south.

Surrey has six town centres: Whalley, Newton, Guildford, Fleetwood, Cloverdale, and South Surrey.

The mayor of Surrey is Linda Hepner.

[[Mark Lambert]]

CATEGORIES: English rugby union players, Sportspeople from London, 1985 births, Living people

Mark Lambert born 19 February, 1985 in England is a rugby union player for Harlequins in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a prop.

[[Sadism]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

Sadism is a condition in which people get pleasure from humiliating, harming or hurting others. Often the pleasure is of a sexual kind.  When a person finds pleasure in being hurt or humiliated, their condition is called Masochism.

The terms "sadism" and "masochism" were both invented by Richard von Krafft-Ebing, a German psychiatrist. He named Sadism after the Marquis de Sade, a French nobleman who in the eighteenth century wrote many books, stories and plays. Sade's books include many characters who find pleasure in cruelty, including torture and even murder.

These kind of people usually enjoy when others are hurt, but specific ones love pain in general. Most of the time people who are masochistic or sadistic are sad in real life.

The condition is often fetishized on the internet and sometimes related to self-doubt or self-hate.

[[James Inglis (rugby union)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, English rugby union players

James Inglis (born 26 August 1986 in England) is a rugby union player for Harlequins in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a second-row. He has now moved to Roslyn Park RUFC and gone bald.

James has subsequently retired from rugby and now teaches at a top independent boarding school. On 30 May 2019, James married the love of his life, Sarah McDonald, at Chateau de Blomac in front of close friends and family. He is still bald.

[[Shane O'Connor]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Irish rugby union players

Shane O'Connor born 29 March, 1983 in Ireland is a rugby union player for Harlequins in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a second-row.

[[Alex Rogers]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, English rugby union players

Alex Rogers (born 16 December 1986 in England) is a rugby union player. 2015 he plays for the Newcastle Falcons in the English Premiership.

Rogers plays as a prop. Previously he played for the Harlequins. 

[[Gareth Williams (rugby union)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Welsh rugby union players

Gareth Williams (born 7 March 1988 in Wales) is a rugby union player for Harlequins in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a scrum-half.

[[David Blaney]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, English rugby union players

David Blaney (born 3 March 1979 in England) is a rugby union player for Bristol Rugby in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a hooker.

[[Ryan Prosser]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Welsh rugby union players

Ryan Prosser born 10 July, 1988 in Wales is a rugby union player for Bristol Rugby in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a hooker.

[[Iain Grieve]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Rugby union players, Botswana people

Iain Grieve (born 19 February, 1987 in Jwaneng, Botswana) is a rugby union player for Bristol Rugby in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a back-row.

[[Chris Ashwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, English rugby union players, Gloucester, Sportspeople from Gloucestershire

Chris Ashwin (born 19 November 1987 in Gloucester) is a British rugby union player for Bristol Rugby in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a fly-half.

[[Network address translation]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking, Internet

In computer networking, network address translation (NAT) is a technique of modifying the network address information in the IP packet headers while transferring the packet across a traffic routing device; such a technique remaps a given address space into another address space. This allows multiple computers to share a single public IP address, which has become necessary because there are not enough IP addresses for every computer in the world.

Today, NAT is used to hide networks (called network masquerading) or to hide IP (called IP masquerading). Masquerading is the mechanism that hides an entire address space, usually consisting of private network addresses (RFC 1918), behind a single IP address usually in the public domain address space. 

The NAT mechanism is implemented inside a routing device that keeps track of the state of the network connections. The NAT device may also implement a firewall. The router uses translation tables to map the "hidden" addresses into a single address and then rewrites the outgoing IP packets on exit from the router so that they appear to originate from the router. In the reverse communications path, responses to the outgoing packets are mapped back to the originating IP address using the reverse of the rules ("state") stored in the translation tables. The outgoing IP packets establish the device translation tables.

The translation table rules established in the above way are cleared after a short period without new traffic refreshing their state. However, most NAT devices today allow the network administrator to configure translation tables’ entries for permanent use. This feature is often referred to as "static NAT" or port forwarding and allows traffic originating in the 'outside' network to reach selected hosts in the masqueraded network.

Carrier-grade NAT, also called large-scale NAT, is NAT done by the Internet service provider (ISP). This is used when the ISP has more customers than IP addresses. This is commonly used by cellular service providers on 3G and 4G networks, but it is not (yet) common on landline DSL or cable connections. The CIDR address block 100.64.0.0/10 is reserved for carrier-grade NAT, although many ISPs improperly use RFC 1918 private addresses, which are 10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12, and 192.168.0.0/16.

NAT is used only in IPv4. It is not necessary in IPv6, because IPv6 has enough addresses for every computer in the world to have a global address.

[[Rey Mysterio]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, American Roman Catholics, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from San Diego, California

Óscar Gutiérrez (born December 11, 1974) better known by his ring name Rey Mysterio, is an Mexican-American professional wrestler. He is currently working for Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA). He is best known for his time in the WWE. He wrestled for Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) from 1995 to 1996, World Championship Wrestling (WCW) from 1996 to 2001, and the World Wrestling Entertainment/WWE from 2002 to 2015. Gutierrez is a devout Roman Catholic and crosses himself before every match.

On February 26, 2015, Mysterio's contract with the WWE ended and he left after 13 years with the company.

[[Router]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking, Internet

A router is a computer whose software and hardware are designed to move data between computer networks. Routers make sure traffic between computers goes where it needs to go. They do this by choosing the shortest path between the computers using a complicated system of rules called routing protocols. Routers generally contain a specialized operating system, RAM, NVRAM, flash memory, and one or more processors, as well as two or more network interfaces.  They come in a variety of sizes from something you could hold in your hand to something too large for one person to lift.

If you have an Internet connection, you probably have a router somewhere that your computer sends data to. This is the first router your computer will connect to in order to get to the internet. It is also known as a default gateway (because it is your gateway to the internet). By convention the gateway has the lowest IP address (like a phone number for a computer) in the subnet (a group of addresses). Anytime you make a connection (such as a connection to www.wikipedia.org) your computer looks up the IP address using the look-up service called DNS (Domain Name Service). Once the destination address has been found your computer connects to your gateway router. The gateway then sends data to a router at your ISP (Internet Service Provider), that router can be said to be part of the internet and connects to other routers until the data reaches the destination.

In small networks such as homes, small businesses (including internet cafés) and small schools, the router also performs NAT (network address translation) which makes all outgoing connections look like they come from one address. Typically, incoming connections are only allowed if they are replies to connections made by a computer inside the NAT.

Routers connect two or more networks and direct traffic between them.  These networks may be physical (the network is associated with a port) or logical (not associated with a port on the router). The term layer 3 switch often is used the same as 'router', but it is a general term without a technical definition.  Layer 3 switch implies a device that is built to connect Ethernet devices in a LAN but can also perform routing.

Router operating systems are split into two parts:

[[Network address]]

Network address may refer to:

[[Masochism]]

CATEGORIES: BDSM

Masochism is a medical condition. People who suffer from it can get pleasure from being hurt or humiliated by others. Often, the pleasure is sexual. When a person gets pleasure from being the one who causes hurt or humiliation, their condition is called Sadism.

The word "masochism" was invented by Richard von Krafft-Ebing, a German psychiatrist. He named it after Leopold von Sacher-Masoch (1836-1895), a writer whose books and stories often featured men in love with women who treated them cruelly.

[[Jon Fisher]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Businesspeople from California

Jon Fisher is an economist, an author, and a businessman. Fisher created his company Bharosa to create software to make computers safer. He is also a part-time professor at the University of San Francisco. Fisher has created forecasts about jobs in the United States. He said it was a mistake for the government to help banks in a weak economy. He has appeared on the news websites TechCrunch, Marketwired, and The Wall Street Journal.

[[Lachlan Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Australian rugby union players, Sportspeople from Sydney

Lachlan Mitchell (born September 30, 1987 in Sydney) is an Australian rugby union player for the London Wasps in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a centre.

[[Charlie Beech]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, English rugby union players, People from Stevenage, Sportspeople from Hertfordshire

Charlie Beech (born 21 July 1987) is an English rugby union player for the London Wasps in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a prop. He was born in Stevenage, Hertfordshire, England.

[[Showgrounds]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums, Football in the Republic of Ireland, Buildings and structures in the Republic of Ireland

The Showgrounds is a football stadium in Sligo, Ireland. It has a capacity of 5,500. 2,400 of the 5,500 capacity are seated. There are two seated stands a blue stand and a red stand which holds most of the seats. There is also a terrace, there used to be two, but the old one got knocked down along with the shed. There are two training pitches, one of them is astroturf. Sometimes there is a carnival in the car park. Sligo Rovers F.C. play their home games in the Showgrounds.

[[Hugo Ellis]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, English rugby union players, People from Hounslow (London borough)

Hugo Ellis (born 4 February 1988) is a rugby union player for the London Wasps in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a back-row. He was born in Isleworth, London, England.

[[Ross Batty]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1986 births, English rugby union players, Newcastle Falcons rugby union players

Ross Batty (born 20 September 1986 in England) is a rugby union player for the Newcastle Falcons in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a hooker.

[[Tim Swinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, English rugby union players, Newcastle Falcons rugby union players, Sportspeople from London

Tim Swinson born 17 February, 1987 in London, England is a rugby union player for the Newcastle Falcons in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a lock.

[[Rory Clegg]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, English rugby union players, Newcastle Falcons rugby union players, People from Hanover, Sportspeople from Lower Saxony

Rory Clegg (born 6 January 1990 in Hanover, Germany) is an English rugby union player for the Newcastle Falcons in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a fly-half.

[[Private network]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking, Internet

In Internet terminology a private network is typically a network that uses private IP address space, following the RFC 1918 standard. Computers may be allocated addresses from this address space when it is necessary for them to communicate with other computing devices on an Intranet network (internal private computer network that uses the Internet Protocol).

Private networks are quite common in home and office local area network (LAN) designs, as many organizations do not see a need for globally unique IP addresses for every computer, printer and other devices that the organizations use. Private IP addresses were created due to the shortage of publicly registered IP addresses created by the IPv4 standard. One of the reasons IPv6 was created is to overcome this limitation of the IPv4 standard. However IPv6 still did not achieve a widespread use.

Routers on the Internet should be configured to discard any packets containing private IP addresses in the IP packet header. This isolation gives private networks a basic form of security as it is not usually possible for the outside world to establish a connection directly to a machine using these private addresses. As connections cannot be made between different private networks via the internet, different organizations can use the same private address range without risking address conflicts (communications accidents caused by reaching a third party using the same IP address).

If a device on a private network needs to communicate with other networks, a "mediating gateway" (in-between gateway) is needed to ensure that the outside network is presented with an address that is "real" (or publicly reachable) so that Internet routers allow the communication. This gateway is typically a NAT device or a proxy server. Public Internet Routers by default will not forward packets with RFC 1918 addresses. Unlike public Internet routers that need additional configuration to forward these packets, internal routers do not need any additional configuration to forward these packets.

This can cause problems, however, when organizations try to connect networks that both use the same private address spaces. There is a potential for clashes and routing problems if both networks use the same IP addresses for their private networks, or if both networks depend on NAT to connect them through the Internet.

[[Paul Cook (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, Sportspeople from Liverpool, Premier League players

Paul Anthony Cook (born February 22, 1967 in Liverpool) is an English former footballer and the current manager of Sligo Rovers F.C. in Ireland. He had a lengthy career, playing for a number of clubs in the Football League as a left sided or central midfielder before retiring from the game in 2006.

[[David Cook (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American singer-songwriters, American Idol winners, Singers from Missouri

David Cook is an American alternative rock and post-grunge singer-songwriter.  He was born on December 20, 1982.  His hometown is Blue Springs, Missouri.

[[Roddy Piper]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Manitoba, Canadian movie actors, Canadian professional wrestlers, Canadian television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from cardiopulmonary arrest, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, People from Saskatoon, People from Winnipeg, WWE Hall of Fame, WWE people

Roderick George Toombs (April 17, 1954 – July 31, 2015) better known by his ring name "Rowdy" Roddy Piper, was a Canadian professional wrestler and actor. During his career, Piper worked for the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), World Wrestling Federation (WWF), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). 

[[Lolicon]]

CATEGORIES: Anime and manga terms, Child sexual abuse

Lolicon, is a slang word for the phrase "Lolita complex". In Japan, the word explains a hebephilic desire for drawings of teenage or prepubescent, or a young girl who desires other girls. Outside Japan, the word is less common. It denotes a genre of manga and anime in which young female characters are shown in a sexual way. The word is a reference to Vladimir Nabokov's book, Lolita. In the book, a middle-aged man sexually desires a 12-year-old girl .

Some people claim that lolicon adds to actual sexual abuse of children, while others claim that there is no facts that show this, or that facts show the opposite. Countries have tried to make lolicon that shows children naked or having sex illegal as a type of child pornography. 

One of the few that has made it actually illegal is the United Kingdom where the possession of lolicon pornography is illegal. These laws have been criticised heavily, and charges of lolicon child porn tend not to stick, because a judge reasons that no real children were harmed to make it and posses it and therefore it is not worth conviction, or because the harm that will be caused by giving the person a jail sentence is considered disproportionate to their charges.

[[Behemoth]]

CATEGORIES: Black metal bands, Death metal bands

Behemoth is a metal band from Gdańsk, Poland. Their early albums were black metal, but later they switched to a mixture of death metal and black metal. The band has been important in the creation of the Polish extreme metal underground.

[[Studio Ghibli]]

CATEGORIES: Movie studios, Companies of Japan, Studio Ghibli, 1985 establishments in Japan

Studio Ghibli, Inc. is a Japanese movie studio in Koganei, Tokyo. It produced anime movies. It has won many awards for some of its movies, including an Academy Award for Spirited Away. The company was established by Hayao Miyazaki in 1985. The name comes from the Arabic word ghibli, for hot winds blowing from the Sahara Desert. The main focus of Ghibli is to produce long animations, but they have produced short animations since the middle of 1990. Their movies often satirize the society at that time. The company tends to choose famous actors from television or movies as their voice actors. They also have a museum located in Mitaka.

[[Reverse DNS lookup]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking, Internet

Reverse DNS lookup (rDNS) is the process of determining the hostname or the host computer associated with a given IP address or any other type of network address.

Typically, the Domain Name System is used to determine what IP address is associated with a given domain name. So, to "reverse-resolve" a known IP address to determine the hostname is simply the process of searching what host and domain name belongs to that IP address.  

A reverse lookup is often referred to as reverse resolving, or more specifically reverse DNS lookup, and is accomplished using a "reverse IN-ADDR entry" in the form of a PTR record.

RFC 1033 in the "INSTRUCTIONS" section, and later, RFC 1912 Section 2.1 states "Every Internet-reachable host should have a name" and "Make sure your PTR and A records match".

[[Polis]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece

Polis means a city, a city-state and also citizenship and body of citizens. In context with Ancient Greece polis means nearly always "city-state."

The word originates from the ancient Greek city-states, which developed during the Archaic period and existed well into Roman times, when the equivalent Latin word was civitas, that means 'citizenhood' as well.

An ancient polis often centered around a citadel, called the acropolis. Nearly always it had an agora (market) and typically one or more temples and a gymnasium.  Many citizens of a polis did not live in the central city but in the suburbs or countryside.  The Greeks regarded the polis as a religious and political association: while the polis would control territory and colonies beyond the city itself, the polis would not simply consist of a geographical area.

[[Doujinshi]]

CATEGORIES: Anime and manga terms, Manga

A Doujinshi is a Japanese work that a person creates alone or with people who also share their interests. A group of people who work together to create doujinshi are called a circle. Some circles have only one artist working by themselves: they are sometimes called kojin circles. These works can be books, manga, art, or other things. Doujinshi are often created by amateurs, but, some professional artists also make doujinshi. The word "doujinshi" comes from doujin and shi. Shi is a contraction of the full word zasshi. Zasshi means magazine.

Doujinshi are part of a larger category of dōjin. This category includes art collections, anime, hentai, and games.

[[Mumia Abu-Jamal]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, African-American people, American activists, American people convicted of murder, American prisoners sentenced to death, People from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Mumia Abu-Jamal (born Wesley Cook on April 24, 1954) is an American activist. He was convicted and sentenced to death for the 1981 murder of police officer Daniel Faulkner in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (U.S.). Before his arrest he was a Black Panther Party activist, taxi driver, and journalist and still continued his efforts in prison. Since the time when he was found guilty, his case has received attention around the world, and he has become a controversial cultural icon. Supporters and opponents disagree on whether it is right for him to receive the death penalty, if he is guilty, or if he received a fair trial. During his imprisonment he has published several books and other commentaries, notably Live from Death Row. As of 2008, his legal appeals are still unsettled, and he is a prisoner at State Correctional Institution Greene near Waynesburg, Pennsylvania.

[[Overkill]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Musical groups from New Jersey, American heavy metal bands, Thrash metal bands

Overkill is a thrash metal band from New Jersey. They formed in 1984 and have played since then.

[[The Police]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1970s British music groups, 1980s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2008 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, English rock bands, Musical groups established in 1977, Musical groups from London, Musical groups disestablished in 2008

For law enforcement see Police

The Police were a rock band from England who played a style of rock that was influenced by jazz, punk and reggae music. As of 2008, The Police are one of the most successful bands in the world having sold over 40,000,000 records worldwide. The Police, along with The Clash, are notable for using reggae as a major part of their musical form.

Rolling Stone ranked The Police number 70 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.

The Police were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame on 10 March 2003.

[[Damageplan]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments in the United States, 2004 disestablishments in the United States, 2000s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, Dallas, Texas, Musical groups established in 2003, Musical groups disestablished in 2004, Musical groups from Texas

Damageplan was a heavy metal band from Dallas, Texas. They started playing in 2003 after Pantera's guitarist and drummer decided to start a new band. They only released one album, called New Found Power. On December 8, 2004, the guitarist Dimebag Darrell was shot and killed by an obsessed fan named Nathan Gale during a concert. After the incident, the band broke up.

[[Down (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American heavy metal bands

Down is a heavy metal band from New Orleans, Louisiana. They started playing in 1991 and the band consisted of members of several bands.

[[Triple DES]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, Triple DES is a block cipher created from the Data Encryption Standard (DES) cipher by using it three times. Triple DES is also known as TDES or, more standard, TDEA (Triple Data Encryption Algorithm ).

When it was discovered that a 56-bit key of DES is not enough to protect from brute force attacks, TDES was chosen as a simple way to enlarge the key space without a need to switch to a new algorithm. The use of three steps is essential to prevent meet-in-the-middle attacks that are effective against double DES encryption.

In general TDES with three different keys (3-key  TDES) has a key length of 168 bits: three 56-bit DES keys (with parity bits 3-key TDES has the total storage length of 192 bits), but due to the meet-in-the-middle attack the effective security it provides is only 112 bits. Another version, called two-key TDES (2-key TDES), uses k1 = k3, thus reducing the key size to 112 bits and the storage length to 128 bits. However, this mode can be taken advantage of through certain chosen-plaintext or known-plaintext attacks  and so TDES is treated by NIST to have only 80 bits of security.

By design, DES and therefore TDES, suffer from slow performance in software. TDES is better suited to hardware implementations, which are many of the places it is still used.

TDES is slowly disappearing from use, largely replaced by the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES). One large-scale exception is within the electronic payments industry, which still uses 2TDES extensively and continues to develop and spread standards based upon it (e.g. EMV, the standard for inter-operation of IC cards; also called "Chip cards",  and IC capable POS terminals and ATM's).  This guarantees that TDES will remain an active cryptographic standard well into the future.

[[Breakout (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Miley Cyrus albums, Pop rock albums

Breakout is the second studio album by singer Miley Cyrus. The album was released July 22, 2008. Singles from the album include "Full Circle", "Fly On The Wall", "7 Things", "Wake Up America", and "Breakout'.

[[7 Things]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Miley Cyrus songs

"7 Things" is a single released June 2008 off the album Breakout by Miley Cyrus. The music video for "7 Things" was released May 30, 2008.

[[Girls Just Want to Have Fun]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 songs

"Girls Just Wanna Have Fun" is a song by Cyndi Lauper. It was the first single by Lauper.  The single reached number one in over ten countries. It received a Grammy Award nomination for Record of the Year and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance. Cap'n Lou Albano was in the music video for the song.

The song was covered by Miley Cyrus. The Miley Cyrus version is off her album Breakout. It has been covered on either an album or in live concert by over 30 other artists.

[[Advanced Encryption Standard]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), is a symmetric-key, block cipher algorithm that was selected by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in 2001. It was selected for encrypting data. It is commonly used around the world. The Advanced Encryption Standard has replaced the Data Encryption Standard (DES). 

As of 2008, AES is one of the most popular algorithms used in symmetric key cryptography. It is available to programmers and the general public with various software packages.

[[Shōnen (media)]]

CATEGORIES: Anime and manga terms

Shōnen is a type of manga or anime meant for young teen boys usually between the ages of about 12 and 18. It often refers to manga. Examples include Dragon Ball, Bleach, One Piece, InuYasha, Naruto, YuYu Hakusho, Yu-Gi-Oh!, and  Fairy Tail

Shounen is usually noticed by its high amounts of fighting. It often has humorous plots with male characters. It often has themes of friendship. Fighting teams and similar groups are often shown. Attractive  female characters are also common, but not always present. The art style of shounen is usually less pretty than shōjo.

Beyond shōnen manga, manga for men (age 18+) is called seinen manga. Very few seinen manga have been published outside of Japan. In Japan, many older men read shounen magazines. Because of this, in Japan, shounen manga magazines are the most popular manga magazines.

[[The Amazing Race]]

CATEGORIES: American reality television series, 2000s television series, CBS network shows, Emmy Award winning programs

The Amazing Race is a reality television/game show. It is broadcast on CBS.

[[Financial crisis of 2007–2008]]

CATEGORIES: 2007, 2008, Financial crises, Stock market

The financial crisis of 2007–2008 was a major financial crisis, the worst of its kind since the Great Depression in the 1930s. Until the COVID-19 recession, the financial crisis of 2007-2008 is considered the worst financial crisis during the 21st century.

In September 2008 many large financial firms in the United States collapsed, merged, or went under conservatorship (a person is assigned to manage a company when it cannot manage itself). The factors that led to the crisis were reported in business journals many months before September 2008.

[[Detritivore]]

CATEGORIES: Animals

A detritivore (also known as decomposers) is an animal that feeds on dead organisms (living things) and breaks them down into smaller molecules. Detritivores are essential in the ecosystem as they return important materials such as carbon (see carbon cycle) back into the environment. Examples of common detritivores include earthworms and woodlice, but also includes microscopic (things that can only be seen using a microscope) bacteria.

[[Skid Row]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands

Skid Row is a Hard rock band from Toms River, New Jersey.  They were active from 1986 to 1996, then reunited in 1999.

[[Carbon cycle]]

CATEGORIES: Geochemistry

The carbon cycle is the way carbon is stored and replaced on Earth. Some of the main events take hundreds of millions of years, others happen annually.

The main ways that carbon gets into the carbon cycle are volcanoes, and the burning of fossil fuels like coal and gas. Through most of history, volcanoes were the biggest source of carbon to the carbon cycle, but in the last hundred years, people burning fossil fuels have been adding about a hundred time more CO2 to the air than volcanoes. That is, for every ton of CO2 added to the air by volcanoes, about 100 tons of CO2 have been added to the air by people.

The main way carbon gets taken out of the atmosphere is by photosynthesis by living organisms.  Some of this gets released as they die and decompose, but a proportion gets buried in sediment.  This is shown in the diagram. Sediment turns to rock, and it is the carbonate rocks like limestone which contain the now-solid CO2.  Some of the carbon from plants also becomes part of the soil, where it can stay for a long time before decomposing.

Another process takes CO2 out of the air. Weathering by rain washes out CO2 in the form of dilute carbonic acid. This reacts with rock, helping to dissolve and destroy it. This also ends up as sediment.

Some CO2 is also dissolved in the ocean.  Right now, the oceans are taking in more CO2 than they are releasing, every year.  However, this is making the oceans more acidic.

The store of carbon in sedimentary rock is far greater than the CO2 in the atmosphere (this is not shown in the diagram). Eventually it returns to the air as oceanic plates subduct in plate tectonics. At the margins of plate boundaries (and some other places) volcanoes form and spew out CO2. This completes the cycle.

[[Skepticism]]

CATEGORIES: Skepticism, Epistemology

Skepticism or scepticism (Greek skeptomai: to consider, to examine) refers to any view involving doubt.

People who have skepticism as an attitude, opinion, or method are called skeptics or sceptics.

[[United States Secretary of War]]

CATEGORIES: Former United States Executive Cabinet positions, 1789 establishments in the United States, 1947 disestablishments in the United States

The Secretary of War was a member of the United States President's Cabinet, beginning with George Washington's administration. A similar position, called either "Secretary at War" or "Secretary of War," was appointed to serve the Congress of the Confederation under the Articles of Confederation between 1781 and 1789.  Benjamin Lincoln and later Henry Knox held the position. When Washington was inaugurated as the first president under the Constitution, he appointed Knox to continue serving. 

The Secretary of War led the War Department. At first, he was responsible for all military affairs. In 1798, the Secretary of the Navy was added to the cabinet, and the scope of this office was reduced to a general concern with the Army. In 1947, the departments were recombined under the Secretary of Defense. The Secretary of War was replaced by the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Air Force, non-Cabinet positions under the Secretary of Defense.

[[United States Secretary of the Navy]]

CATEGORIES: Former United States Executive Cabinet positions, United States Secretaries of the Navy

The United States Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV) is the civilian head of the Department of the Navy. The position was a member of the President's Cabinet until 1947, when the Navy, Army, and newly created Air Force were placed in the Department of Defense and the Secretary of the Navy was placed under the Secretary of Defense.

[[United States Postmaster General]]

CATEGORIES: United States Postmasters General

The United States Postmaster General is the executive head of the United States Postal Service. The office, in one form or another, is older than both the United States Constitution and the United States Declaration of Independence. Benjamin Franklin was appointed by the Continental Congress as the first Postmaster General, serving slightly longer than 15 months.

In 1971, the United States Post Office Department was re-organized into the United States Postal Service, a special agency independent of the executive branch. Thus, the Postmaster General is no longer a member of the Cabinet and is no longer in line to be President.

[[White House Chief of Staff]]

CATEGORIES: White House Chiefs of Staff, 1946 establishments in the United States

The White House Chief of Staff is the highest-ranking member of the Executive Office of the President of the United States and a senior aide to the President. The CoS does things previously done by the President's private secretary. Ron Klain became White House Chief of Staff in January 2021. 

[[Edmund Randolph]]

CATEGORIES: 1753 births, 1812 deaths, United States Secretaries of State, United States Attorneys General, Governors of Virginia

Edmund Jenings Randolph (August 10, 1753– September 12, 1813) was an American attorney, Governor of Virginia, Secretary of State, and the first United States Attorney General.

[[John R. Steelman]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1999 deaths, White House Chiefs of Staff, Politicians from Arkansas, US Republican Party politicians

John Roy Steelman (June 23, 1900 - July 14, 1999) was the first Assistant to the President of the United States serving President Harry S. Truman from 1946 to 1953. The office later became the White House Chief of Staff.

[[James Baker]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American lawyers, Military people from Texas, Politicians from Houston, Texas, Princeton University alumni, United States Secretaries of State, United States Secretaries of the Treasury, US Republican Party politicians, White House Chiefs of Staff

James Addison Baker, III (born April 28, 1930) is an American attorney, politician, political administrator, and political adviser.

He served as the Chief of Staff in President Ronald Reagan's first administration and in the final year of the administration of President George H. W. Bush. Baker also served as Secretary of the Treasury from 1985-1988 in the second Reagan administration, and Secretary of State in the George H. W. Bush administration.

[[National Library of China]]

CATEGORIES: National libraries in Asia, China

The National Library of China is one of the world's largest libraries found in Beijing, China.  It has a large collection of ancient Chinese documents and books, as well as contemporary literature.

[[Ronaldinho]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Brazilian footballers, People from Porto Alegre, Living people, FIFA World Cup players, South American footballers

Ronaldo de Assis Moreira (born 21 March 1980), more commonly known as Ronaldinho, is a retired Brazilian footballer. He last played for Brasileiro Série A club Fluminense and also for the Brazil national team. 

He is regarded as one of the greatest footballers of all time. He was known for his dribbling, passing, flair, skills, and during his time playing for Barcelona. He is F.C. Barcelona's current club ambassador since September 2016.

[[Les Ferdinand]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Les Ferdinand is a former football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Chris Sutton]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, People from Nottingham, Sportspeople from Nottinghamshire, Premier League players

Chris Sutton (born 10 March 1973) is an English former footballer. He has played for the English national team.

[[Teddy Sheringham]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, 2002 FIFA World Cup players, English footballers, English football managers, People from Waltham Forest (London borough), Sportspeople from London, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players, Premier League players

Teddy Sheringham (born 2 April 1966) is an English professional footballer turned manager. He is best known as an association football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Dwight Yorke]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Trinidad and Tobago footballers, Association football midfielders, Association football forwards, Aston Villa F.C. players, Manchester United F.C. players, Premier League players, 2006 FIFA World Cup players

Dwight Eversley Yorke CM (born 3 November 1971) is a retired Trinidadian football player. He has played for Trinidad and Tobago national team. He won the 1998–99 Premier League Golden Boot, along side Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink and Michael Owen. This made him the joint first foreign Golden Boot winner.

[[Uwe Seeler]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, German footballers, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Sportspeople from Hamburg

Uwe Seeler (born 5 November, 1936) is a former German football player. He has played for Hamburger SV and West Germany national team.

[[Herbert Chapman]]

CATEGORIES: 1878 births, 1934 deaths, English footballers, English football managers, People from South Yorkshire

Herbert Chapman (19 January 1878 – 6 January 1934) was an English football player and manager.

[[Jari Litmanen]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Finnish footballers

Jari Litmanen (born 20 February 1971) is a Finnish football player.

[[Denis Compton]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 1997 deaths, Arsenal F.C. players, Deaths from sepsis, Disease-related deaths in Berkshire, English cricketers, English footballers, Infectious disease deaths in England

Denis Compton (23 May 1918 in Hendon, Middlesex – 23 April 1997 in Windsor, Berkshire) was an English cricketer and football player. He played for Arsenal.

[[Jan Mølby]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Danish footballers, Danish football managers

Jan Mølby (born 4 July 1963) is a former Danish football player. He has played for Denmark national team.

[[Tore André Flo]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Norwegian footballers

Tore André Flo is a former football player. He has played for Norway national team.

[[Iván Zamorano]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Chilean footballers, People from Santiago

Iván Zamorano (born 18 January 1967) is a former Chilean football player. He has played for Chile national team until 2001.

[[Mark Hopley]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English rugby union players, People from Crewe, Sportspeople from Cheshire

Mark Hopley (born 1 May 1984) is a rugby union player for Northampton Saints in the Guinness Premiership. He was born in Crewe, Cheshire. He plays as a flanker.

[[Formentera]]

CATEGORIES: Balearic Islands

Formentera is the smallest of the 4 Balearic Islands with population.

[[Menorca]]

CATEGORIES: Balearic Islands, Biosphere reserves

Menorca (Spain, Catalan: Menorca) is the most east of the Balearic Islands.

[[Sajid Mahmood]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, English cricketers, People from Bolton, Sportspeople from Greater Manchester

Sajid Iqbal Mahmood (born 21 December 1981 in Bolton, Greater Manchester) is an English cricketer of Pakistani Janjua Rajput descent. He is a right-arm fast bowler who plays international cricket for England and county cricket for Lancashire.

[[Flag of Sri Lanka]]

CATEGORIES: National flags

The Flag of Sri Lanka, also called the Lion Flag, consists of gold lion passant, holding a sword in its right fore paw, in front of a crimson background with four golden bo leaves in each corner. Around the background is a yellow border, and to its left are two vertical stripes of equal size in saffron and green, with the saffron stripe closest to the lion.

It became the flag in 1950 following the recommendations of a committee appointed by the 1st Prime Minister of Sri Lanka D.S. Senanayake.

[[RC4]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, RC4 (also known as ARC4 or ARCFOUR meaning Alleged RC4, see below) is one of the most common software stream ciphers. It is used in popular protocols like Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) (to protect Internet traffic) and WEP (to secure wireless networks).

RC4 is known for being simple and quick, but attacks are likely to happen when the start of the output keystream is not removed, or one keystream is used twice; some ways of using RC4 can turn into very insecure cryptosystems such as WEP.

RC4 was created by Ron Rivest of RSA Security in 1987. While its official name is "Rivest Cipher 4", the RC abbreviation is also known to stand for "Ron's Code" (see also RC2, RC5 and RC6).

RC4 was first created as a trade secret, but in September 1994 a description of it was posted to the Cypherpunks mailing list. It was soon posted on the sci.crypt newsgroup, and from there to many websites on the Internet.  The code was confirmed to be genuine(not fake) as its output matched that of proprietary software using licensed RC4.  Because the algorithm is known, it is no longer a trade secret. The name "RC4" is trademarked, however. RC4 is often referred to as "ARCFOUR" or "ARC4" (meaning Alleged RC4, because RSA has never officially released the algorithm), to avoid possible trademark problems. It has become part of some commonly used encryption protocols and standards, including WEP and WPA for wireless cards and TLS.

The two main reasons which helped its use over such a big range of applications are its speed and simplicity. Uses of RC4 in both software and hardware are extremely easy to develop.

The RC4 encryption algorithm is started with a different key length, usually between 40 and 256 bits, using the key-scheduling algorithm (KSA). Once this has been completed, the stream of encrypted bits is created using the pseudo-random generation algorithm (PRGA).

RC4 fails the standards set by cryptographers for a secure cipher in many ways, and is not recommended for use in new applications as there are a lot of methods of attacking RC4. Dropping the first kilobyte of data from the keystream can improve the security somewhat.

[[General Electric]]

CATEGORIES: American technology companies

General Electric is a big and multinational company based in the United States. It was created in 1892 by Thomas Edison through merging several companies that initially made electrical things. In the middle 20th century it became a major maker of turbojet engines and now makes many things. 

As of 2008, they are the third biggest company in the world. In May 2020, it sold its light bulb business. 

[[Blowfish (cipher)]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, Blowfish is a keyed, symmetric block cipher, made in 1993 by Bruce Schneier and since 1993 has been included(put together) in a large number of encryption products. Blowfish has a good encryption rate in software and until 2008 no cryptanalytic attack model of it has been found. However, the AES block cipher algorithm now has more attention.

Schneier made Blowfish as a general-purpose algorithm, to be used as a replacement for the old DES algorithm and to remove the problems and difficulties of other encryption algorithms. At the time Blowfish was released, many other algorithms were proprietary, or were secrets. Schneier has said that, "Blowfish is unpatented, and will remain so in all countries. The algorithm is hereby placed in the public domain, and can be freely used by anyone."

Main features of the design include key-dependent S-boxes and a very complex key schedule. Blowfish is one of the fastest block ciphers used by many people, except when changing keys. Each new key needs to be pre-processed which takes the same time as encrypting about 4 kilobytes of text, which is very slow compared to other block ciphers. This stops its use in certain applications (such as in the smallest embedded systems like the early smartcards), but it is not a problem in other applications. In one of the applications, it is actually good: the password-hashing method used in OpenBSD uses an algorithm that comes from Blowfish which makes use of the slow key schedule; the idea is that the extra computational effort required gives protection against dictionary attacks. See key strengthening.

Blowfish has a 64-bit block size and a variable key length from 0 up to 448 bits

It is a 16-round Feistel cipher and uses large key-dependent S-boxes. It is similar in structure to CAST-128, which uses fixed S-boxes.

In 1996, Serge Vaudenay found a known-plaintext attack needing 28r + 1 known plaintexts to break, where r is the number of rounds. Moreover, he also found a class of weak keys that can be detected and broken by the same attack with only 24r + 1 known plaintexts. This attack cannot be used against the regular Blowfish; it assumes knowledge of the key-dependent S-boxes. Vincent Rijmen, in his Ph.D. papers, introduced a second-order differential attack that can break four rounds and no more. Still there is no known way to break the full 16 rounds, apart from a brute-force search.

A sign extension bug in one of the published C code has been found in 1996.

There is no good cryptanalysis on the full-round version of Blowfish known publicly till 2008. However, in 2007, Bruce Schneier noted that while Blowfish is still in use, he recommended using the new Twofish algorithm instead 

[[Hal Colebatch]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1953 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, People from Herefordshire, Nationalist Party of Australia politicians, Members of the Australian Senate

Sir Harry Pateshall Colebatch (29 March 1872 – 12 February 1953) was the 12th Premier of Western Australia from 17 April to 17 May 1919. He was from the Nationalist Party. He was Premier for the shortest time in Western Australian history. This was because he was a member of the upper house of Parliament and it was usual for the Premier to be from the lower house. When he could not find a position in the lower house he resigned. 

[[Henry Lefroy]]

CATEGORIES: 1854 births, 1930 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, People from Perth, Western Australia, Nationalist Party of Australia politicians, Commonwealth Liberal Party politicians

Sir Henry Bruce Lefroy (24 March 1854 – 19 March 1930) was the 11th Premier of Western Australia from 28 June 1917 to 17 April 1919. He was from the Nationalist Party. He became premier after the Australian Labor Party split over the issue of conscription. Labor politicians led by John Scaddan agreed to join the Nationalist Party if Lefory was the leader, not Frank Wilson. He found it diificult to keep control over a government formed by different political parties. When it was discovered that he had used his casting vote in a Cabinet meeting to keep the leadership, he was forced to resign. He lost his seat in the 1921 elections and retired back to his farm.

[[Chevvy Pennycook]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, People from Bristol, English rugby union players

Chevvy Pennycook (born 6 April 1987 in Bristol, England) is a rugby union player for Bristol Rugby in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a flanker.

[[John Scaddan]]

CATEGORIES: 1876 births, 1934 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Premiers of Western Australia, Politicians from South Australia, Australian Labor Party politicians, People from Perth, Western Australia

John Scaddan (4 August 1876 – 21 November 1934) was the 10th Premier of Western Australia from 7 October 1911 to 27 July 1916. He was from the Labor Party. He was only 35 when he won a record majority of seats in the 1911 elections, making him the youngest premier of Western Australia.

His parents were from Cornwall and had moved to Moonta to work in the large copper mines. They later moved to Eaglehawk, near Bendigo where Scaddan worked in the gold mines and studied to be an engine driver. In 1896 he moved to the Western Australian goldfields. He was elected to parliament in 1904 where he became famous for his long speeches, some going for me than three hours. He became premier when the Labor Party won the 1911 election. He believed that the government should own and control businesses and he set up state owned shipping lines, brickworks, sawmills, trams, abattoirs, fishing, quarries and even a hotel. While many of these were well run, many were not, and a costly failure at the Wyndham freezing works led to a loss of support. At the next election he only won by two seats. When one ALP member disappeared, and another resigned in 1916, the Country Party were able to form a new government with help from the Liberal Party.

When the Labor Party split on conscription, Scaddan who supported it, joined the new National Labor Party. He later joined the Country Party. He was elected in and out of parliament over the next 15 years. He felt Western Australia was not treated fairly by the government of Australia, and was on a committee which looked at how Western Australia could become an independent country. He died suddenly from a Cerebral hemorrhage in 1934.

[[Frank Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1859 births, 1918 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, People from Sunderland

Frank Wilson (12 May 1859 – 7 December 1918) was the 9th Premier of Western Australia from 16 September 1910 until 7 October 1911 and then again from 27 July 1916 until 28 June 1917. He was a member of the various conservative political parties which were formed in Western Australia, including the Liberal Party, the Liberal League, and the Ministerialist Party. He was defeated by the Australian Labor Party in the elections of October 1911. He was able to form a group of anti-labor members in 1916 and become premier a second time. He lost this support when the Country Party was able to form a National Party to support the war effort. He lost his seat in the parliament to the County Party by only four votes in October 1917. Seriously ill with cancer, he died a few months later.

[[Newton Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1870 births, 1936 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, Independent politicians in Australia

Sir Newton James Moore (17 May 1870 – 28 October 1936) was the 8th Premier of Western Australia from 7 May 1906 until 16 September 1910. He became the premier when Rason resigned. He resigned as premier in 1910 and moved to London to become agent-general for Western Australia. During World War I he joined the Australian Army as an officer. After the war he was elected to the British House of Commons, taking over former Australian Prime Minister Sir George Reid's seat. In his first speech to the parliament he said that women should be able to become members of parliament.

[[Mathew Turner]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, South African rugby union players, People from Cape Town

Mathew Turner (born 18 January 1988 in Cape Town) is a South African rugby union player for Bristol Rugby in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as on the wing.

[[Andrew Card]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American lobbyists, Politicians from Massachusetts, United States Secretaries of Transportation, US Republican Party politicians, White House Chiefs of Staff

Andrew Hill "Andy" Card Jr. (born May 10, 1947) is an American politician and lobbyist, former United States Cabinet member, and head of George W. Bush's White House Iraq Group. Card served as U.S. Secretary of Transportation under George H. W. Bush and the White House Chief of Staff under his son. He announced his resignation as Chief of Staff March 28, 2006, effective April 14, 2006. 

[[Eton College]]

CATEGORIES: 1440 establishments, 1440s establishments in England, Schools in England

Eton College, or just Eton, is a British independent school for boys between the ages of 1318. It was founded in 1440 by King Henry VI, as the King's College of Our Lady of Eton.  

Eton College is in Eton, near Windsor in the English county of Berkshire. It is north of Windsor Castle. The school is one of the original nine English "public schools" as defined by the Public Schools Act 1868. The school is a member of the Eton Group of independent schools in the United Kingdom. The current Headmaster is Simon Henderson. For every 8 pupils there is one teacher. 

Eton is a full boarding school. All pupils live at the school. It is one of four such remaining boys' public schools (the others being Winchester College, Harrow School, and Radley College). Eton has educated many British and foreign aristocrats. Prince William and his brother Prince Harry went there. 

The list of graduates includes twenty former prime ministers, including David Cameron and Boris Johnson. The Good Schools Guide called the school "the number one boys' public school", adding "The teaching and facilities are second to none". The school is a member of the G20 Schools Group. It is registered as a charity.

[[PuTTY]]

CATEGORIES: Free software

PuTTY is a terminal emulator application which can act as a client for the SSH, Telnet, rlogin, and raw TCP computing protocols. The word "PuTTY" has no meaning, though 'tty' is  sometimes used to refer to the Unix terminals, as an acronym for 'teletype'.

PuTTY was first written for Microsoft Windows, but it has been ported to other operating systems including some Unix-like platforms. Mac OS and Mac OS X are still being ported, while unofficial ports have been ported it to the Symbian and Windows Mobile operating systems.

PuTTY is currently beta software. Licensed under the MIT License, and it is free and open source software.

[[Secure copy]]

CATEGORIES: Internet security, Computer protocols

Secure Copy or SCP is a method of securely transferring computer files between a local and a remote host or between two remote hosts, using the SSH protocol.

[[Migros]]

CATEGORIES: Supermarkets of Switzerland, 1925 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Switzerland, Zürich

Migros is a supermarket chain found in Switzerland and other countries.

[[SSH file transfer protocol]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Computer protocols

In computing, the SSH File Transfer Protocol (sometimes called Secure File Transfer Protocol or SFTP) is a network protocol that implements file transfer between computers. It is often used as more secure alternative of an FTP protocol, which transmits file contents, folder contents and even passwords without encryption.

SFTP protocol is built on top of SSH protocol which is used as a transport layer over the port 22 and is implemented by an SSH server such as OpenSSH. 

SFTP is different from SCP, which is another protocol relying on an SSH connection. It is also different from FTPS, which used SSL to encrypt the connection itself, rather than sending the data through an SSH tunnel. 

Many popular FTP programs have added support for SFTP. Access to the SFTP server can be granted either through a username, a password or by using a  public key.

[[Computer security]]

CATEGORIES: Computer security

Computer security  is a branch of information technology known as information security which is intended to protect computers. Computer security has three main goals:

Computer security involves telling computers what they are not to do. This makes computer security unique because most programming makes computers do things. Security takes much of a computer's power.

Basic computer security methods (in approximate order of strength) can be:

An example of complexity and pervasiveness of the issue is vending machines, per Hackers Lurking in Vents and Soda Machines April 7, 2014 New York Times.

[[Mark Odejobi]]

CATEGORIES: English rugby union players, Sportspeople from London, 1988 births, Living people

Mark Odejobi born 18 January, 1988 in London, England is a rugby union player for London Wasps in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a winger.

[[Damien Varley]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Irish rugby union players

Damien Varley (born 29 October 1983 in Limerick) is an Irish rugby union player for Munster in the Pro 12 and Heineken Cup. He plays as a Hooker. Varley plays his club rugby with Garryowen.  Before he played for the London Wasps.

[[Crayon Shin-chan]]

CATEGORIES: Anime

Crayon Shin-chan (クレヨンしんちゃん, Kureyon Shin-chan, also known as Shin-chan in other countries) is a Japanese manga and anime series written by Yoshito Usui. It has 56 (including the New Crayon Shin-chan series) manga volumes. The anime has been broadcast since 1992, and there are twenty-four movies as of 2016. They are popular all over the world. The anime program Shinchan has more than 900 episodes. This show is broadcasteon Tv Asahi in Japan and on Hungama TV in India.

[[Hamtaro]]

CATEGORIES: Manga, Anime, 2002 television series debuts, 2004 television series endings

The Adventures of Hamtaro (とっとこハム太郎, Tottoko Hamutarō, literally Trotting Hamtaro) is a children's storybook series by Ritsuko Kawai. The main character is a hamster named Hamtaro. 

[[Finn Harps F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Irish football clubs

Finn Harps are a football team in County Donegal, Republic of Ireland. They play in the Eircom Premier Division.

[[Sadomasochism]]

CATEGORIES: Paraphilias

Sadomasochism is a word which is mostly used in a social (non-medical) way. It means that people get together to either give or receive pain and humiliation. Usually it's a form of sex play. 

Sadists enjoy inflicting pain on others or humiliating them. Masochists get pleasure from being tortured, hurt, or humiliated.  

[[Lanzarote]]

CATEGORIES: Biosphere reserves, Islands of the Canary Islands

Lanzarote is one of the Canary Islands.

[[McMahon Line]]

CATEGORIES: Territorial disputes of China, 1910s treaties, 1910s in the United Kingdom, Tibet

The McMahon Line is a demarcation line drawn on map referred to in the Simla Convention, a treaty between Britain and Tibet signed in 1914.

Although its legal status is disputed, it is currently the effective boundary between China and India.

This dispute was used a pretext in a war between China and India in 1962.

[[Muradabad]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in India, Cities and towns in Uttar Pradesh

Moradabad (مراداباد,) is a city and a municipal corporation in Muradabad District in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It was established in 1600 by prince Murad, the son of the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan. As a result the city came to be known as Moradabad. It is the administrative headquarters of Moradabad District. It is also the birthplace of the origins of the Urdu language.

[[Theodor Heuss]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 births, 1963 deaths, Former members of the German Bundestag, German academics, Members of the Reichstag (Weimar Republic), Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Politicians from Baden-Württemberg, Politicians of the Free Democratic Party of Germany, Presidents of Germany

Theodor Heuss (31 January 1884 in Brackenheim - 12 December 1963 in Stuttgart) was a German politician. He was the first person elected to a regular term as President of the Federal Republic of Germany.

Heuss was born in Brackenheim, near Heilbronn. He studied art history and state studies in Munich and Berlin. 

He received his doctorate in 1905 in Munich. In 1908 he married Elly Heuss-Knapp (1881-1952). He worked for a political magazine from 1908 to 1912, and then for a regional newspaper. In 1910 he joined the Progressive People's Party and stayed there until 1918.

Between 1923 and 1926 he published the magazine Die Deutsche Nation ("The German Nation"). Heuss became a member of the German Democratic Party (Deutsche Demokratische Partei, DDP) and was a member of parliament for two periods.

In 1933 Heuss voted for the Enabling Act (Ermächtigungsgesetz) against his personal beliefs, following his party.

After World War II Heuss was the first Minister of Culture in Baden-Württemberg. He was one of the founders of the Free Democratic Party of Germany after WW II.

In 1949 he was elected as first President of the Federal Republic of Germany. He was reelected once.

[[India-Pakistan maritime trespassing]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan, India

India-Pakistan maritime trespassing refers to the frequent trespassing and violation of respective national territorial waters of India and Pakistan in peacetime. Most trespassing is common to Pakistani and Indian fishermen operating along the coastline of the Indian state of Gujarat and the Pakistani province of Sindh within the disputed region of Rann of Kachchh.

[[Indo-Bangladeshi barrier]]

CATEGORIES: Foreign relations of Bangladesh, Foreign relations of India, Buildings and structures in India, Buildings and structures in Bangladesh, Territorial disputes of India

The Indo-Bangladeshi barrier is a 4,000-kilometer fence that India is presently constructing to seal off the Indian-Bangladeshi international border from what was formerly East Bengal. East Bengal was a partitioned region of Bengal, called East Pakistan from 1956 to 1971. This obstruction is virtually isolating Bangladesh from the rest of India to a very large extent nowadays, since the Modi Govt. intervention, regarding the disputes along Indo-Bangla Border, along with the records of illegal immigrants of people belonging to both of the nations.

[[Frank-Walter Steinmeier]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Government ministers of Germany, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany, Presidents of Germany, Vice Chancellors of Germany

Frank-Walter Steinmeier (born 5 January 1956) is a German politician. He was Foreign Secretary, Vice Chancellor of Germany and is currently the twelfth President of the Federal Republic of Germany.

Steinmeier was born in Detmold in 1956. After his abitur (secondary school exam) and his military service, he studied law in Gießen. In 1982, he passed his first exam. His second exam was completed and passed in 1986.April 2009 Between 1986 to 1991, he worked as assistant to the Doctor of Public Law and Political Science at the Gießen University. He obtained his Doctorate of Law in 1991.

After 1991, he worked in the State Chancellory of Lower Saxony for the Minister-President, Gerhard Schröder. From 1998, he was Undersecretary of State in Gerhard Schröder's Chancellor Office after Schröder became Chancellor of Germany. In 1999 he became Secretary of State.

In 2005, he became the new Foreign Minister of Germany in the coalition cabinet of Angela Merkel. He became Vice Chancellor of Germany in 2007. In 2008 he was elected to be the chancellor candidate of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) for the election in 2009. The SPD got their worst result ever in a German federal election (23.0%), and Steinmeier became leader of the SPD parliamentary group in the Bundestag.

From 2013 to 2017 he was again Foreign Minister.

Since 19 March 2017 he has been President of Germany, succeeding Joachim Gauck.

[[Tipper Gore]]

CATEGORIES: Second Ladies of the United States, American photographers, 1948 births, Living people

Mary Elizabeth Aitcheson Gore (born August 19, 1948) is an author, photographer, former "Second Lady of the United States," and the wife of Al Gore, from whom she is separated. She is referred to as "Tipper." She and Al Gore separated in 2010. She is known for her role in the Parents Music Resource Center (PMRC), criticizing music with profane language and promoting Parental Advisory stickers (known as "Tipper Stickers") on record covers, especially in the heavy metal, punk and rap genres.

[[Second Ladies and Gentlemen of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Second Spouses of the United States

The Second Gentleman of the United States is the husband of the Vice President of the United States. The Second Lady of the United States would be the wife of the Vice President. The name took shape as late-20th-century and early-21st-century vice presidential wives took on public policy roles that attracted a great deal of media attention. Tipper Gore, wife of Vice President Al Gore of Tennessee, was active in several campaigns to remove indecent material from popular American entertainment like movies, television shows and music, starting when her husband was a senator.

The current Second Gentleman is Douglas Emhoff.

At this date, there are six living current or former Vice Presidents' wives or husbands:

[[Lynne Cheney]]

CATEGORIES: Second Ladies of the United States, Writers from Wyoming, 1941 births, Living people, People from Casper, Wyoming

Lynne Ann Vincent Cheney (born August 14, 1941) is  the wife of former U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney and the former Second Lady of the United States. She is a novelist, conservative scholar, and former talk-show host.

[[Graphium sarpedon]]

CATEGORIES: Graphium

The Common bluebottle (Graphium sarpedon) is a species of swallowtail butterfly. It is found in South and Southeast Asia and in parts of Australia. There are 15 subspecies with different geographical distributions.

[[Bama Boyz]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from Alabama, Hip hop bands, Montgomery, Alabama, Musical groups established in 2003, 2003 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Alabama

The Bama Boyz (a.k.a the Bamaz) are a Grammy-nominated, Dove Award winning, American record production, songwriting, and artist trio, with Eddie “E-Trez” Smith III, Jesse J. Rankins, Jonathan D. Wells as members.

[[Swallowtail butterfly]]

CATEGORIES: Papilionidae

Swallowtail butterflies are large, colorful butterflies which form the family Papilionidae. There are at least 550 species, and though the majority are tropical, members of the family are found on all continents except Antarctica. The family includes the largest butterflies in the world, the birdwing butterflies of Australia (genus  Ornithoptera).

[[Graphium]]

CATEGORIES: Graphium

Graphium is a genus of swallowtail butterflies. They are commonly known as swordtails. They are native to Eurasia, Africa, and Oceania. The genus has over 100 species. These species are mostly tropical. Their coloration is variable. Their habitat varies from rainforests to savannahs. Some species have tails on their hind wings which may be long and swordlike. Others do not have any tails. Graphium species are often seen at mud puddles.

[[Sauerbraten (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, MacOS games, Windows games

Sauerbraten (also known as Cube 2 or Sauer, German for “sour roast”) is a cross-platform, Quake-like, first-person shooter computer game that runs on Microsoft Windows, Linux, FreeBSD and Mac OS X using OpenGL and SDL. The game features single-player and multiplayer game play and contains an in-game level editor, its main feature. The game engine is free and open source software, under the Zlib License, with commercial support available from the developer's own business counterpart, Dot3 Labs.

The game started as a redesign to the original Cube Engine, and its first release was made on May 6, 2004. The game gets updated quite regularly.

[[Speaker of the House of Commons]]

Speaker of the House of Commons can refer to:

[[Town crier]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations

A town crier is a person who is employed by a town council to make public announcements in the streets. The crier can also be used in court or official announcements. Criers often dress elaborately, a tradition known from the 18th century, in a red and gold robe, white breeches, black boots and a tricorne hat.

They carry a handbell to make a loud noise and they shout the words "Oyez, Oyez, Oyez!" before making their announcements. The word "Oyez" means "hear ye," which is a call for silence and attention. Oyez is from an Anglo-Norman word for listen. Some town criers announcements are recorded in books called a Proclamation Book The proclamations book in Chester from the early 19th century records the town criers call as "O Yes, O Yes!"

[[Plague of Justinian]]

CATEGORIES: Byzantine Empire, Ancient Rome, Plague pandemics, 541, 542, History of Europe

The Plague of Justinian was a pandemic in the Byzantine Empire in the years 541–542. It was the first recorded plague pandemic. It is estimated that the Plague of Justinian killed as many as 100 million people across the world, because it returned about every twelve years until 770 when it stopped for about 500 years.

It caused Europe's population to drop by around 50% between 541 and 700. It also may have contributed to the success of the Muslim conquests.

Its social and cultural impact is comparable to that of the Black Death.

[[Zlib License]]

CATEGORIES: Software licences

The zlib License is an open source software license.

[[Plant cutting]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Plant cutting, also known as striking/cloning, is a technique for vegetatively (asexually) propagating plants. With this method,  a piece of the source plant containing at least one stem cell is placed in a suitable medium such as moist soil, potting mix, coir or rock wool. The cutting then grows new roots, stems, or both, and becomes a new plant independent of the parent.

[[Ferdinand Lassalle]]

CATEGORIES: 1825 births, 1864 deaths, German politicians, German prisoners, People from former German territories, People from Wrocław

Ferdinand Lassalle (11 April 1825 — 31 August 1864) was a German jurist and socialist politician.

Lassalle was born in Breslau. His father sent him to a business school in Leipzig. Lassalle changed to the University of Breslau. He later studied in Berlin.

He studied Philosophy, Philology (Latin and Ancient Greek) and Law.

Lassalle took part in the revolutions of 1848-49. He was put into prison and later banned from Berlin. He lived in Düsseldorf that time. In 1859, Lassalle returned to Berlin.

Lassalle was a liberal politician in the early 1860s. The liberals had some struggles with Otto von Bismarck. Lassalle thought about the living conditions of the working class. He found that the idea of self-help would not help the working class people. This led him to become a member of the Communist league. There he was in opposition to Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. 

Lassalle founded the Allgemeiner Deutscher Arbeiterverein (General German Workers' Association, ADAV) in 1863. This party later became the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD).

Lassalle was killed in a duel.

[[Hans-Dietrich Genscher]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Germany, Deaths from heart failure, Disease-related deaths in North Rhine-Westphalia, Former members of the German Bundestag, German lawyers, German military personnel of World War II, Government ministers of Germany, Nazis, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Politicians from Saxony-Anhalt, Politicians of the Free Democratic Party of Germany, Vice Chancellors of Germany

Hans-Dietrich Genscher (21 March 1927 – 31 March 2016) was a German politician. 

[[Jonny Kennedy (rugby union)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, English rugby union players, Sale Sharks rugby union players, Sportspeople from Cheshire

Jonny Kennedy (born 16 February 1990) is an English rugby union player for Sale Sharks in the Guinness Premiership. He was born in Leighton, Cheshire. He plays as a centre or on the wing.

[[Franz Müntefering]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Former members of the German Bundestag, Government ministers of Germany, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany, Vice Chancellors of Germany

Franz Müntefering (born January 16, 1940) is a German politician. He used to be Chairman of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD).

Müntefering was born in Neheim-Hüsten near Arnsberg.

After his school time he was taught to became an industrial salesman.

He joined the Social Democratic Party in 1966.

He was member of the Bundestag (Federal Parliament) from 1975 to 1992 and again from 1998 to 2013.

1998 he was a member of the Landtag (state parliament) of North Rhine-Westphalia.

From 1992 to 1995 he was Secretary of Social affairs in the State of North Rhine-Westphalia.

From 1995 to 2001 Party Chairman in that state.

From 1995 to 1998 he was Bundesgeschäftsführer (federal executive director) of the SPD.

In 1998 he became Secretary for Transport and Infrastructure of Germany under Chancellor Gerhard Schröder.

From 1999 to 2002 he was Secretary General of the Social Democratic Party.

From 2002 to 2005 fraction leader in the Bundestag.

He was Party Chairman of the SPD from 2004 to 2005. 

Uo from 2005 to 2007 he was Secretary for Working and Social Affairs and Vice Chancellor of Germany under Angela Merkel in her Grand Coaltion.

In 2007 he gave up all his jobs - excepted the mandate in Federal Parliament - for caring his ill wife.

After the death of his wife he returned.

From 2008 to 2009 he was Party Chairman of the SPD again.

[[Nick Royle]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, English rugby union players, Sale Sharks rugby union players

Nick Royle  (born 1983)  is a current England Rugby Sevens International rugby union player. He plays as a winger.

He has played for Warrington, Widnes Vikings, Sale Sharks and Fylde.

[[Carl Fearns]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, English rugby union players, Sale Sharks rugby union players, Sportspeople from Liverpool

Carl Fearns (born 28 May 1989 in Liverpool) is an English rugby union player for Sale Sharks in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a back-row.

[[James Gaskell]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, English rugby union players, People from Crewe, Sale Sharks rugby union players, Sportspeople from Cheshire

James Gaskell (born 20 May 1990) is a rugby union player for Sale Sharks in the Guinness Premiership. He was born in Crewe, Cheshire. He plays as a lock.

[[Martin Halsall]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English rugby union players, Sale Sharks rugby union players, People from Lancashire

Martin Halsall (born 25 December 1984 in Blackpool, England) is a rugby union player for Sale Sharks in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a prop.

[[Alex Shaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, English rugby union players, Sale Sharks rugby union players, Sportspeople from Kent

Alex Shaw (born 31 March 1987 in Maidstone, Kent, England) is a rugby union player for Sale Sharks in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a back-row.

[[Chris Leck]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, English rugby union players, Sale Sharks rugby union players, Sportspeople from Manchester

Chris Leck (born 21 May 1986 in Manchester, England) is a rugby union player for Sale Sharks in the Guinness Premiership. He plays as a scrum-half.

[[Secret Water]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 books, Children's books, English novels

Secret Water is the eighth book in Arthur Ransome's Swallows and Amazons series of children's books. It was published in 1939.

This book is set in and around Hamford Water in Essex, close to the resort town of Walton-on-the-Naze. It brings the Swallows and the Amazons together and introduces a new group of characters, the Eels and the Mastodon. Ransome sailed to Hamford Water, an area of salt marshes and low lying islands in his boat Nancy Blackett. He set the book in this tidal place which offered a new setting for his characters and chances to explore and map the area.

[[Gran Turismo (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation games, 1997 video games, Gran Turismo series

Gran Turismo is a driving simulation video game created by Polyphony Digital for Sony PlayStation console. The game was first sold in 1997. There are seven main games of Gran Turismo series and by late 2008 over 50 million Gran Turismo games have been sold by Sony. Each of the games simulate many different types of car including small, big, racing, old, new, Formula one and concept cars such as the Nike 2022. The cars look very realistic. Gran Turismo games were one of the first video games to include music from famous artists. Sony also released three Gran Turismo Concept versions. The game play is races similar to all real-life car racing including racing driver tests and everything from one short lap races in slow cars to 24 hour Le Mans racing challenges in prototype cars.

[[Aramid]]

CATEGORIES: Armour, Polymers

Aramids are polymers. The name stands for aromatic polyamide. Structurally aramids are similar to proteins.

[[Brute force attack]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

A brute force attack is a term in cryptanalysis. It means trying to break a coded cyphertext by trying a lot of possibilities with fast computers. For example, a large number of the possible keys are tried in the key space. If successful , this decrypts the encrypted message. 

[[Information theory]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Information theory is a branch of applied mathematics and electrical engineering.  Information theory measures the amount of information in data that could have more than one value.  In its most common use, information theory finds physical and mathematical limits on the amounts of data in data compression and data communication.  Data compression and data communication are statistical, because they guess unknown values.  The amount of information in data measures how easily it is guessed by a person who does not know its value.  

A key measure in information theory is "entropy". Entropy quantifies the amount of uncertainty involved in the value of a random variable or the outcome of a random process. For example, identifying the outcome of a fair coin flip (with two equally likely outcomes) provides less information (lower entropy) than specifying the outcome from a roll of a dice (with six equally likely outcomes). Some other important measures in information theory are mutual information, channel capacity, error exponents, and relative entropy.

[[Block cipher]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a block cipher is a symmetric key cipher which operates on a groups of bits of fixed length, called blocks, using an exact transformation. During encryption, a block cipher algorithm might take (for example) a 128-bit block of plaintext as input, and output a corresponding 128-bit block of ciphertext. The exact transformation is controlled using a second input — the secret key. Decryption is similar: the decryption algorithm takes, in this example, a 128-bit block of ciphertext together with the secret key, and output the original 128-bit block of plaintext.

One of the early block cipher designs was the Data Encryption Standard (DES), developed at IBM and published as a standard in 1977. A successor to DES, the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES); also using block cipher, was adopted in 2001.

[[Authentication]]

CATEGORIES: Security, Computer security

Authentication (pronounced /ɔˈθɛntɪˌkeɪt/ "aw-then-ti-keyt") (from Greek αυθεντικός; real or genuine, from authentes; author) is the actions taken to establish or verify something (or someone) as authentic. It is the method of verifying claims made by someone about the thing. This might involve confirming the identity of a person, the origins of an object (or something), or to make sure that a computer program (or user) is a trusted one. People are usually authenticated by something they know (password), something they have (key), or something they are (biometrics).

[[DES-X]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, DES-X (or DESX) is an alternative to the DES (Data Encryption Standard) block cipher designed to increase the complexity of a brute force attack using a technique called key whitening. As DES suffers from brute force attack DES-X was a trial to overcome such drawbacks.

[[Hostname]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking, Internet

A hostname (also known as a sitename) is the unique name by which a network device (which may be a computer, file server, network storage device, copier, cable modem, etc.) is defined and known on a network.  The hostname is used to identify a particular host in various electronic communication networks such as the World Wide Web, e-mail or Usenet. 

On the Internet, the terms "hostname" and "domain name" are often misused interchangeably, but there are small technical differences between them.

[[National Institute of Standards and Technology]]

CATEGORIES: Standards, United States government agencies, 1901 establishments in the United States, United States Department of Commerce

The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), known between 1901 and 1988 as the National Bureau of Standards (NBS), is a measurement standards laboratory which is a non-regulatory (non-controlled) agency of the United States Department of Commerce. The institute's mission is to promote U.S. innovation and industrial competitiveness by advancing measurement science, standards, and Technology in ways that enhance economic security and improve quality of life.

[[Key size]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, key size or key length is the size (measured in bits or bytes) of the key used in a cryptographic algorithm (such as a cipher). Typical key sizes in modern symmetric ciphers are 128, 192, and 256 bits. Older symmetric ciphers used only 40, 56, or 64 bits, which can be broken by brute force. 128 bits is considered secure against brute-force by traditional computers, but not quantum computers. 192 and 256 bit keys are considered quantum-safe, and AES keys of these lengths are approved for protecting top secret information. Asymmetric (public key) ciphers such as RSA need a much longer key to be secure. RSA keys are typically at least 2048 bits. A large key size alone does not necessarily mean a cipher is secure - there are many insecure ciphers which have a large key size but have other design flaws that allow them to be broken.

[[Kandinsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1944 deaths, People from Moscow, Printmakers, Russian painters

Wassily  Kandinsky  (16 December – 13 December 1944) was a Russian painter, printmaker and art theorist.

He was one of the most important 20th-century artists. He was a major figure in modern art and painted some of the first modern abstract works. His art changed several times during his life. It was fauvist, abstract, expressionist and constructivist in turn.

[[Public-key cryptography]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

Public-key cryptography, also called asymmetric cryptography, is a  communication where people exchange messages that can only be read by one another. 

In public key cryptography, each user has a pair of cryptographic keys:

The private key is kept secret, while the public key may be widely distributed and used by other users. 

Incoming messages are encrypted with the recipient's public key and can only be decrypted with their corresponding private key. The keys are related mathematically, but the user's private key cannot be easily got from the widely used public key.  The most usual problem with this method arises when private key is accidentally leaked.

The two main branches of public key cryptography are:

They are often used together on the same message.

[[John Ashcroft]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American lobbyists, American Pentecostals, Governors of Missouri, People from Springfield, Missouri, Politicians from Chicago, United States Attorneys General, United States senators from Missouri, US Republican Party politicians, Yale University alumni

John David Ashcroft (born May 9, 1942) is an American consultant, lobbyist and politician. He was the 79th United States Attorney General. He served during the first term of President George W. Bush from 2001 until 2005. Ashcroft was previously the Governor of Missouri (1985–1993) and a U.S. Senator from Missouri (1995–2001). Ashcroft was born in Chicago, Illinois.

[[Muslim conquests]]

CATEGORIES: History of Islam, History of Africa

The first Arab Muslim conquests (632–732), (فتح, Fatah, literally opening,) also referred to as the Islamic conquests or Arab conquests, began after the death of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. He established a new unified political polity in the Arabian peninsula which under the following Rashidun and Umayyad Caliphates saw a century of rapid expansion of Arab power well beyond the Arabian peninsula in the form of a vast Muslim Arab Empire with an area of influence that stretched from northwest India, across Central Asia, the Middle East, North Africa, southern Italy, and the Iberian Peninsula, to the Pyrenees. 

The Arab conquests brought about the collapse of the Sassanid Empire and a great territorial loss for the Byzantine Empire. Though spectacular, the Arab successes are not hard to understand in hindsight. The Sassanid Persian and Byzantine empires were militarily exhausted from decades of fighting one another. This prevented them from dealing effectively with the mobile Arab raiders operating from the desert. Moreover, many of the peoples living under the rule of these empires, for example Jews and Christians in Persia and Monophysites in Syria, were disloyal and sometimes even welcomed the Arab invaders, largely because of religious conflict in both empires.

[[Key space]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, the key space of an algorithm refers to the set of all possible keys that can be used to initialize the cryptographic algorithm. For example, if an algorithm works using a key that is a string of 10 bits, then its key space is the set of all binary strings of length 10 bits; i.e. we have key space of size 210 = 1024.

To avoid attackers from guessing the key using a brute-force attack, the key space is usually designed to be very large. Another needed attribute is that the key space designed to be flat, having no or very few weak keys.

[[Roger Williams (theologian)]]

CATEGORIES: 1603 births, 1683 deaths, American Baptists, American Calvinists, American theologians, Christian ministers, Christian theologians, Christian writers, English Protestants, English theologians, History of Rhode Island, People from London, People from Providence, Rhode Island, Puritanism

Roger Williams (December 21, 1603 – April 1, 1683) was an English-American Puritan, and a Calvinist-Baptist theologian. He was widely known as a supporter of religious toleration and separation of church and state. He also supported fair dealings with Native Americans. In 1644, he received a royal charter creating the colony of Rhode Island, named for the main island in Narragansett Bay. He is believed to have started the first or second Baptist church in the United States. He is known to have left the church soon afterwards, saying, "God is too large to be housed under one roof."April 2009

[[Unitarianism]]

CATEGORIES: Unitarianism

Unitarianism is a term that describes some forms of Christianity. Unitarianism can be described as the belief that God is just one person. This is different from what most other Christians think, which is that God is three different people all in the same person. That belief is called Trinitarianism. Unitarian Christians believe in Jesus of Nazareth. They think that Jesus was a great leader and prophet, but they generally do not think that Jesus is part of God himself.

[[United States National Security Council]]

CATEGORIES: United States National Security Council

The White House National Security Council (NSC) in the United States is the principal forum used by the President for considering national security and foreign policy matters with his senior national security advisors and Cabinet officials and is part of the President's Executive Office. It began under President Harry S. Truman.

[[Stephen Hadley]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, United States National Security Advisors

Stephen John Hadley (born February 13, 1947, in Toledo, Ohio) is the current (21st) U.S. Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (commonly referred as National Security Advisor) for President George W. Bush.  He had been Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor from January 22, 2001. On January 26, 2005, he  replaced Condoleezza Rice as National Security Advisor, upon Rice's confirmation as Secretary of State.

Hadley served as a senior foreign and defense policy advisor to then-Governor Bush during the 2000 presidential campaign and worked in the Bush-Cheney Transition on the National Security Council.

[[Deputy National Security Advisor]]

CATEGORIES: United States National Security Council, United States-related lists

The Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, commonly referred to as the Deputy National Security Advisor, is a member of the Executive Office of the President of the United States, serving as deputy to the President's National Security Advisor.

Among other responsibilities, the Deputy National Security Advisor serves as Executive Secretary to the National Security Council Principals Committee, and as Chairman of the National Security Council Deputies Committee.

[[Director of the Central Intelligence Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency

Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (D/CIA) serves as the head of the Central Intelligence Agency, which is part of the United States Intelligence Community. He/She reports to the Director of National Intelligence (DNI).  

The Director is assisted by the Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. The Director is nominated by the President, with the concurring or nonconcurring recommendation from the Director of National Intelligence  and must be confirmed by majority vote from the Senate.

[[Procopius]]

CATEGORIES: 500 births, 565 deaths, Byzantine Empire, Ancient Roman historians, Ancient Roman writers

Procopius of Caesarea (Προκόπιος ο Καισαρεύς, c. 500 – c. 565) was a prominent Eastern Roman scholar. He took part in the wars of the Emperor Justinian I, and was the major historian of the 6th century AD, writing the Wars of Justinian, the Buildings of Justinian and the celebrated Secret History. He is commonly held to be the last major historian of the ancient world.

[[Porter Goss]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency, Politicians from Connecticut, United States representatives from Florida, US Republican Party politicians, People from Waterbury, Connecticut

Porter Johnston Goss  (born December 10, 1938) is an American politician. He was the last Director of Central Intelligence and the first Director of the Central Intelligence Agency following the passage of the 2004 Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act, which abolished the DCI position. A CIA officer in Latin America during the Cold War, he served as a Republican member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1989 until he took up his post at the agency.

[[George Tenet]]

CATEGORIES: Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency, People from New York, 1953 births, Living people

George John Tenet the son of  Greek northern Epirus immigrants was born in January 5, 1953.  He was the Director of Central Intelligence for the United States Central Intelligence Agency and is Distinguished Professor in the Practice of Diplomacy at Georgetown University.  Tenet held the position as the DCI from July 1997 to July 2004, making him the second-longest serving director in the agency's history — behind Allen Welsh Dulles — as well as one of the few DCIs to serve under two U.S. presidents of opposing political parties. 

[[Peer Steinbrück]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Ministers-President of North Rhine-Westphalia, Politicians from Hamburg, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany

Peer Steinbrück (born 10 January 1947) is a German politician.

Steinbrück was born in Hamburg. From 1968 to 1969 he was training as a reserve officer of the Bundeswehr (German army). From 1970 to 1974 he studied national economy in Kiel. After that he worked in different ministries.

In 1969 he joined the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD). In 1993 he became Secretary for Economy and Infrastructure in the State of Schleswig-Holstein. In 1998 he changed to the State of North Rhine-Westphalia and became Secretary for Infrastructure, up from 2000 Secretary of Finance. In 2000 he was elected into the State Parliament of North Rhine-Westphalia.

He was Minister President (Ministerpräsident) of North Rhine-Westphalia from November 2002 to June 2005.

On the state election on 22 May 2005 Steinbrück failed to be reelected as Minister President of North Rhine-Westphalia. His successor was Jürgen Rüttgers (CDU).

Since November 2005 he has been finance minister of Germany and Vice chief of SPD.

[[Beyblade]]

Beyblade (爆転シュート ベイブレード, Bakuten Shūto Beiburedo, literally translates to Explosive Shooting Beyblade) is an anime and manga series about a group of kids battling with highly powerful spinning tops enchanted with sacred bit-beasts or spirits of mythical and powerful creatures.

[[Wolfmother]]

CATEGORIES: Australian hard rock bands, Australian heavy metal bands, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups from Sydney

Wolfmother are an Australian rock band. They won a Grammy award in 2007 for their song 'Woman'. Musically they are similar to blues rock bands like Led Zeppelin.

[[Defense Intelligence Agency]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Defense agencies, United States intelligence agencies

The Defense Intelligence Agency, or DIA, is the central producer and manager of foreign military intelligence for the United States. As one of the principal members of the U.S. Intelligence Community, the agency works to answer national-level defense objectives for the President, the Secretary of Defense, and senior U.S. policymakers.

Although the DIA is designated a Department of Defense combat support agency, the majority of its 16,500 employees (65%) are civilian and its intelligence operations in support of U.S. national strategic planning extend far beyond the zones of combat. The agency has its own Clandestine Service, which conducts espionage activities around the world, particularly in countries where the military has better access or more specialized military experts than the Central Intelligence Agency. Further, DIA leads the Intelligence Community in collection and production of measurement and signature intelligence. 

The agency was established in 1961 under President John F. Kennedy by Defense Secretary Robert McNamara. The Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency - who is nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate - chairs the Military Intelligence Board, which coordinates activities of the entire defense intelligence community.

[[Makenna Cowgill]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Connecticut, Living people, 1998 births

Makenna Cowgill (born 11 September 1998) is an American actress. She has provided voices for many animated movies.

[[African bush elephant]]

CATEGORIES: Elephants

The African bush elephant (Loxodonta africana) is the larger of the two species of African elephant. The bull males can weigh 13000 pounds and stand 13 feet tall at the shoulder. 

The population of bush elephants has drastically declined in the last thirty years. It is hunted for its ivory and meat. Protection by game wardens has been only partly successful.

This large elephant is well adapted to the grassland plains of East Africa, and it is sometimes called the African savannah elephant. 

The African bush elephant occurs in Sub-Saharan Africa including Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Zambia, and Angola. 

It moves between a variety of habitats. These include subtropical and temperate forests, dry and seasonally flooded grasslands and woodlands, wetlands and agricultural land from sea level to mountain slopes. In Mali and Namibia, it also lives at times in desert areas.

[[Binda, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Binda is a village in the Southern Tablelands region of New South Wales, Australia in Upper Lachlan Shire.

It is about 261 km south-west of Sydney and 19 km north of Crookwell. Other near-by towns or locations are:

In 2006, the population of Binda was 131 people.

[[Hollister]]

Hollister can mean:

[[Hollister Co.]]

CATEGORIES: American clothing companies, 2000 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Ohio

thumb|right|A Hollister store in Concord, CaliforniaHollister Co. is a clothing company owned by Abercrombie & Fitch. The kind of clothing they sell is casual, meaning that it is for informal use. It also has a theme based on the surfing cultural movement of Southern California. The first Hollister store opened in July 2000 in Columbus, Ohio. Even though Hollister opened in 2000, many of their items say it was created in 1922. This is based on a story that is not real. On October 25, 2008 Hollister opened the first store outside the U.S. and Canada in Brent Cross, London.

[[Ron Simmons]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, American professional wrestlers, Cleveland Browns players, College Football Hall of Fame, Living people, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), WWE Hall of Fame, WWE people

Ronald "Ron" Simmons (born May 15, 1958) is an American retired professional wrestler and American football player. He competed under his real name and the ring names Faarooq Asaad and Faarooq. He is currently signed to the WWE under a Legends program.

He competed in the National Wrestling Association (NWA), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) and World Wrestling Federation / Entertainment (WWF/E). During his time in WCW, he became the first African American to win the World Heavyweight Championship when he defeated Big Van Vader on August 2, 1992. In the WWF, he is known for being one-half of the Acolytes Protection Agency along with Bradshaw and was also a member of The Nation of Domination. He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Bradshaw in 2012.

Simmons played college football at Florida State University. He was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 2008. He played one season in the National Football League (NFL) with the Cleveland Browns and one season in the Canadian Football League (CFL) with the Ottawa Rough Riders.

[[Fire services in the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Firefighting, Public services in the United Kingdom

The fire service in the United Kingdom operates under separate legislative and administrative arrangements in England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

[[Bleach (Nirvana album)]]

CATEGORIES: Nirvana albums, 1989 albums, Debut albums, Rock albums

Bleach is the first album by the American rock band, Nirvana. It did not become popular when it was released, but when Nirvana's second album Nevermind was released in 1991, many Nirvana fans discovered Bleach. It is the best-selling release ever on the Sub Pop label.

[[Zub]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 video games

Zub is a computer game made for use on the Commodore 64 and ZX Spectrum computers which was released in 1986 by Mastertronic. The code was written by John and Ste Pickford on the ZX Spectrum and Phillip Brian Allsopp on the Commodore 64, and the music was composed by David Whittaker.

[[Molly Hatchet]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, American hard rock bands, Southern rock bands, Musical groups from Florida, Musicians from Jacksonville, Florida, Musical groups established in 1975, 1975 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Florida

Molly Hatchet is a southern rock band from Jacksonville, Florida. They were formed in 1971 by Dave Hlubek and Steve Holland.

[[Northern Italy]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Italy

Northern Italy (Italia Settentrionale, Italia del Nord, Padania, Alta Italia, Norditalia or just Nord) is an area that is made up of two areas in Italy: 

Northern Italy is more a business area compared to the south and is colder. People from the south sometimes emigrate to the north because of this.

This region has 26,835,082 inhabitants and an area of 46,301 mi² (119,921 km²). The largest city is Milan. It is generally seen as having a higher wealth than the southern regions of Italy. This is due to the 'North-South' Divide which is said to split the country in half in terms of means of development.

[[Thermosphere]]

CATEGORIES: Layers of Earth's atmosphere

The thermosphere is the fourth layer of the Earth's atmosphere. It is directly above the mesosphere (middle layer) and directly below the exosphere (top layer). 

The name thermosphere is taken from the Greek word "thermos" which means 'heat'. This layer has high temperatures because it absorbs X-rays and extreme ultraviolet radiation from the Sun. Even though it has temperatures of 2,000 °C (3,360 °F), the density of the thermosphere is so low that it doesn't feel hot. The absorbed ionizing radiation also creates the ionosphere. Shortwave radio waves can bounce off the Kennelly-Heaviside layer (ionosphere) and go to distant parts of the Earth. This layer is very helpful in radio communication.  

[[Anaconda (installer)]]

CATEGORIES: Red Hat

Anaconda is the installer for Red Hat Linux and Fedora. It is written in Python and C, with a graphical interface using GTK+ 3 and PyGObject and a text inetrface using python-newt. A kickstart file can be used to automatically configure the installation, allowing users to run it without much supervision.

Anaconda is used by RHEL, Fedora and a number of other projects, Anaconda offers a text-mode and GUI mode, so users can install on a wide range of systems.

Anacondas are lizard-eating boas, and the Caldera installation program was called "Lizard", hence this name was chosen.

[[Canowindra, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Canowindra (pronounced Can-noun-dra) is an historic town near Cowra in the central west of New South Wales, Australia. Canowindra is on the Belubula River.

[[Robert Cutler]]

CATEGORIES: United States National Security Advisors, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, 1895 births, 1974 deaths

Robert Cutler (1895 – 1974) was a U.S. administrator. He served as National Security Advisor between 1953 and 1955, and again from 1957 to 1958. A graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School and attorney and bank executive in Boston, Massachusetts before taking public office, he was the person to serve in the newly created position of National Security Advisor during the Eisenhower Administration.

[[St. Anthony-Chapel]]

CATEGORIES: Aachen, Buildings and structures in North Rhine-Westphalia, Churches in Germany

The St. Anthony-Chapel is a chapel in the district Kornelimünster of the German city of Aachen.

It was built in 1718 but destroyed by an earthquake a short time later. The abbot of the abbey at Kornelimünster ordered to rebuild the damaged building. It was completed in 1781.

The St. Anthony-Chapel belongs to a group of five chapels of Kornelimünster.

[[United States Secretary of Transportation]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Transportation, United States Secretaries of Transportation, 1967 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of Transportation is the head of the United States Department of Transportation. The Secretary is a member of the President's Cabinet. 

[[The Bushwackers (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Australian musical groups, Folk music groups, Country bands, Musical groups from Melbourne, Musical groups established in 1973, 1973 establishments in Australia, Musical groups disestablished in 1984, 1984 disestablishments in Australia, Musical groups established in 1993, 1990s establishments in Australia

The Bushwackers Band was first called the Bushwackers and Bullockies Band. It is an Australian folk and country music band. It was active from the early 1970s to 1984. The group started as a trio playing around Latrobe University, Melbourne. The players were Dave Isom, Jan Wositzky and Bert Kanahoff.  Their first album, The Shearer's Dream was made in 1974 with Dobe Newton on lagerphone and vocals, Mick Slocum on accordions and vocals, Jan Wositzky on harmonica, bush bass and vocals, Tony Hunt on fiddle and viola and Dave Isom on guitar. 

Recordings include Faces in the Street, Beneath the Southern Cross, Bushfire, Murrumbidgee and The Shearers Dream. some of these were made through Australian record label Astor Records. The album And the Band Played Waltzing Matilda was made with EMI records in 1976. It is regarded as one of their best recordings.

Many songs were settings of poetry written by Australian bush poets including Henry Lawson.

[[United States Department of Transportation]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Transportation, 1967 establishments in the United States

The United States Department of Transportation (DOT) is a federal Cabinet department of the United States government concerned with transportation. It was established by an act of Congress on October 15, 1966 and began operation on April 1, 1967. It is administered by the United States Secretary of Transportation. Their current mission statement is, "The mission of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is to ensure our Nation has the safest, most efficient and modern transportation system in the world, which improves the quality of life for all American people and communities, from rural to urban, and increases the productivity and competitiveness of American workers and businesses."

[[United States Department of War]]

CATEGORIES: Former United States Executive Departments, 1949 disestablishments, 1789 establishments in the United States, 1940s disestablishments in the United States

The United States Department of War, also called the War Office, was the department of the United States government's executive branch responsible for the operation and maintenance of land (and later air) forces from 1789 until September 18, 1947, when it became part of the National Military Establishment, renamed on August 10, 1949 the Department of Defense. The War Department also had responsibility for the young nation's naval affairs until the establishment of the Navy Department in 1798.

[[United States Department of Commerce and Labor]]

CATEGORIES: Former United States Executive Departments, United States Department of Commerce, United States Department of Labor, 1903 establishments in the United States, 1910s disestablishments in the United States

The United States Department of Commerce and Labor was a Cabinet department of the United States government.

The department was created on February 14, 1903. Later, on March 4, 1913 the name changed to the Department of Commerce. Then, its bureaus and agencies specializing in labor moved to the new Department of Labor.

The department was administered by the United States Secretary of Commerce and Labor.

[[United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare]]

CATEGORIES: Former United States Executive Departments, United States Department of Education, United States Department of Health and Human Services, 1953 establishments in the United States, 1979 disestablishments in the United States

The United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (also known as HEW) was a cabinet-level department of the United States government from 1953 until 1979.  It was administered by the United States Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.  In 1979, a separate Department of Education (ED) was created from this department, and HEW was renamed as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).

[[United States Post Office Department]]

CATEGORIES: Former United States Executive Departments, United States Postal Service, 1792 establishments in the United States, 1971 disestablishments in the United States

The Post Office Department is the former name of the United States Postal Service when it was a Cabinet department. It was headed by the United States Postmaster General.

The Postal Service Act signed by President George Washington on February 20, 1792 established the Department. Postmaster General John McLean was the first to call it the Post Office Department rather than just the "Post Office." The organization became more important in the government when President Andrew Jackson asked his Postmaster General, William T. Barry, to sit as a member of the Cabinet.

During the Civil War, postal services in the  Confederacy were provided by the Confederate States of America Post Office Department, headed by Postmaster General John Henninger Reagan.

The Postal Reorganization Act signed by President Richard Nixon on August 12, 1970, replaced the cabinet-level Post Office Department with the independent United States Postal Service.  The Act took effect on July 1, 1971.

[[United States Department of Education]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Education, 1979 establishments in the United States

The United States Department of Education (also referred to as ED, for Education Department) is a Cabinet-level department of the United States government. Created by the Department of Education Organization Act (Public Law 96-88), it was signed into law by President Jimmy Carter on October 17, 1979 and began operating on May 4, 1980.

[[United States Department of Housing and Urban Development]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, 1965 establishments in the United States

The United States Department of Housing, often abbreviated HUD, is a Cabinet department of the United States federal government. Although its beginnings were in the House and Home Financing Agency, it was founded in 1965 to develop and execute policy on housing and cities. It has largely scaled back its urban development function and now focuses primarily on housing.

The department was established on September 9, 1965 when President Lyndon Johnson signed the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act 89 into law. It stipulated that the department was to be created no later than November 8, 60 days following the date of enactment. The actual implementation was postponed until January 13, 1966, following the completion of a special study group report on the federal role in solving urban problems.

HUD is administered by the United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. The former administrator of the US Small Business Association, Steve Preston, was nominated to the Position of Secretary of HUD by President Bush on April 18, 2008. He was confirmed by the Senate and his public swearing in ceremony was on June 6, 2008.

[[United States Department of Veterans Affairs]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Veterans Affairs

The United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is a government-run military veteran benefit system with Cabinet-level status. It is responsible for administering programs of veterans’ benefits for veterans, their families, and survivors. The benefits provided include disability compensation, pension, education, home loans, life insurance, vocational rehabilitation, survivors’ benefits, medical benefits and burial benefits.

It is administered by the United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs.

[[Particle accelerator]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear physics

A particle accelerator, also called an atom smasher, is a machine that accelerates (speeds up) particles and makes them travel at very high speeds.  Accelerators work by pushing particles like electrons, protons, or atomic nuclei (the centers of atoms) with electric fields and by steering them with magnetic fields. Their main use is to study particle physics.

The largest accelerators are used to study particles smaller than atoms; smaller accelerators are used to study atomic nuclei and make radioactive materials.   There are two kinds of particle accelerators: linear accelerators and circular accelerators. Linear accelerators move the particles in a line, while circular accelerators move the particles in a circle.   One example of a particle accelerator is the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. It is very big, stretching through two countries.  Another example is the Tevatron in the United States.  The cathode ray tube, used in 20th century televisions and computer monitors is also a simple accelerator for electrons.

When accelerated particles hit other particles such as atoms, smaller pieces come out. This helps people see particles smaller than an atom. Normally those particles cannot be seen, but they can in the particle accelerator.  This is because in some ways energy and matter are the same thing. At the high speed created in these machines, some of the movement energy is changed into matter. It is the opposite process that nuclear weapons use; nuclear weapons turn matter into energy.  Small amounts of antimatter are also created during the process.

The particle accelerator at CERN was set up to search for the Higgs Boson particle, which would complete the Standard Model of Particle Physics.

Particle accelerators often use very advanced technology. This makes them cost a lot of money which is usually paid by governments.

[[United States Secretary of Education]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Education, United States Secretaries of Education, 1979 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of Education is the head of the Department of Education. The Secretary is a member of the President's Cabinet, and 16th in line of United States presidential line of succession. The United States Secretary of Education deals with Education.

In 1979, President Jimmy Carter established the Department of Education as a cabinet-level agency. Previously, Education had been handled by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, henceforth known as the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

[[United States Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Health, Education, and Welfare

The United States Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare was the head of the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.  The Secretary was a member of the President's Cabinet. In 1979, there was a division of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare's position into separate secretaries of Health and Human Services and Education.

[[Oveta Culp Hobby]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Health, Education, and Welfare, Politicians from Texas, 1905 births, 1995 deaths

Oveta Culp Hobby (January 19, 1905–August 16, 1995) was the first secretary of the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, first commanding officer of the Women's Army Corps, and chairman of the board of the Houston Post.

[[Patricia Roberts Harris]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Health and Human Services, United States Secretaries of Health, Education, and Welfare, United States Secretaries of Housing and Urban Development, Politicians from Illinois, 1924 births, 1985 deaths

Patricia Roberts Harris (May 31, 1924 – March 23, 1985) served as United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the last United States Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and the first United States Secretary of Health and Human Services in the administration of President Jimmy Carter. She was the first African American woman to serve as a United States Ambassador, representing the U.S. in Luxembourg under President Lyndon B. Johnson, and the first to enter the line of succession to the Presidency.

[[Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Housing]]

CATEGORIES: United States Assistant Secretaries of Housing and Urban Development

The Assistant Secretary for Housing, who also carries the title Federal Housing Commissioner, is a position within the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Assistant Secretary is responsible for overseeing the $400 billion Federal Housing Administration insurance portfolio. He or she also oversees the Department of Housing and Urban Development's regulatory responsibilities in the areas of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the housing mission of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and the manufactured housing industry.

The Federal Housing Commissioner is appointed by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate. The Assistant Secretary is third in the order of succession for the office of Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. The Assistant Secretary is paid at level IV of the Executive Schedule, meaning he or she receives a basic annual salary of $143,000. The incumbent Federal Housing Commissioner is Brian D. Montgomery, who was confirmed in February 2005. The previous Federal Housing Commissioner was John C. Weicher.

[[United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, United States Secretaries of Housing and Urban Development, 1966 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is the head of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, concerned with urban housing matters.  The Secretary is a member of the President's Cabinet. Marcia Fudge is currently serving as Secretary.

On January 13, 1966, Robert C. Weaver became the first African American Cabinet member by being appointed to the position.

[[Henry Paulson]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1946 births, United States Secretaries of the Treasury, Politicians from Florida, Christian Scientists

Henry Merritt "Hank" Paulson Jr. (born March 28, 1946) was the United States Treasury Secretary from 2006 to 2009 and member of the International Monetary Fund Board of Governors. He previously served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs.

Paulson is co-chair with Tom Steyer and Michael Bloomberg for a  report called Risky Business https://web.archive.org/web/20150214164723/http://riskybusiness.org/uploads/files/RiskyBusiness_PrintedReport_FINAL_WEB_OPTIMIZED.pdf by a coalition of top U.S. political and economic leaders from the political left, right, and center on the dire economic consequences from climate change (global warming), from lost property to ruined crops.

[[Reconquista]]

CATEGORIES: History of Spain

The Reconquista (a Spanish and Portuguese word for "Reconquest"; Arabic: الاسترداد, "Recapturing") was a period of 800 years in the Middle Ages during which the several Christian kingdoms of the Iberian Peninsula expanded themselves (grew) by fighting the Muslim states of al-Andalus (Arabic الأندلس), the Muslim states on the Iberian Peninsula, and pushing them out of the peninsula.

The Reconquista began shortly after the Islamic conquest. Much of the ideology of the Reconquista was common to most Crusading: soldiers from all Christendom travelled to Iberia to fight the Muslims as an act of Christian repentance.

The Reconquista came to an end on the 2 January 1492 with the capture of Granada. The last Muslim ruler of Granada surrendered (gave up) his kingdom to Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile, the Catholic kings (los Reyes Católicos). This event marked the end of Muslim rule in Iberia.

[[John W. Snow]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of the Treasury, Politicians from Ohio

John William Snow (born August 2, 1939, in Toledo, Ohio) served as the 73rd United States Secretary of the Treasury. He replaced Secretary Paul O'Neill on February 3, 2003 and was succeeded by Henry Paulson on July 3, 2006, in a move that had been anticipated for several weeks. Snow submitted a letter of resignation on May 30, 2006, effective "after an orderly transition period for my successor."  To replace him, U.S. President George W. Bush nominated Henry M. Paulson, Jr.. Snow announced on Thursday, June 29, 2006 that he had completed his last day on the job; Robert Kimmitt served as acting secretary until Paulson was sworn in.

[[Paul H. O'Neill]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Businesspeople from St. Louis, Missouri, US Republican Party politicians, Businesspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Politicians from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States Secretaries of the Treasury, Politicians from St. Louis, Missouri, 1935 births

Paul Henry O'Neill (December 4, 1935 – April 18, 2020) was an American businessman and politician.

He served as the 72nd United States Secretary of the Treasury for part of President George W. Bush's first Administration. He resigned in December 2002 under pressure from the administration and became a harsh critic.

O'Neill was chairman and CEO of Pittsburgh-based industrial giant Alcoa from 1987 to 1999, and retired as chairman at the end of 2000. In 1995, he was made chairman of the RAND Corporation.

O'Neill died of lung cancer on April 18, 2020 in Pittsburgh, aged 84.

[[Oliver Wolcott Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1760 births, 1833 deaths, Governors of Connecticut, United States Secretaries of the Treasury, Yale University alumni, 19th-century American politicians, 18th-century American politicians

Oliver Wolcott Jr. (January 11, 1760– June 1, 1833) was United States Secretary of the Treasury from 1795 to 1800 and governor of Connecticut from 1817 to 1827.

[[Samuel Dexter]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of the Treasury, United States Secretaries of War, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, 1761 births, 1816 deaths

Samuel Dexter (May 14, 1761 – May 4, 1816) was an early American statesman who served both in Congress and in the Presidential Cabinet.

Born in Boston, Massachusetts, to the Rev. Samuel Dexter, the 4th minister of Dedham, he graduated from Harvard University in 1781 and then studied law at Worcester under Levi Lincoln, Sr., the future Attorney General of the United States. After he passed the bar in 1784, he began practicing in Lunenburg, Massachusetts.

[[United States Secretary of the Army]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of the Army

The United States Secretary of the Army is a civilian office within the Department of Defense with statutory responsibility for all matters relating to the United States Army: manpower, personnel, reserve affairs, installations, environmental issues, weapons systems and equipment acquisition, communications, and financial management. Nominated by the President and confirmed by the U.S. Senate, the Secretary of the Army is a non-Cabinet position serving under the Secretary of Defense. This position was created September 18, 1947, when the Department of War became the Department of the Army and made a branch of the new Department of Defense.

[[Kenneth Claiborne Royall]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1971 deaths, American generals, American military personnel of World War I, American military personnel of World War II, Politicians from North Carolina, United States Secretaries of the Army, United States Secretaries of War

Kenneth Claiborne Royall (July 24, 1894–May 25, 1971) was a United States Army general and the last person to hold the office of Secretary of War. That position was abolished in 1947, and Royall served as the first Secretary of the Army (a successory position) from 1947 to 1949.

[[Pete Geren]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of the Air Force, Politicians from Texas, US Democratic Party politicians, United States Secretaries of the Army

Preston M. Geren, III (born January 29, 1952 in Fort Worth, Texas) was the 20th United States Secretary of the Army from 16 July 2007 to 16 September 2009.

He had already been acting United States Secretary of the Air Force, between 29 July 2005 and position he served in until the confirmation of his successor Michael Wynne on 4 November 2005.

Geren was also a member of the United States House of Representatives from Texas.

[[Astor markhor]]

CATEGORIES: Caprids, Mammals of Pakistan, Plants and animals of Kashmir

The astor markhor or flare-horned markhor (Capra falconeri falconeri) is an endangered species of markhor. It is native to Kashmir and northern Pakistan.

[[Kabul markhor]]

CATEGORIES: Caprids, Mammals of Asia

The Kabul markhor (Capra falconeri megaceros) is a goat-antelope native to Afghanistan and Pakistan. It is an endangered subspecies of the markhor. It is the 'Provincial animal of Afghania'.

[[Junagarh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India

Junagarh City (جونا گڑھ) was the former capital of the former princely state of Junagadh, which was integrated into the Indian Union in 1948.

[[Nirvana (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Nirvana albums, 2002 albums

Nirvana was a greatest hits album of songs by the popular American grunge band Nirvana, who disbanded in 1994 because the lead singer, Kurt Cobain died. The album was released on October 29, 2002.  It was almost not released because of a lawsuit by Cobain's wife Courtney Love. This was because of a song on the album, "You Know You're Right", that Love thought would be wasted on a box-set album. She thought it would work better on one CD. Soon after the lawsuit was settled, the album was released.

[[India–Pakistan border]]

CATEGORIES: Foreign relations of India, Pakistan

The Hindustan–Pakistan Border, known locally as the International Border (IB), is the international boundary between the Republic of India and Pakistan that demarcates the Indian states of Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat from the Pakistani provinces of Punjab and Sindh except for Kashmir that is disputed (Line of Control). The border resulted from the Partition of India in 1947.

Wagah, the ceremonial point of crossing between India and Pakistan lies along this border between the Indian city of Amritsar and the Pakistani city of Lahore.

[[Emblem of Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: Afghanistan, National coats of arms

The Coat of arms of Afghanistan has appeared in some form on the Flag of Afghanistan since the inception of that nation. The most notable absence was during the 1980s when a Communist regime ruled the nation, and in the late 1990s, during the rule of the Taliban. 

The latest incarnation of the coat of arms has the added inscription of the shahadah in Arabic at the top. Below it is the image of a mosque with a mehrab that is facing Mecca with a prayer mat inside. Attached to the mosque are two flags, taken to stand for flags of Afghanistan. Beneath the mosque is an inscription that states the name of the nation. Around the mosque is a garland. It is white

[[USB hub]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

USB is an international standard of technology for connecting peripherals to computers and other devices that support it. An interface where a USB device can be connected is called a port. A USB hub is a special device which allows adding more USB ports. The additional ports share one USB connection to the computer; for this reason,  each of them cannot carry as much data as a direct USB connection can. 

A hub may be bus-powered, which means it gets all its electrical power from the computer. This makes simple wiring, but it cannot give full power to its peripherals. A self powered hub has its own power cord, and can give full power to peripherals that need it.  

There are different versions of the USB standard; main difference between the version is the maximum speed that is supported. The USB standard also defines different types of USB plugs.  

A USB hub is a normal USB device, which was built for a given version of the standard. Certain models may support different versions of USB, while others may not.  As an example: USB 3.0 can transfer payload data at up to 4 GBits per second. USB 2.0 is limited to a transfer rate of 280 MBits per second. Connecting an USB 3.0 device to the computer using an USB 2.0 hub will limit the transfer rate to that of USB 2.0. 

[[Digital signature]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

A digital signature or digital signature scheme is a type of asymmetric cryptography. For messages sent through an insecure channel, a good implementation of digital signature algorithm is by panduthe one that makes the receiver believe that the message was sent by the claimed sender, and trust the message.

Digital signatures are equivalent to traditional handwritten signatures in many respects; properly implemented digital signatures are more difficult to copy than the handwritten type. Digital signature are implemented using cryptography. Digital signatures can also provide acknowledgement, meaning that the signer cannot successfully claim they did not sign a message, while also claiming their private key remains secret. Digital signatures are regularly used in USA, European countries and India in government as well as private offices. In India certificate called Digital Signing Certificate (DSC) is widely used for e-filing the business related documents and income tax return filing etc.

Digital signatures are often used to implement electronic signatures, a broader term that refers to any electronic data that holds a meaning of a signature, but not all electronic signatures use digital signatures. In some countries, including the United States, and in the European Union, electronic signatures may have legal significance. In India electronic signature do not have any legal significance but digital signature does have legal validity and considered as legally valid signature as per the information technology  act, 2000.

[[Key generation]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

Key generation is the process of generating keys for cryptography. The key is used to encrypt and decrypt data whatever the data is being encrypted or decrypted.

Modern cryptographic systems include symmetric-key algorithms (such as DES and AES) and public-key algorithms (such as RSA).  Symmetric-key algorithms use a single shared key; keeping data secret requires keeping this key secret.  Public-key algorithms use a public key and a private key.  The public key is made available to anyone (often by means of a digital certificate).  A sender will encrypt data with the public key; only the holder of the private key can decrypt this data.

Since public-key algorithms tend to be much slower than symmetric-key algorithms, modern systems such as TLS and its predecessor SSL as well as the SSH use a combination of the two in which:  

The simplest method to read encrypted data is a brute force attack–simply attempting every number, up to the maximum length of the key.  Therefore, it is important to use a sufficiently long key length; longer keys take exponentially longer time to attack, making a brute force attack invisible and impractical.  

Currently, commonly used key lengths are:

[[Symmetric-key algorithm]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

Symmetric-key algorithms is a method in cryptography. It is when the keys for decryption and encryption are exactly the same shared secret. You can generate the secret randomly, or from a password, or through a secret key-exchange procedure like Diffie-Hellman.

Symmetric-key algorithms are very important because they are faster on computers than the other kind:public-key algorithms. In public-key cryptography (asymmetric-key cryptography) the key for encryption can be given to the public with no problem, and everyone can send you secret messages. The key for encryption is "open" because, in practice, it cannot be used to get the key for decryption. This is very useful, but public-key cryptography algorithms are very slow on computers, so they are only used to send a secret key. Then symmetric-key algorithms are used for everything else because they are faster.

There are two kinds of symmetric-key algorithms, called stream ciphers and block ciphers. Stream ciphers encrypt a message as a stream of bits one at a time. Block ciphers take blocks of bits, encrypt them as a single unit, and sometimes use the answer later too. Blocks of 64 bits have been commonly used; though modern ciphers like the Advanced Encryption Standard use 128-bit blocks.

Examples of popular symmetric cyphers include Twofish, Serpent, AES (aka Rijndael), Blowfish, CAST5, RC4, TDES, and IDEA.

In history, some cryptanalysis methods exploited symmetry, so symmetric systems were less secure. Some attacks are called known-plaintext attacks, chosen plaintext attacks, differential cryptanalysis and linear cryptanalysis. 

Other terms for symmetric-key encryption are secret-key, single-key, shared-key, one-key and eventually private-key encryption. This last term does not have the same meaning that the term private key has in public-key cryptography.

[[John Marshall]]

CATEGORIES: Chief Justices of the United States, United States Secretaries of State, United States Supreme Court justices, Founding Fathers of the United States, People from Virginia

John Marshall (September 24, 1755 – July 6, 1835) was an American statesman and jurist who shaped American constitutional law and made the Supreme Court more powerful. Marshall was Chief Justice of the United States, working from February 4, 1801, until his death in 1835. He worked in the United States House of Representatives from March 4, 1799, to June 7, 1800, and, under President John Adams, was Secretary of State from June 6, 1800, to March 4, 1801. Marshall was from the Commonwealth of Virginia and a leader of the Federalist Party.

The longest working Chief Justice in Supreme Court history, Marshall ruled the Court for thirty years and was an important part of making the American legal system. His most important addition was judicial review; the power to stop laws that violate the Constitution. Marshall has been called the one that made the judicial branch special and powerful. Marshall also balanced the power between the federal and state government. He made sure the federal law was more powerful than state law and agreed with an expansive reading of the enumerated powers.

[[William H. Crawford]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of the Treasury, United States Secretaries of War, Presidents pro tempore of the United States Senate, Politicians from Virginia, Slavers

William Harris Crawford (February 24, 1772–September 15, 1834) was an important American politician, judge, and slaveowner during the early 19th century. He served as United States Secretary of War from 1815 to 1816 and United States Secretary of the Treasury from 1816 to 1825, and was a candidate for President of the United States in 1824.

[[James McHenry]]

CATEGORIES: Signers of the United States Constitution, United States Secretaries of War, 1753 births, 1816 deaths, People from Maryland

James McHenry (November 16, 1753 – May 3, 1816) was an early American statesman. McHenry was a signer of the United States Constitution. He was from Maryland. Fort McHenry was named for him. He was also a delegate to the Continental Congress from Maryland, and the third United States Secretary of War from January 27, 1796 to May 13, 1800, under Presidents George Washington and John Adams.

[[Timothy Pickering]]

CATEGORIES: 1745 births, 1829 deaths, United States Postmasters General, United States Secretaries of State, United States Secretaries of War, Politicians from Massachusetts, People from Salem, Massachusetts

Timothy Pickering (July 17, 1745 – January 29, 1829) was a politician from Massachusetts who served in a variety of roles, most notably as the third United States Secretary of State, serving in that office from 1795 to 1800 under Presidents George Washington and John Adams.

[[John Jay]]

CATEGORIES: 1745 births, 1829 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Chief Justices of the United States, Founding Fathers of the United States, United States Supreme Court justices, Politicians from New York City, Slavers

John Jay (December 12, 1745 – May 17, 1829) was an American politician, statesman, slave owner, and diplomat. He was a Supreme Court Chief Justice and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. Jay served in the Continental Congress and was elected President of that body. During and after the American Revolution, he was a minister (ambassador) to Spain and France, helping to fashion American foreign policy and to secure favorable peace terms from the British and French. He co-wrote the Federalist Papers with Alexander Hamilton and James Madison.

Jay served on the U.S. Supreme Court as the first Chief Justice of the United States from 1789 to 1795. In 1794 he negotiated the Jay Treaty with the British. A leader of the new Federalist party, Jay was governor of New York from 1795 to 1801. He was the leading opponent of slavery and the slave trade in New York. His first attempt to pass emancipation legislation failed in 1777 and failed again in 1785, but he succeeded in 1799, signing the law that eventually emancipated the slaves of New York; the last were freed before his death.

[[Evan Longoria]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American League All-Stars, Baseball players from California, Living people, People from Downey, California, San Francisco Giants players, Sportspeople from California, Tampa Bay Devil Rays players, Tampa Bay Rays players

Evan Michael "Longo" Longoria is a third baseman for the San Francisco Giants. Longoria began his MLB career with the Tampa Bay Rays before being traded to the Giants in 2017. He won the 2008 American League Rookie of the Year award. In 2009, he won the Silver Slugger and Gold Glove awards for American League third basemen. Longoria once again won the Gold Glove award in 2010 and 2017.

[[Nucleolus]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

A nucleolus (plural: nucleoli) is the part of a eukaryotic cell where ribosomes are made. Seen under a microscope, the nucleolus is a dark spot inside the cell's nucleus. It is made up of dense RNA and proteins. Prokaryotic cells also have ribosomes, but they don't make as many as eukaryotes do, and there is no visible nucleotatius. There is usually more than one nucleolus in a eukaryote cell. The nucleolus is not bounded by a membrane.  

The nucleolus is made at a nucleolus organizer region (NOR), which is a chromosome region around which the nucleolus forms. Inside the nucleolus ribosomes are made. Ribosomes are molecular machines that synthesizes proteins. The ribosomes are exported through the nuclear envelope to the cytoplasm, where they do their work.

Nucleoli play a role in the cell's response to stress. They also help in the assembly of signal recognition particles.  Malfunction of nucleoli can be the cause of several human diseases.

[[Candice Bergen]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Beverly Hills, California, 1946 births, Living people

Candice Bergen (born May 9, 1946) is an American actress.  In 1980, she was nominated for an Academy Award for "Best Actress in a Supporting Role" for her role in Starting Over. Bergen later acted as the title character in Murphy Brown. (1988-98, 2018-present).

[[Duke Nukem 3D]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 video games, Windows games, PlayStation games, Xbox 360 Live Arcade games, Sega Saturn games, Video game sequels, Sega Genesis games

Duke Nukem 3D is a first-person shooter video game. It was made by 3D Realms and sold by Apogee Software. It was first sold on January 29, 1996. Duke Nukem 3D is based on the main character from the platform games Duke Nukem and Duke Nukem II which were also published by Apogee. The character is voiced by Jon St. John.

[[William Rehnquist]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2005 deaths, American Lutherans, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Chief Justices of the United States, Deaths from thyroid cancer, Harvard University alumni, Politicians from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Stanford University alumni, United States Supreme Court justices

William Hubbs Rehnquist (October 1, 1924 – September 3, 2005) was an American lawyer, jurist, and a political figure. He was the 16th Chief Justice of the United States from 1986 until his death in 2005. Before becoming Chief Justice, he was an Associate Justice on the Supreme Court of the United States from 1971 to 1986. 

Considered a conservative, Rehnquist favored a federalism under which the states meaningfully exercised governmental power. Under this view of federalism, the Supreme Court of the United States, for the first time since the 1930s, struck down an Act of Congress as exceeding federal power under the Commerce Clause.

Rehnquist died on September 3, 2005. He was replaced by John Roberts as Chief Justice.

[[Hyderabad State]]

CATEGORIES: British India, Indian princely states, Former countries in South Asia, Territorial disputes of Pakistan, 1724 establishments, 1948 disestablishments in India, 1720s establishments in Asia, 18th century establishments in India, Nizams of Hyderabad

Hyderābād and Berar (హైదరాబాదు, حیدر آباد) under the Nizams, was the largest Princely state in the erstwhile Indian Empire. The Berar region of present-day Vidarbha in Maharashtra was merged with the Central Provinces in 1903, to form Central Provinces and Berar.

Hyderabad state was in south-central India from 1724 until 1948. It was ruled by the hereditary Nizam. During the Partition of British India in 1947, the  Nizam of Hyderabad declared his intentions of not joining either newly formed India or Pakistan. Sensing trouble, India launched Operation Polo which resulted in the absorption of Hyderabad into the Indian Union, in 1948.

[[Two-nation theory]]

CATEGORIES: History of Pakistan, History of Bangladesh, Partition of India

The two-nation theory (Urdu: دو قومی نظریہ‎ do qaumī nazariya) is the basis of the creation of Pakistan. The two-nation theory in its simplest way means that cultural, political, religious, economic and social dissimilarities between the two major communities, Hindus and Muslims of the Subcontinent. These differences of outlook, in fact, were greatly instrumental in giving rise to two distinct political ideologies which were responsible for the partition of the sub-continent into two independent states. The two-nation theory was a founding principle of the Pakistan Movement (i.e. the ideology of Pakistan as a Muslim nation-state in South Asia), and the partition of India in 1947.

The ideology that religion is the determining factor in defining the nationality of Indian Muslims and Hindus was postulated by Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who termed it as the awakening of Muslims for the creation of Pakistan. As a consequence, it spawned creation of many Hindu nationalist organisations, with causes including working towards making India a similar state for the majority of Hindus residing there. 

There are varying interpretations of the two-nation theory, based on whether the two postulated nationalities can coexist in one territory or not, with radically different implications. One interpretation argued for sovereign autonomy, including the right to secede, for Muslim-majority areas of the Indian subcontinent, but without any transfer of populations (i.e. Hindus and Muslims would continue to live together). A different interpretation contends that Hindus and Muslims constitute "two distinct and frequently antagonistic ways of life and that therefore they cannot coexist in one nation." In this version, a transfer of populations (i.e. the total removal of Hindus from Muslim-majority areas and the total removal of Muslims from Hindu-majority areas) is a desirable step towards a complete separation of two incompatible nations that "cannot coexist in a harmonious relationship".

Opposition to the theory has come from two sources. The first is the concept of a single Indian nation, of which Hindus and Muslims are two intertwined communities. Even after the formation of Pakistan, debates on whether Muslims and Hindus are distinct nationalities or not continued in India. The second source of opposition is the concept that while Indians are not one nation, neither are the Muslims or Hindus of the subcontinent, and it is instead the relatively homogeneous provincial units of the subcontinent which are true nations and deserving of sovereignty across the subcontinent.

[[Samuel Osgood]]

CATEGORIES: 1747 births, 1813 deaths, United States Postmasters General, Politicians from Massachusetts

Samuel Osgood (February 3, 1747 – August 12, 1813) was an American merchant and statesman from Andover, Massachusetts. He served in the Massachusetts and New York state legislatures, represented Massachusetts in the Continental Congress and was the first Postmaster General under the United States Constitution.

[[William Bradford (Attorney General)]]

CATEGORIES: 1755 births, 1795 deaths, United States Attorneys General, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

William Bradford (September 14, 1755 – August 23, 1795) was an American lawyer and judge. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Bradforn was the second United States Attorney General in 1794-1795.

[[Charles Lee (Attorney General)]]

CATEGORIES: 1758 births, 1815 deaths, United States Attorneys General, Politicians from Virginia

Charles Lee (1758 – June 24, 1815) was an American lawyer from Virginia. He served as United States Attorney General from 1795 until 1801.

President George Washington appointed Lee the Attorney General after William Bradford died in office. After Senate approval he took office on December 10, 1795 and served through the rest of the administration. He was continued in office by John Adams and served through the entire Adams administration until February 19, 1801.

[[Benjamin Stoddert]]

CATEGORIES: 1751 births, 1813 deaths, Politicians from Maryland, United States Secretaries of the Navy

Benjamin Stoddert (1751 – December 13, 1813) was the first United States Secretary of the Navy from May 1, 1798 to March 31, 1801.

[[Joseph Hewes]]

CATEGORIES: 1730 births, 1779 deaths, People from Princeton, New Jersey, Politicians from New Jersey, Politicians from North Carolina, Princeton University alumni, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence

Joseph Hewes (January 23, 1730 – November 10, 1779), was a native of Princeton, New Jersey, where he was born in 1730. Hewes’s parents were part of the Quaker Society of Friends. Immediately after their marriage they moved to New Jersey, which became Joseph Hewes’s home state. Hewes was formally educated at Princeton University and after college he became an apprentice to a merchant. After finishing his apprenticeship he earned himself a good name and a strong reputation, which helped him become one of the most famous signers of the Declaration of Independence for North Carolina, along with William Hooper and John Penn. After a few years as a successful merchant, he became very rich. Hewes moved to Edenton, North Carolina at the age of 30 and won over the people of the state with his charm and honorable businesslike character. Hewes was elected to the North Carolina legislature in 1763, only three years after he moved to the state. Second to the delegates of Massachusetts, Hewes was a pioneer of independence who influenced his state to be more rebellious during the years leading up to the American Revolution. After being re-elected many times to the legislature, Hewes focused on a new and more ambitious job as a Continental Congressman. 

[[Candela]]

CATEGORIES: SI units

A candela is the  SI base unit of luminous intensity. It measures how bright something is. It is one of the basic units of science. A light bulb is bright, but the Sun is much brighter, so the Sun has more candelas than the light bulb. 

The frequency chosen for measuring candelas is in the visible spectrum near green. This is a wavelength of about 555 nanometres. The human eye is most sensitive to this frequency, when adapted for bright conditions.   

A candela sometimes is called 'candle'.

[[Hongwu Emperor]]

CATEGORIES: 1328 births, 1398 deaths, Emperors and Empresses of China

The Hongwu Emperor (October 21, 1328nbsp– June 24, 1398), known in China as Zhu Yuanzhang, was the first emperor of the Ming part of China's history.

[[Soulja Boy]]

CATEGORIES: American rap musicians from Illinois, 1990 births, Living people, Singers from Georgia (U.S. state), Singers from Illinois, African American musicians, American Internet celebrities, Twitch (service) streamers

 

DeAndre Cortez Way, also known as Soulja Boy Tell 'Em or simply Soulja Boy, is an American rapper, record producer, singer, songwriter and actor. He is widely known for the songs "Crank That (Soulja Boy)" and "Tell 'Em". 

He has brought out two albums, called "souljaboytellem.com" and "iSouljaBoyTellEm". Most critics dislike his music, with Entertainment Weekly called souljaboytellem.com a "teenage wasteland" and Artistdirect stating that iSouljaBoyTellEm "falls flat."

Soulja Boy also had an argument with rapper Ice-T, after the argument rappers such as Kanye West and 50 Cent defended Soulja Boy and rappers such as Snoop Dogg and Method Man defended Ice-T.

[[Hadron]]

CATEGORIES: Subatomic particles

A hadron, in particle physics, is any subatomic (smaller than the atom) particle or antiparticle which is made of quarks. 

Quarks are fundamental particles which among other properties have an electrical charge and a name (e.g. 'up', 'down', 'strange'). The electrical charge of a single quark is always a fraction (e.g. 2/3). Quarks combine to make a hadron of integer charge, for example, the charges of two 'down' quarks and one 'up' quark combine like this -1/3 -1/3 +2/3 = 0 to make a neutrally charged neutron. Quarks do not appear alone, they exist in groups and are held together by the strong nuclear force. The word to describe the different types of quarks is flavours. According to the current standard model there are 6 flavours of quarks. There are two known ways quarks can combine, to give the two categories of hadrons:

Hadrons are also characterized by being affected by the strong nuclear force, which holds them tightly together over a short distance. At the center of an atom is a nucleus (a cluster of protons and neutrons). 

[[Zlatko Zahovič]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Slovenian footballers

Zlatko Zahovič (born 1 February 1971) is a former Slovenian football player. He has played for Slovenia national team.

[[Francis Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Lancashire

Francis Lee is a former football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Shaun Goater]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Bermudian people, British footballers, North American footballers, Sport in Bermuda

Shaun Goater is a football player. He plays for Bermuda Hogges.

[[Argentine Primera División]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in Argentina, 1931 establishments, 20th-century establishments in Argentina, Sports leagues

Primera División Argentina (English: "Argentine First Division") is a professional football league in Argentina. It is the top division in the country, and has a promotion and relegation system. Relegated teams drop to the Primera B Nacional. 

[[Vladimír Šmicer]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Czech footballers

Vladimír Šmicer (born 24 May 1973) is a former Czech football player. He has played for Czechoslovakia national team and Czech Republic national team.

[[Dietmar Hamann]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Bavaria

Dietmar Hamann (born 27 August 1973 in Waldsassen) is a German football player. He has played for Germany national team.

[[Arthur Rowley]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2002 deaths, English footballers, People from Wolverhampton, Sportspeople from Staffordshire

George Arthur Rowley, (21 April 1926 – 19 December 2002) was an English football striker. He holds the record for the most career goals in The Football League, 434 from 619 games. He was the younger brother of Manchester United legend Jack Rowley. He was shortlisted for inclusion into the English Football Hall of Fame in 2008.

[[Laurie Cunningham]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 1989 deaths, English footballers, Sportspeople from London

Laurie Cunningham is a former football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Glenn Hoddle]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Chelsea F.C. players, English footballers, English football managers, England national football team managers, Sportspeople from London, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players, Premier League players

Glenn Hoddle (born 27 October 1957) is a former English football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Al-Saadi Qadhafi]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, African footballers, People from Tripoli

Al-Saadi Qadhafi (born 25 May 1973), is a former football player. He played for the Libya national team.  He is the third son of former leader Muammar Gaddafi. In 2011, he was the commander of Libya's Special Forces.  He was involved in the Libyan civil war.

[[Robert Pirès]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, French footballers, People from Reims

Robert Pirès (born 29 October 1973) is a French football player. He plays for Villarreal in Spain, but he has also played for many other teams like Arsenal and Olympique Marseille, and he has also won the World Cup and the European championship with France. He is known for his quick dribbling, thinking and passing skills, and he has also scored some great goals in his career. He usually plays on the left wing so that he can cross balls into the penalty box that strikers can score with.

[[Zoran Mirković]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Serbian footballers, People from Belgrade

Zoran Mirković (born 21 September 1971) is a former football player. He has played for the Serbia and Montenegro national team.

[[Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, Association football forwards, Chelsea F.C. players, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Naturalised citizens of the Netherlands, People from Paramaribo, Premier League players

Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink (born 27 March 1972) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for the Netherlands national football team. He won the 1998–99 Premier League Golden Boot, along side Dwight Yorke and Michael Owen. This made him the joint first foreign Golden Boot winner.

[[Andrew Cole]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Arsenal F.C. players, Black British sportspeople, English footballers, Living people, Manchester City F.C. players, Manchester United F.C. players, Sportspeople from Nottingham

Andrew Cole (born 15 October 1971) is a former English football player. He has played for England national team.

[[FC Porto]]

CATEGORIES: Portuguese football clubs, Porto, 1893 establishments in Europe, Establishments in Portugal

Futebol Clube do Porto (pron. futɨ'bɔɫ 'klub(ɨ) du 'poɾtu) – short: FC Porto or FCP – is a Portuguese sports club best known for its football team. It was created in Porto in 1893. It holds the best International record by a Portuguese team (7 international titles), having won the European Cup and the Intercontinental Cup twice each. In 2003, it brought Portugal's first UEFA Cup and in 1987 it brought Portugal's first UEFA Supercup. Domestically they hold the best record of five titles in a row, having won the Portuguese Liga 26 times, the Portuguese Cup 16 times and Portuguese Supercup 18 times.

[[F.C. Zenit Saint Petersburg]]

CATEGORIES: Russian football clubs, 1925 establishments, 1920s establishments in the Soviet Union

FC Zenit Saint Petersburg (Russian: ФК "Зенит" Санкт-Петербург) is a Russian football club from Saint Petersburg. Founded in 1925 (or in 1914 according to some Russian sources), the club plays in the Russian Premier League and currently is the richest in the country, due to the sponsorship of Gazprom.

Zenit are the 2007 champions of the Russian Premier League, the holders of the 2008 UEFA Cup and of the 2008 UEFA Super Cup after beating Manchester United 2-1 in Monaco. Zenit won Russian Cup in 2010. They defeated Sibir in the final with the score 1-0.

[[Steve Bruce]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, English football managers, English footballers, Sportspeople from Northumberland, Premier League players

Steve Bruce (born 31 December 1960) is an English football manager and former player. He was born in Corbridge, Northumberland. He is currently the manager of Newcastle United F.C.. Bruce was best known for playing for Manchester United where he was captain.

[[Stockport County F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Stockport, Greater Manchester, 1883 establishments in the United Kingdom

Stockport County F.C. is an English football club. They currently play in the Blue Square North, in English football. The club plays their home games at Edgeley Park. At home they play in Blue.

[[Grand Theft Autumn / Where Is Your Boy]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 songs, Fall Out Boy songs

"Grand Theft Autumn / Where Is Your Boy" (or "Grand Theft Autumn", "Where Is Your Boy?") is the second single by rock band Fall Out Boy. It is from their album Take This to Your Grave. 

[[Cornthwaite Rason]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 births, 1927 deaths, Independent politicians in Australia, Politicians from Somerset, Premiers of Western Australia

Sir Cornthwaite Hector William James Rason (18 June 1858 – 15 March 1927) was the 7th Premier of Western Australia from 25 August 1905 until 7 May 1906.

[[Henry Daglish]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1920 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, Politicians from Victoria (Australia), Australian Labor Party politicians, People from Ballarat

Henry Daglish (18 November 1866 – 16 August 1920) was the 6th Premier of Western Australia from 10 August 1904 to 25 August 1905. He was the first Western Australia Premier from the Labor Party and the first from any organised political party.

[[Walter James]]

CATEGORIES: 1863 births, 1943 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, People from Perth, Western Australia, Independent politicians in Australia

Sir Walter Hartwell James (29 March 1863 – 3 January 1943) was the 5th Premier of Western Australia from 1 July 1902 to 10 August 1904.

[[Alf Morgans]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 births, 1933 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, Monmouthshire, Independent politicians in Australia

Alfred Edward Morgans (17 February 1850 – 10 August 1933) was the 4th Premier of Western Australia from 21 November to 23 December 1901.

[[George Leake]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1902 deaths, Independent politicians in Australia, Premiers of Western Australia, People from Perth, Western Australia

George Leake (3 December 1856 – 24 June 1902) was the 3rd Premier of Western Australia from 27 May 1901 to 21 November 1901 and then from 23 December 1901 to 24 June 1902.

[[George Throssell]]

CATEGORIES: 1840 births, 1910 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, People from County Cork

George Lionel Throssell (23 May 1840 – 30 August 1910) was the 2nd Premier of Western Australia from 15 February 1901 to 27 May 1901.

[[John Forrest]]

CATEGORIES: 1847 births, 1918 deaths, Premiers of Western Australia, Commonwealth Liberal Party politicians, Protectionist Party politicians, Treasurers of Australia

Sir John Forrest (22 August 1847 – 2 September 1918) was the 1st Premier of Western Australia from 29 December 1890 – 14 February 1901. He helped to make sure that Western Australia joined the federation of Australian states. After federation, he went into federal politics. He served as Minister for Defence, Minister for Home Affairs, Treasurer and acting Prime Minister.

[[Into the Fire]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams albums, 1987 albums

Into the Fire is the fifth studio album by the Canadian rock artist Bryan Adams. Released on March 30, 1987 through A&M Records, the album was a huge commercial success selling over 2 million units worldwide, peaking at number 7 on the US Billboard 200 chart and reaching high positions in charts worldwide. It was recorded at Adams' home in London, England.

Six singles were released from the album: "Heat of the Night", "Hearts on Fire", "Victim of Love", "Only the Strong Survive", "Into the Fire" and "Another Day".

[[UK Albums Chart]]

CATEGORIES: Record charts

The UK Albums Chart is a list of albums ranked by sales in the United Kingdom. It is formulated by Official Charts Company and a Top 200 published in ChartsPlus (only the Top 100 is counted in data sources).

[[Attack model]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

Attack models or attack typessecondname specify how much information a cryptanalyst has access to when breaking or cracking an encrypted message, commonly known as codebreaking or cracking the code. Some common attack models are:

The ciphertext-only attack model is the weakest because it implies that the cryptanalyst has just the encoded message.

Different attack models are used for other cryptographic systems, or more generally for all kind of security systems. Examples for such attack models are:

[[Cuts Like a Knife]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams albums, 1983 albums, Rock albums

Cuts Like a Knife is the third album by the Canadian rock artist Bryan Adams. Released on January, 1983 through A&M Records, the album became a big hit in Canada when it was released. Outside Canada and the United States the album did not sell as well. After the release of Reckless the album would chart on the British album chart and would later be a Silver Record by the BPI. It was made at Little Mountain Sound, in Vancouver, Canada.

Three singles were released from the album: "Straight from the Heart", "Cuts Like a Knife" and "This Time", the three made Adams very popular.

[[You Want It You Got It]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams albums, 1981 albums, Rock albums

You Want It You Got It is the second album by Bryan Adams, and was released in 1981 (see 1981 in music). The album was to be called Bryan Adams Hasn't Heard Of You Either but the record company wanted him to change the title to something safer.

The first single, "Lonely Nights", was a big hit in the US. Two other singles "Coming Home" and "Fits Ya Good" were top 40 hits in Canada.

Many songs from this album were covered by other artists, they are "Lonely Nights" by Uriah Heep, "Jealousy" by Prism, "Tonight" by Randy Meisner and "Fits Ya Good" by Tove Naess and others.

After Dave Taylor listened to this album, he decided to become Bryan Adams' bass player.

[[Bryan Adams (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams albums, 1980 albums, Debut albums, Rock albums

Bryan Adams is the first album by Canadian rock singer Bryan Adams. It was released in February 1980 by A&M Records. "Hidin' From Love" went to #64 on Canada's RPM 100 Singles chart and "Give Me Your Love" went to #91 on the same chart.

In early 1978, Bryan Adams and Jim Vallance made a song-writing duo together. They made the album in 1979 and released it in February 1980.

The first single was "Hidin' from Love" in 1980 (#43 on the Billboard dance charts) the next one was "Give Me Your Love" and then "Remember".

[[Known-plaintext attack]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

The known-plaintext attack (KPA) is an attack model for cryptanalysis where the attacker has samples of both the plaintext and its encrypted version (known as ciphertext version) then they can use them to expose further secret information after calculating the secret key. 

Encrypted file archives such as ZIP are very prone to this attack. For example, an attacker with an encrypted ZIP file needs only one unencrypted file from the archive which forms the "known-plaintext". Then using some publicly available software they can instantly calculate the key required to decrypt the entire archive.

Classical ciphers are typically susceptible to known-plaintext attack. For example, a Caesar cipher can be solved using a single letter of corresponding plaintext and ciphertext to decrypt entirely. 

[[18 til I Die]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams albums, 1996 albums

18 til I Die is a rock album by the Canadian singer and songwriter Bryan Adams. It was released in 1996 (see 1996 in music). It is the second album Adams co-produced with Robert Mutt Lange and features a more raw rock style, including some Blues style music.

[[On a Day Like Today]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams albums, 1998 albums

On a Day Like Today is an album by Canadian singer-songwriter Bryan Adams, released in 1998 (see 1998 in music).

[[Room Service]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams albums, 2004 albums

Room Service is a rock album by Canadian singer/songwriter Bryan Adams released internationally in 2004 and in the U.S. the following year. "Open Road" was the first single taken from the album, followed by "Flying", "Room Service" and, as an American release, "This Side of Paradise".  In the summer of 2005, "Open Road" was used the theme song in ESPN's SportsCenter series 50 States in 50 Days.

"East Side Story" was originally going to be released on Chicane's canceled Album Easy To Assemble with Bryan Adams on vocals, although with a completely different composition.

[[11 (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Bryan Adams albums, Rock albums

11 is the eleventh studio album by the Canadian rock artist Bryan Adams. It was released on March 7, 2008 through Universal Music Group. The album was a number 1 hit in Canada, Switzerland and India and on number 6 in the UK. It was recorded at The Warehouse Studio, Vancouver, Canada, and additionally at hotel rooms and backstage concerts around Europe.

Three singles have been released from the album: "I Thought I'd Seen Everything", "Tonight We Have the Stars" and "She's Got a Way". The album was also released in the US exclusively through Wal-Mart and Sam's Club retail stores on May 13, 2008. To promote the album, Adams toured around Europe on the "11 Days, 11 Cities" acoustic tour, playing new songs and old classics.

[[Chosen-plaintext attack]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

A chosen-plaintext attack (CPA) is a model for cryptanalysis which assumes that the attacker can choose random plaintexts to be encrypted and obtain the corresponding ciphertexts. The goal of the attack is to gain some further information which reduces the security of the encryption scheme.  In the worst case, a chosen-plaintext attack could expose secret information after calculating the secret key. 

Modern cryptography is implemented in software or hardware and is used for a diverse range of applications; for many applications, a chosen-plaintext attack is often very feasible.  Chosen-plaintext attacks become extremely important in the context of public key cryptography, where the encryption key is public and attackers can encrypt any plaintext they choose.

Any cipher that can prevent chosen-plaintext attacks is then also guaranteed to be secure against known-plaintext and ciphertext-only attacks; this is a conservative approach to security.

Two forms of chosen-plaintext attack can be distinguished:

[[Ciphertext-only attack]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a ciphertext-only attack (COA) or known ciphertext attack is an attack model for cryptanalysis where the attacker is assumed to have access only to a set of ciphertexts. 

The attack is completely successful if the corresponding plaintexts can be deduced (extracted) or, even better, the key. The ability to obtain any amount of information from the underlying ciphertext is considered a success. 

Every modern cipher attempts to provide protection against ciphertext-only attacks. The process of selecting a new cipher design standard usually takes many years and includes exhaustive testing of large quantities of ciphertext for any statistical different approach from random noise. On the other hand, poor cipher depends on home-grown proprietary algorithms that have not been subjected to extensive testing and inspection; for this reason, many computer-age encryption systems are still subject to ciphertext-only attack but still in use. Examples include:

[[Chosen-ciphertext attack]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

A chosen-ciphertext attack (CCA) is an attack model for cryptanalysis in which the cryptanalyst gathers information, at least in part, by choosing a ciphertext and obtaining its decryption under an unknown key.  

When a cryptosystem is susceptible to chosen-ciphertext attack, implementers must be careful to avoid situations in which an attackers might be able to decrypt chosen ciphertexts (i.e., avoid providing a decryption scheme).  This can be more difficult than it appears, as even partially chosen ciphertexts can permit subtle attacks.  Additionally, some cryptosystems (such as RSA) use the same mechanism to sign messages and to decrypt them.  This permits attacks when hashing is not used on the message to be signed.  A better approach is to use a cryptosystem which is provably secure under chosen-ciphertext attack, including (among others) RSA-OAEP, Cramer-Shoup and many forms of authenticated symmetric encryption.

[[Kambly]]

CATEGORIES: Food companies of Switzerland, 20th century establishments in Switzerland, 1910 establishments in Europe

Kambly is a Swiss biscuit factory. It was founded in 1910 by Oscar Kambly. 

[[Differential cryptanalysis]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

Differential cryptanalysis is a general form of cryptanalysis applicable to block ciphers, but also can be applied to stream ciphers and cryptographic hash functions. It is the study of how differences in the input can affect the resultant differences at the output. In the case of a block cipher, it refers to a set of techniques and methods for tracing differences through the network of transformations, discovering where the cipher demonstrates non-random behaviour, and extend such properties to recover the secret key.

Differential cryptanalysis attacks are usually chosen plaintext attacks, meaning that the attacker must be able to obtain encrypted ciphertexts for some set of plaintexts of his choosing.

[[Linear cryptanalysis]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, linear cryptanalysis is a general form of cryptanalysis based on finding affine approximations to the action of a cipher. Attacks have been developed for block ciphers and stream ciphers. Linear cryptanalysis is one of the two most widely used attacks on block ciphers; the other being differential cryptanalysis.

A variety of refinements to the attack have been suggested, including using multiple linear approximations or including non-linear expressions. 

Evidence of security against linear cryptanalysis is usually expected of new cipher designs.

[[Julianne Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Satellite Award winners, Actors from North Carolina, American children's writers, American LGBT rights activists, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Scottish movie actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Julianne Moore (born Julie Anne Smith; December 3, 1960) is a an American actress with Scottish origins. She was born in Fayetteville, North Carolina. She has been nominated for four Oscars, six Golden Globes, three BAFTAs and nine Screen Actors Guild Awards.

After studying theatre at Boston University Moore began her acting career in 1983 with minor roles.  She then joined the soap opera As the World Turns.  She had several supporting roles in movies. Her performance in Boogie Nights (1997) brought her fame.

Her success continued with movies such as The Big Lebowski (1998), The End of the Affair (1999) and Magnolia (1999). She received particular praise for acting as a betrayed wife in Far from Heaven (2002).  This won several awards. The same year, she was also nominated for several awards for her work in The Hours. The critics have liked her for her recent performances in The Kids Are All Right and portraying Sarah Palin in Game Change.

She won an Oscar for Best Actress for her performance in Still Alice (2014).

[[Tropical Storm Cristobal (2008)]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic tropical storms

Tropical Storm Cristobal was the third tropical storm of the 2008 Atlantic hurricane season. It began on July 19 as a weather system away from the Southeast U.S. Coast. It became a tropical storm later that day. Cristobal stayed away from land, and reached its highest strength as a strong tropical storm on July 21. It moved to the northeast next to the U.S. East Coast and died out on July 23 near Nova Scotia. Because it was a weak storm and never moved onto land, Cristobal's damages were mostly moderate rainfall. The storm dropped 3.43 in (87 mm) of rain in Wilmington, North Carolina, where minor flooding happened. Also, the remnants helped produce rainfall on Nova Scotia, which caused some flooding on roads and in basements.

[[Rijndael key schedule]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

AES (Rijndael) uses a key schedule to expand a short key into a number of separate round keys. This is known as the Rijndael key schedule.

The three AES variants have a different number of rounds. Each variant requires a separate 128-bit round key for each round plus one more. The key schedule produces the needed round keys from the initial key.

[[Gorillaz]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 establishments in England, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, Animated characters, English rock bands, Musical groups established in 1998, Musical groups from Essex, Warner Bros. Records artists

Gorillaz are an animated British rock band. The band was invented by Damon Albarn, a member of the band Blur, and Jamie Hewlett, who has worked on the comic book series Tank Girl. Even though the band members are fictional, they have released a large amount of albums and music videos. The band's animated members are 2D, Noodle, Russell Hobbs, and Murdoc Niccals.

The band's genre is mostly a combination of alternative rock, alternative hip hop, and electronica. It also has elements of experimental, trip hop, dub, and psychedelic rock.

[[Pantanal]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Bolivia, Geography of Brazil, Paraguay, Biosphere reserves, Wetlands

The Pantanal is the world's largest wetland or swamp.

It covers a region of 140,000 km2, larger than the area covered by the country Greece.

The Pantanal is in South America and shared by Brazil, Bolivia and Paraguay.

There are many threats to the Pantanal such as pollution, mercury from gold mining and ranching. Although the Pantanal can wash some of the chemicals away, the increased amount is becoming a concern.

In winter nearly 80% of the area is flooded.

[[Balliol College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1263 establishments, 1260s establishments in Europe, 13th century establishments in England

Balliol College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford in England. It was founded in 1263 by John Balliol, father of King John Balliol of Scotland. 

Usually, the undergraduate students are among the most politically active students in the university. The college's alumni include Boris Johnson, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, and several former prime ministers. Adam Smith, a graduate student of the college, is one of its best known students. In 2006, 45.1% of finalists got First Class Honours degrees. This is a higher percentage than any other Oxford college has ever had. The college was placed second in the Norrington Table.

[[Erich Mende]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1998 deaths, German military personnel of World War II, Majors, People from former German territories, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany, Politicians of the Free Democratic Party of Germany, Vice Chancellors of Germany

Erich Mende (28 October 1916 - 6 May 1998 in Bonn) was a German jurist and politician for the Christian-Democratic Union of Germany and the Free Democratic Party of Germany.

Mende was born in Groß Strehlitz, near Oppolne.

1936 he made his abitur. Afterwards he had to do his working service for the state and then his military service.

Up from 1938 he was an officer. At the end of World War II he was major.

After he was set free as prisoner of war, his hometown was made Polish. He found a new home in the Ruhr area. Then he studied laws in Cologne and Bonn.

In 1949 he finished his doctorade thesis.

In 1946 he joined the FDP.

He was Secretary for Intra-German Relations (Bundesminister für gesamtdeutsche Fragen) from 1963 to 1966.

In the same time he was Vice Chancellor of West Germany.

[[Petra Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 1992 deaths, Civil servants, Feminists, Former members of the German Bundestag, German essayists, German murder victims, German politicians of Alliance '90/The Greens, Green thinkers, Murders by firearm in Germany, Nonviolence advocates, Politicians from Baden-Württemberg

Petra Karin Kelly (November 23, 1947 – October 1, 1992) was a German politician, peace activist and one of the founders of the Green Party of Germany.

Kelly was born in Günzburg. Her stepfather was a US officer. Her original father and her mother were German.

Her family moved to the US in 1959.

She went to school in both countries.

From 1966 to 1970 he studied political sciences in Washington, D.C..

Kelly campaigned for Robert F. Kennedy in the 1968 U.S. elections.

She admired Martin Luther King and was an anti-Vietnam War protester.

She graduated in 1970 in Washington and got another exam in 1971 in Amsterdam.

Then she returned to West Germany.

She worked for the European Commission in Brussels from 1971 to 1983.

She was one of the founders of the Green Party in Germany in 1979 – the first Green Party worldwide. 

From 1983 to 1990 she was a member of the Bundestag for the Greens.

Kelly received the Right Livelihood Award in 1982.

Petra Kelly, who was seriously ill, died in Bonn in 1992, aged 44. She had been shot by her partner, politician and former general Bert Bastian, who committed suicide afterwards.

[[Along the River During Qingming Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese culture, Paintings

Along the River During Qingming Festival is a well known panoramic Chinese painting by artist Zhang Zeduan (1085-1145). It was painted during the Song Dynasty.  The painting is among the most famous of all Chinese paintings. It is kept at the Forbidden City, also known as the "Palace Museum" in Beijing.

[[Kaiserswerth]]

CATEGORIES: Düsseldorf-Kaiserswerth, Boroughs of Germany, Düsseldorf

Kaiserswerth is a settlement with a more than 1,000-year history.

It is one of the oldest parts of Düsseldorf. 

[[Vichy]]

CATEGORIES: Former national capitals, Subprefectures in France, Capital of France, Communes in Allier

Vichy (Vichèi) is a commune in central France, in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, along the Allier river. It is the commune in the department with second largest population after Montluçon. It is in the historic province of Bourbonnais.

[[Indochina]]

CATEGORIES: Southeast Asia, Peninsulas

Indochina, or the Indochinese Peninsula, is a region in Southeast Asia. 

It lies roughly east of India, south of China. 

Indochina comprises the territory of the following countries:

These countries have been known as Indochina since the time of French Colonialism.

Often also included in the scope of the term are:

[[Wadi Halfa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Sudan

Wadi Halfa is a small city in the northern part of Sudan by Lake Nubia (the Sudanese section of Lake Nasser).

It has 6 neighborhoods with inhabitants of 18,000 people. There is a highway under construction which will connect it with Aswan in Egypt and via Dongola with Khartoum. 

Wadi Halfa is now one of fastest growing cities in Sudan.

in 1964 when the Aswan Dam was built, the old city of Wadi Halfa was flooded and Nubians were forced to relocate in New Halfa. Now there is a huge number of Nubians are immigrating back to their mother land.

Wadi Halfa is a home of Geology and earth science college with student body of more than 500 students.

[[Mechanical energy]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics, Energy

In physics, mechanical energy describes the potential energy and kinetic energy present in the components of a mechanical system.

When a given amount of mechanical energy is transferred (such as when throwing a ball, lifting a box, crushing a soda can, or stirring a beverage) it is said that this amount of mechanical work has been done. Both mechanical energy and mechanical work are measured in the same units as energy in general. It is usually said that a component of a system has a certain amount of "mechanical energy" (i.e. it is a state function), whereas "mechanical work" describes the amount of mechanical energy a component has gained or lost.

The conservation of mechanical energy is a principle which states that under certain conditions, the total mechanical energy of a system is constant. This rule does not hold when mechanical energy is converted to other forms, such as chemical, nuclear, or electromagnetic. However, the principle of general conservation of energy is so far an unbroken rule of physics - as far as we know, energy cannot be created or destroyed, only changed in form ..

.

[[Vitiligo]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Vitiligo is a skin disease that causes the skin to lose its color.  It occurs when the melanocytes, cells that give skin their color, die or do not work. This is a problem because these cells protect against the light from the sun.

[[Virtue]]

CATEGORIES: Ethics

Virtue (Latin virtus; Greek ἀρετή) is a kind of behaviour which is thought to be good.  The adjective is "virtuous".  Someone who lives a virtuous life is someone who leads a good moral life, doing things that society thinks are good.  The opposite of virtue is vice.  

Philosophers throughout the ages have written their ideas about what they think virtue is.  The Ancient Greek philosophers from Plato onwards said that virtue consisted of four things: Justice, Courage, Wisdom, and Moderation.  In the Christian religion the three virtues  were Faith, Hope and Charity.  These are mentioned in the Bible in the First Epistle to the Corinthians chapter 13 verse 13.  These virtues are also very important in the Judaic and Muslim traditions.

[[Greyhound Lines]]

CATEGORIES: American transport companies, 1914 establishments in the United States, Bus transport

Greyhound Lines (commonly called Greyhound) is a company in the United States that runs bus services between cities. It was founded in 1914. Its parent company is on the London Stock Exchange.  The buses use air brakes and hold over 200 gallons of diesel.

[[Twofish]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, Twofish is a symmetric key block cipher with a block size of 128 bits and key lengths up to 256 bits. 

In 1997, the NIST announced for competition to choose a successor to DES to be known as AES, Twofish was one of the five finalists of the Advanced Encryption Standard competition, but was not selected as a standard. 

Twofish is related to the earlier block cipher Blowfish. Twofish's main features are the use of pre-computed key-dependent S-boxes, and a relatively complex key schedule. One half of an n-bit key is used as the actual encryption key and the other half of the n-bit key is used to modify the encryption algorithm (key-dependent S-boxes). Twofish uses some elements from other designs; for example, the pseudo-Hadamard transform (PHT) from the SAFER family of ciphers. Twofish uses the same Feistel structure as the DES.

On most software platforms Twofish is slightly slower than Rijndael (the chosen algorithm for Advanced Encryption Standard) for 128-bit keys, but somewhat faster for 256-bit keys.

[[Truncated differential cryptanalysis]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, truncated differential cryptanalysis is a generalization of differential cryptanalysis, an attack model against block ciphers. In 1994 Lars Knudsen designed the technique, during this period ordinary differential cryptanalysis analyzes the full difference between two texts, the truncated version considers differences that are only determined to some extent. It has been applied to SAFER, IDEA, Skipjack, E2, Twofish, Camellia, CRYPTON, and the stream cipher Salsa20 as well.

[[Fatimid Caliphate]]

CATEGORIES: Arab people, Caliphates, Former countries in the Middle East, Former monarchies, Former monarchies of Africa, Former monarchies of Asia, Royal dynasties, 909 establishments, 12th century disestablishments in Africa, 12th century disestablishments in Asia, 10th-century establishments in Africa, 10th century establishments in Asia, 1171 disestablishments

The Fatimid Caliphate was ruled by the al-Fātimiyyūn (الفاطميون) dynasty  from 5 January 909 to 1171. It was an Arab Shi'a dynasty It ruled the fourth and final Arab caliphate. In different times different areas of the Maghreb, Egypt, and the Levant belonged to the caliphate.

Egyptian city of Cairo was made the capital. The term Fatimite is sometimes used to refer to the citizens of this caliphate as well. The ruling elite belonged to the Ismaili branch of Shi'ism. The leaders were also Shia Ismaili Imams. They had a religious significance to Ismaili Muslims. They are also part of the chain of holders of the office of Caliph, as recognized by most Muslims, the only period in which the Shia Imamate and the Caliphate were united to any degree. There was only one other exception: the Caliphate of Ali himself.

The Fatimids were famous for religious tolerance towards non-Ismaili sects of Islam as well as towards Jews, Maltese Christians and Coptic Christians, but there were some exceptions nevertheless.

[[Maghreb]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Africa

The Maghreb (المغرب العربي al-Maġrib al-ʿArabī) is the western part of the Arab world. It is in North Africa. The term is generally applied to all of Mauritania, Western Sahara, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, and Libya, but in older Arabic usage meant only the area of the three countries between the high ranges of the Atlas Mountains and the Mediterranean Sea (Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia). Historically, some writers also included Muslim ruled regions in Spain, Portugal, Sicily and Malta in the definition. Malta, in particular, still speaks a language based on its own Maghrebi Arabic variety: Maltese. 

[[Plaintext]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, plaintext is the information which the sender want to transmit to the receiver(s).  

Before computers, plaintext meant text in the language of the communicating parties.  Since computers, the definition has been expanded. It now includes not only the electronic representation of text, such as emails and word processor documents, but also the computer representation of speech, music, pictures, videos, ATM and credit card transactions, sensor data, and so forth. That is basically any information which the communicating parties might wish to hide from others.  The plaintext is the normal representation of the data before any action has been taken to hide it.

The plaintext is used as input to an encryption algorithm; the output is termed ciphertext.  Some systems, however, use a cascade of layers of encryption (called 'rounds') in which case the ciphertext output of one encryption algorithm becomes the plaintext input to the next. Triple DES is an example.

[[Ciphertext]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, ciphertext (or cyphertext) refers to the output of the encryption process. Plaintext is turned into ciphertext using an algorithm (cipher). This makes it unreadable to anyone except those who own unique information about it, usually referred to as a key. 

Decryption is the reverse process of encryption. It takes the unreadable ciphertext as an input and makes it readable again in the form of plaintext.

[[Azad Kashmir Day]]

CATEGORIES: Kashmir, Holidays

Azad Kashmir Day celebrates the 67th day of the Azad Jammu Kashmir government, created on 24 October 1947. However, most people celebrate it on 26 October as they class it as a lucky day once all the papers were signed and settled.

[[Stream cipher]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a stream cipher is a symmetric key cipher where plaintext bits are combined with a pseudorandom cipher bit stream (keystream) using an exclusive-or (xor) operation. In a stream cipher the Plaintext digits are encrypted one at a time, and the transformation of successive digits varies during the encryption state. An alternative name is a state cipher, as the encryption of each digit is dependent on the current state. In practice, the digits are typically single bits or bytes.

Stream ciphers represent a different approach to symmetric encryption from block ciphers. Block ciphers operate on large blocks of fixed length. Stream ciphers typically execute at a higher speed than block ciphers and have lower hardware requirements. However, stream ciphers can be susceptible to serious security problems if used incorrectly; for example, in particular, the same starting state must never be used twice.

A stream cipher makes use of a much smaller and more convenient cryptographic key, for example 128 bits keys. Based on this key, it generates a pseudorandom keystream which can be combined with the plaintext digits in a similar way to the one-time pad encryption algorithm. However,  because the keystream is pseudorandom, and not truly random, the security associated with the one-time pad cannot be applied and it is quite possible for a stream cipher to be completely insecure.

[[Nyon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud, Cities in Switzerland

Nyon is a municipality in the district of Nyon in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. It is found 25 kilometers north of Geneva, and is part of the Geneva metropolitan area. The town has (as of 2006) 17,267 people.

[[Letterkenny]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Ireland, County Donegal

Letterkenny (Leitir Ceanainn) is a town in County Donegal of the Ireland. It is  on the River Swilly and has a population of 17,586.

In 1824, when the first description of Letterkenny as a modern town was written, it was stated that: "Within half a mile is the Port of Ballyraine, whither vessels of 100 tons bring iron, salt and colonial produce and whence they export hides and butter". Nothing is left of the port now except the warehouses.

Letterkenny achieved town status in the early 1920s following the partition of Ireland. 

[[Thalwil]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Zürich

Thalwil is a municipality in the district of Horgen in the canton of Zürich in Switzerland.

[[Hearth]]

CATEGORIES: Home

A hearth (har-th) is a brick or stone lined fireplace or oven that is used for cooking and heating. Historically, the hearth was the center of the home, as it provided heat for the house. Its Latin name is focus. That is why "focus" is used for many kinds of central point.

In more modern times, the hearth may be section of the fireplace that can be seen. This often includes tiles around the base of the fireplace and the floor.

[[Jack-o'-lantern]]

CATEGORIES: Cucurbitaceae

A Jack-o'-lantern is a carved pumpkin, turnip, beet, or potato. In the 19th and 20th centuries people in Scotland and Ireland carved Halloween lanterns from large yellow turnips. This custom has become less prevalent in recent years as supermarkets have begun selling the larger and easier-to-carve American pumpkins. 

In Irish lore, the Jack-o'-lantern is from the story of Stingy Jack. Jack was a clever man who cheated the devil several times. Once when Jack was leaving hell, the devil threw him a glowing coal to light his way. Jack put the coal in a hollowed-out turnip to make the first "Jack-o'-lantern". Lore says Jack can still be seen wandering the world with his turnip lantern, especially around All Saints Day, November 1.

In the United States, the carved pumpkin was first associated with the harvest season in general, long before it became an emblem of Halloween. In 1900, an article on Thanksgiving entertaining recommended a lit Jack-o'-lantern as part of the festivities.

To make a Jack-o'-lantern, the top of the pumpkin surrounding the stump of the vine is cut off. This top will be used as a "lid" when the Jack-o'-lantern is completed. The seeds and pulp inside the pumpkin are scooped out using a spoon or one's hands. The seeds may be roasted in a hot oven, and then salted to make a snack.

Once the inside of the pumpkin is clean, a face is carved into one side of the pumpkin. The eyes and nose are usually triangles. The mouth is usually filled with jagged teeth. A candle, devotional candle in a candle-holder, or a flashlight is put inside the Jack-o'-lantern and lit. The "lid" is replaced. The lid may be placed slightly askew to keep the candle alit. 

In the United States, a completely carved and lit Jack-o'-lantern is put on the porch, the porch steps, or in a window to welcome trick-or-treaters on Halloween. Once the pumpkin is carved, it is good for nothing else and lasts only a day or two before it starts to rot. Pumpkins used to make Jack-o'-lanterns are inedible. In the United States, mischief-makers steal the Jack-o'-lanterns of their neighbors. The pumpkins are smashed in the street, dropped from a bridge, or otherwise destroyed.

[[Lakes of Titan]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons

The lakes of Titan, a moon of Saturn, are made of liquid methane. The lakes were found by the Cassini-Huygens space probe. The larger lakes are known as maria (seas) and the smaller ones as lacūs (lakes).

It was possible that there were seas of liquid methane on Titan and first suggested after reading Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 information that showed Titan to have a thick atmosphere, capable of supporting lakes, but exact evidence was not found until 1995 when pictures from the Hubble telescope and other telescopes had already shown some proof of liquid methane possibly in lakes or planet-wide oceans, similar to oceans on Earth.

The Cassini mission proved there are liquid lakes on Titan, but not at first. When the probe arrived in the Saturnian system in 2004, scientists hoped that hydrocarbon lakes or oceans might be seen in reflected sunlight from the surface, but no reflections were found.

Scientists still believed that liquid ethane and methane would be found near Titan's poles, where they expected to find lots of liquid. At Titan's south pole, a large dark area named Ontario Lacus was the first lake identified, possibly created by rain as clouds are often seen in the area. A possible shoreline was also identified at the pole in radar images. As the Huygens-Cassini probe flew by on July 22, 2006, its radar took pictures of the northern part of the planet (which was in its winter), a number of large, smooth areas were found on the surface near the northern pole. Based on this data, scientists announced "definitive evidence of lakes filled with methane on Saturn's moon Titan" in January 2007. The Cassini–Huygens team decided that the smooth areas are the hydrocarbon lakes they had been searching for, the first lakes found off Earth. Some valleys appear to have rivers.

The satellite was not able to show pictures of lakes moving in the wind. The heavy moisture and clouds of methane near Titan’s surface could be a sign of evaporation from lakes. The lakes cover 0.002–0.02% of Titan's surface.

The Cassini-Huygens probe flew by in February, 2007, taking radar and camera pictures of some large areas near the north pole that may be large areas of liquid methane and/or ethane, including one sea larger than 100,000 km² (larger than Lake Superior), and another area similar in size to the Caspian Sea. Pictures taken near Titan's southern pole in October 2007 showed similar, but far smaller, areas that look like lakes.

The Cassini-Huygens probe, flew very close to Titan in December 2007, and took infrared pictures of the chemicals on the surface and found a lake called Ontario Lacus near the south pole. Scientists studying the infrared pictures decided that one or more of the large lakes in the pictures of Saturn's moon Titan does hold liquid and that the liquid is made of hydrocarbons. They have also found ethane on Titan.  This mission proves Titan to be the only other planet known to have liquid on its surface. The lakes make Titan a very important planet for studying weather science. Liquids, gases and temperatures are at play on Titan.  This should help the science of weather forecasting.

Lakes were not found near near Titan's center of Titan which was studied on January 14, 2005. A part of the Huygens-Cassini probe landed there. The pictures taken by the probe as it fell showed no open areas of liquid, but showed rivers that had dried. It was at first thought that dark areas near the center of Titan could be a lake of a liquid or tar-like substance, but the probe landed on the dark area, and it is solid without any liquid. A device known as a penetrometer studied the surface as the probe landed and seemed to find wet clay. Scientists believe that the penetrometer may have landed on a large pebble, and they say that the surface is similar to sand made of ice. Pictures taken after the probe landed show a  large flat area covered in pebbles. The pebbles may be made of water ice and are partly rounded, which indicates fluids.

On February 13, 2008, scientists said that Titans polar lakes contain "hundreds of times more natural gas and other hydrocarbons than all the known natural gas on Earth." The desert near the center of the planet are not liquid but do have more organics than Earth. In June 2008, Cassini's Visible and Infrared Mapping Spectrometer confirmed the presence of liquid ethane beyond doubt in a lake in Titan's southern hemisphere.

Predictions of Titan's clouds are that during in a Saturnian year, liquid moves from the equator to the poles, in clouds, and falls as rain.

[[West Coast blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

The West Coast blues is a type of blues music related to jazz and jump blues, with lots of piano sounds and jazz guitar solos, which originated from Texas blues musicians that moved to California in the 1940s.  West Coast blues also uses smooth, honey-toned vocals, often sounding similar to urban blues.

Texas and the West Coast

The best known West Coast blues musicians may be guitarist T-Bone Walker, famous for the song "Call It Stormy Monday (But Tuesday Is Just As Bad)", originally from Texas, he had made his first recordings in the late 1920s. During the early 1940's Walker moved to Los Angeles, where he recorded a lot of music for Capital, Black & White, and Imperial. Walker an electric guitar sound to the blues, prossibly doing more to make the use of electric guitar popular in blues than anyone else. Much of his material had a jazzy jump blues feel, which is typical of popular blues from California in the 1940s and 1950s. Other Texas bluesmen followed: Pianist/songwriter Amos Milburn, singer Percy Mayfield, famous for the song "Hit the Road Jack", and Charles Brown moved to Los Angeles. Guitarist Pee Wee Crayton divided his time between Los Angeles and San Francisco, while Lowell Fulson, from Texas by way of Oklahoma, moved to Oakland.

After the efforts of Tom Mazzolini, producer of the San Francisco Blues Festival, started in 1974, and the efforts of recording companies like Arhoolie and HighTone, the West Coast is one of the most important blues areas in the country.

[[Third person]]

Third person (or third-person) may refer to:

[[Frederick Pottinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1831 births, 1865 deaths, Australian police officers

Sir Frederick William Pottinger, 2nd Baronet (1831–1865), police inspector, was born on April 27, 1831, in India. He became famous for leading the New South Wales police in their hunt for the bushrangers Ben Hall, John Gilbert, Frank Gardiner and John Dunn.

[[Bushfire]]

CATEGORIES: Fire, Ecology

A bushfire is a wildfire that happens mostly in the Australian bush. Bush is the word for scrub, woodland or grassland of Australia and New Zealand. In south east and south west of Australia, bushfires are most common in the summer and early autumn. In the north of Australia, bushfires usually happen during winter which is the dry season. Many Australian plants burn easily. Eucalyptus trees have a high oil content which makes them burn. Over the last 40 years, Australian bushfires have cost around 2.5 billion Australian dollars. In the same period, Australian bushfires caused the death of around 250 people and the destruction of 4,554 homes.But these figures do not include the 173 people who died and the 2000 homes destroyed in the 2009 Victorian bushfires. They can also kill wildlife including rare koalas.

[[Artificial selection]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics, Domesticated animals, Agriculture

Artificial selection is the intentional breeding of plants or animals. It means the same thing as selective breeding and is an ancient method of genetic engineering. 

Selective breeding is a technique used when breeding domesticated animals, such as dogs, pigeons or cattle. Some of these animals may have traits that a breeder will want to carry over to the next generation. The breeder will therefore select those animals to breed which have that quality, rather than those that do not.

Inbreeding is a particular kind of selective breeding, designed to produce a population which is genetically virtually identical.  Such populations are rarely viable outside the laboratory.  They lose fertility.  To control this, most breeds are outcrossed or backcrossed to wild-type individuals, or at least less inbred stock. The details differ from breed to breed.  The improvement when outcrossing is done is called hybrid vigour.

Charles Darwin used the example of artificial selection to introduce his idea of natural selection. Artificial selection may be contrasted with the process of natural selection. In natural selection, the differential reproduction of organisms with certain traits happens. This is because some variations help the organism to have better survival and reproduction. The process maintains or enhances the fitness of a population in its natural habitat. 

Artificial selection may sometimes be unintentional; it is thought that domestication of crops by early humans was largely unintentional.

[[Selectable marker]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic engineering

A selectable marker is a reporter gene introduced into a cell along with a gene insert. What this means is, the experimenter can tell the right gene is in the cell because the marker can be seen or detected.

Most often, this is used for  bacteria or for cells in culture. Selectable markers show the success of a transfection or other procedure meant to introduce foreign DNA into a cell. It is a technique in gene targeting and gene knockout.

Selectable markers are often antibiotic resistance genes; bacteria that have been subjected to a procedure to introduce foreign DNA are grown on a medium containing an antibiotic.  The antibiotic knocks out cells which do not have the resistant marker. Those bacterial colonies that can grow have successfully taken up and expressed the introduced genetic material.

An alternative to a selectable marker is a screenable marker, which allows the researcher to distinguish between wanted and unwanted cells.

Examples of selectable markers include:

[[Evolutionary algorithm]]

CATEGORIES: Artificial intelligence

In Computer Science, especially in artificial intelligence, evolutionary algorithms are a kind of algorithm that simulate evolution to optimise something. Each generation of solution is subjected to some kind of fitness function; those that survive are then recombined in some way to make the next generation of solution. This is done until a certain level of fitness is reached, or a determined number of generations have been used.

[[Artificial life]]

CATEGORIES: Scientific modeling

Artificial life (commonly Alife or alife) is a field of study which examines systems related to life, its processes, and its evolution. This is done with simulations using computer models, robotics, and biochemistry. There are three main kinds of alife, named for their approaches:  soft, from software; hard, from hardware; and wet, from biochemistry. Artificial life imitates traditional biology by trying to recreate biological phenomena.  The term "artificial life" is often used to specifically refer to soft alife.

[[Nils Aall Barricelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1993 deaths, Norwegian mathematicians, Italian mathematicians

Nils Aall Barricelli (born 1912, died 1993) was a Norwegian-Italian mathematician.

Barricelli's early computer-assisted experiments in symbiogenesis and evolution are considered pioneering in artificial life research. Barricelli, who was independently rich, held an unpaid residency at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey in 1953, 1954. and 1956. He later worked at the University of California, Los Angeles, at Vanderbilt University (until 1964), in the Department of Genetics of the University of Washington, Seattle (until 1968) and then at the Mathematics Institute of the University of Oslo. Barricelli published in a variety of fields including virus genetics, DNA, theoretical biology, space flight, theoretical physics and mathematical language.

[[Genetic algorithm]]

CATEGORIES: Artificial intelligence

A genetic algorithm is an algorithm that imitates the process of natural selection. They help solve optimization and search problems. Genetic algorithms are part of the bigger class of evolutionary algorithms. Genetic algorithms imitate natural biological processes, such as inheritance, mutation, selection and crossover. 

The concept of genetic algorithms is a search technique often used in computer science to find complex, non-obvious solutions to algorithmic optimisation and search problems. Genetic algorithms are global search heuristics.cga

[[Ingo Rechenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people

Ingo Rechenberg' (born January 20 1934 in Berlin) is a German computer scientist and professor. Rechenberg is a pioneer of the fields of evolutionary computation and artificial evolution.   In the 1960s and 1970s he invented a highly influential set of optimization methods known as evolution strategies (from German Evolutionsstrategie). His group successfully applied the new algorithms to challenging problems such as aerodynamic wing design. These were the first serious technical applications of artificial evolution, an important subset of the still growing field of bionics.

Rechenberg was educated at the Technical University of Berlin and at the University of Cambridge. Since 1972 he has been a full professor at the  Technical University of Berlin, where he is heading the Department of Bionics and Evolution Techniques.

His awards include the Lifetime Achievement Award of the Evolutionary Programming Society (US, 1995) and the Evolutionary Computation Pioneer Award of the IEEE Neural Networks Society (US, 2002). In 1954, Rechenberg also became world champion in the field of model airplanes. 

[[Evolution strategy]]

CATEGORIES: Artificial intelligence

Evolution strategies are ways to solve a problem using evolutionary algorithms. The term was coined by Ingo Rechenberg.

[[John Henry Holland]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, American psychologists, Scientists from Indiana

John Henry Holland (February 2, 1929 – August 9, 2015) was an American scientist. He was Professor of Psychology and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. He was a pioneer in complex system and nonlinear science. He was known as the father of genetic algorithms.

Holland died on August 9, 2015 in Ann Arbor, Michigan, aged 86.

[[Ontario Lacus]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons, Lakes

Ontario Lacus is a lake filled with methane and ethane near the south pole of Saturn's moon Titan.  It was identified as a hydrocarbon lake and confirmed by data from the Cassini spacecraft. This discovery was announced in the 31 July 2008 edition of Nature. Ontario Lacus is about 20,000 km2 in area, and is named after Lake Ontario in North America, which is a similar size and shape.

[[Penetrometer]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, Measuring tools

A penetrometer is a device to test the strength of a material.

It is often used on soil. The penetrometer is dropped on soil or it is pressed against soil to measure how deep a hole it makes. This is a way to decide if soil is strong enough to build a road on. Scientists can use a penetrometer to measure how much moisture is in soil. Penetrometers are used on space probes such as the Cassini-Huygens probe, to measure the amount of moisture in soil on other planets.

[[Crème brûlée]]

CATEGORIES: Desserts

Crème brûlée (or Crème brulée) is a dessert. It is made of custard. It is topped with a thin, brittle crust of caramelized sugar. It may be served cold, warm, or at room temperature. The custard is baked, and then sprinkled with sugar Casa  that is caramelized under a broiler or with a kitchen blowtorch. The custard is flavored with vanilla. Other flavorings include chocolate, orange liqueur, fruit, or other. The caramelized sugar crust can be covered with a liqueur and set on fire.

The exact origin of crème brûlée is uncertain. France, England, and Spain all claim to be the country where crème brûlée had its origin. The first printed recipe for a dessert called crème brûlée is from the 1691 edition of the French cookbook Le Cuisinier Royal et Bourgeois by Francois Massialot, a cook at the Palace of Versailles. That version was a sweet custard of egg yolks and milk with a burnt sugar crust. It is similar to the modern versions. In the second edition of the book, the dessert is called crème anglaise.  

At Trinity College, Cambridge the dessert was known as 'burnt cream'. The college crest was burnt into sugar on top of a custard using a hot iron. It may predate Massialot's cookbook with one authority claiming it was first served at Trinity in 1630.

Catalans claim their dessert known as crema catalana is the original. It is a rich custard often flavoured with cinnamon and lemon or orange zest topped with carmelized sugar. The Catalan version was first recorded in the 18th century. It is also called Crema de Sant Josep, after Saint Joseph, the husband of the Virgin Mary. In Spain and in many other parts of Europe, Saint Joseph’s Day is celebrated on 19 March. Crema Catalana is a traditional dessert served on this day.

== References == 

[[Kraken Mare]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons

Kraken Mare is the largest known lake on the surface of Saturn's moon Titan. It was discovered in 2007 by the Cassini probe and was named in 2008 after the Kraken, a legendary sea monster.

Kraken Mare is believed to be the largest of seas and lakes near Titan's north pole. It was discovered as a sea of hydrocarbons by radar pictures. Only a small part of the sea has been pictured by radar, but its full size is seen in visible light pictures. Kraken Mare is believed to be similar in size to the Caspian Sea.

An island in the sea is named Mayda Insula.

[[Ligeia Mare]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons

Ligeia Mare is a lake on Titan at 79.0° N, 248.0° W, measuring around 500 km in width. It is named after Ligeia, one of the sirens in Greek mythology. Ligeia Mare has been a proposed lake to land the Titan Lake In-situ Sampling Propelled Explorer space probe

[[Keystream]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a keystream is a stream of random or pseudorandom characters that are combined with a plaintext message to produce an encrypted message (the ciphertext).

The "characters" in the keystream can be bits, bytes, numbers or actual characters like A-Z depending on the usage case.

Usually each character in the keystream is either added, subtracted or XORed with a character in the plaintext to produce the ciphertext, using modular arithmetic.

Keystreams are used in the one-time pad cipher and in most stream ciphers. Block ciphers can also be used to produce keystreams. For example, the CTR mode (also known as Integer Counter Mode (ICM)) is a block mode that makes a block cipher produce a keystream then turns the block cipher into a stream cipher.

[[Noor Jehan]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2000 deaths, Pakistani movie actors, Pakistani singers, Punjabi people

Noor Jehan (نور جہاں) was the adopted stage name for Allah Wasai (September 21, 1926 – December 23, 2000). She was a Pakistani singer and actress. She is renowned as one of the greatest singers of her time in the Indian subcontinent and was given the honorific title of Mallika-e-Tarranum (ملکہ ترنم, English: the queen of melody). She achieved special national recognition and popularity in Pakistan with her patriotic songs of 1965, which elevated her to an iconic level. 

Along with Ahmed Rushdi, she holds the record for having given voice to the largest number of film songs in the history of Pakistani cinema. She is also considered to be the first female Pakistani film director.

Noor Jehan was awarded the Pakistan President's Award in 1965.

She married Shaukat Hussain Rizvi in 1942. The marriage ended in 1953 with divorce. The couple had three children, including their singer daughter Zil-e-Huma. She then married Ejaz Durrani in 1959. The second marriage also produced three children. It ended in divorce in 1970.

In 2000, Jehan was hospitalized in Karachi and suffered a heart attack. Jehan died as a result of heart failure.

[[Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 1997 deaths, Pakistani people, Punjabi people, Pakistani singers, Bollywood playback singers

Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan (نصرت فتح على خاں, October 13, 1948 – August 16, 1997), was a Pakistani musician. He was a singer of qawwali, the devotional music of the Sufis (a mystical tradition in Islam). In 2006, Time magazine included him in their list of "Asian Heroes'.

Traditionally, qawwali is a performing art which is passed down with in the family. Nusrat's family has been performing qawwali for the last 600 years. Among other honorary titles given to him, Nusrat was called Shahenshah-e-Qawwali, meaning The Emperor of Qawwali.

[[Aziz Mian]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2000 deaths, Pakistani singers, People from Delhi

Aziz Mian Qawwal (عزیز میاں قوال) (April 17, 1942 – December 6, 2000) was a Pakistani singer, most famous for his performing of Qawwalis. Aziz Mian was born as Abdul Aziz (عبد العزیز) in Delhi, British India. The exclamation Mian, which he often used in his qawwalis, became part of his stage name. He began to introduce himself as Aziz Mian Mairthi. The word Mairthi refers to Meerut, a city in northern India, from which he migrated to Pakistan in 1947.

At the age of ten, he began learning the art of Qawwali under the tutelage of Ustad Abdul Wahid Khan. He received sixteen years of training at the Data Ganj Baksh School of Lahore, and obtained a degree in Urdu literature from the University of Punjab, Lahore.

[[Kashmir Solidarity Day]]

CATEGORIES: Kashmir, Holidays

Kashmir Solidarity Day has been celebrated on 5 February each year since 1990. It is a day of protest against Indian control of part of Kashmir. It is a national holiday in Pakistan.

[[National emblem of Bangladesh]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladesh, National coats of arms

The National Emblem of Bangladesh was adopted shortly after independence in 1971. 

Located on the emblem is a White water lily, that is bordered on two sides by rice sheaves. Above the water lilly are four stars and a three-leaf clover of jute leaves. The water lily is the country's national flower, and is representative of the many rivers that run through Bangladesh. Rice represents its presence as the staple food of Bangladesh, and for the agriculture of that nation. The four stars represent the four founding principles that were originally enshrined in the first constitution of Bangladesh in 1972: Nationalism, Secularism, Socialism, and Democracy. 

The details of the emblem is given as quoted below:

The national emblem of the Republic is the national flower Shapla (Nymphaea pubescens) resting on water, having on each side an ear of paddy and being surmounted by three connected leaves of jute with two stars on each side of the leaves. - Constitution of Bangladesh Article 4(3) 

The Government of Bangladesh has adopted Education, Nationalism and Democracy as its "National Motto".

[[Instrument of Surrender]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 in Bangladesh, 1971 in Pakistan, Bangladesh Liberation War

The Instrument of Surrender (আত্মসমর্পনের দলিল) was a written agreement that enabled the surrender of the Pakistan Armed Forces in the Bangladesh Liberation War. The surrender took place at the Ramna Race Course in Dacca on December 16, 1971. Lieutenant-General A A K Niazi, joint commander of the Pakistan Armed Forces in East Pakistan,  and Lieutenant General Jagjit Singh Aurora, joint commander of the Bangladesh-India Allied Forces, signed the instrument amid thousands of cheering crowds at the race course. Air Commodore A. K. Khandker, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Bangladesh Armed Forces, and Lieutenant General J F R Jacob of the Indian Eastern Command, acted as witnesses to the surrender.

Subsequently, around 93,000 Pakistani troops and officials were taken as prisoners-of-war by the Indian Army, the largest number of POWs since World War II. They were later repatriated in 1973 under the terms of the Delhi Agreement.

[[Product cipher]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a product cipher is a popular type of stream ciphers that works by executing in sequence a number of simple transformations such as substitution, permutation, and modular arithmetic. 

Product ciphers usually consist of iterations of several rounds of the same algorithm. Individual rounds themselves are not secure. However, it is hoped that a sufficiently long chain of rounds loads the cipher with sufficient confusion and diffusion properties to make it resistant to cryptanalysis. 

A product cipher that uses only substitutions and permutations is called a SP-network. Feistel ciphers are another important class of product ciphers.

[[Islamic Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Pakistan, Mauritania, Iran, Politics of Afghanistan, Forms of government

Islamic Republic is the name given to forms of government of several states. These states often have Islam as a state religion and are governed by the principles of Sharia, islamic law. Laws made by the state cannot contradict Sharia. 

The following states call themselves Islamic Republic (non-exhaustive list)

Despite the similar name the countries differ greatly in their governments and laws.

[[Key schedule]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography,  the so-called product ciphers are a certain kind of ciphers, where the decryption of data is done in "rounds". The general setup of each round is the same, except for some hard-coded parameters and a part of the cipher key, called a subkey. A key schedule is an algorithm that, given the key, calculates the subkeys for these rounds. 

[[EFF DES cracker]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, the EFF DES cracker (nicknamed "Deep Crack") is a machine built by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) to perform a brute force search of DES cipher's key space — that is, to decrypt an encrypted message by trying every possible key. The aim in doing this was to prove that DES's key is not long enough to be secure.

The DES uses a 56-bit key, meaning that there are 256 possible keys under which a message can be encrypted. This is approximately 7.2116 (more than 72 quadrillion). When DES was approved as a federal standard in 1976, a machine fast enough to test such a number of keys in a reasonable time would have cost an unreasonable amount of money to build.

[[Classified information]]

CATEGORIES: National security, Secrecy

Classified information is sensitive information to which access is restricted by law or regulation to particular classes of people. A formal security clearance is required to handle classified documents or access classified data. The clearance process requires a satisfactory background investigation. There are typically several levels of sensitivity, with differing clearance requirements. This sort of hierarchical system of sharing information among a group of people is almost used by every national government. The operation of assigning the level of sensitivity to data is called data classification.

The purpose of classification is to protect information from being used to damage or cause danger to national security. Classification formalizes what constitutes a "state secret" and deals with different levels of protection based on the expected damage the information might cause if it reached the wrong hands.

Certain non-government organizations and corporations also have their own secret information, normally referred to as trade secrets.

[[Security clearance]]

CATEGORIES: National security

A security clearance is a status granted (approved) to individuals allowing them access to classified information, e.g. state secrets. It is something like permission or a license. The term "security clearance" is also sometimes used in private organizations that have a formal process of selecting employees to access "sensitive information". 

A clearance by itself is normally not sufficient to gain access; the organization must determine that the cleared person "needs to know" the information. No one is supposed to be granted access to classified information only because of rank, position, or a security clearance.

[[Sensitive information]]

CATEGORIES: National security

Sensitive information is information or knowledge that might result in loss of an advantage or level of security if exposed to others who might be unfriends or have low or unknown trustability.

Loss, misuse, modification or unauthorized access to sensitive information can negatively affect the privacy of an individual, trade secrets of a business or even the security, internal and foreign affairs of a nation depending on the level of sensitivity and nature of the information. 

The term classified information generally refers to information that is subject to special security classification regulations imposed by many national governments. The term "Unclassified" as used in the below refers to information that is not subject to security classification regulations. Information can be reclassified to a different level or declassified (made available to the public) depending on changes of situation or new intelligence.

[[Trade secret]]

CATEGORIES: Secrecy, Trade, Intellectual property law

A trade secret is a formula, practice, process, design, instrument, pattern, or a collection of information which is not generally known, invented or created, by which a business can obtain an economic advantage over competitors or customers. In some jurisdictions, such secrets are referred to as "confidential information" or "classified information".

With its broad definition of eligible subject matter, trade secret law protects a wide range of valuable information, including information that would not be eligible for protection under existing patent, trademark, or copyright law. This could include formulae and recipes, proprietary databases, business processes and methods, information about costs, pricing, margins, overhead, manufacturing processes, proprietary computer software programs, customer lists, and strategic plans and marketing programs.

There are three factors that are common to all definitions of a trade secret, a trade secret is information that:

The unauthorized acquisition, use, or disclosure of such secret information in a manner contrary to honest commercial practices by others is regarded as an unfair practice and a violation of the trade secret protection.stub

[[Rock Steady]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums, No Doubt albums

Rock Steady is the fifth studio album by the American alternative rock band No Doubt. It was released on December 11, 2001. The album was influenced a lot by reggae, dancehall, and electronica, compared to their previous albums. A lot of music critics saw this and gave the album good reviews. For example, Rolling Stone magazine put the album as the 316th greatest album of all time in their book Rolling Stone's List of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. It was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 2003 Grammy Awards. Four singles were released from the album. The first single, "Hey Baby", won the Grammy Award for Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal. The second single was nominated for Best Dance Recording. The third single, "Underneath It All", was released August 15 2002. It won a Grammy Award for Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal at the 2004 Grammy Awards. The album's last single, "Running", was released July 1 2003.

[[Meet-in-the-middle attack]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

The Meet-in-the-middle attack is a cryptographic attack which, like the birthday attack, makes use of a space-time tradeoff. While the birthday attack attempts to find two values in the domain of a function that map to the same value in its range, the meet-in-the-middle attack attempts to find a value in each of the ranges and domains of the composition of two functions such that the forward mapping of one through the first function is the same as the inverse image of the other through the second function—quite literally meeting in the middle of the composed function.

Assume the attacker knows a set of plaintext and ciphertext: P and C. That is,

where E is the encryption function (cipher), and K1 and K2 are the two keys.

The attacker can then compute EK(P) for all possible keys K and store the results in memory. Afterwards he can decrypt the ciphertext by computing DK(C) for each K. Any matches between these two resulting sets are likely to reveal the correct keys. (To speed up the comparison, the EK(P) set is stored in an in-memory lookup table, then each DK(C) can be matched against the values in the lookup table to find the candidate keys.)

[[Key whitening]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, key whitening is a technique used to increase the security of block ciphers. It consists of steps that combine the data with portions of the key (most commonly using a simple XOR) before the first round and after the last round of encryption. DES-X was the first block cipher that used key whitening.

[[ESTREAM]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

eSTREAM is a project to identify "new stream ciphers that might become suitable for widespread adoption",  organized by the EU ECRYPT network. It was set up because of the failure of all six stream ciphers submitted to the NESSIE project.  The call for primitives was first issued in November 2004. The project was completed in April 2008. The project was divided into separate phases and the project goal was to find algorithms suitable for different kinds of application.

[[MacGuffin (cipher)]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, MacGuffin is a block cipher created in 1994 by Bruce Schneier and Matt Blaze at a Fast Software Encryption workshop. It was intended as a catalyst for analysis of a new cipher structure, known as Generalized Unbalanced Feistel Networks (GUFNs). 

Schneier and Blaze based MacGuffin on DES, their main change was spliting the DES 64 bits data block into two unequal halves in the Feistel network, 48 bits of the 64-bit data block are fed through the round function, whose output is XORed with the other 16 bits of the data block. 

MacGuffin's key schedule is a modified version of the encryption algorithm itself. Since MacGuffin is a Feistel network, decryption is easy; simply run the encryption algorithm in reverse.

The algorithm was experimental, intended to explore the security properties of unbalanced Feistel networks. The cryptanalysis proceeded very quickly, so quickly that the cipher was broken using differential cryptanalysis at the same workshop by Vincent Rijmen and Bart Preneel. They also tried attacking MacGuffin with different S-boxes, taken directly from DES. This version was slightly stronger. 

Rijmen and Preneel warn that designing an algorithm to resist only known attacks is generally not a good design principle.

Schneier and Blaze recommended using 32 rounds, and specified MacGuffin with a 128-bit key.

[[Feistel cipher]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a Feistel cipher is a symmetric structure used in the construction of block ciphers, named after the German IBM cryptographer Horst Feistel; it is also commonly known as a Feistel network. A large set of block ciphers use the scheme, including the Data Encryption Standard 

The Feistel structure has the advantage that encryption and decryption operations are very similar, even identical in some cases, requiring only a reversal of the key schedule. Therefore the size of the code or circuitry required to implement such a cipher is nearly halved.

Feistel construction is iterative in nature which makes implementing the cryptosystem in hardware easier.

Feistel networks and similar constructions are product ciphers, and so combine multiple rounds of repeated operations, such as:

Bit shuffling creates the diffusion effect, while substitution is used for confusion.

[[George Wythe]]

CATEGORIES: 1726 births, 1805 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Politicians from Virginia

George Wythe (1726 – June 8, 1806), was a lawyer, judge, prominent law professor and "Virginia's foremost classical scholar." Wythe was one of the seven men from Virginia who signed the United States Declaration of Independence.

Wythe served as mayor of Williamsburg, Virginia from 1768 to 1769. In 1779 he was appointed to the newly created Chair of Law at William and Mary, becoming the first law professor in the United States. Wythe's pupils included Thomas Jefferson, Henry Clay, James Monroe, and John Marshall.

[[Josiah Bartlett]]

CATEGORIES: 1729 births, 1795 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Politicians from Massachusetts, Governors of New Hampshire, American physicians, Democratic Republican party (US) politicians, Scientists from Massachusetts, Chief justices

Josiah Bartlett (November 21, 1729– May 19, 1795), was an American physician and statesman, delegate to the Continental Congress for New Hampshire. He signed the Declaration of Independence. He was later Chief Justice of the New Hampshire Superior Court of Judicature and governor of the state.

[[Carter Braxton]]

CATEGORIES: Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Politicians from Virginia, 1736 births, 1797 deaths

Carter Braxton (September 10, 1736 – October 10, 1797), was a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence and a representative of Virginia.

[[Islamic theology]]

CATEGORIES: Islam

Islamic theology deals with the beliefs of the Islamic faith.

[[Mac OS X Leopard]]

CATEGORIES: MacOS

Mac OS X v10.5 "Leopard" is an operating system made by Apple Inc. for its Macintosh line of computers. It is a version of Mac OS X, and carries the release number 10.5. It was released on October 27, 2007, and came in one release for both Intel Mac's, and PowerPC processors. According to Apple, Leopard contains over 300 changes and improvements since Mac OS X v10.4 "Tiger". Leopard was the last release for the PowerPC processor.

[[Weather forecast]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology

A weather forecast is a prediction of what the weather will be in the future. Weather stations measure things such as temperature, air pressure and cloud cover. Meteorologists use these measurements and fluid dynamics and other methods to predict the weather. A forecast for many days in the future is less trustworthy than one for tomorrow or the next day.

[[MacBook]]

CATEGORIES: Apple hardware, Laptops

A MacBook is a type of laptop computer made by Apple Inc. It runs macOS and comes with a built in webcam and microphone and a power adapter that is attached by magnets or USB-C.  MacBooks are currently available housed in Silver, Space Gray, Gold and Rose Gold aluminium.

Many college students purchase MacBooks to help with their studies and to stay connected with their family and friends.  

The first models were released in 2006. It now has the same "unibody" construction as the MacBook Pro's.

[[SMS]]

CATEGORIES: Communication

June 2020

An SMS, or short messaging service is a type of communication used in mobile phones. They are more commonly called 'text messages'. With SMS, someone can send text to another person.

SMS can be slow, as a network gives priority to phone calls, and only carries text messages after calls are handled.  There is also a limit of 160 characters that a text message can send.  Longer messages than this will be sent as multiple messages, where the sender has to pay for each individual message. 

Text messages are often sent between phone users when an actual phone call is not wanted or needed. For example, they may be used in a situation where silence is needed, or to send something private that one person does not want people near them to hear. Message price depends on the phone network of the user. Some mobile phone plans allow for unlimited texting.

[[International waters]]

CATEGORIES: Bodies of water, Law of the sea

International waters is a body of water that does not belong to any country. This is because it is farther than two hundred miles away from a country.

[[Alternative hip hop]]

CATEGORIES: Fusion music genres, Hip hop genres, Alternative music

Alternative hip hop is a form of hip hop music that is very different from gangsta rap, crunk, and snap. A way to explain it would be that if "regular hip hop" was on the middle of a number line, gangsta rap, crunk, and snap would be on one side, and alternative hip hop would be on the other. Even though it is a form of hip hop, fans of alternative hip hop tend to also be fans of horrorcore more than "regular hip hop" or especially R&B.

Alternative hip hop originally came from the United States, and some artists like Gorillaz sprang up from the United Kingdom. Examples of American alternative hip hop artists are Talib Kweli, Mos Def, (and the band they started together, Black Star), Common, Nas, Kanye West, A Tribe Called Quest, Jurassic 5, and Styles of Beyond. It started as a movement-of-sorts from hip hop artists against the "tasteless" hip hop that was popular in the 1990s.

[[Jason Varitek]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, American baseball players, Boston Red Sox players, Sportspeople from Michigan, Living people

Jason Varitek (born April 11, 1972 in Rochester, Michigan) is an American retired baseball player who played in the MLB. Varitek played for the Boston Red Sox up until his retirement in March 2012.

[[Süddeutsche Zeitung]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Germany, 1945 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Germany

The Süddeutsche Zeitung ("South German Newspaper") is the most-read nationwide quality-newspaper in Germany. It is published in Munich. Recently, they are known for leaking offshore bank accounts that led to the Panama Papers and the Paradise Papers leak.

[[Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Germany, 1949 establishments in Germany

The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung is a conserative newspaper in Germany.

[[Frankfurter Rundschau]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Germany

The Frankfurter Rundschau is a nationwide newspaper in Germany.

[[Die Zeit]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Germany

Die Zeit is a nationwide weekly newspaper in Germany.

Die Zeit (the title means: "The Time") is read by about 2 million people. It sells about 480.000 copies every week. It is well known for its good articles which are well-written and often detailed. It is read by well-educated people. It is a liberal newspaper.

It includes articles about politics, economics, knowledge, the sciences, art, literature, education, life (style) and travel. It has many advertisements for jobs at universities.

[[Der Spiegel]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines of Europe, Germany

Der Spiegel is a weekly political magazine in Germany.

It was set up in 1947 as a copy of Time magazine. It is now one of Europe's largest weekly magazines.

Der Spiegel is a liberal magazine.  It has long, detailed articles.

It has a circulation of more than one million per week. It now has an on-line version, Spiegel Online.

[[Oliver Wolcott]]

CATEGORIES: 1726 births, 1797 deaths, American generals, Governors of Connecticut, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Yale University alumni, Lieutenant Governors of Connecticut

Oliver Wolcott (December 1, 1726– December 1, 1797), was a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence and also the Articles of Confederation as a representative of Connecticut.

[[Thomas Paine]]

CATEGORIES: 1737 births, 1809 deaths, 18th century philosophers, 19th century philosophers, American deists, American philosophers, American revolutionaries, English inventors, English philosophers, Founding Fathers of the United States, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Norfolk

Thomas Paine (29 January 1737 – 8 June 1809) was an English pamphleteer, revolutionary, inventor, and intellectual. Born in Norfolk, he lived and worked in Britain until he was 37, when he emigrated to the British American colonies during the American Revolution. His main contribution was the powerful, widely-read pamphlet Common Sense (1776). It promoted the idea of colonial America's independence from the United Kingdom of Great Britain. He also wrote The American Crisis (1776–1783), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series.

Thomas Paine went to France after the American Revolution to join the French Revolution. He wrote The Age of Reason while in prison there. This pamphlet was critical of organized religion. Paine along with other American founders such as Thomas Jefferson and James Madison liked to apply reason to religion instead of revelation. This was part of the greater Age of Enlightenment movement that dated back to about the early 17th century. Paine died at the age of 72, at 59 Grove Street in Greenwich Village, New York City, on the morning of June 8, 1809.

[[Richard R. Schrock]]

CATEGORIES: American chemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Indiana, Scientists from San Diego, California, 1945 births, Living people

ChemistryRichard Royce Schrock (born on January 4, 1945) is an American Professor of Chemistry. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for chemistry in 2005 for his work on the metathesis reaction used in organic chemistry.

Professor Schrock was born in Berne, Indiana, and went to Mission Bay High School in San Diego, California. He was given a B.A. degree in 1967 from the University of California, Riverside and a Ph.D., in 1971, from Harvard University.  At Harvard he was a student of J. A. Osborn.  Between 1971 and 1972, he studied at the University of Cambridge with Lord Jack Lewis. In 1972, he began working for George Parshall in the Experimental Station of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company in Wilmington, Delaware. He joined the faculty of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1975 and became a professor in 1980.

Schrock now works as the Frederick G. Keyes Professor of Chemistry, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). He has worked there since 1989. Schrock is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, National Academy of Sciences and was elected to the Board of Overseers of Harvard University in 2007.  

He married Nancy Carlson in 1971 and has two children, Andrew and Eric. Nancy Schrock is the Thomas F. Peterson, Jr. Conservator of Special Collections for the MIT Libraries. The family live in Winchester, Massachusetts.

[[All your base are belong to us]]

CATEGORIES: Video game memes

"All your base are belong to us" (often shortened to "All Your Base", "AYBABTU", or simply "AYB") is a broken English phrase that began an internet phenomenon in 2001 and 2002, with the use of a Flash animation. The phrase is taken from the first part of a European Sega Mega Drive version of the video game Zero Wing, made in Japan by Toaplan. The words in the game were translated into English so quickly that they did not make very much sense. The words "All your base are belong to us" were at first popular on the Something Awful message forums.

[[Gall]]

CATEGORIES: Plant tissues, Parasitism

A gall is a growth on the surface of plants and other lifeforms. They are caused by various parasites, such as fungi, bacteria, insects and mites.   

Plant galls are abnormal growths of plant tissues similar to benign tumors or warts in animals.   

What causes a plant gall can often be known without the actual agent being there. Many types of gall have typical structures. This is true of many galls produced by insects and mites. 

Insect galls on plants give some herbivorous insects their own microhabitat. They are plant tissue which is controlled by the insect.  Galls are the habitat and food source for the maker of the gall. The gall may contain nutritious starch and other tissues.  Galls often give the insect physical protection from predators.

Insect galls are usually induced by chemicals injected by the larvae or the adults of the insects into the plants. After the galls are formed, the larvae develop inside until fully grown, when they leave. In order to form galls, the insects must seize the time when plant cell division occurs quickly. The growing season, spring in temperate climates, is longer in the tropics.

[[Zeroth law of thermodynamics]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics, Laws of physics

The Zeroth Law of Thermodynamics says that if a change to the temperature(T) from one object (for example 'A') changes the temperature of another object ('B'), and a change to the temperature of 'B' changes the temperature of 'C' (a third object), then a change to the temperature of 'A' will mean a change to the temperature of 'C'. Heat naturally flows from areas that are hot to areas that are cold. 

More simply: 

It is called the zeroth (0th) law of thermodynamics because it was discovered after the others, but scholars thought it was more important so they wanted to give it a number before the other laws. 

[[Peach (color)]]

Peach is a color that represents the color of the peach fruit.  

Peach paint can be made by mixing orange paint and white paint.  

The first written use of peach as a color name in English was in 1588.

[[Third law of thermodynamics]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics, Laws of physics

The third law of thermodynamics says:

The definition is: at absolute zero , the entropy of a perfectly crystalline substance is zero.

Experimentally, it is not possible to obtain −273.15°C, as of now. It is found that most of the gases either liquify or solidify before reaching such a temperature, gaseous molecules no longer remaining. So far, scientists have been able to get close to, but not exactly, absolute zero. This may change in the future.

[[Dion Dublin]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Leicester, Premier League players

Dion Dublin is an English former footballer. He has played for England national team.

[[Danny Murphy]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Chester, Sportspeople from Cheshire

Danny Murphy (born 18 March 1977) is an English footballer. He plays for Fulham.

[[Stéphane Henchoz]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Swiss footballers

Stéphane Henchoz (born 7 September 1974) is a former Swiss football player. He has played for Switzerland national team.

[[Milan Baroš]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Czech footballers

Milan Baroš (born 28 October 1981) is a Czech football player. He plays for Galatasaray and Czech Republic national team.

[[Gabriel Batistuta]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Gabriel Batistuta (born 1 February 1969) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.

[[Bentley]]

CATEGORIES: British automobile companies

Bentley is a British car maker. It is based in Crewe, Cheshire.

Bentley is famous for their fast, luxury vehicles. In 1998, the German Volkswagen Group purchased Bentley for £430 million. Transport-stub

[[Chloe O'Brian]]

CATEGORIES: Television characters

Chloe O'Brian is a character in the television series 24. She works at the Counter Terrorist Unit as an analyst. O'Brian is a close friend of Jack Bauer.

[[Communes of the Bouches-du-Rhône department]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône, Lists of communes of France

There are 119 communes in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in France, all included in the following list:

[[Allauch]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Allauch is a commune of 19,400 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Alleins]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Alleins is a commune of 2,368 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Aubagne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Aubagne is a commune of 42,900 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Aureille]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Aureille is a commune of 1,463 people (2007). It is found in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Auriol, Bouches-du-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Auriol is a commune of 11,057 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Aurons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Aurons is a commune of 515 people (1999). It is found in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[La Barben]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

La Barben is a commune of 649 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Barbentane]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Barbentane is a commune of 3,660 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Ehrenbreitstein]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Rhineland-Palatinate, Castles in Germany, Koblenz

Festung Ehrenbreitstein is a fortress. It was built on a mountain called Ehrenbreitstein on the right side of the Rhine opposite to the town of Koblenz in the German state of Rhineland-Palatinate.

It was built as part of the "Festung Koblenz" (Fortress Koblenz), by Prussia between 1817 and 1832 and guarded the middle Rhine region. This area had often been invaded by French. The fortress was never attacked.

[[Les Baux-de-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Les Baux-de-Provence is a commune of 381 people (2006). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in south France.

[[Beaurecueil]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Beaurecueil is a commune of 568 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Belcodène]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Belcodène is a commune of 1,731 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Berre-l'Étang]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Berre-l'Étang is a commune of 14,300 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Bouc-Bel-Air]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Bouc-Bel-Air is a commune of 13,700 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Jeep]]

CATEGORIES: American automobile companies, Sport utility vehicles

Jeep is a brand of American automobiles that is a division of FCA US LLC (formerly Chrysler Group, LLC), a wholly owned subsidiary of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. The former Chrysler Corporation acquired the Jeep brand, along with the remaining assets of its owner American Motors, in 1987. Jeep's current product range consists solely of sport utility vehicles and off-road vehicles, but has also included pickup trucks in the past.

The original Jeep was the prototype Bantam BRC. Willys MB Jeeps went into production in 1941 specifically for the military. Arguably that makes them the oldest four-wheel drive mass-production vehicles now known as SUVs. The Jeep became the primary light 4-wheel-drive vehicle of the United States Army and the Allies during World War II. It remained so in the postwar period. The term became common worldwide in the wake of the war. Doug Stewart notes:

The first civilian models were produced in 1945. It inspired a number of other light utility vehicles, such as the Land Rover. Many Jeep variants serving similar military and civilian roles have since been designed in other nations. In 2007 Jeep began manufacturing crossover SUVs with its Compass and Patriot models. This led to the 2013 Jeep Cherokee midsize crossover.

[[La Bouilladisse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

La Bouilladisse is a commune of 4,904 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Boulbon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Boulbon is a commune of 1,510 people (1999). It is found in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Cabannes, Bouches-du-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Cabannes is a commune of 4,119 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Cabriès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Cabriès is a commune of 8,073 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Cadolive]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Cadolive is a commune of 2,087 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Carnoux-en-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Carnoux-en-Provence is a commune of 7,042 people (1999). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in south France.

[[Carry-le-Rouet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Carry-le-Rouet is a commune of 6,355 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Cassis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Cassis is a commune of 7,766 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Ceyreste]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Ceyreste is a commune of 4,034 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Charleval, Bouches-du-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Charleval is a commune of 2,080 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Filipino language]]

Filipino is a form of the Tagalog language. It is the national language of the Philippines. About one third of the people in the Philippines speak Tagalog as a first language.

Filipino is used as the formal name of Tagalog. Sometimes it even means the same thing. It is usually called Tagalog in the Philippines and among Filipinos to show that it is different from other Philippine languages.

[[Châteauneuf-le-Rouge]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Châteauneuf-le-Rouge is a commune of 2,070 people (as of 2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Châteauneuf-les-Martigues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Châteauneuf-les-Martigues is a commune of 11,900 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Châteaurenard]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Châteaurenard is a commune of 14,817 people (2008). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[La Ciotat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

La Ciotat is a commune of 32,126 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Cornillon-Confoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Cornillon-Confoux is a commune of 1,327 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Coudoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Coudoux is a commune of 3,352 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Cuges-les-Pins]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Cuges-les-Pins is a commune of 4,708 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[La Destrousse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

La Destrousse is a commune of 2,736 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Éguilles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Éguilles is a commune of 7,544 people (2007). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Ensuès-la-Redonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Ensuès-la-Redonne is a commune of 5,096 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Eygalières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Eygalières is a commune of 1,900 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Eyguières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Eyguières is a commune. It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in south France. 6,312 people lived there in 2007.

[[Eyragues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Eyragues is a commune of 4,179 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[La Fare-les-Oliviers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

La Fare-les-Oliviers is a commune of 6,334 people (1999). It is located in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Fontvieille, Bouches-du-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

 Fontvieille is a commune of 3,362 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Fos-sur-Mer]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Fos-sur-Mer is a commune of 15,700 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Fuveau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Fuveau is a commune of 8,558 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Gardanne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Gardanne is a commune of 20,700 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Gémenos]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Gémenos is a commune in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France. As of 1999, 5,481 people lived there.

[[Gignac-la-Nerthe]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Gignac-la-Nerthe is a commune. It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in south France. 9,140 people lived there in 2004.

[[Grans]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Grans is a commune of 4,078 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Graveson]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Graveson is a commune of 3,836 people (2008). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

The village is very attractive for holidaymakers, because it is located between Arles and Avignon. Neighbour villages are Châteaurenard, Maillane and Rognonas.

Graveson is birthplace of the painter Auguste Chabaud.

[[Gréasque]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Gréasque is a commune of 3,705 people (2004). It is found in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Istres]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône, Subprefectures in France

Istres is a commune in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the south of France. About 45,000 people live there.

La fête des bergers (The shepherds' festival) is held at the end of November and beginning of December.

[[Jouques]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Jouques is a commune of 3,321 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Lamanon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Lamanon is a commune of 1,713 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France. It's known because of the archaeological site of Grottes de Calès, a cave dwelling from prehistoric to medieval times.

[[Lambesc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Lambesc is a commune of 7,934 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Lançon-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Lançon-Provence is a commune of 7,674 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Maillane]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Maillane is a commune of 2,013 people (2004). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Mallemort]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Mallemort is a commune of 5,501 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Marignane]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Marignane is a commune of 33,700 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Mandaeism]]

CATEGORIES: Esotericism

Mandaeism or Mandaeanism (Mandaic: Mandaiuta, مندائية Mandā'iyya) is a monotheistic religion. The religion has a  strong dualistic world view.  Its followers, the Mandaeans,  think highly of Adam, Abel, Seth, Enosh, Noah, Shem, Aram and especially John the Baptist.

Originally, Mandaeism was practiced mainly in the countries around the lower Euphrates and Tigris and the rivers that surround the Shatt-al-Arab waterway. Today, this area belongs to Iraq and Khuzestan Province in Iran. Because they were persecuted in that area, many Mandaeans have left that area and now live abroad. This is commonly called diaspora. Most left for Europe, Australia and North America.

There are thought to be between 60,000 and 70,000 Mandaeans worldwide, and until the 2003 Iraq war, almost all of them lived in Iraq. The 2003 Iraq War reduced the population of Iraqi Mandaeans to approximately 5,000 by 2007.  Most Iraqi Mandaeans fled to Syria and Jordan under the threat of violence by Islamic extremists and the turmoil of the war.

The Mandaeans have remained separate and intensely private—what has been reported of them and their religion has come primarily from outsiders, particularly from the Orientalists J. Heinrich Petermann, Nicholas Siouffi, and Lady Ethel Drower.

[[Substitution box]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a S-Box (Substitution-box) is a basic component of symmetric-key algorithms. In block ciphers, the S-Boxes are used to make the relation between the key and the ciphertext (coded text) difficult to understand–Shannon's property of confusion. The S-Boxes are carefully chosen to resist cryptanalysis (decoding).

In general, an S-Box takes some number of input bits, m, and transforms them into some number of output bits, n: an m×n S-Box can be implemented as a lookup table with 2m words of n bits each. Fixed tables are normally used, as in the Data Encryption Standard (DES), but in some ciphers the tables are generated dynamically from the key; e.g. the Blowfish and the Twofish encryption algorithms. Bruce Schneier describes IDEA's modular multiplication step as a key-dependent S-Box.

One good example is this 6×4-bit S-Box from DES (S5):

Given a 6-bit input, the 4-bit output is found by selecting the row using the outer two bits, and the column using the inner four bits. For example, an input "011011" has outer bits "01" and inner bits "1101"; the corresponding output would be "1001".

The 8 S-Boxes of DES were the subject of intensive studies for many years cause of a concern that a method of bypassing the DES cipher to obtaining access to the plaintext–a vulnerability (susceptibility) known only to its designers–might have been planted (inserted) in the cipher. In 1994, the S-Box design criteria were finally published by its designers after the public rediscovery of differential cryptanalysis, showing that they had been carefully tuned the design to increase resistance against differential cryptanalysis attacks. Other research had already indicated that even a very small modification to one of the 8 S-Box used by the DES could weaken it very much.

The design of good S-Boxes was the subject of a great amount of research; now much more is understood about their use in block ciphers than when the DES S-Boxes were released.

[[Martigues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Martigues is a commune of 46,200 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Mas-Blanc-des-Alpilles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Mas-Blanc-des-Alpilles is a commune of 373 people (1999). It is in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in south France.

[[Maussane-les-Alpilles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Maussane-les-Alpilles is a commune of 2,155 people (2004). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in south France.

[[Meyrargues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Meyrargues is a commune in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in south France. 3,400 people lived there in 2006.

[[Meyreuil]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Meyreuil is a commune of 4,450 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Mimet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Mimet is a commune of 4,400 people (2004). It is in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in south France.

[[Miramas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Miramas is a commune of 23,800 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Mollégès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Mollégès is a commune of 2,171 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Mouriès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Mouriès is a commune of 3,085 people (2008). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Noves]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Noves is a commune of 4,845 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Orgon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Orgon is a commune of 2,913 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Paradou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Paradou is a commune of 1,162 people (1999). It is found in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Pélissanne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Pélissanne is a commune of 9,268 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Les Pennes-Mirabeau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Les Pennes-Mirabeau is a commune of 19,043 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[La Penne-sur-Huveaune]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

La Penne-sur-Huveaune is a commune of 6,150 people (2008). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Peynier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Peynier is a commune of 2,900 people (2005). It is found in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Peypin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Peypin is a commune of 5,097 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Peyrolles-en-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Peyrolles-en-Provence is a commune of 4,286 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Plan-de-Cuques]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Plan-de-Cuques is a commune of 10,503 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Plan-d'Orgon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Plan-d'Orgon is a commune of 2,738 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Confusion and diffusion]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, confusion and diffusion are two properties of the operation of a secure cipher.

Confusion and diffusion were identified by Claude Elwood Shannon in his paper, "Communication Theory of Secrecy Systems" published in 1949. In Shannon's original definitions:

Diffusion is associated with the dependency of the output bits on the input bits. In a cipher with good diffusion, flipping an input bit should change each output bit with a probability of one half (this is termed the Strict Avalanche Criterion).

Substitution (a rule for replacing plaintext symbols by another) has been identified as a mechanism for primarily confusion (see S-box); on the other hand transposition using P-box (rearranging or swapping the order of symbols) is a technique for diffusion, although other mechanisms are also used in modern practice, such as linear transformations (e.g. in AES). Product ciphers use alternating substitution and transposition phases (rounds) to achieve both confusion and diffusion respectively.

[[Port-de-Bouc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Port-de-Bouc is a commune of 17,900 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Port-Saint-Louis-du-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Port-Saint-Louis-du-Rhône is a commune of 8,524 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Puyloubier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Puyloubier is a commune of 1,671 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Le Puy-Sainte-Réparade]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Le Puy-Sainte-Réparade is a commune. It is in the  Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in south France. 5,112 people lived there in (2006).

[[Rognac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Rognac is a commune of 11,900 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Rognes, Bouches-du-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Rognes is a commune of 4,194 people (1999). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in south France.

[[Rognonas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Rognonas is a commune of 3,623 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[La Roque-d'Anthéron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

La Roque-d'Anthéron is a commune of 4,722 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Communication Theory of Secrecy Systems]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

Communication Theory of Secrecy Systems is a paper published by Claude Shannon discussing cryptography from the viewpoint of information theory. It is one of the foundational treatments (primitives) of modern cryptography. It is also a proof that all theoretically unbreakable (un-crack-able) ciphers must have the same requirements as the one-time pad encryption algorithm.

Shannon published an earlier version of this research in the classified report A Mathematical Theory of Cryptography, Memorandum MM 45-110-02, Sept. 1, 1945, Bell Laboratories.

In 1948, Shannon published his great paper "A Mathematical Theory of Communication" which is considered one of the founding works of the field of information theory.

[[Come as You Are (Nirvana song)]]

CATEGORIES: Nirvana songs, 1992 songs

"Come as You Are" is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana. It was the second single from their second album, Nevermind, the first was the enormously popular "Smells Like Teen Spirit". It is one of the band's most famous songs. Rolling Stone magazine named it as the 445th on their list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.

[[International Data Encryption Algorithm]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, the International Data Encryption Algorithm (IDEA) is a block cipher designed by Xuejia Lai and James Massey of ETH Zurich in 1991. It was meant to be a replacement for the Data Encryption Standard. IDEA very like an earlier cipher called Proposed Encryption Standard (PES), but with some improvements. Because of this, IDEA was first called IPES (Improved PES).

The cipher is patented in a number of countries but can be used by anyone for non-commercial use. The name "IDEA" is also a trademark. The patents will expire in 2010–2011. Today, IDEA is licensed worldwide by a company called MediaCrypt.

IDEA was used in Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) v2.0 after the cipher used in v1.0, BassOmatic, was found to be breakable. IDEA can be used with the OpenPGP standard.

IDEA operates on 64-bit blocks, using a 128-bit key. It contains a series of eight identical transformations (rounds) and one output transformation (the half-round). It does this for a total of 8.5 rounds. The processes for encryption and decryption are similar.

IDEA derives much of its security by interleaving operations from different groups — modular addition and multiplication, and bitwise eXclusive OR (XOR) — which are chosen to be "algebraically incompatible".

Each of the eight round uses six sub-keys, while the half-round uses four; for a total of 52 sub-keys. Each sub-key is a 16-bit in length. The first eight sub-keys are extracted directly from the 128-bit key, with K1 being the lowest sixteen bits and K8 is the highest sixteen bits; further groups of eight keys are created by rotating the main key left 25 bits after the creation of the previous group; six rotations generate all sub-keys.

The designers analyzed IDEA to measure its strength against differential cryptanalysis and concluded that it is unsusceptible only under certain assumptions. No successful linear or differential attacks have been reported. Some classes of weak keys have been found — E.g. (Daemen et al., 1994) — but these are of little importance, being so rare to be explicitly avoided. As of 2007, the best attack which applies to all keys can break IDEA if reduced to 6 rounds (the full IDEA cipher uses 8.5 rounds).

In 1996, Bruce Schneier wrote about IDEA, "In my opinion, it is the best and most secure block algorithm available to the public at this time." (Applied Cryptography, 2nd ed.) However, by 1999 he was no longer recommending IDEA due to the availability of faster cryptographic algorithms, some progress in its cryptanalysis, and the issue of patents. http://slashdot.org/interviews/99/10/29/0832246.shtml

[[Luduş]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Romania

Luduş (German: Ludasch, Hungarian: Marosludas) is a town in Mureş County, Romania. It is the fourth biggest city in the county by population. The name of the town in Hungarian means "gooses at Maros"

[[2008 Yemen floods]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in Asia, 2000s disasters in Asia, 21st century in Yemen, Floods in Asia, October 2008 events

The 2008 Yemen floods took place on October 23, leaving 65 dead and 20,000 without shelter. The Yemeni governorates of Hadhramaut, Lahij, Al Mahrah and Ta'izz were affected the worst by the floods, and most of the deaths were in Hadhramaut.

[[Alexander Ramsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1815 births, 1903 deaths, United States Secretaries of War, United States senators from Minnesota, Politicians from Pennsylvania

Alexander Ramsey (September 8, 1815– April 22, 1903) was an American politician. He was born near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

Ramsey was elected from Pennsylvania as a Whig to the U.S. House of Representatives and served in the 28th and 29th congresses from March 4, 1843 to March 3, 1847. He served as the first Territorial Governor of Minnesota June 1, 1849 to May 15, 1853 as a member of the Whig Party.

In 1855, he became the mayor of St. Paul, Minnesota. Ramsey was elected the second Governor of Minnesota after statehood and served from January 2, 1860 to July 10, 1863.  Ramsey is credited with being the first Union governor to commit troops during the American Civil War (he happened to be in Washington, D.C. when fighting broke out).  He resigned the governorship to become a U.S. Senator, having been elected to that post in 1863 as a Republican.  He was re-elected in 1869 and held the office until March 3, 1875, serving in the 38th, 39th, 40th, 41st, 42nd, and 43rd congresses.

Ramsey served as Secretary of War from 1879 to 1881, under President Rutherford B. Hayes.

[[Lounge Act]]

CATEGORIES: Nirvana songs, 1991 songs

"Lounge Act" is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana. It was the ninth song on their second studio album, Nevermind, which is credited with bring grunge music to the mainstream. The song is much like the post-grunge songs that were very popular starting in the mid-1990s, after Nirvana broke up.

The title "Lounge Act" came from when the band thought it sounded like a song they would play in a lounge.

It is one of the songs in the soundtrack of the video game Skate., a skateboarding video game from 2007 for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.

[[Hurricane Dean]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 Atlantic hurricane season, Retired tropical cyclone names, Hurricanes in Mexico, 2007 in Mexico, 2000s in Puerto Rico, 2000s in the Dominican Republic, 2000s in Haiti, 2000s in Jamaica, History of the Cayman Islands, 2000s in Belize, 2000s in Honduras, 2000s in Nicaragua, August events, Hurricanes in Jamaica

Hurricane Dean was the strongest tropical cyclone of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. It was also the strongest Atlantic hurricane since Hurricane Wilma of 2005. Also, it made the third strongest Atlantic hurricane landfall. Dean moved west-northwest from the eastern Atlantic Ocean through the Saint Lucia Channel and into the Caribbean Sea. It became into a very strong hurricane, reaching Category 5 status on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale before moving south of Jamaica on August 20. The storm moved onto land on the Yucatán Peninsula on August 21 as a Category 5 storm. It moved across the peninsula and entered the Bay of Campeche, as a weakened storm, but still a hurricane. It strengthened for a short time before making a second landfall in Veracruz near Tecolutla, Mexico, on August 22. Dean slowly moved to the northwest, weakening into a low pressure area which dissipated over the southwestern United States.

The hurricane's strong winds, waves, rains and storm surge caused over 45 deaths across ten countries and caused estimated damages of US$1.5 billion. First impacting the islands of the Lesser Antilles, Dean's path through the Caribbean severely damaged agricultural crops, especially those of Martinique and Jamaica. When it reached  Mexico, Hurricane Dean was a Category 5 storm, but it missed large cities and its exceptional Category 5 strength landfall caused no deaths and less damage than in the Caribbean islands it passed as a Category 2 storm. Because of the damage, the name Dean was retired, and will not be used again for a tropical cyclone.

[[Amazon Basin]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of South America, Drainage basins

The Amazon Basin is the part of South America drained by the Amazon River and its branches. It is low-lying in relation to sea level.

The river has its origins high up in the Andes of Peru and Ecuador. Most of this drainage basin (54%) is in Brazil, including the lower part. The river also has tributaries from Colombia, Venezuela and

Bolivia. The Amazon rainforest is the largest in the world, covering about 8,235,430 km2 with dense tropical forest.

The Amazon Basin is one of the world's most important ecosystems.

[[Bixa orellana]]

CATEGORIES: Malvales

Bixa orellana (also known as achiote) is a shrub or small tree from the tropical area of the American continent. The name comes from the Nahuatl word for the shrub, achiotl.  It is also known as Aploppas, and its first Tupi name urucu. It is grown there and in Southeast Asia, where it was brought by the Spanish in the 17th century. It is best known as the source of the natural pigment annatto, made from the fruit. The plant bears pink flowers and bright red spiny fruits which contain red seeds. The fruits dry and harden to brown capsules.

[[Xochiquetzal]]

CATEGORIES: Aztec gods and goddesses

In Aztec mythology, Xoːchiquetzal (ʃotʃi'ketsal) was a goddess of flowers, fertility, games, dancing and agriculture (planting and harvesting), as well as craftsmen and pregnant women.  She was first a moon and love goddess.

[[Tlatoani]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and queens, Mexican people

Tlatoani (tlàtoāni tɬaʔ.to.ˈaː.ni; plural tlàtòquê, tɬaʔ.ˈtoʔ.keʔ) is the Nahuatl word for the ruler of an altepetl, a pre-Hispanic state. The word means "speaker", but may be translated into English as "king". A cihuātlàtoāni (si.waː.tɬaʔ.to.ˈaː.ni) is a female ruler.

[[José de Acosta]]

CATEGORIES: 1539 births, 1600 deaths, Jesuits, Missionaries, Naturalists, Spanish Roman Catholics, Spanish writers

José de Acosta (September/October 1539 – February 15 1600), was a Spanish 16th-century Jesuit missionary and naturalist in Latin America.  He wrote several works including De Natura Novi Orbis and De promulgatione Evangelii apud Barbaros, sive De Procuranda Indorum salute.

[[Catarrh]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Catarrh (kəˈtɑ:(r)) is a thick fluid of mucus and white blood cells caused by the swelling of the mucous membranes in the head because of an infection. It is a symptom usually from the common cold and coughs, but can also be found in people with infections of the adenoids, middle ear, sinus or tonsils.

[[Upper class]]

CATEGORIES: Social groups

[[Chocolate bar]]

CATEGORIES: Candy

A chocolate bar is a confectionery made of cocoa beans, cocoa butter, sugar, and milk. There are many types of chocolate, including milk chocolate, dark chocolate, white chocolate, peanut butter chocolate, and many more. 

Chocolate has a lot of calories, so it can give a person energy.  However, most chocolate also has a lot of sugar.Dead link

Chocolate comes from the cacao tree.  Cocoa pods grow on these trees.  They get about as big as a melon.  Once they are ripe, they turn from green to orange.  Then workers can split them open and take out cocoa beans.  Factories use machines to break down the cocoa beans into cocoa butter and chocolate.  Then they add sugar and milk to make the chocolate taste better.

Cocoa farmers are some of the poorest people in the world.  Many of them earn very little money.

[[Veracruz, Veracruz]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Veracruz

The city of Veracruz is an important port city on the Gulf of Mexico in the Mexican state of Veracruz. It has a population of 444,438 in the city according to the 2005 census.

[[Hans Sloane]]

CATEGORIES: British physicians, People from County Down, 1660 births, 1773 deaths, Irish scientists

Sir Hans Sloane, 1st Baronet, PRS (16 April, 1660 – 11 January, 1753) was an Ulster-Scot physician and collector. He donated his collection to the British nation. This collection became the beginning of the British Museum. He also created milk chocolate. Sloane Square in London is named for him.

[[Royal College of Physicians]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

The Royal College of Physicians of London was the first medical group in England to receive a Royal Charter. It was created in 1518 and is one of the most active of all medical groups. It was originally created as the College of Physicians by royal charter of King Henry VIII in 1518.

[[Coenraad Johannes van Houten]]

CATEGORIES: 1801 births, 1887 deaths, Dutch chemists, Dutch inventors, People from Amsterdam, Chocolate

Coenraad Johannes van Houten (March 15, 1801 – 1887) was a Dutch chemist. He was known for creating a method for pressing the fat from roasted cacao beans to create cacao powder. He started a world-famous chocolate company.

[[Cocoa butter]]

CATEGORIES: Food ingredients

Cocoa butter, also called theobroma oil, is the pale-yellow, pure vegetable fat of the cacao bean. It is used to make solid chocolate bars, and mixed with cocoa powder to make solid pieces of chocolate. Cocoa butter is removed from the cacao beans and can be used to make chocolate, pharmaceuticals, ointments, and toiletries. Cocoa butter has a mild chocolate flavor and smell. It is one of the most stable fats known.

[[Pietro Longhi]]

CATEGORIES: 1701 births, 1785 deaths, 18th century Italian painters

Pietro Longhi (November 5, 1701 – May 8, 1785) was a Venetian painter of contemporary scenes of life.

[[Alex Turner (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: English guitarists, English rock musicians, English singer-songwriters, People from Sheffield, 1986 births, Living people

Alex Turner (born 6 January 1986) is a British musician. He is the lead singer and guitarist of the Arctic Monkeys. He is also a member of The Last Shadow Puppets. He was born and raised in Sheffield. His father was a music teacher and his mother was a German teacher.

The Arctic Monkeys have released 5 studio albums. The first was Whatever People Say I Am, That's What I'm Not. The second was Favourite Worst Nightmare. The third was Humbug. The fourth was Suck It and See, which was released late in 2011. The fifth was "AM", which was released in 2013.

[[Dodge]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 establishments in the United States, American automobile companies, 1900s establishments in Michigan

Dodge is an American automobile, SUV and truck maker. They are based in Auburn Hills, Michigan. Dodge was created by brothers Horace and John Dodge in 1900. Dodge was sold to Chrysler in 1928. In 2010 Dodge announced it would spin-off the Ram division making it its own brand.

[[Ordered pair]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

[[Arts and crafts]]

CATEGORIES: Hobbies, Art

Arts and crafts describes a wide variety of activities involving making things with one's own hands.  Arts and crafts is usually a hobby. Some crafts (art skills) have been practised since preshistoric times, others are more recent inventions. William Morris, John Ruskin and others promoted an "arts and crafts" movement in the late 19th century, which popularized the phrase.

Both children and adults enjoy arts and crafts. Children in schools may learn skills such as woodworking, wood carving, sewing, or making things with all sorts of material. Many community centres and schools have evening or day classes and workshops where one can learn arts and craft skills.

[[Chrysler]]

CATEGORIES: American automobile companies, 1925 establishments in the United States

Chrysler  (officially FCA US,LLC.) is a car manufacturer based in the United States. They are one of the oldest car manufacturers in the world. They own other car companies such as Dodge and Jeep. 

It was created by Walter P. Chrysler in 1925 when he renamed the Maxwell Motor Company. From 1998 to 2007, Chrysler was part of DiamlerChrysler, a large German company. Then it was owned by Cerberus Capital Management. Chrysler declared Chapter 11 Bankruptcy on August 30, 2009. In 1979, Chrysler had similar problems. They got 1.5 billion dollars from the U.S. government. Lee Iacocca became CEO. Then, Chrysler created the K-car platform, invented the minivan, and sold many trucks to the army. Chrysler acquired American Motors in 1988, and rebranded the auto company as Eagle. They slowly recovered. Chrysler is currently owned by Italian automotive Fiat, the two companies merged forming Fiat Chrysler Automobiles or F.C.A for short. The company still trades as Chrysler in the United States.

At its peak, Chrysler owned Dodge, Jeep, Plymouth, DeSoto, Valiant, Imperial, and Eagle (AMC). Only Chrysler, Dodge, and Jeep survived. In 2010 Chrysler announced it would spin the Ram trucks off into its own division and Dodge would focus on performance status.

[[Nazia Hassan]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2000 deaths, Pakistani singers, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from lung cancer, Pakistani Muslims, People from Karachi, Sufis

Nazia Hassan (نازیہ حسن) singer (April 3, 1965 - August 31, 2000) and Zohaib Hassan (زوہیب حسن), (born November 18, 1966) were a singing sensation and pioneers of the Pakistani pop music scene during the 1980s.

[[Bilawal Bhutto Zardari]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Pakistani politicians

Bilawal Bhutto Zardari (بلاول بھٹو زرداری) (born 21 September 1988) is co-chairman of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), and the eldest child and only son of the late Pakistani politician and former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and her husband Asif Ali Zardari, the former President of Pakistan. Chairman Bhutto Zardari is also the grandson of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, a former Prime Minister of Pakistan. After completing his studies from the United Kingdom in 2013, Bilawal took over the formal charge of the PPP and made changes in it.  

In the 2018 general election, he ran for Prime Minister of Pakistan but ended in third place loosing to Imran Khan.

[[Muhammad Ijaz-ul-Haq]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Pakistani military people, Pakistani Muslims, Pakistani politicians

Muhammad Ijaz-ul-Haq (محمد اعجاز الحق, born 1953) is a prominent Pakistani politician and former Federal Minister for Religious Affairs of Pakistan.

Haq joined the Pakistan Army in 1971. He entered Pakistani politics following the 1988 death of his father, the military dictator and self-appointed President of Pakistan General Zia-ul-Haq.

[[Zille Huma]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani singers, Punjabi people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Zille Huma (ظل ہما) is the daughter of the late Melody Queen Madam Noor Jehan and the only one of her four daughters to follow in her mother's footsteps. Today, she is a popular Pakistani pop singer.

[[Sonya Jehan]]

CATEGORIES: Punjabi people, Pakistani movie actors, French actors, 1980 births, Living people

Sonya Jehan is a French-Pakistani  Bollywood actress. Jehan's first movie was Taj Mahal: An Eternal Love Story in 2005. Her original name was Sonya Rizvi.  She changed it to Jehan to honor her grandmother, Noor Jehan, who is a legendary singer and Lollywood actress. 

[[Aga Khan III]]

CATEGORIES: 1877 births, 1957 deaths, British India, Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire, Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Star of India, Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George, Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order, Leaders of All India Muslim League, Muslim League, Muslims, People of British India, Privy Councillors (UK)

Sir Sultan Muhammed Shah, Aga Khan III, GCSI, GCMG, GCIE, GCVO, PC (2 November 1877–11 July 1957) was the 48th Imam of the Shia Ismaili Muslims. 

He became Imam at a very young age. He was seven years old when his father, Aga Khan II, died in 1885. He was one of the founders and the first president of the All-India Muslim League, and served as President of the League of Nations from 1937-38.

He was born in Karachi, in what was British India. He was given a religious education, and also a European education. He attended Eton and Cambridge University, and was a frequent visitor to Britain. 

His followers celebrated his anniversaries as Imam in 1937, 1946 and 1954 by weighing him in gold, diamonds and platinum. The proceeds were spent on welfare and development in Asia and Africa. Girls schools were set up in the remote northern areas of what is now Pakistan. He was knighted by Queen Victoria, and later made a member of the Privy Council.

[[Iran-Pakistan barrier]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Iran, Pakistan

The Iran-Pakistan barrier is a separation barrier which Iran has started building along its border with Pakistan replacing an intermittent tattered border fence.

[[William Sterndale Bennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1816 births, 1875 deaths, English composers, Romantic composers

Sir William Sterndale Bennett (born Sheffield, 13 April 1816;  died London, 1 February 1875) was a distinguished English composer of the Romantic period.

[[Grand Trunk Road]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Pakistan, Roads in India

The Grand Trunk Road (commonly abbreviated to GT Road) is one of South Asia's oldest and longest major roads. For several centuries, it has linked the eastern and western regions of the Indian subcontinent, running from Bengal, across north Republic of India, into Peshawar in Pakistan.

It was built by Sher Shah Suri and is also known as  "Sadak E Sher Shah" named after him. 

[[Space-time tradeoff]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer science, a space-time or time-memory tradeoff is a way of solving a problem or calculation in less time by using more storage space (or memory), or by solving a problem in very little space by spending a long time. Most computers have a large amount of space, but not infinite space. Also, most people are willing to wait a little while for a big calculation, but not forever. So if your problem is taking a long time but not much memory, a space-time tradeoff would let you use more memory and solve the problem more quickly. Or, if it could be solved very quickly but requires more memory than you have, you can try to spend more time solving the problem in the limited memory.

The most common condition is an algorithm using a lookup table. This means that the answers for some question for every possible value can be written down. One way of solving this problem is to write down the entire lookup table, which will let you find answers very quickly, but will use a lot of space. Another way is to calculate the answers without writing down anything, which uses very little space, but might take a long time.

A space-time tradeoff can be used with the problem of data storage. If data is stored uncompressed, it takes more space but less time than if the data were stored compressed (since compressing the data decreases the amount of space it takes, but it takes time to run the compression algorithm). 

Larger code size can be used to increase program speed when using loop unwinding. This technique makes the program code longer for each iteration of a loop, but saves the computation time needed for jumping back to the beginning of the loop at the end of each iteration. 

Dynamic programming is another example where the time of solving problems can be decreased by using more memory.

[[Substitution-permutation network]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, an SP-network, or substitution-permutation network (SPN), is a series of linked mathematical operations used in block cipher algorithms such as AES.

These networks consist of S-boxes and P-boxes that transform blocks of input bits into output bits.  

S-boxes substitute or transform input bits into output bits.  A good S-box will have the property that changing one input bit will change about half of the output bits.  It will also have the property that each output bit will depend on every input bit. P-boxes permute or rearrange bits across S-box inputs. In addition, at each round the key is combined using some group operation, typically XOR.

[[Square (cipher)]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, Square (sometimes written SQUARE)  is a block cipher invented by Joan Daemen, Enrique Peña Nieto and Vincent Rijmen. The design was published in 1997.

SQUARE is a predecessor to the Rijndael algorithm, which has been adopted in 2001 as the Advanced Encryption Standard by the U.S. government. 

Square was introduced together with a new form of cryptanalysis discovered by Lars Knudsen, called the "Square attack".

The structure of Square is a substitution-permutation network with eight rounds, operating on 128-bit block size and using a 128-bit key size.

Square is not patented.

[[Permutation box]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a permutation box (or P-box) is a method of bit-shuffling used to permute or transpose bits (rearrange or swap the order of bits) across S-boxes inputs, maintaining diffusion while transposing.

In block ciphers, the S-boxes and P-Boxes are used to make the relation between the plaintext and the ciphertext difficult to understand (see Shannon's property of diffusion).

[[Carnivorous plant]]

CATEGORIES: Flowering plants, Carnivorous plants

Carnivorous plants are plants which get nutrients from trapping and eating animals. They are often called insectivorous plants, because they usually trap insects. Since they get some of their food from animals, carnivorous plants can grow in places where the soil is thin, or poor in nutrients. This is true for soils with little nitrogen, such as acidic bogs and rock outcrops. Charles Darwin wrote the first well-known book on carnivorous plants in 1875.

This ability of plants to catch animals is true carnivory. There are more than twelve genera in five families. These include about 625 species that attract and trap prey, produce digestive enzymes, and use their nutrients. In addition, there are more than 300 species in several genera that show some but not all of these characteristics. These are usually called protocarnivorous plants.

[[Joe Kinnear]]

CATEGORIES: Irish footballers, Irish football managers, Sportspeople from Dublin, 1946 births, Living people

Joe Kinnear is a former football player. He has played for the Republic of Ireland national team. He also coaches football. 

[[Matt Busby]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1994 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers

Sir Alexander Matthew Busby was a Scottish footballer and football manager. He played for Scotland national team. Busby managed Manchester United and led them to great success. Many people believe that Busby is one of the greatest football managers of all time.

As a player, Busby played for Manchester City and Liverpool. After his playing career, he went to manage Manchester United and built a great team called the Busby Babes. Eight of those players died in an airplane accident in Munich. This accident was called the Munich air disaster. But Busby again built a winning team after the disaster. He spent 25 years with Manchester United and won 13 trophies.

[[Brett Emerton]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Sydney

Brett Emerton (born 22 February 1979) is an Australian football player. He plays for Blackburn Rovers and Australia national team.

[[David Rocastle]]

CATEGORIES: English footballers, Sportspeople from London, 1967 births, 2001 deaths, Premier League players

David Rocastle was a football player. He played for the England national team.

[[Fazilka Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Punjab, India

Fazilka (تحصیل فضلکا) is a city and a municipal council in Ferozpur District of the Punjab (India), 11 km from Pakistan border.

[[Flag of Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Flags of Azerbaijan, Azerbaijani culture, National flags

The flag of Azerbaijan (Azərbaycan bayrağı) is one of the national symbols of Azerbaijan and consists of three equal horizontal bands, from top: blue, red, and green; a white crescent and an eight-pointed star (Rub El Hizb) are centered in the red band. The eight points of the star stand for the  branches? of the Turkic peoples August 2008. The blue band is the colour of the TurksAugust 2008. the green is for Islam and red is for progress and Europeanisation. The official colours and size were adopted on February 5, 1991. The flag is used on land as the civil, state and war flag, and at sea as the civil, state and naval ensign and naval jack. The specific shades of the national flag were laid out in a 2004 law.

[[Coat of arms of Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: National coats of arms, National symbols of Azerbaijan

The Coat of arms of Azerbaijan mixes traditional and modern symbols. The focal point of the emblem is the fire symbol. This symbol comes from the fact that Azerbaijan has many everlasting fires which also gives the name "land of eternal fire".

The colors used in composing the emblem are taken from the national flag. These colors are found in the background behind the eight pointed star (۞ Rub El Hizb) upon which the flame is shown. The star itself stands for the eight branches of the Turkic peoples, and between each point of the star, there is a smaller eight pointed star found. 

Like other post-Soviet republics whose arms do not predate the October Revolution, the current arms retains some components of the Soviet one. At the bottom of the emblem is a stalk of wheat, representing the main agricultural product of the nation, which was also part of the earlier arms. The other plant represented at the bottom is oak.

[[Roquefort-la-Bédoule]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Roquefort-la-Bédoule is a commune of 5,016 people (2006). It is in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Roquevaire]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Roquevaire is a commune of 8,299 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Rousset, Bouches-du-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Rousset is a commune of 4,025 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Le Rove]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Le Rove is a commune of 4,070 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Andiol]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Andiol is a commune of 3,138 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Antonin-sur-Bayon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Antonin-sur-Bayon is a commune of 137 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Cannat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Cannat is a commune of 4,684 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Chamas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Chamas is a commune of 7,268 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer is a commune of 2,478 people (1999). It is located in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Estève-Janson]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Estève-Janson is a commune of 342 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Étienne-du-Grès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Étienne-du-Grès is a commune of 2,111 people (2006). It is located in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Marc-Jaumegarde]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Marc-Jaumegarde is a commune of 1,093 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Martin-de-Crau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Martin-de-Crau is a commune of 13,097 people (2016). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Mitre-les-Remparts]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Mitre-les-Remparts is a commune of 5,458 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Paul-lès-Durance]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Paul-lès-Durance is a commune of 928 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Pierre-de-Mézoargues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Pierre-de-Mézoargues is a commune of 250 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Rémy-de-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Rémy-de-Provence is a commune of 10,251 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Savournin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Savournin is a commune of 2,577 people (2002). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Victoret]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Saint-Victoret is a commune of 6,530 people (2007). It is found in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Salon-de-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Salon-de-Provence is a commune of 40,100 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Sausset-les-Pins]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Sausset-les-Pins is a commune of 7,278 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Sénas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Sénas is a commune of 5,980 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Septèmes-les-Vallons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Septèmes-les-Vallons is a commune of 10,202 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Simiane-Collongue]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Simiane-Collongue is a commune of 5,570 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Le Tholonet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Le Tholonet is a commune of 2,267 people (1999). It is found in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Trets]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Trets is a commune of 10,709 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Vauvenargues, Bouches-du-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Vauvenargues is a commune of 896 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Velaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Velaux is a commune of 8,305 people (2007). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Venelles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Venelles is a commune of 8,156 people (2006). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in south France.

[[Ventabren]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Ventabren is a commune of 8,431 people (2005). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Vernègues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Vernègues is a commune of 1,256 people (2004). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Verquières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Verquières is a commune of 786 people (2006). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Vitrolles, Bouches-du-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône

Vitrolles (also known as Vitròla or Vitrolo) is a commune of 37,760 people (2002). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in the south of France.

[[Alphonse Daudet]]

CATEGORIES: 1840 births, 1897 deaths, French playwrights, French poets, French novelists

Alphonse Daudet (13 May 1840 – 16 December 1897) was a French novelist. He was the father of Léon Daudet and Lucien Daudet. Outside France he is probably best known for his novel Tartarin de Tarrascon. Daudet died of syphilis.

[[Gustave Flaubert]]

CATEGORIES: 1821 births, 1880 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in France, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, French novelists, French playwrights, People from Rouen

Gustave Flaubert (gystaːv flobɛːʁ in French) (12 December 1821 – 8 May 1880) was a French writer. He is known especially for his first published novel, Madame Bovary (1857). He was very devoted to what he did, and always looked for the word that would best fit the context. He died of a cerebral hemorrhage.

[[Roquefort]]

Roquefort can refer to:

It is also the name of many different French communes:

[[Roquefort, Gers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Gers

Roquefort is a commune of 230 people (1999). It is located in the region Midi-Pyrénées in the Gers department in the southwest of France.

[[Roquefort, Landes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Landes

Roquefort is a commune of 1,894 people (1999). It is in the region Aquitaine in the Landes department in the southwest of France.

[[Lookup table]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer science, a lookup table is a data structure, usually an array or associative array, used to replace a runtime computation (calculation) with a simple array indexing operation. The main purpose is in saving run time since retrieving a value from memory is often faster than undergoing a time consuming computation (see Space-time tradeoff). Lookup tables are also used to validate input values by matching against a list of valid (or invalid) items in an array.

[[Roquefort, Lot-et-Garonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Lot-et-Garonne

Roquefort is a commune in the Lot-et-Garonne department in south-western France.

[[Roquefort-sur-Soulzon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aveyron

Roquefort-sur-Soulzon is a commune of 691 people (2007). It is in the region Midi-Pyrénées in the Aveyron department in the south of France. It is famous for its cheese (named after the village).

[[Corn, Lot]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Lot

Corn is a commune of 157 people (1999). It is located in the region Midi-Pyrénées in the Lot department in the south of France. The commune of Roquefort was attached to it.

[[Roquefort-de-Sault]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Roquefort-de-Sault is a commune of 113 people (1999). It is in the region Languedoc-Roussillon in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Roquefort-des-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Roquefort-des-Corbières is a commune of 664 people (1999). It is located in the region Languedoc-Roussillon in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Roquefort-les-Cascades]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ariège

Roquefort-les-Cascades is a commune of 107 people (1999). It is located in the region Midi-Pyrénées in the Ariège department in the south of France.

[[Roquefort-les-Pins]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-Maritimes

Roquefort-les-Pins is a commune of 6175 people (2007). It is located in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Alpes-Maritimes department in the southeast of France.

[[Roquefort-sur-Garonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haute-Garonne

Roquefort-sur-Garonne is a commune of 715 people (1999). It is located in the region Midi-Pyrénées in the Haute-Garonne department in the southwest of France.

[[Avalanche effect]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

[[Rocquefort]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Seine-Maritime

Rocquefort is a commune of 270 people (1999). It is in the region Haute-Normandie in the Seine-Maritime department in the northwest of France.

[[BBC Radio 1Xtra]]

CATEGORIES: BBC radio

BBC Radio 1Xtra (also known as 1Xtra) is a digital British contemporary black music station from the BBC. The station was launched at 6pm on August 16, 2002. It was called Network X during the planning period. It is the complement station to Radio 1 and is broadcast from the same building as Radio 1 - Yalding House in central London. This is part of the BBC's massive Broadcasting House complex of radio studios and other offices.

[[Barrel]]

CATEGORIES: Containers, Units of volume

Barrel is an old English word for a big holder of liquids, such as petrol, beer, wine or oil. Barrels are most commonly made of either wood or metal but many are plastic

Barrels are used to age wine, and other beverages such as whisky and beer. Most of those are made of oak wood.

A barrel is also used to measure liquids. One barrel of oil is 158.987 litres (42 US gallons). It is shortened as "bbl". This use may have come from the early Pennsylvanian oil fields where wooden barrels were used to store and move oil around. In 1866, the people of West Virginia started using it regularly. At this time, the amount was set to 42 American gallons. It was later world-wide for measuring amounts of oil and pricing it. Today, oil is rarely stored or transported in actual barrels, but the term "barrel" is still used to mean a 42-gallon measurement.

A barrel can also be used to measure dry goods. For example, a barrel can mean 196 pounds (about 89 kilograms) of flour.

[[Claudio Ulpiano]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian people, 1932 births, 1999 deaths, Philosophers

Claudio Ulpiano (1932-1999) was a Brazilian philosopher and expert on the work of Gilles Deleuze. He taught at the Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro and Universidade Federal Fluminense.

[[Jorge Mautner]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Brazilian Jews, Brazilian singers, Brazilian poets, Composers, Jewish musicians, Jewish writers, People from Rio de Janeiro

Jorge Mautner (born 1941 in Rio de Janeiro) is a Brazilian writer and singer of Jewish descent. He is the creator of the Moviment of Kaos.

[[Meshuggah]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish heavy metal bands, Umeå, Musical groups established in 1987

Meshuggah is an experimental metal band from Umeå in Sweden. They have been playing since 1987. Meshuggah are famous for using 8-string guitars in their last albums.  Meshuggah's musical style contains the use of differing time signatures, however when most of the band, guitars, bass, vocals and bass drum, the other drums remain in common time, i.e. 1-2-3-4-1-2-3-4 etc. All allbums after Nothing were in the Billboard 200.

[[Andy McKee]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American guitarists, American folk musicians, Musicians from Kansas, People from Topeka, Kansas

Andy McKee is a fingerstyle guitarist from Topeka, Kansas. He became famous through his YouTube videos in 2006.

[[Beverly Hills Chihuahua]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, Disney movies, American family movies, Movies about animals, Movies directed by Raja Gosnell, Beverly Hills, California in fiction, American children's comedy movies

Beverly Hills Chihuahua is a 2008 movie by Walt Disney Pictures directed by Raja Gosnell. The first preview of the movie was seen next to The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian, and originally the movie was stanted for a September 26, 2008 release, but the release was moved to October 3. The story is about a chihuahua who gets dognapped in Mexico and has to escape from an evil Doberman. Destino, a 2003 short movie made by Walt Disney Pictures based on an idea started by Walt Disney and Salvador Dalí in the 1940s, was thought to be seen before Beverly Hills Chihuahua, but this didn't happen. Insteed, a sneak-peek of the Disney movie Bolt was seen.

[[Destruction (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Thrash metal bands

Destruction is a thrash metal band from Lörrach in Germany. They have been playing since 1982. Together with Kreator and Sodom they form the "triangle of German thrash metal".

[[Hans-Christian Ströbele]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, German lawyers, German politicians of Alliance '90/The Greens, People from Halle, Saxony-Anhalt, Politicians from Saxony-Anhalt

Hans-Christian Ströbele (7 June 1939 in Halle) is a German politician and lawyer.

Ströbele made his school exam abitur in Marl (Westphalia).

Then he studied law in Heidelberg and Berlin (at the Free University of Berlin).

He has been a lawyer in Berlin (until 1990 West Berlin) since 1969.

He was involved in the student revolt of 1968.March 2014 

He was one of the lawyers of the Rote Armee Fraktion (RAF) terrorists in the Stammheim trial.

From 1970 to 1974 he was member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany.

Later he was one of the founders of the "Alternative List for Democracy and Environmental Protection," which later became the Berlin section of the Green Party of Germany.

[[Banksy]]

CATEGORIES: English artists, Year of birth unknown, Living people, English painters, Mural artists

Banksy is a British street and graffiti artist. He likes to remain anonymous and not let people know his true identity. He often draws in high visibility public places such as on buildings or train stations. His paintings are often about politics, war and other important topics.

His satirical street art and mind-hurting pictures combine dark humour with graffiti. The graffiti is done with a stencilling technique. Such works have been done on streets, walls, and bridges of cities throughout the world.

Banksy's work started in the Bristol underground scene, which had collaborations between artists and musicians. According to graphic designer Tristan Manco and the book Home Sweet Home, Banksy "was born in 1974 and raised in Bristol, England. The son of a photocopier technician, he trained as a butcher but became involved in graffiti during the great Bristol aerosol boom of the late 1980s". His style is similar to Blek le Rat, who began to work with stencils in 1981 in Paris, and to members of the anarcho-punk band Crass, which did a graffiti stencil campaign on the London Underground system in the late 1970s and early 1980s.

Banksy displays his art on public surfaces such as walls and even going as far as to build physical prop pieces. He does not sell photos of street graffiti directly himself. However, art auctioneers have been known to attempt to sell his street art on location and leave the problem of its removal in the hands of the winning bidder. Banksy's first movie, Exit Through the Gift Shop, billed as "the world's first street art disaster movie," made its debut at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival. The movie was released in the UK on 5 March 2010. In January 2011, he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Documentary for the movie.

[[Rodney Mullen]]

CATEGORIES: American skateboarders, Sportspeople from Florida, 1966 births, Living people

Rodney Mullen (born August 17 1966 in Gainesville, Florida) is a professional freestyle skateboarder, and considered to be one of the most influential skaters in the history of the sport. He is credited with inventing many tricks, including the flat-ground Ollie (originally called the 'ollie pop'), the kickflip (originally called "magic flips"), the Heelflip, the 360 flip, and the Ollie Impossible (more often called the Impossible).

[[Tony Hawk]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Actors from San Diego, California, American movie actors, American philanthropists, American skateboarders, American television actors, Businesspeople from California, Living people, Sportspeople from San Diego, California, Skateboarders

Anthony Frank Hawk (born May 12, 1968) is an American retired professional skateboarder and actor. He is credited with being the first recorded skater to land the 900, which consists of two-and-a-half rotations (900°) in the air before landing back on the pipe during the televised June 27, 1999 X Games, for which he received an enormous amount of attention. He is also known for his Tony Hawk's video game series.

[[Santa Maria, Bulacan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Philippines, 1647 establishments, Establishments in the Philippines, 17th century establishments in Asia

Santa Maria is a municipality (town) in the province of Bulacan, Philippines. It lies 32 kilometers northeast of Manila and is located at the eastern portion of the province. It is surrounded by the towns of Angat and Pandi in the north; by San Jose del Monte City in the south; by Norzagaray in the east; and by Marilao and Bocaue in the west.

According to the 2007 Philippine national census (a total count of the country's population), it has 205,258 people.

It is divided into 24 barangays (villages). These barangays are:

[[Winton M. Blount]]

CATEGORIES: United States Postmasters General, Politicians from Alabama, 1921 births, 2002 deaths

Winton Malcolm "Red" Blount, Jr. (February 1, 1921 – October 24, 2002) was the United States Postmaster General from 1969 to 1972. He is also known as the founder and Chief Executive Officer of construction giant Blount International.

He was the last Postmaster who led the Post Office as an Executive Department and held cabinet-member rank.

[[List of sex positions]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual acts, Lists

This list of sex positions is a list of different ways to have sexual intercourse and other sexual acts.

[[Richard Bache]]

CATEGORIES: 1737 births, 1811 deaths, United States Postmasters General, People from Yorkshire

Richard Bache (1737–1811) worked for the Postal Service under Benjamin Franklin  from 1775–1776, and was Franklin's successor as Postmaster General, serving from 1776–1782 during the Revolutionary War. He also served on the Board of War.

He was born in Yorkshire, England and married the only daughter of Franklin in 1767, after immigrating to New York City in 1765. His wife, Sarah Franklin Bache (1743-1808), was widely known for patriotism and benevolent activities.

Their son, Richard Bache Jr., served in the Republic of Texas Navy and was elected as a Representative to the Second Texas Legislature in 1847. Another son was Benjamin Franklin Bache (1769-1798). 

[[Mark Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Welsh footballers

Leslie Mark Hughes (born November 1, 1963) is a Welsh football manager and former player. He is currently the manager of Queens Park Rangers. Hughes played for Manchester United, Chelsea, and Barcelona during the 1980s and 1990s.

[[Albert Gallatin]]

CATEGORIES: 1761 births, 1849 deaths, United States Secretaries of the Treasury, People from Geneva

Abraham Alfonse Albert Gallatin (January 29, 1761 – August 12, 1849) was a Swiss-American ethnologist, linguist, politician, diplomat, Congressman, and the longest-serving United States Secretary of the Treasury. He was also a founder of New York University.

[[Henry Dearborn]]

CATEGORIES: 1751 births, 1829 deaths, Politicians from New Hampshire, United States representatives from Massachusetts, United States Secretaries of War

Henry Dearborn (February 23, 1751 – June 6, 1829) was an American physician, and statesman. He was a veteran of both the American Revolutionary War and the War of 1812.

He represented this district as a Democratic-Republican in the Third and Fourth Congresses (1793-1797). In 1801, President Thomas Jefferson appointed him Secretary of War, a post he held for eight years until March 7, 1809.

[[Robert Smith (cabinet)]]

CATEGORIES: 1757 births, 1842 deaths, United States Secretaries of State, United States Attorneys General, Politicians from Pennsylvania

Robert Smith (November 3, 1757 – November 26, 1842) was the second United States Secretary of the Navy from 1801 to 1809 and the sixth United States Secretary of State from 1809 to 1811. He was the brother of Senator Samuel Smith.

[[Caesar A. Rodney]]

CATEGORIES: 1772 births, 1824 deaths, Politicians from Wilmington, Delaware, United States Attorneys General, United States representatives from Delaware, United States senators from Delaware

Caesar Augustus Rodney (January 4, 1772 – June 10, 1824) was an American lawyer and politician from Wilmington, in New Castle County, Delaware. He was a member of the Democratic-Republican Party, who served in the Delaware General Assembly, as well as a U.S. Representative from Delaware, U.S. Senator from Delaware, U.S. Attorney General, and U.S. Minister to Argentina. He was the nephew of Caesar Rodney, the signer of the Declaration of Independence who is pictured on the Delaware state quarter.

[[Derrick Pierce]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Massachusetts, American pornographic actors

Derrick Pierce (born March 1, 1974) is an American porn actor. He began his career  in 2005. Pierce was born in Massachusetts. He moved to California at a young age. He grew up in the Sylmar area of the San Fernando Valley.  

As of 2008, Pierce has appeared in over 100 movies, including "Chemistry 3" which is a unique reality show type of production,  and "Upload", an adult sci-fi thriller.  He has worked for just about every company that makes adult movies.

Before he started working in the adult movie industry, Pierce worked as a martial arts instructor in Southern California. 

In 2008, Pierce was nominated for "Best Actor", "Best BDSM Release", "Best Couples Sex Scene", "Best Supporting Actor" and "Best Threeway Sex Scene" (twice) in the AVN Awards.

[[Topher Grace]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City

Christopher John "Topher" Grace (born July 12, 1978) is an American actor. He is best known for playing the main character, Eric Forman, on the long-running Fox sitcom That '70s Show. Grace also played the villain Eddie Brock, Jr. in the movie ''Spider-Man 3.

[[Mirepoix (cuisine)]]

CATEGORIES: Food ingredients

Mirepoix (mɪər ˈpʍɑː) is the French name for a condiment used for cooking. Mirepoix consists of onions, carrots and celery (either common Pascal celery or celeriac). Mirepoix is used in many dishes, such as stocks, soups, stews and sauces. It is used either raw, roasted or sautéed with butter.  Mirepoix is known as the holy trinity of French cooking.

These three ingredients are commonly referred to as aromatics. Similar such combinations, both in and out of the French culinary repertoire, sometimes include leeks, parsnips, garlic, tomatoes, shallots, mushrooms, bell peppers, chilies, and ginger. For the combination mirepoix au gras, or a Matignon, ham or pork belly are used as additional ingredients. In Cajun cuisine, a mirepoix or trinity is a combination of onions, celery and bell peppers.

They may be used in different combinations, as dictated by the cuisine and the dish itself.

Traditionally, the ratio for mirepoix is 2:1:1 of onions, celery, and carrots. The ratio for bones to mirepoix for stock is 10:1. When making a white stock, or fond blanc, parsnips are used instead of carrots to maintain the pale color.

Mirepoix derives its name, as many other elements of French cuisine do, from the patron of the chef who established it, in this case one of the house of Lévis, seigneurs of Mirepoix since the eleventh century and a famous name in Languedoc. The particular member of the house of Lévis whose chef is credited by the Dictionnaire de l'Académie française with giving a name to an old technique is Charles-Pierre-Gaston François de Lévis, duc de Lévis-Mirepoix (1699-1757), maréchal de France and ambassador of Louis XV. 

[[Béchamel sauce]]

CATEGORIES: Dishes named after people, Mother sauces

Béchamel sauce (beɪʃəˈmɛl in English, beʃaˈmɛl in French, beʃaˈmɛlla in Italian), also known as white sauce, is a basic mother sauce. It can be used to make other sauces, such as Mornay sauce, which is Béchamel and cheese. This basic sauce is usually made today by whisking scalded milk gradually into a white flour-butter roux (equal part clarified butter and flour), though it can also be made by whisking a kneaded flour-butter beurre manié into scalded milk. The thickness of the final sauce depends on the proportions of milk and flour.  Escoffier adds salt and an onion stuck with a clove.

It is named after Louis de Béchamel.

[[American Dad!]]

CATEGORIES: American Dad!, 2005 American television series debuts, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, Adult animated television series, Adult Swim, American animated television series, American sitcoms, Fox television series, English-language television programs

American Dad! is an American adult animated sitcom. It is produced by Underdog Productions and Fuzzy Door Productions for 20th Television.

The series was first made by Seth MacFarlane, the creator of Family Guy, as well as two  former Family Guy writers, Mike Barker and Matt Weitzman. The first episode aired in the United States on Fox on February 6, 2005, thirty minutes after the end of Super Bowl XXXIX. The regular series began May 1, 2005, after the season premiere of Family Guy.

The series follows the events of CIA agent Stan Smith and his family.  Stan Smith is a CIA agent who is very patriotic, as well as being part of the Christian right.  Stan tries to be in charge of the family, but often the things he does don't work out.  Stan has a wife, Francine, and two kids, Hayley and Steve.  Hayley (Haylee) is in college and is much more liberal than her father.  Steve is in high school and is always dreaming about girls.  Rounding out the family is Klaus, a talking fish with a German athlete's brain; and Roger Smith the Alien. The show moved to TBS in 2014.

[[Mirepoix (disambiguation)]]

Mirepoix can be:

[[Mirepoix, Gers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Gers

 Mirepoix  is a commune in the Gers department in southwestern France.

[[Landon Donovan]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American footballers, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California

Landon Donovan (born 4 March 1982) is a former American soccer player. He played for the Los Angeles Galaxy and United States national team, and was the captain for both of them. 

He is the former captain of The Los Angeles Galaxy and USMNT.

Donovan is the leader of assists for the US national team, and also the second place for most appearances (caps).

[[Coriander]]

CATEGORIES: Apiaceae, Herbs, Spices

Coriander (Coriandrum sativum) (also known as cilantro, Chinese parsley, or dhania) is a herb from the Apiaceae family. Coriander is originally from the southwestern Asia across to north Africa. 

In the Sri Lankan Sinhalese language, it is called koththamuhlli. It is believed to have medicinal qualities, and is brewed and drunk to cure the common cold and fever.

[[Brad Friedel]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American footballers, Sportspeople from Ohio, Association football goalkeepers, People from Lakewood, Ohio

Brad Friedel (born May 18, 1971) is an American soccer player. He has played for United States national team.

[[Nílton Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Footballers from Rio de Janeiro

Nílton Santos (16 May 1925 – 27 November 2013) was a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

Santos died from respiratory failure caused by a lung infection on 27 November 2013, aged 88, in Rio de Janeiro.

[[DaMarcus Beasley]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American footballers, Sportspeople from Indiana, People from Fort Wayne, Indiana

DaMarcus Beasley (born May 24 1982 in Fort Wayne, Indiana) is an American soccer player. He plays for Rangers of the Scottish Football League and United States national team.

[[Alecko Eskandarian]]

CATEGORIES: American footballers, Sportspeople from New Jersey, 1982 births, Living people

Alecko Eskandarian is an American football player. He plays for Chivas USA and United States national team.

[[Smash Hits]]

CATEGORIES: Music magazines, Radio, Websites, British television channels

Smash Hits was a pop music based magazine. It was made for children and young teenagers. The magazine was first published in the United Kingdom. It ran from 1978 to 2006 and was issued fortnightly for most of that time. The name survives as a brand for a related spin-off digital television channel, digital radio station, and website which have survived the end of the printed magazine.

[[Liga I]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in Romania, 1909 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Romania

Liga I (previously called Divizia A) is the top division association football league in Romania.

[[Battle of the Mediterranean]]

CATEGORIES: European battles of World War II, 1940 in Europe, 1941 in Europe, 1942 in Europe, 1943 in Europe, 1944 in Europe, 1945 in Europe

The Battle of the Mediterranean was the name given to the naval campaign fought in the Mediterranean Sea during World War II.

[[Cryptographic hash function]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

A cryptographic hash function is a hash function which takes an input (or 'message') and returns a fixed-size  string of bytes. The string is called the 'hash value', 'message digest', 'digital fingerprint', 'digest' or 'checksum'.

The ideal hash function has three main properties:

[[Data integrity]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Communication

Data integrity is a term used in computer science and telecommunications that can mean:

Simply, data integrity is to make sure that data is "consistent" and "correct".

[[Cryptosystem]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

There are two different meanings of the word cryptosystem. 

[[Serpent (cipher)]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

Serpent is a  symmetric key block cipher which was the second finalist in the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) contest after Rijndael. Serpent was designed by Ross Anderson, Eli Biham, and Lars Knudsen.

Serpent has a block size of 128 bits and supports a key size of 128, 192 or 256 bits. The cipher is a 32-round substitution-permutation network operating on a block of four 32-bit words.  Each round applies one of eight 4-bit by 4-bit S-boxes 32 times in parallel. Serpent was designed so that all operations can be executed in parallel, using 32 1-bit slices.  This maximizes parallelism, but also allows use of the extensive cryptanalysis work performed on DES.

Serpent was widely viewed as a more traditional approach to security than the other AES finalists choosing a larger security margin: the designers estimated 16 rounds to be sufficient against known types of attack, but specified 32 rounds as insurance against future progress in cryptanalysis.

The Serpent cipher has not been patented. It is completely placed in the public domain and can be freely used by anyone.

[[Pretty Good Privacy]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography, Internet security

Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) is a computer program that provides cryptographic privacy and authentication. PGP is often used for signing, encrypting and decrypting electronic mails (e-mails) to increase the security of e-mail communications. It was originally created by Phil Zimmermann in 1991.

PGP and other similar products follow the OpenPGP standard (RFC 4880) for encrypting and decrypting data. 

[[Weak key]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a weak key is a key which when used with a specific cipher, makes the cipher behave in some undesirable way, and simplifies breaking (cracking) the ciphertext.   

Weak keys usually represent a very small fraction of the overall key space, which means that if someone generates a random key to encrypt a message, it is a rare condition that weak keys will cause a security problem.  However, it is considered a good design for a cipher to have no weak keys ("quality chiper"). A cipher with no weak keys is said to have a flat, or linear,  key space.

[[XSL attack]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, the XSL attack is a method of cryptanalysis for block ciphers. The attack was first published in 2002 by researchers Nicolas Courtois and Josef Pieprzyk.  It was claimed that it may break the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) cipher faster than a brute force attack.  

AES is already widely used in commerce and government for the transmission of secret and classified information. Finding a technique that can decrease the amount of time it takes to break the secret message without having the key could cause wide damage. 

In 2004 it was shown by one of the cryptanalysts, that the algorithm does not perform as described in its published paper. In addition, the method requires long effort. Unless shortened, the technique does not reduce the effort to break AES in comparison to a brute force attack. Therefore, it does not affect the real-world security of block ciphers in the near future. However, the attack has caused some experts to insert complexities in the algebraic simplicity of the current AES.

The XSL attack relies on first analyzing the internal design of a cipher then deriving a system of quadratic simultaneous equations. These systems of equations are typically very large, for example 8000 equations with 1600 variables for the 128-bit AES. Several methods for solving such systems are known. In the XSL attack, a specialized algorithm, termed XSL (eXtended Sparse Linearization), is then applied to solve these equations and compute the key.

The attack is well-known and famous for requiring only a handful of known plaintexts to perform. Previous methods of cryptanalysis, such as linear and differential cryptanalysis, often require unrealistically large numbers of known or chosen plaintexts, which make them impossible to realize.

[[Sound the Alarm]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Concept albums

Sound the Alarm is the fifth studio album by the emo band Saves the Day. It was released by Vagrant Records on April 11, 2006. It was produced by Steve Evetts who also produced Saves the Day's first two albums, Can't Slow Down and Through Being Cool. All of the album's lyrics were written by Chris Conley. It is their darkest album, and Chris wrote it about the black clouds in his life, and things that were eating him alive. This album was welcomed by many as something of a return to the band's classic sound, after the sonic departure of In Reverie in 2003.

Sound the Alarm reached number 67 on the Billboard 200 Album Chart.

Sound the Alarm is part one of a three part concept that Conley described in an interview with Punknews.org. It is their trilogy about self discovery.

The "Head for the Hills" track is used on the soundtrack of the football video game Madden NFL 07.

[[Ennis]]

CATEGORIES: County towns in Ireland, County Clare

Ennis is a town in the Republic of Ireland. It has about 25,000 people living in it. There are people from eastern Europe, Africa and the United Kingdom living in Ennis.

[[Trey Parker]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American animators, American movie directors, American screenwriters, Emmy Award winners, Actors from Colorado, Writers from Colorado, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Lyricists, Libertarians

Randolph Severn "Trey" Parker III (born October 19 1969) is an American animator, screenwriter, film director, voice actor, actor, musician and Academy Award nominated lyricist. He and Matt Stone worked on the animated series South Park.

[[Matt Stone]]

CATEGORIES: American animators, American movie actors, American screenwriters, Emmy Award winners, actors from Houston, Texas, writers from Texas, 1971 births, Living people, Libertarians

Matthew Richard "Matt" Stone (born May 26, 1971) is an Academy Award- nominated Emmy Award- winning American animator, screenwriter, director, producer, voice actor, musician and actor. He and Trey Parker created the animated television series, South Park.

[[Treaty of friendship and alliance between the Government of Mongolia and Tibet]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Mongolia, Tibet, 1910s treaties, 1913

Tibet and Mongolia signed a treaty called the Treaty of friendship and alliance between the Government of Mongolia and Tibet  on February 2, 1913, at Urga (now Ulaanbaatar). Today, we are not sure if the treaty can be used or not.

[[Waterford]]

CATEGORIES: County towns in Ireland, Waterford

Waterford City is a city in Ireland. The population in 2006 was nearly 50,000 people. It is the county town of County Waterford. Waterford is the fifth largest city in Ireland. It is also the oldest city in Ireland. 

Waterford is home to the Waterford Crystal glass factory, which exports crystal all around the world. This glass factory has made many famous pieces, including the New Years Eve glass ball used in Times Square in New York. The factory closed in 2009 leading to over 1,500 job losses. The factory reopened again in the city centre in June 2010 and is now a popular tour. Tourists also come to Waterford to visit the Waterford Viking Triangle.

[[Dissipation]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics, Physics

In physics, dissipation includes the concept of a dynamical system where important mechanical modes, such as waves or oscillations, lose energy over time, typically due to the action of friction or turbulence. The lost energy is converted into heat, raising the temperature of the system. Such systems are called dissipative systems. 

For example, a wave that loses amplitude is said to dissipate. The dissipative nature depends on the nature of the wave: an atmospheric wave, for instance, may dissipate close to the surface due to friction with the land mass, and at higher levels due to radiative cooling.

[[Galway]]

CATEGORIES: County towns in Ireland, County Galway

Galway is a port city in the western part of Ireland. It is in the historic province of Connacht. Over 70,000 people live there as of 2011. It is located on the Galway Bay.

[[Porta Alchemica]]

CATEGORIES: Occult, Buildings and structures in Rome

Porta Alchemica (English: alchemical door), or Alchemy Gate or Magic Portal, is an ancient monument built between 1678 and 1680 by Massimiliano Palombara marquis of Pietraforte (1614-1680) in his residence, Palombara villa, located in the east of Rome on the Esquilino hill in a position almost corresponding to Piazza Vittorio, where today was placed. Porta Alchemica is the only survivor of the five gates of the Palombara villa, there was an lost door on the opposite side enabling to give it a date of 1680, there were also four other inscriptions lost on the walls of the mansion inside the villa.

[[Springfield, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Massachusetts, Springfield, Massachusetts

Springfield is a city in Massachusetts, United States. In the year 2010, 153,084 people lived in the city and 700,000 people live in Metropolitan Springfield. Springfield is the largest city on the Connecticut River. It is at a natural crossroads where three rivers flow into the Connecticut River.

[[Global apartheid]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Global apartheid is a term used to mean the worldwide control of resources, the economy, and government by an ethnic minority. The term comes from apartheid, a governmental system that ruled South Africa in which the Afrikaners, or "whites", controlled most of the resources and where non-whites were denied access to these resources. Apartheid or 'separate development' was introduced by the National Party after the 1948 election to protect European interests and identity by enforcing separation between the 'races'. The term is often used to describe the gap between whites and nonwhites, and global socioeconomic inequality, the existence of which has been proven by statistics. As in South Africa, there is a hierarchy of group rights in the world:

Although not explicitly classified by race, this hierarchy is banded by colour. Nationality laws of most countries, and the European Union, explicitly enshrine this ‘classification'.

European countries control most of the world's technology and weapons, and 20% of the global population, the richest percentage, take in 71.3% of income. Although most people of the world are not white, thereby making whites a minority, this minority often holds power in society. Most Western countries have laws against racial discrimination and active anti-racist movements, however much Western thought, law and action are exclusive, operating through institutional and indirect discrimination rather than overt racism. Their system of exclusion are more sophisticated, this prevents the West from exercising unconditional power in international affairs.

The term apartheid was famously used by Thabo Mbeki, the then-President of South Africa, in a 2002 speech, drawing comparisons the modern-day status of the world's people, economy, and access to natural resources to the apartheid era. Mbeki got the term from the book Unravelling Global Apartheid (1996) by Titus Alexander, initiator of Charter 99, a campaign for global democracy, who was present at the UN Millennium Summit.

[[Baccara]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 disestablishments, Disco groups, Girl groups, Musical duos, Musical groups disestablished in 1981, Musical groups established in 1977, Pop music groups, Spanish musical groups, 1977 establishments in Europe, 1970s establishments in Spain, 1980s disestablishments in Europe

Baccara was a Spanish pop group. They were formed in 1977. It had two members: Mayte Mateos and María Mendiola. They were successful with their first song, Yes Sir, I Can Boogie. Baccara represented Luxembourg in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1978. They performed Parlez-vous français?. In 1981, Baccara split. Both Mateos and Mendiola then began work on music by themselves.

[[The Big Bang Theory]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 American television series debuts, 2000s American sitcoms, 2000s romance television series, 2010s American sitcoms, 2010s romance television series, Autism in fiction, CBS network shows, College television series, Pasadena, California, Romantic comedy television series, Television series about families, Television series about friendship, Television series about marriage, Television series set in Los Angeles County, California, English-language television programs

The Big Bang Theory is an American comedy television sitcom. It was created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady. It was first shown on CBS on September 24, 2007.

[[Smilodon]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Machairodonts, Sabretooth cats

Smilodon was a genus of saber-toothed cat. There were three species. Smilodon gracilis (or S. fragilis) was the ancestral, smaller, species (2.5 to 0.5 million years ago).

Smilodon populator (1 mya to 10 kya) was a large, heavy species from eastern South America. It was 1.2 m high at the shoulder, 2.1 m (83 in) long on average. With an estimated weight of 220 to 400 kg, it was among the heaviest known felids. Its upper canines reached 28 cm (11 in) and protruded up to 17 cm (6.7 in) out of the upper jaw.

Smilodon fatalis (or S. californicus; 1.6 mya to 10,000 years ago) was the famous cat known from the Rancho La Brea tar pits in Los Angeles. The tar, a bit like asphalt, has yielded about a million bones of late Pleistocene mammals, of which 162,000 bones are from Smilodon, representing perhaps 1200 individuals. The cat was about the size of a female lion, but weighed more, perhaps 200 kg. It was about 1 metre tall at the shoulders.

[[The Clash (Album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 albums, The Clash albums, Punk albums

The Clash is the first album-length recording made by the English punk band The Clash.  It was released twice. Both releases are still in print: the original version in 1977 and the changed U.S. version in 1979 (with several post-1977 single sides added to the album).

[[Give 'Em Enough Rope]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 albums, The Clash albums, Punk albums

Give 'Em Enough Rope is the second album by The Clash. It was released in 1978. In the United States, this was their first official album because it was released before the U.S. version of The Clash.  The album was well liked and got to number 2 in the UK chart, and number 128 in the U.S.

[[The Daily Show]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 American television series debuts, 1990s American comedy television series, 1990s satirical television series, 2000s American comedy television series, 2000s satirical television series, 2010s American comedy television series, 2010s satirical television series, American satirical television series, Emmy Award winning programs, English-language television programs

The Daily Show (known currently as The Daily Show with Trevor Noah (Jon Stewart was the host from 1999-2015 and Craig Kilborn from 1996-1998) is an Emmy Award winning news parody television program. It airs each Monday through Thursday on Comedy Central in the United States. The half-hour long program was first shown on Monday, July 22, 1996.  It was first hosted by Craig Kilborn. Kilborn acted as its anchorman until December 1998. Jon Stewart took over as host in January 1999.  Many changes were made to the program at that time. Stewart retired in 2015. The show will be hosted by South African comedian Trevor Noah in September 2015.

Under Stewart, The Daily Show has become more strongly focused around politics and the national media. It is much different to the more character-driven comedy which was shown more during Kilborn's time on the program. Stewart's final broadcast aired on August 6, 2015.

There have been many other on-air contributors to The Daily Show with some called "correspondents", including Dave Attell, Stephen Colbert, Steve Carell, Ed Helms, Rob Corddry, Susie Essman, Olivia Munn, Buck Henry, Lewis Black, Kristen Schaal, Larry Wilmore, and John Oliver.

[[Ritchie Neville]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, English singers, People from Solihull

Richard Neville Dobson known professionally as Ritchie Neville (born 23 August, 1979, in Solihull, Birmingham, England) is an English singer. He is best known for being a member of UK boy band Five. Neville attended the private Bromsgrove School in Worcestershire and was taught by Mike Perry.

[[Five (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, English boy bands, English pop music groups, Musical groups established in 1997, Musical groups from London

Five  were a British boy band formed in 1997 by the same team that formed the Spice Girls, Bob Herbert and his son Chris. Signed by Simon Cowell, they enjoyed success worldwide, but particularly in the UK, parts of Europe, Russia, parts of Asia, Brazil, Israel, Australia, New Zealand and USA. They broke up on 27 September 2001, after selling almost 20 million records, and having 11 top ten singles and 4 top ten albums in the UK. The five members were Scott Robinson, Ritchie Neville, Jason 'J' Brown, Richard 'Abs' Breen and Sean Conlon. Four of the five original members briefly reformed the group on September 27, 2006, but only 7 months after announcing a comeback, Five made an announcement by their official website they would again disband. They reformed in 2012.

[[Secret Diary of a Call Girl]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 British television series debuts, 2011 British television series endings, 2000s British drama television series, 2010s British drama television series, ITV television programmes, Television series set in London, Works about prostitution, English-language television programs

Secret Diary of a Call Girl (also known as Secret Diary) is a British television drama broadcast on ITV2 starring Billie Piper as "Belle", a high-class London-based call girl. The story is based on the blogs of Belle de Jour.

The first 8 part series began on 27 September 2007 at 10pm. The second 8 part series began on 11 September 2008 at 10pm.

[[ITV2]]

CATEGORIES: British television channels

ITV2 is a free television channel in the United Kingdom owned by ITV Digital Channels Ltd, a part of ITV plc. It started on 7 December 1998. For a long time, it was the most popular channel other than the main five analogue channels. Now, ITV3 is the most popular other than these.

The channel shows many American programmes such as Family Guy, American Dad!, and The Vampire Diaries. It also has its own programmes that have been popular, such as Celebrity Juice and Love Island.

[[Belle de Jour (writer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, American prostitutes, Bloggers, Jewish American writers, Jewish British writers, Jewish sex industry people, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Writers from Florida, American bloggers

Belle de Jour is the pen name of a former London call girl, Brooke Magnanti (born 5 November 1975). Under this name she maintains a successful blog, Belle de Jour: Diary of a London Call Girl which by 2003 had been selected by The Guardian as its blog of the year and has had two books published in both the UK and US.

Magnanti was born and raised in Clearwater, Florida. Her father is Italian American; her mother is Jewish American. Magnanti became a British citizen in 2013. She is married and lives in Lochaber in the Scottish Highlands. She is a former prostitute.

The name recalls the 1928 novel Belle de Jour by Joseph Kessel and the 1967 movie, Belle de Jour, starring Catherine Deneuve, directed by Luis Buñuel.

In French "Belle de Jour" means "beauty of the day," as opposed to "femme de nuit" or "belle de nuit," women of the night (common euphemisms for prostitutes).

[[Cloth mill Offermann]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in North Rhine-Westphalia, Companies of Germany, 18th century establishments in Germany

In the 18th century, the cloth mill Offermann was a brass factory in the German city of Stolberg. It was later changed to cloth mill and then to a restaurant and apartment building. The changes show the change of economical needs in that city.

[[St. Anger]]

CATEGORIES: Metallica albums, 2003 albums

St. Anger is the 8th studio album by American thrash metal band Metallica. It was released on June 5, 2003. It was their last album released by Elektra Records. Four singles were released from the album. In 2004, the album's lead single, "St. Anger", won a Grammy Award for "Best Metal Performance". A lot of people did not like the style of this album and the way the drums sounded. It also has a free DVD that has the band playing the entire album in a studio.

[[Killing Is My Business... and Business Is Good!]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 albums, Debut albums, Heavy metal albums, Megadeth albums

Killing Is My Business... and Business Is Good! is the first studio album by American thrash metal band Megadeth. The album was released on June 12, 1985. It was released through Combat Records. 

Early in 1985, the band was given $8,000 by Combat Records to record and produce the band's first album. The money proved not to be enough and the band was given $4,000 more. Most of the budget was spent on drugs, alcohol, and food, which forced the group to fire their original producer and produce the record by themselves.

[[Dalek]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who

The Daleks are a made-up alien race of mutants from the British science fiction television series Doctor Who. Daleks are aliens from the planet Skaro, integrated within a tank-like metal casing. The creatures are a powerful race who always wanted universal conquest and control, they have no pity, feelings or guilt (as all of their emotions were removed except hate).

The Daleks are one of the most powerful races ever in Doctor Who history and are the Doctor's worst enemies. They cry "EX-TER-MIN-ATE!" when they are about to kill someone. They come in different colours, like bronze, black, red, white, gold, and silver. They first appeared in the first season episode of the series (in "The Daleks") and they were last seen in the Series 7 episode "Asylum of the Daleks" (2012). They are not robots, but horrible aliens kept in a metal casing, because they became mutated during a war on their planet, Skaro. They were created by an evil scientist named Davros. They can not be easily hurt by guns as their casing reflects the bullets that come from the gun and a shield melts bullets shot at them.

Daleks were created by writer Terry Nation and designed by BBC designer Raymond Cusick.  They were introduced in December 1963 in the second Doctor Who serial. From their first appearance they became very popular with viewers. They appeared in many later serials and two 1960s motion pictures.

The word "Dalek" has been put into the Oxford English Dictionary and other major dictionaries; the Collins Dictionary defines it rather broadly as "any of a set of fictional robot-like creations that are aggressive, mobile, and produce rasping staccato speech". Although there is no meaning to their name, "Dalek" sounds like the Norwegian word "dårlig", which means "bad" or "evil". It is also a trademark, having first been registered by the BBC in 1964 to protect its range of Dalek merchandise.

The Daleks were on a postage stamp celebrating British popular culture in 1999, photographed by Lord Snowdon.

[[Rust in Peace]]

CATEGORIES: Megadeth albums, 1990 albums

Rust in Peace is the fourth album by American thrash metal band, Megadeth. It was released on September 24, 1990. It has been called one of the best thrash metal records of all time by publications such as Decibel and Kerrang!.

[[Fable II]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Xbox 360 games, Role-playing video games

Fable II is a fantasy role-playing videogame released for Microsoft's Xbox 360 console in 2008. It is the sequel to the original Xbox game, Fable. In Fable II you begin as a poor orphan child who has a sister. You are invited into the King's palace where he kills your sister. The rest of the game you go through various quests where your ultimate goal is to gain revenge on the King.  

[[Aveyron]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Aveyron (Avairon) is a French department found in the northeast of the Occitanie region of southern France and named after the Aveyron river. Its prefecture is Rodez.

[[Bouches-du-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

Bouches-du-Rhône (Bocas de Ròse, lit. "Mouths of the Rhône") is a department in the south of France named after the mouth of the Rhône River. It is the department of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region with more people living in it.

[[Vocal cords]]

CATEGORIES: Neck

The vocal cords or vocal folds are two sets of tissue stretched across the larynx. They can vibrate when air passes through the larynx. This produces sounds. Humans use them to produce language.

Men and women have different vocal fold sizes.  Adult male voices are usually deeper: males have thicker cord. The male vocal folds are between 17 mm and 25 mm in length.''''

The female vocal folds are between 12.5 mm and 17.5 mm long.

The difference in vocal fold size between men and women means that their voices have a different pitch. Each person's voice is different and has a slightly different pitch. This is caused by genes that influence how the larynx is made.

[[Parallel computing]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Parallel computing is a form of computation in which many instructions are carried out simultaneously (termed "in parallel"), depending on the theory that large problems can often be divided into smaller ones, and then solved concurrently ("in parallel").

There are several different forms of parallel computing: 

It has been used for many years, mainly in high-performance computing, with a great increase in its use in recent years, due to the physical constraints preventing frequency scaling. Parallel computing has become the main model in computer architecture, mainly in the form of Multi-core processors. However, in recent years, power consumption by parallel computers has become a concern.

Parallel computers can be classified according to the level at which the hardware supports parallelism—with multi-core and multi-processor computers having multiple processing elements inside a single machine, while clusters, blades, MPPs, and grids use multiple computers to work on the same task.

Parallel computer programs are more difficult to program than sequential ones, because concurrency introduces several new classes of potential software bugs, of which race conditions and dead locks are the most common. however many parallel programming languages have been created to simplify parallel computers programming. But still communication and synchronization between the different subtasks is difficult while achieving good parallel program performance.

[[WrestleMania IV]]

CATEGORIES: WrestleMania, Atlantic City, New Jersey, Sports in New Jersey, 1988 in professional wrestling, 1988 in the United States, 1980s in New Jersey, March events

WrestleMania IV was the fourth annual WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It took place on March 27, 1988 at the Trump Plaza in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

[[Cantal]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Cantal is a French department in south-central France in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its prefecture is Aurillac.

It is named after the Mounts of Cantal, a group of mountains in the Massif Central.

[[WrestleMania V]]

CATEGORIES: WrestleMania, Atlantic City, New Jersey, Sports in New Jersey, 1989 in professional wrestling, 1989 in the United States, 1980s in New Jersey, April events

WrestleMania V was the fifth annual WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It took place on April 2, 1989 at the Trump Plaza in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

[[Charente]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Charente (Saintongeais: Chérente, Charanta) is a department in southwestern France, in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region.

It is named after the Charente river, the most important river in the department. The two largest towns of the department, Angoulême and Cognac, are along this river.

[[Charente-Maritime]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Charente-Maritime (Saintongeais: Chérente-Marine) is a department on the west coast of France in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. It is named after the Charente river, the most important river in the department, and its position along the coast.

Its prefecture is the city of La Rochelle.

[[Optimization (computer science)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computing, optimization is the process of modifying a system to make some features of it work more efficiently or use fewer resources.  For instance, a computer program may be optimized so that it runs faster, or to run with less memory requirements or other resources (see Space-time tradeoff), or to consume less energy. This is a branch of software engineering.

The optimization can have sense at different levels, from the lowest (development of circuits, writing of machine code designed especially for the architecture) up to the highest levels of making of implementation, use or design of algorithms.

The optimization is generally recommended to leave until the end of the process of development, since the premature optimization can introduce new errors (generally more difficult to detect for being of algorithmic nature).

The optimized system may be a single computer program, a collection of computers or even an entire network such as the Internet. 

[[Pilgrimage of Grace]]

CATEGORIES: 16th century in England, 1536, Rebellions in Europe, 1530s in Europe

The Pilgrimage of Grace was a revolt in York, Yorkshire in 1536. People  protested against England's break with Rome and the Dissolution of the Monasteries. There were also other specific political, social and economic issues they did not like. Technically the term Pilgrimage of Grace only refers to the uprising around York, but sometimes it is used in relation to the risings in general which took place around Northern England; first from Lincolnshire, twelve days before the actual Pilgrimage of Grace. 

The revolt was caused by Henry VIII's Dissolution of the Monasteries, which caused problems with around 500,000 monks and nuns.

[[Embedded system]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

An embedded system is a computer that has been built to solve only a few very specific problems and is not easily changed. The word embedded means it is built into the system. It is a permanent part in a bigger system. It usually does not look like a computer, often no keyboard or monitor or mouse. But like any computer it has a processor, software, input and output. 

For example, the controller embedded in an elevator tells the motor to move the elevator to different floors, based on buttons that are pushed. A decoder is embedded in a satellite television set-top box (called STB) to read a signal from the dish and send something that a TV understands.  Often this type of system must do its work in a specific amount of time.  This is called real-time computing.  If a set-top box got interrupted to do another task, you would see a bad picture on the TV, for example.  A general purpose computer will often have short pauses while it does something else, it is not real-time.

Embedded systems control many of the common devices in use today, such as card readers in hotel door locks or several things in a car.  They can control small things like an MP3 player or a digital camera, and large things like traffic light systems, airplanes, or assembly lines in a factory.

[[WrestleMania VI]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Toronto, WrestleMania, 1990 in professional wrestling, 1990s in Canada, History of Toronto, April events

WrestleMania VI was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on April 1, 1990 at SkyDome in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It was the sixth WrestleMania event held by the WWF. It was the first WrestleMania to be held outside of the United States. It was up from the last WrestleMania's attendance which was 18,946.

The event was known for "The Ultimate Challenge", a match where Hulk Hogan (WWF Champion) faced The Ultimate Warrior (WWF Intercontinental Champion), in which both championship titles were on the line.

[[Real-time computing]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Real-time computing is a field of Computer science. The idea is to design systems that have a real-time constraint.  Real time systems will guarantee to give a result within a specified time. There are two kinds of real-time systems:

[[AVN Award]]

CATEGORIES: Movie awards, Pornography, 1984 establishments

The AVN Awards are movie awards sponsored by and presented by the adult video industry magazine AVN. They began in January 1984.

[[Fuji]]

Fuji can refer to:

[[WrestleMania VII]]

CATEGORIES: WrestleMania, Sports in Los Angeles, 1991 in professional wrestling, 1991 in California, 1990s in Los Angeles, California, March events

[[WrestleMania VIII]]

CATEGORIES: WrestleMania, History of Indianapolis, Indiana, 1992 in professional wrestling, 1992 in the United States, April events, 20th century in Indiana

[[WrestleMania IX]]

CATEGORIES: WrestleMania, Las Vegas, Nevada, 1993 in the United States, 20th century in Nevada, 1993 in professional wrestling

WrestleMania IX was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on April 4, 1993 at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, Nevada. It was the ninth WrestleMania event held by the WWF.

The main event saw Yokozuna defeat Bret Hart to win the WWF Championship. Yokozuna won the match by pinfall after Yokozuna's manager Mr. Fuji threw salt in Hart's eyes. After the match, Hulk Hogan came down to the ring to check on Hart. Mr. Fuji challenged Hogan to face Yokozuna in a impromptu match and Hogan accepted. Hogan won the match and the championship in 22 seconds after he hit Yokozuna with the leg drop and pinned him. 

WrestleMania IX received negative criticism and was called a poorly booked event. John Powell of SLAM! Wrestling said that other than the Intercontinental and Tag Team Championship matches and the women that accompanied Lex Luger to the ring, the rest of the pay-per-view was not good. He also did not like some of the outfits that were worn at the event, most notably Jim Ross's toga and Giant Gonzalez's spray-painted suit.

[[Airbag]]

CATEGORIES: Automobiles, Safety

An airbag is a part of the safety restraint system in cars. Airbags are bags that rapidly fill with air when an accident happens. That way they can prevent injuries that occur when the driver hits a hard object.

An airbag is a useful vehicle safety device. Airbags are used in the world increasingly because in accidents, it can help passengers reduce shock. 

When the sensor feels a strong shock, the gas device explodes. This gas fills the bag immediately.

[[Darkly Dreaming Dexter]]

CATEGORIES: Crime fiction books, 2004 books

Darkly Dreaming Dexter is a 2004 book written by Jeff Lindsay. It won the 2005 Dilys Award.

The television show Dexter was based on the book.

[[Dearly Devoted Dexter]]

CATEGORIES: Crime fiction books, 2005 books

Dearly Devoted Dexter is a 2005 book written by Jeff Lindsay. It is a sequel to the 2004 book Darkly Dreaming Dexter which the television show Dexter is based on.

[[Dexter in the Dark]]

CATEGORIES: Crime fiction books, 2007 books

Dexter in the Dark is a 2007 book written by Jeff Lindsay. It is the third book in Lindsay's Dexter series.

[[Fugging, Austria]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Upper Austria

Fugging (ˈ ˈfʊkɪŋ) is an Austrian village in the municipality of Tarsdorf, in the Innviertel region of western Upper Austria.

The village is 33 kilometres north of Salzburg, four kilometres east of the German border and can be travelled to in half an hour by car from the town of Petting, in Bavaria.

[[Susan Featherly]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American movie actors, Actors from New York, American television actors, People from Syracuse, New York

Susan Featherly (February 5, 1963) is an American actress. She is best known for her appearances in Cinemax television programs and adult movies such as Kama Sutra and Corporate Fantasy. Featherly was born in Syracuse, New York. 

[[Ravenscraig]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Lanarkshire

Ravenscraig is an area of land in North Lanarkshire, Scotland.  It used to be the site for steelworks. Ravenscraig used to have the largest steel mill in Western Europe. Ravenscraig was closed in 1992, and is now almost completely gone.

Ravenscraig is now at the start of a big redevelopment by Wilson Bowden Developments Ltd, Scottish Enterprise and Corus, to create a full new town.

[[Ron Wilson (ice hockey, born 1955)]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, American ice hockey players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Minnesota North Stars players, Toronto Maple Leafs players

Ron Wilson (b. May 28, 1955) is a former ice hockey player. He was the head coach of the Toronto Maple Leafs from 2008 to 2012. He also was the coach for the San Jose Sharks, Washington Capitals, Vancouver Canucks, and Anaheim Mighty Ducks of the NHL. Wilson was born in Windsor, Ontario, Canada. He is a citizen of both Canada and the United States.

[[Earth's inner core]]

CATEGORIES: Structure of the Earth

The inner core is the very center of the Earth, and the hottest part of the planet. It is a mainly a solid ball with a radius of about 1220, according to seismological studies. It is believed to consist mostly of an iron–nickel alloy and to be about the same temperature as the surface of the Sun: about 5700 K (5400 °C).  

The inner core was discovered by Inge Lehmann in 1929, using seismology. Lehmann was studying a large New Zealand earthquake. An earthquake makes vibrations which move through the inside of the Earth. The vibrations Lehmann studied seemed to be moving across something solid in the center of the planet. She called this the inner core. She wrote about it for many years, but it was not proved to exist until 1970. 

The inner core is more than 5,000 kilometers below the earth's surface. The pressure in Earth's inner core is about 3,500,000  atmospheres. Iron can only be solid at such high temperatures because its melting temperature increases dramatically at such pressures.

[[Peace Sells... but Who's Buying?]]

CATEGORIES: Megadeth albums, 1986 albums, Heavy metal albums

Peace Sells... but Who's Buying? is the second studio album by thrash metal band Megadeth. It was released on September 19, 1986. Dave Mustaine wrote all of the songs except for "I Ain't Superstitious".

[[A Huge Ever Growing Pulsating Brain That Rules from the Centre of the Ultraworld]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 songs

"A Huge Ever Growing Pulsating Brain That Rules From the Centre of the Ultraworld" is a mix of a song by the ambient house group The Orb. The song is about being in love with a beautiful person. The song was at first a Minnie Riperton song called Lovin' You.  The Orbs version was first sold in October 1989 and was in the UK Singles Chart in 1990, at number 78. In April 1991, it was sold as part of the album The Orb's Adventures Beyond the Ultraworld.  The name is taken from a sound effects track from Blake's 7 on BBC Sound Effects No. 26 - Sci-Fi Sound Effects called "The Core, A Huge Evergrowing Pulsating Brain which Rules from the Centre of Ultraworld".

[[Hermann Carl Vogel]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 births, 1907 deaths, German astronomers, People from Leipzig

Hermann Carl Vogel (born April 3 1841, died August 13 1907) was a German astronomer. He was born in Leipzig, Kingdom of Saxony.

Vogel was one of the first astronomers to use a spectroscope in astronomy.  He used it to read the chemicals on planets far away and to measure the time it takes the Sun to spin. He could read it by measuring the Doppler effect.

In 1882, Vogel became the Director at the Astrophysical Observatory Potsdam and he is best known for some work there in 1890. Vogel found that the colour of some stars changed over time, becoming red and then later becoming blue.  His idea was that the star was moving toward and then away from the Earth, and that the colour changes were the because of that movement. These stars seemed to be orbiting around a hidden star as if they were double-stars but the second star could never be seen, only known by the colour changing Doppler effect.

Volgel proved that Algol was a double star that could not be seen (spectroscopic binary star) and it was one of the first of these double stars proven to exist.

[[Algol]]

CATEGORIES: Variable stars, Binary stars

[[So Far, So Good... So What!]]

CATEGORIES: Megadeth albums, 1988 albums

So Far, So Good... So What! is the third studio album by thrash metal band Megadeth.  It was released on January 19, 1988.

[[Lissamphibia]]

CATEGORIES: Amphibians

The subclass Lissamphibia includes all living amphibians. They are classified in three orders:

Although the ancestry of each group is controversial, all share certain common characteristics. This indicates they evolved from a common ancestor and so form a clade.

[[NRG Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League venues, Sports in Houston, Texas, Buildings and structures in Houston, Texas, Sports buildings in Texas

NRG Stadium is a football stadium in Houston, Texas. The NFL's Houston Texans play their home games here. It was called Reliant Stadium from 2002 until 2013. The stadium hosted WWE's WrestleMania 25 on April 5, 2009. On March 19, 2014, the stadium's name was changed to NRG Stadium, after NRG Energy, the parent company of Reliant Energy.

[[Bop It]]

CATEGORIES: Toys, Games

Bop It is a series of battery-powered games made by Hasbro. The aim of the game is to respond quickly to the directions that come out of the game's speakers. These directions are given in a way that requires the player do use different devices on the machine, such as pull handles, twist cranks, spin wheels, or toggle switches. A beat is played during the game and the beat will get faster as the player scores more points, making it harder for the player to respond.

Bop It can be played by one to four people at a time and has been very popular as a children's game. It was designed by Dan Klistner  and developed by other Hasbro designers, including Bob Welch. The original version was released in 1996, and there have been several versions made since then. The current classic version was released in 2016 to mark the 20th anniversary of the original game. It was demonstrated at the New York Toy Fair in 2016 before the game was released in June 2016. It is called Bop It! New Moves.

Since 2008, the voice in the games has been Buddy Rubino. He has recorded the voice for Bop It!, Bop It! XT, Bop It! Smash!, Bop It! Tetris and Bop It! New Moves.

[[Shamanism]]

CATEGORIES: Religion

Shamanism is a practice where a practitioner reaches altered states of consciousness. Supposedly,  the shaman  perceives and interacts with a spirit world, and channels these  energies into this world.

A shaman is a person regarded as having access to, and influence in, the world of good and bad spirits. They usually enter into a trance state during a ritual, and do divination and healing. To become a shaman, a person has to have had a near death experience (a "shamanic illness").

The name "shaman" comes from the Evenki people in Siberia.

Shamans play a central role in these movements, as they can be in both worlds, this one, and the world of spirits.

[[Jocky Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Scottish football managers, Scottish footballers

John 'Jocky' Alexander Scott (born January 14, 1948 in Aberdeen) is a Scottish football manager and former player. He is currently the manager of Dundee F.C.

[[Real-time operating system]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A real-time operating system (RTOS; commonly pronounced as "are-toss") is a multitasking operating system designed for real-time applications. Such applications include embedded systems, industrial robots, scientific research equipment and others.

An RTOS simplifies the creation of a real-time applications, but does not guarantee the final result will be real-time; this requires good development of the software.

Real-time operating systems use specialized scheduling algorithms in order to provide the real-time applications. An RTOS can respond more quickly and/or predictably to an event than other operating systems.

The main features of an RTOS are minimal interrupt latency and a minimal thread switching latency.

The basic two designs for RTOS are:

[[Rage (band)]]

CATEGORIES: German heavy metal bands

Rage is a heavy metal band from Germany. They have been playing since 1984. Today, only Peavy Wagner is the only member in the band who has been playing since the beginning. At first they were called Avenger.

[[Egon Schiele]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian painters, Deaths from influenza, 1890 births, 1918 deaths

Egon Schiele (12 June 1890 – 31 October 1918) (ˈʃiːlə, or SHEE-luh) was a painter from Austria. Some people see his work as expressionist, but also in the art nouveau movement. With Gustav Klimt and Oskar Kokoschka, he was among the most important artists of Wiener Moderne.  The most important collection of Schiele's work is in the Leopold Museum in Vienna.

Schiele died of influenza, at only 28 years old of the pandemic known as Spanish flu, which killed between 20 and 100 million people.

[[Reduced instruction set computer]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A reduced instruction set computing (acronym RISC pronounced risk), represents a CPU design method to simplify instructions which "do less" but provide higher performance by making instructions execute very fast.

RISC was developed as an alternative to what is now known as CISC. However, there are CPU designs other than RISC and CISC. Some examples are VLIW, MISC, OISC, massive parallel processing, systolic array, reconfigurable computing, and dataflow architecture.

The main feature of a RISC processors is a small core logic which allows designers to increase the number of the register set and increase internal parallelism using one of the following methods:

Other features, which are typically found in RISC architectures are:

Well known RISC processors include Alpha, ARC, ARM, AVR, MIPS, PA-RISC, PIC, Power Architecture (including PowerPC), SuperH, and SPARC.

[[Complex instruction set computer]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A complex instruction set computer (acronym CISC pronounced sisk), represents a CPU design method in which each instruction can execute several low-level operations, such as a load from memory, an arithmetic operation, and a memory store, all in a single instruction. The term is used in contrast to reduced instruction set computer (RISC).

The terms RISC and CISC have become less meaningful with the continued improvements of both CISC and RISC designs and implementations. The first highly pipelined "CISC" implementations, such as Intel 80486 series, supports every instruction that their predecessors did, but achieved high efficiency only on a few simple x86 subset (similar to a RISC instruction set, but without the load-store limitations of RISC). Modern x86 processors also decode and split more complex instructions into a series of smaller internal "Micro-operations" which can thereby be executed in a pipelined (parallel) fashion, thus achieving high performance on a much larger subset of instructions.

Examples of CISC processors are the System/360 (excluding the 'scientific' Model 44), VAX, PDP-11, Motorola 68000 family, and Intel x86 architecture based processors.

[[Debugger]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A debugger is a computer program that is used to test and "debug" other programs, mainly to solve programming bugs. 

Debuggers offer advanced functions such as:

The same things that make a debugger useful for solving software bugs allow it to be used as a software cracking tool to defeat copy protection and other software protection features.

[[BBC Radio 5 Live Sports Extra]]

CATEGORIES: BBC radio, Sports media

BBC Radio 5 Live Sports Extra is a digital radio station from the BBC. It is broadcast on digital radio services and digital TV in the UK and Republic of Ireland. It is not available on normal analogue radio. It is also streamed online, however, some events are not available online, or outside the UK.

It is used to provide an additional sports commentary service when the BBC's main sports channel, BBC Radio 5 Live, is already being used.

It has given coverage of Major League Baseball's World Series since 2004.

It is also the digital radio home for Test Match Special - the station provides full commentary without the shipping forecast given by the Radio 4 long wave coverage.

Each year during Wimbledon Sports Extra provides extra court commentary for the first week of the tournament. The station also provides live coverage of the non-final rounds of the other Grand Slam tournaments.

The station first broadcast at 2.30pm on 2 February 2002. Juliette Ferrington introduced the first programme - commentary of a Manchester United against Sunderland football match.

[[Firmware]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computing, firmware is a computer program that is "embedded" in a hardware device and is an essential part of the hardware. It is sometimes called embedded software. An example is a microcontroller, a part of the microprocessor that tells the microprocessor what actions to take. It can also be a larger program stored on flash memory, or uploaded onto existing hardware by a user.

As its name suggests, firmware is somewhere between hardware and software, connecting the two worlds. It can mean slightly different things to different people, especially as stand-alone electronic devices become more like computers. Like software, it is a computer program which is run by a microprocessor. But it is also linked to a piece of hardware and has no meaning without it.

[[Tropical Storm Edouard (2008)]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic tropical storms, Hurricanes in the United States, August events, 2008 Atlantic hurricane season, 2000s in Louisiana, 2008 in Texas

Tropical Storm Edouard was a tropical storm that formed in the Gulf of Mexico. A weather system became still in the northeastern Gulf of Mexico in early August. An area of low pressure formed along the shear line early on August 2, which slowly became stronger during the next day. It strengthened into Tropical Depression Five, and was named Tropical Storm Edouard on August 3. The tropical storm moved towards the west on August 4. It moved onto land on August 5 on the upper Texas coast, about 40 miles southwest of Port Arthur and moved west-northwest into inland Texas. Edouard died out over land and became a tropical depression late on August 5. The depression turned to the northwest, causing heavy rain in central Texas on August 6.

[[Immunity Aware Programming]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Radio

Immunity aware programming is a set of programming techniques used while writing firmware for an embedded system. It is used mainly to overcome random errors that can occur in the CPU program counter or register set, RAM or any other that can cause failure of the "victim" device. Such random errors may be caused by single event upsets, not enough power, or by strong electromagnetic signals transmitted by some other "source" device.

Most of these techniques apply to the software in the "victim" device to make it more reliable while few of these techniques apply to software in the "source" device to make it send out less unwanted noise. For these reasons Immunity aware programming is one kind of:

[[Discriminant]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

For example, the discriminant of the quadratic polynomial 

If the discriminant is larger than zero, then the polynomial has two (distinct) real numbers as roots. 

If the discriminant is equal to zero, then the polynomial has two repeating real numbers as roots (i.e., exactly one real root).

If the discriminant is smaller than zero, then the polynomial has two (purely) complex numbers as roots (i.e., zero real root).

Apart for quadratic polynomials, discriminants can be defined for cubic polynomials, general conic equations, and other mathematical entities such as differential equations and quadratic forms as well.

[[Single event upset]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components

A single event upset (SEU) is a change of state caused by a low-energy ions or electro-magnetic or nuclear radiation or any other kind of interferences that can reach (called "strike") a sensitive node in a micro-electronic device, such as in a microprocessor, semiconductor memory, or power transistors. The error in the device output or operation caused as a result of the strike is called a SEU or a soft error. The SEU itself is not considered permanent damage to the transistor's, circuits' or devices'.

[[Chris Gbandi]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Liberian people, African footballers

Chris Gbandi is a football player. He plays for Haugesund and Liberia national team.

[[Matthew Wolfenden (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: English footballers, People from Oldham, Greater Manchester, 1987 births, Living people

Matthew Wolfenden is a football player. He plays for F.C. United of Manchester. He has also played for Oldham Athletic and Wrexham.

[[Arthur Wharton]]

CATEGORIES: 1865 births, 1930 deaths, Ghanaian footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Arthur Wharton is a former english football player.

[[Hristo Stoichkov]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Bulgarian footballers, Bulgarian football managers

Hristo Stoichkov (born 8 February 1966) is a former Bulgarian football player. He has played for Bulgaria national team.

[[Sandy Martens]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Belgian footballers

Sandy Martens is a football player. He has played for Belgium national team.

[[C. B. Fry]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1956 deaths, English footballers, Sportspeople from London

C. B. Fry is a former sportsman. He played Cricket and football for England. He played in an FA Cup Final. Fry held a world record for long jump for many years. He also played Rugby union.

Later in his life, he was a writer and diplomat. He was asked to become king of Albania, but refused it.

[[Egil Olsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Norwegian footballers

Egil Olsen is a former football player. He has played for Norway national team.

[[Franck Queudrue]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, French footballers, Sportspeople from Paris

Franck Queudrue (born 27 August 1978) is a football player. He plays for Birmingham City.

[[Craig Bellamy]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, 2012 Summer Olympics, British Olympians, Liverpool F.C. players, Manchester City F.C. players, Sportspeople from Cardiff, Welsh footballers, West Ham United F.C. players

Craig Bellamy (born 13 July 1979) is a Welsh football player. He plays for Manchester City and Wales national team. He was part of the Great Britain squad at the 2012 Summer Olympics.

[[Derlei]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian footballers, 1975 births, Living people

Derlei is a football player. He plays for Sporting Portugal.

[[Avril Lavigne]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Avril Lavigne, Canadian pop singers, Canadian rock guitarists, Canadian rock singers, Canadian singer-songwriters, Former good articles, Rock guitarists, Singers from Ontario

 

Avril Ramona Lavigne (born September 27, 1984) is a Canadian-French singer, songwriter, and actress. Her first album Let Go was credited as the biggest pop debut of 2002, and certified seven-times Platinum in the United States. Avril is considered a key musician in the development of pop punk music since she paved the way for female-driven, punk-influenced pop music in the early 2000s.

[[Hannibal Lecter]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in written fiction, Fictional characters introduced in 1981, Fictional European people, Fictional murderers, Fictional people with antisocial personality disorder, Movie characters

Doctor Hannibal Lecter is a fictional serial killer. He is a character in books by the crime drama writer Thomas Harris. Several of these books have been made into movies. Lecter was also the main character in an NBC television show called Hannibal. 

[[Asunción]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in South America, Cities in Paraguay

Asunción (full name: Nuestra Señora Santa María de la Asunción), is the capital city and largest city of Paraguay. The city has more than 1.2 million inhabitants, and the metropolitan area has more than 1.8 million inhabitants. It is on the left bank of the Paraguay River and is the main seaport of Paraguay.

The Spanish word "asunción" means assumption in English. It refers to the Assumption of Mary; the full name means Our Lady, Holy Mary of the Assumption.

[[Predestination]]

CATEGORIES: Theology, Christian theology, Hinduism

Predestination is a religious concept, which is about the relationship between God and His creation. The religious character of predestination distinguishes it from other ideas about determinism and free will. Those who believe in predestination, such as John Calvin, believe that before the creation God determined the destiny of the universe throughout all of time and space. They believe that God orders some people to Heaven, and all other people will go to Hell because of their sins. This is determined before they even are born.

Definition: predestination is the divine foreordaining or foreknowledge of all that will happen. It applies to the salvation of some and not others. It has been particularly associated with the teachings of St. Augustine of Hippo and of John Calvin.

[[A Nightmare on Elm Street]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 horror movies, 1980s ghost movies, 1980s serial killer movies, 1980s teen movies, A Nightmare on Elm Street movies, American ghost movies, American serial killer movies, American teen horror movies, English-language movies, Movies about suburbia, Slasher movies, Supernatural horror movies, American independent movies

A Nightmare on Elm Street is a 1984 American slasher movie. It was directed by Wes Craven and released to movie theaters by Warner Bros. It is about five teenagers who are followed in their dreams by the ghost of serial killer Freddy Krueger, played by Robert Englund. It also stars John Saxon as Lt. Donald Thompson.

Actor Johnny Depp had his first movie role in A Nightmare on Elm Street.

It is the first in the A Nightmare on Elm Street movie series. The next movie in the series is A Nightmare on Elm Street 2: Freddy's Revenge.

[[Gladiolus]]

CATEGORIES: Iridaceae

Gladiolus (from Latin, the diminutive of gladius, a sword) is a genus of flowering plants in the iris family (Iridaceae). Sometimes called the sword lily, the most widely-used English common name for these plants is simply gladiolus (plural gladioli, gladioluses or sometimes gladiolas).

[[Flying possum]]

A flying possum or glider may refer to any of several marsupial species:

[[Feathertail glider]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials of Australia, Diprotodonts

The feathertail glider (Acrobates pygmaeus), also known as the pygmy gliding possum, pygmy glider or flying mouse, is the world's smallest gliding mammal. It is named after its long feather-shaped tail. Although only the size of a very small mouse (65 to 80 mm and 10 to 14 g), it can leap and glide long distances from tree to tree, up to 25 metres. Like other gliding mammals, the feathertail glider has a skin membrane between the fore and hind legs; thicker than that of the other marsupials like the sugar glider, but smaller in proportion, extending only between the elbows and knees.

[[Sugar glider]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials of Australia, Diprotodonts

The sugar glider (Petaurus breviceps) is a small marsupial originally native to eastern and northern mainland Australia, New Guinea, and the Bismarck Archipelago, and introduced to Tasmania.  It is called a sugar glider because it likes to feed on the sugary sap from certain trees, and can jump from trees and glide through the air to another tree.  They live in trees, and rarely travel on the ground.  They eat many foods, but mostly tree sap and insects. They look and act much like a flying squirrel, but they are not related. Sugar gliders are actually related to possums

[[Bismarck Archipelago]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Papua New Guinea

The Bismarck Archipelago is a group of islands off the northeastern coast of New Guinea in the western Pacific Ocean and part of Papua New Guinea.

[[Legal precedent]]

CATEGORIES: Law

In common law legal systems, a precedent or authority is a legal case that establishes a principle or rule.  This principle or rule is then used by the court or other judicial bodies use when deciding later cases with similar issues or facts. The use of precedent provides predictability, stability, fairness, and efficiency in the law. The Latin term stare decisis is the doctrine of legal precedent. 

The precedent on an issue is the collective body of judicially announced principles that a court should consider when interpreting the law. When a precedent establishes an important legal principle, or represents new or changed law on a particular issue, that precedent is often known as a landmark decision.

Precedent is central to legal analysis and rulings in countries that follow common law like the United Kingdom and Canada (except Quebec). In some systems precedent is not binding but is taken into account by the courts.

[[Ford Escort (Europe)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, Ford automobiles

''For the North American Ford Escort, see Ford Escort (North America). For the 1950s Ford Escort estate car, see Ford Squire.

The European Ford Escort was a car made by Ford Motor Company from 1968 through 2002. In UK the Four-door saloon and the Three-door hatchback was discontinued in 1998. The first generation was produced from 1968 to 1974. The second generation was made from 1974 to 1980. The third generation was made from 1980 to 1986, it was the first Escort to offer hatchback models as well as front-wheel drive, it was mildly updated in 1983 with a 5-door estate added and also spawned a saloon version called the Orion. The fourth generation arrived in 1986 and was made until 1990. The fifth generation appeared in September 1990 and was criticised by the motoring press due to its bland styling, dull drive and old engines but it was still a strong seller, it got a facelift in 1992, the Orion name was dropped in 1993. The sixth and final generation arrived in early 1995 and was replaced by the Focus in late 1998, although the Escort continued alongside it with a reduced range until 2000 with the vans being discontinued in 2002. 

[[Ford Fiesta]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Ford Fiesta is a subcompact car made by Ford Motor Company from 1976 to the present day. When the car was first released in 1976 it came complete with modern features not expected on such a small car like air-conditioning (in North America only) and energy-absorbing bumpers. Until 1986 it was the smallest Ford vehicle until the arrival of the Festiva (a car made by Ford in a joint-venture with Mazda and Kia in markets where the Fiesta wasn't sold). The first generation was made from 1976 to 1983, the second generation was made from 1983 to 1989 although this version is a heavily updated first generation car, it was unusual in offering 2 different dashboard designs for basic and higher-end models of it. The third generation arrived in 1989 and was the first Fiesta to be sold with 5-doors alongside 3, it received updates in 1992, 1994 and 1995 when it became the Fiesta Classic, selling with the newer fourth generation car until production ended in 1997. The fourth generation arrived in late 1995 and gained a rebadged version called the Mazda 121 although it wasn't as popular as the Fiesta itself, it was facelifted in late 1999 and was made until 2002. The fifth generation arrived in Spring 2002 and was facelifted in late 2005 and was produced until 2008. The sixth generation Fiesta arrived in late 2008 and is sold more globally than previous generations including the US where it arrived in Spring 2010 as a 2011 model. It was facelifted in early 2013 and as a 2014 model for the US. The seventh generation Fiesta arrived in July 2017. The Fiesta is very popular in the UK and first became the best selling car there in 1990, by that time it was on the third generation.   

[[Ford Fusion (Europe)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The European Ford Fusion was a car made by Ford Motor Company from 2002 to 2012. It is sold in Europe and India. It was replaced with the B-Max in 2012. 

[[Ford Galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles

Ford Galaxy is a car produced by Ford Motor Company from 1995 to the present day. The original model was made by Volkswagen. It was also sold as the Volkwagen Sharan and Seat Alhambra. It got a facelift in 2000. It was redesigned in 2006 made by Ford themselves. 

As of 2014 there have been three generations.

[[Ford C-Max]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Ford automobiles

Ford C-Max is a car produced by Ford Motor Company from 2003 to 2019. It was originally called the Focus C-Max before it had a facelift in 2007. It entered its 2nd generation in 2010 and is available in 5-seat and Grand 7-seat versions. It was facelifted in 2015 and in 2019, Ford ended production of it.  

[[Ford S-Max]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles

Ford S-Max is a car produced by Ford Motor Company from 2006 to the present day. The first generation was made from 2006 to 2015 with a facelift in 2010. It entered its second generation in 2015. 

[[Ford Puma]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The Ford Puma was a sports car produced by Ford Motor Company from 1997 through 2002. The car received great praise for its fun handling but wasn't replaced when production stopped. In late 2019, Ford reused the Puma name on a new small, sporty crossover model.  

[[Kilkenny]]

CATEGORIES: County towns in Ireland, County Kilkenny, 1609 establishments, Establishments in the Republic of Ireland, 1600s establishments in Europe

Kilkenny (Cill Chainnigh) is the county town (seat) of County Kilkenny in Ireland. It is situated on both banks of the River Nore, at the centre of County Kilkenny in the historical province of Leinster in the south-east of the country. Kilkenny City is administered by a borough council and has a Mayor form of government. The majority of the population of Kilkenny City live outside the borough boundary. It is the smallest city in the country, with only 25,000 people living there.

From being founded by the church, Kilkenny was the ancient capital of the kingdom of Ossory.  The town was established, then a city, in 1609 by royal charter. Kilkenny was the capital of Confederate Ireland between 1642 and 1649. The seat of the Roman Catholic Bishop of Ossory and the Church of Ireland Bishop of Cashel and Ossory are in Kilkenny.

Kilkenny is famous for its medieval building and castle. The town has been referred to as the "Marble City" for centuries. People from Kilkenny are often referred to as 'Cats'.

[[Ford Cougar]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The Ford Cougar was a car produced by Ford Motor Company. It was sold in the European market from 1998 through 2002. The US version was sold as the Mercury Cougar.

[[Ford Kuga]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The Ford Kuga is a car produced by Ford Motor Company from 2008 to the present day. It entered its second generation in early 2013 and is the same as the US market Escape. It is only sold in Europe.

[[Ford Transit]]

CATEGORIES: Buses, Vans

Ford Transit is a van produced by Ford Motor Company from 1965 to the present day. It is currently in its fourth generation.

[[Citroën XM]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, Citroen automobiles

Citroën XM was a car produced by Citroën from 1989 through 2000.

[[Citroën Xantia]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Citroen automobiles

Citroën Xantia was a car produced by Citroën. It replaced the Citroën BX in 1993, and were replaced by the Citroën C5 in 2001. It came in hatchback and estate bodystyles and was sold as a budget option towards the end of its run in France until 2002. 

[[Gaeltacht Quarter]]

CATEGORIES: Quarters of Belfast, Gaeltacht

The Gaeltacht Quarter in Belfast, Northern Ireland, is an area around the Falls Road in the west of the city. A Gaeltacht is an area where the Irish language is most often spoken. The area aims to bring interest to the Irish language and tourist attractions related to it, as well as Irish culture.

Plans for a gaeltacht quarter in Belfast began in 2002, as a recommendation of the Joint West Belfast/Greater Shankill Task Force. The plan was then adopted by the Department of Culture, Arts and Leisure and Belfast City Council.

Important areas and events in the quarter include the An Cúlturlann arts centre, Conway Mill and the Féile an Phobail.

[[Belfast Quarters]]

CATEGORIES: Quarters of Belfast

The central area of Belfast has been divided into seven Quarters related to its history:

The Quarters do not evenly divide the city into four parts, and not all of Belfast's city centre is part of a Quarter. Instead, each Quarter has something important in its history and locale. The "Quarter" names were given in 2001.

[[Citroën Xsara]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Citroen automobiles

Citroën Xsara was a car produced by Citroën from 1997 through 2005. An MPV version, the Xsara Picasso, was launched in 1999 and was produced until 2010.

[[Vietnamese]]

Vietnamese might mean:

[[Helsinki Olympic Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Europe, Football in Finland, Helsinki, 1952 Summer Olympics

Helsinki Olympic Stadium (or Olympiastadion) is a sports stadium in Helsinki, Finland. The 1952 Summer Olympics took place in the stadium. Finland's national football team plays there.

[[Citroën Berlingo]]

CATEGORIES: Front wheel drive vehicles, Vans

The Citroën Berlingo is a series of almost identical vans and leisure activity vehicles produced by Citroën in three generations since 1996. It is builded in cooperation with Peugeot.

Peugeot make the same vehicle but with a different name, The name is: Peugeot Partner.

[[DAX]]

CATEGORIES: Stock exchanges, Economy of Germany, Frankfurt

The DAX is a stock exchange in Frankfurt, Germany. In German DAX stands for Deutscher Aktien Index (in English: German stock index). It is very much like the Dow Jones Industrial Average in the US, in that 30 companies are in this exchange. They are:

[[Westminster Under School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in London, 1943 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in England

Westminster Under School is a private preparatory school for boys aged 7 to 13 and is part of Westminster School in London.

The school was founded in 1943 in the buildings of Westminster School in Little Dean’s Yard, just behind Westminster Abbey. In 1951 the Under School relocated to its own site in Eccleston Square. Due to rising numbers of students in the 1960s and 1970s, the school moved again in 1981 to its present site (which was a former hospital) next the Westminster School playing fields in Vincent Square. There are 267 pupils attending the school. The school has a strong musical tradition and provides choristers for St Margaret's Church, London. 

Most boys attending the school move on to Westminster School after the completion of either Common Entrance or Scholarship examinations (The Challenge), although a number of boys each year go onto other schools, most often either Eton or Harrow.

The Master is Mrs Elizabeth Hill ; the Deputy Master is Mr D. Bratt. There are currently 39 members of staff.

The school fees for 2008-9 are £4412 pre term.

[[Furby]]

CATEGORIES: Toys

A Furby (plural Furbys or Furbies, according to Tiger Electronics.) is a popular electronic toy or robot, more specifically, a hamster/owl-like creature made by Tiger Electronics, which went through a time of being the "must-have" toy following its launch in the winter holiday season of 1998, with continuing sales until 2000. Furbies sold 1.8 million units in 1998, 14 million units in 1999, and altogether in its three years of original production, Furby sold over 40 million units, and its speaking capabilities were translated into 24 languages. A video game of the Furbies was released in 1998 by Hasbro Interactive with many activities. Furbies were the first successful attempt to produce and sell a programmed robot. In 2005, new Furbies were released, with voice-recognition and more complex facial movements, among many other changes and improvements. There was a common mistake that they repeated words that were said around them. This belief most likely came from the fact that it is possible to have the Furby say certain pre-programmed words or phrases more often by petting it whenever it said these words. As a result of this myth, several intelligence agencies banned them from their offices.

[[Cinderella (1950 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s romance movies, American family movies, American musical fantasy movies, American romance movies, Disney animated movies, English-language movies, Movies based on fairy tales, Movies composed by Oliver Wallace

Cinderella is a 1950 American animated musical fantasy movie produced by Walt Disney. It was released to theaters on February 15, 1950, by RKO Radio Pictures. It is the 12th movie in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. It is based on the fairy tale Cendrillon by Charles Perrault. It was directed by Clyde Geronimi, Hamilton Luske and Wilfred Jackson. The songs in the movie were written by Mack David, Jerry Livingston, and Al Hoffman. Songs in the movie include "A Dream Is a Wish Your Heart Makes", "Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo", "So This Is Love", "Sing Sweet Nightingale", "The Work Song", and "Cinderella".

A live-action re-imagining produced by Walt Disney Pictures, directed by Kenneth Branagh and starring Lily James as Cinderella, Richard Madden as Prince Charming, Cate Blanchett as Lady Tremaine, and Helena Bonham Carter as The Fairy Godmother, was released in 2015. It was a commercial success, and Branagh's highest-grossing film to date.

[[God in Christianity]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

In Christianity, one way people think of God is as a being that made everything and lives forever. The Christian Bible speaks of God as one who is, who speaks, who sees, hears, acts, and loves. Christians believe that God has a will and is a kind, all powerful being.

Some Christians believe God to be immanent (with and inside all things). Others believe he will be immanent later. Most believe he is also transcendent (outside space and time, so he is unable to be changed by forces inside the universe).

Trinitarians see the Christian God as Father, Son and Holy Spirit. They say that God is one being that lives forever, who is inside and beyond nature. All Christian denominations say that God is personal to humans and to himself. Most of the Christians believe that God is a spirit.

[[List of players with five or more goals in an NHL game]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players, National Hockey League lists

The list of players who have scored five or more goals in an NHL game includes only 57 names.

In the National Hockey League (NHL), it is rare for one player to score so many goals in a single event.

The most recent instance was Mika Zibanejad on March 5, 2020.

[[Civil Police (Brazil)]]

CATEGORIES: Law enforcement agencies, Government of Brazil

In Brazil, the Civil Police (called the Polícía Civil in Portuguese) is the country's investigative state police forces. The Civil Police are under the authority of the federative units of Brazil.  The federative units' job is to protect public safety and keep public order.  Article 144 of the Federal Constitution of 1988 gives this job to the federative units (and their agency, the Civil Police).

Each of the states of Brazil has its own Civil Police Department, which carries out detective work, forensics, and criminal investigations. Each Civil Police Department acts as a state bureau of investigation.

[[Spring scale]]

CATEGORIES: Measuring tools

A spring scale is a weighing scale used to measure weight or force, such as the force of gravity, the strength of a person's grip or the power of a vehicle. Inside a spring scale is a spring.

[[Churro]]

CATEGORIES: Desserts, Sweet breads, American food, Argentine food, Bolivian culture, Brazilian food, Chilean culture, Colombian food, Ecuador, Filipino culture, French food, Mexican food, New Mexico, Paraguay, Peruvian culture, Portuguese food, Spanish food, Uruguayan culture, Venezuelan food

Churros are fried-dough pastry-based snacks, sometimes made from potato dough, that originated in Portugal. They are popular in Latin America, France, Portugal, the United States, and Spanish-speaking Caribbean islands.  There are two types of churros in Spain.  One is long and fat (porra), and the other, extra popular in Madrid, is thin and has knots. They are both eaten for breakfast or as a treat with chocolate or sugar.

[[The Lion King 1½]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 movies, 2004 animated movies, American family movies, Disney animated movies, English-language movies, Sequel movies, The Lion King, Disney direct-to-video movies, Annie Award winners

The Lion King 1½ (also known as The Lion King 3: Hakuna Matata in some countries) is a 2004 American direct-to-video animated comedy movie. It is a third installment and prequel to The Lion King. It is a final installment in the trilogy and the sequel to The Lion King. All three movies were made by The Walt Disney Company. This movie is about the fictional characters Timon and Pumbaa before they met Simba. The movie was released on DVD and video on February 10, 2004.

[[Friendly Floatees]]

thumb|Oceanographer Curtis Ebbesmeyer with flotsam (including some Friendly Floatees) that he uses to monitor ocean currents.Friendly Floatees are a kind of plastic bath toys like ducks and other birds. They are made so that they float very well. They became famous because a cargo ship lost many of them. Curtis Ebbsmeyer then used these to study currents in the

[[Animatronics]]

CATEGORIES: Animation

Animatronics is to use electronics and robotics in automated, magically moving puppets to make them appear to be alive. It is normally used in moviemaking, but also in theme parks and other forms of getting out of boredom. The best things about it and CGI and stop motion is that it is not a feeling of reality, but are some objects moving in the computer. The technology behind this has become more large and difficult over the years, making the puppets become real.

[[Scar (The Lion King)]]

CATEGORIES: Animated characters, Disney characters, Kingdom Hearts characters, Fictional animals, Fictional characters introduced in 1994, Fictional murderers, The Lion King

Scar is a fictional character and the main antagonist of Walt Disney Pictures' animated movie The Lion King. He is Simba's arch-nemesis and paternal uncle, Mufasa's arch-rival and younger brother, Kion, Kopa, and Kiara's great uncle, Shenzi, Banzai and Ed's former leader and boss.

He was voiced by Jeremy Irons with singing vocals by Jim Cummings in the 1994 movie. His supervising animator was Andreas Deja. Scar is one of four Disney characters to be nominated for "Best Villain" in the MTV Movie Awards (the other three being the White Witch, Captain Barbossa and Davy Jones), and is also the only Disney animated character to have achieved this. 

[[Pepe le Pew]]

CATEGORIES: Looney Tunes characters, Animated characters, Fictional animals, Fictional characters introduced in the 1940s

Pepé Le Pew is an animated skunk created by Chuck Jones in 1945. His original name was "Stinky". Pepe le Pew cartoon, For Scent-imental Reasons (1949) was the only Chuck Jones directed Looney Tunes cartoon that won the Academy Award for Best Animated short.

[[Fraidy Cat]]

Fraidy cat (also known as scaredy cat) is a slang term for a person who is very skittish or fearful.  

Fraidy Cat may mean:

[[List of Tom and Jerry episodes]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of animated television series episodes

Tom and Jerry is an American animated cartoon series. It is about two characters: a blue cat named Tom and a house mouse named Jerry.

Below is a list of the 164 Tom and Jerry animated shorts produced and released between 1940 and 2014. Of these, 162 are theatrical shorts, one is a made-for-TV short, and one is a 2-minute sketch shown as part of a telethon.

[[Woolworths (Australia)]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 establishments, 1920s establishments in Australia, Supermarkets of Australia

[[Privatization]]

CATEGORIES: Economics, Property

Privatization is when a nationalized company or government agency is sold by the government to investors who want to buy it.

[[One Canada Square]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 establishments in England, Buildings and structures completed in the 1990s, Buildings and structures in London, Skyscrapers in the United Kingdom

One Canada Square is the second tallest building in the United Kingdom. It is 235 tall. It is in Canary Wharf.

[[Chevrolet Monte Carlo]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Chevrolet automobiles

Chevrolet Monte Carlo was a car produced by Chevrolet from 1970 through 1988 and 1995 through 2007. Beginning with the fifth generation the Monte Carlo became the replacement for the Lumina coupé, when the Lumina was discontinued GM opted for a new look which gave the car its own unique look. The car was later refreshed and made to look like a coupé version of the 2006 Impala. The model was discontinued in 2007, Chevrolet Camaro replaced the car as Chevrolet's entry level coupé. However, GM has stated the possibility of a future Monte Carlo.

[[Plymouth Superbird]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s automobiles

Plymouth Superbird was a car made by Plymouth Motor Company in 1970 only. It was the sister design to the Dodge Charger Daytona.

[[Dodge Charger Daytona]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s automobiles

Dodge Charger Daytona was a car made by Dodge. It was only ever made in 1969. It was the sister design to the Plymouth Superbird.

[[Opel Combo]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Opel automobiles

The Opel Combo is a panel van and leisure activity vehicle made by the German company Opel.

It has different names in other countries such as the Vauxhall Combo (Great Britain), Chevrolet Combo (Chile) and Holden Combo (Australia and New Zealand).

The Combo was introduced in 1994, and a second generation model was introduced in 2001.

The name "Combo" was previously used on a 3-door panel van body style of the Opel Kadett E. It competes with vans/lesuire vehicles such as the Citroen Berlingo, Peugeot Partner, Volkswagen Caddy/Life and the Fiat Doblo.

[[Citroën 2CV]]

CATEGORIES: Front wheel drive vehicles, Sedans, 1950s automobiles, 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, Citroen automobiles

Citroën 2CV was a car produced by Citroën from 1949 until 1990.

It was a cleverly designed basic car with a fabric roof, a soft suspension and an air cooled engine, that was designed to be cheap to buy and to run. The model is often known as the Tin Snail due to its looks. 

[[Renault 4]]

CATEGORIES: Front wheel drive vehicles, 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, Renault automobiles

Renault 4 was a car produced by Renault from 1961 through 1992. The model is seen as Renault's version of the Citroen 2CV, due to its rugged design and simple running gear, because of its long run, it was updated many times in its life.  

[[Škoda Roomster]]

CATEGORIES: Škoda automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Škoda Roomster is a car produced by Škoda Auto since 2006. There is panel van version of the Roomster. It is called the Praktik, which wasn't sold in the UK. Production stopped in 2015, as more people were buying the Yeti.  

[[Volvo C30]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Volvo automobiles

Volvo C30 is a car produced by Volvo since 2006. It was officially unveiled at the 2006 Paris Motor Show. It went on sale in mid-2006 in Europe as a 2006 model. Then it went on sale in Canada in March 2007 as a 2007 model, before finally going on sale in the United States in October 2007 as a 2008 model.

[[Volkswagen Corrado]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, Volkswagen automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles

Volkswagen Corrado was a car produced by Volkswagen from 1988 through 1995.

[[Volvo V70]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Volvo automobiles

Volvo V70 is a car produced by Volvo from 1996 to 2016 in three generations. An off-road version, called XC70, is also available. It replaced the 850. The first generation had a sedan version called S70 (1996-2000). The second generation also had a sedan version called S60 (2000-2007), as did the third generation whose sedan version was called S80 (2006-2016).

It was replaced by the V90 in 2016.

[[Volvo V50]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Volvo automobiles

Volvo V50 is a car produced by Volvo since 2004. It is the estate version of the second generation S40. It replaced the V40, which was an estate version of the first generation version of the S40. In 2012 it was replaced by a different car also called V40.

[[Ford Mondeo]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The Ford Mondeo is a line of large family luxury compact vehicles produced by The Ford Motor Company since 1992. There have so far been five generations of the Mondeo. 

[[Volvo V40]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Volvo automobiles

Volvo V40 was a car produced by Volvo from 1995 through 2004. It was the estate version of the first generation S40. It was replaced by the V50 in 2004.

In 2012 Volvo introduced a a different car also Volvo V40. It is a completely new design and it shares nothing but its name with the older V40.

[[Volvo S40]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Volvo automobiles

Volvo S40 is a car produced by Volvo from 1995 to 2012 in two generations. Both generations had an estate versions. For the first generation it was called V40 (1995-2004), for the second generation it was called V50 (2004-2012)

[[El Hadji Diouf]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Senegalese footballers

El Hadji Diouf (born 15 January 1981) is a Senegalese football player. He plays for Blackburn Rovers.

[[Dennis Wise]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Dennis Wise (born 16 December 1966) is a former football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Ashley Ward]]

CATEGORIES: English footballers, People from Lancashire, 1970 births, Living people, Premier League players

Ashley Ward is a former English football player.

[[Ivica Kralj]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Montenegrin footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Ivica Kralj (born March 26, 1973) is a Montenegrin football player. He has played for Yugoslavia national team.

[[Bit-level parallelism]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Bit-level parallelism is a form of parallel computing based on increasing processor word size, depending on very-large-scale integration (VLSI) technology. Enhancements in computers designs were done by increasing bit-level parallelism

Increasing the word size reduces the number of instructions the processor must execute in order to perform an operation on variables whose sizes are greater than the length of the word. (For example, consider a case where an 8-bit processor must add two 16-bit integers. The processor must first add the 8 lower-order bits from each integer, then add the 8 higher-order bits, requiring two instructions to complete a single operation. A 16-bit processor would be able to complete the operation with single instruction)

Historically, 4-bit microprocessors were replaced with 8-bit, then 16-bit, then 32-bit microprocessors, then 64-bit microprocessors. 32-bit processors has been a standard in general purpose computing for about 20 years, but now 64-bit processors are taking the lead.

[[Instruction level parallelism]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Instruction-level parallelism (ILP) is a measure of how many operations in a computer program can be performed "in-parallel" at the same time (termed:"simultaneously"). Consider the following program:

Operation 3 depends on the results of "e" and "f" which are calculated from operations 1 and 2, so "g" cannot be calculated until both of "e" and "f" are computed.  However, operations 1 and 2 do not depend on any other operation, so they can be computed simultaneously.  If we assume that each operation can be completed in one unit of time then these three instructions can be completed in a total of two units of time, giving an ILP factor of 3/2; which means 3/2 = 1.5 greater than without ILP.

One of the goals of compilers and processors designers is to use as much ILP as possible. Ordinary programs are written execute instructions in sequence; one after the other, in the order as written by programmers. ILP allows the compiler and the processor to overlap the execution of multiple instructions or even to change the order in which instructions are executed.

How much ILP exists in programs depends on the application type, for example, in graphics and scientific applications the amount can be very large while in cryptography the amount much less.

Micro-architectural techniques that use ILP include:

In recent years, ILP techniques have been used for performance improvements in conditions where the difference between processor operating frequencies and memory access times is large. As of 2008, a cache "miss" costs several hundreds of CPU cycles in a main memory access; with much longer latency compared when the processor finds that the memory location is in the cache. Hence, this technique was proved to be insufficient to save the CPU time from waiting for the off-chip data. Instead, the industry is moving towards improving higher levels of parallelism using techniques such as multiprocessing and multithreading.  

[[Data parallelism]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Data parallelism (also known as loop-level parallelism) is a form of parallel computing for multiple processors using a technique for distributing the data across different parallel processor nodes.  It contrasts to task parallelism as another form of parallelism.

In a multiprocessor system where each one is executing a single set of instructions, data parallelism is achieved when each processor performs the same task on different pieces of distributed data. In some situations, a single execution thread controls operations on all pieces of data.  In others, different threads control the operation, but they execute the same code.  

For example, if we are running code on a 2-processor system (CPUs A and B) in a parallel computing environment, and we want to do a task on some data D, it is possible to tell CPU A to do that task on one part of D and CPU B on another part of D simultaneously (at the same time), in order to reduce the runtime of the execution. 

Data parallelism is used by many applications especially data processing applications; one of the examples is database applications. Most real programs use a combination of data parallelism and task parallelism. 

[[Task parallelism]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Task parallelism (also known as Thread level parallelism, function parallelism and control parallelism) is a form of parallel computing for multiple processors using a technique for distributing execution of processes and threads across different parallel processor nodes. It contrasts to data parallelism as another form of parallelism.

In a multiprocessor system, task parallelism is achieved when each processor executes a different thread (or process) on the same or different data. The threads may execute the same or different code. Different execution threads communicate with one another usually to pass data as they work.

As a simple example, if we are running code on a 2-processor system (CPUs "a" & "b") in a parallel computing environment and we want to do tasks "A" and "B", it is possible to tell CPU "a" to do task "A" and CPU "b" to do task 'B" simultaneously (at the same time), in order to reduce the runtime of the execution. 

Task parallelism is used by multi-user and multitasking operating systems, and applications depending on processes and threads, unlike data processing applications (see data parallelism). Most real programs use a combination of Task parallelism and Data parallelism.

[[Interrupt latency]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In Realtime Operating Systems (RTOS), interrupt latency is the time between the generation of an interrupt by a device (or a peripheral) and servicing the device which generated the interrupt. For many operating systems (OS), the OS code is programmed so that devices are serviced as soon as the device's interrupt handler is executed. Interrupt latency depends on the CPU, interrupt controllers, interrupt masking, and the operating system's (OS) "interrupt handling methods".

[[Flavors of Entanglement]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Alanis Morissette albums

Flavors of Entanglement is the seventh studio album by rock singer Alanis Morissette. This studio album was released June 10, 2008 in the United States, June 9, 2008 in Australia, and on May 30, 2008 in Europe. Some singles from this album were: "Underneath", "Not As We", and "In Praise of the Vulnerable Man".

[[Thread switching latency]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

The thread switching latency is the time needed by the operating system to switch the CPU to run another thread. In some operating systems running on some hardware, switching between threads belonging to the same process is much faster than switching to a thread from different process (because threads from different processes require a more complicated process context switch). 

During the thread switching, the CPU must save all of the current thread's execution data to memory, and load another thread's execution data from memory. Since reading and writing from memory requires some latency, we can define the thread switching latency as the amount of time needed to complete this operation. There is no virtual memory switching required in a thread switch, unlike a process switch.

[[Process switching latency]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

The process switching latency is the time needed by the operating system to perform the process context switch to continue executing another process.

[[Penguin (comics)]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, DC Comics characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1941

The Penguin (Oswald Chesterfield Cobblepot) is a fictional character and an enemy of Batman appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. The character made his first appearance in Detective Comics #58 (December 1941) and was created by Bob Kane and Bill Finger. He is one of Batman's most enduring enemies and belongs to the collective of adversaries that make up Batman's rogues gallery. 

The Penguin is a Gotham City mobster who calls himself the "Gentleman of Crime". He is most often seen wearing a monocle, top hat, and tuxedo while carrying his umbrella as a weapon. The character appears most times as a short, obese man with a long nose. Penguin uses high-tech umbrellas as different tools. His umbrellas have been used as guns, gas guns, swords/knives, a mini-helicopter and many other unconventional tools. The Penguin owns and runs a nightclub called the Iceberg Lounge which provides a cover for his criminal activity.

The character has subsequently been adapted to different forms of media, including movies, tv shows and video games as well. He was played by Burgess Meredith in the 1960s television series Batman and in Batman: The Movie. He was played by Danny DeVito in Batman Returns, Robin Lord Taylor in the 2014 TV series Gotham. He will be played by Colin Farrell in the 2021 movie The Batman.

The Penguin has repeatedly been named one of the best Batman villains and one of the greatest villains in comics. Penguin was ranked #51 in IGN's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time.

[[Batman (1966 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Movies based on TV series, Movies based on comic book characters, Batman movies, 1966 movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Leslie H. Martinson

Batman, also known as Batman: The Movie, is a spin-off of the 1960s series. The Joker, The Penguin, The Riddler and Catwoman appear in the movie. The movie stars Adam West.

[[Context switch]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A context switch is the computing process of saving and restoring the state (context) of a CPU such that multiple processes can share a single CPU resource. The context switch is an essential feature of a multitasking operating system. 

Context switches are usually time consuming and much of the design of operating systems is to minimize the time of context switches. 

A context switch can mean a register context switch, a task context switch, a thread context switch, or a process context switch. What will be switched is determined by the processor and the operating system.

The scheduler is the part of the operating systems that manage context switching, it perform context switching in one of the following conditions:

Context switching can be performed primarily by software or hardware. Some CPUs have hardware support for context switches, else if not, it is performed totally by the operating system software. In a context switch, the state of a process must be saved somehow before running another process, so that, the scheduler resume the execution of the process from the point it was suspended; after restoring its complete state before running it again.

[[Diamond Jubilee]]

CATEGORIES: Parties, Time

A diamond jubilee is a celebration of a 60th anniversary for a person. When for a group, it is used for the 75th anniversary.

[[The Jungle Book 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, 2003 animated movies, Disney animated movies, American family movies, American musical movies, Movies about animals, Jungle movies, Movies set in India, Sequel movies, Movies based on books

The Jungle Book 2 is a 2003 animated movie produced by DisneyToon Studios in Sydney, Australia. It was released by Walt Disney Pictures and Buena Vista Distribution. It was released in France on February 5, 2003, and released in the United States on February 14, 2003. It is the sequel to Walt Disney's 1967 movie The Jungle Book.  Haley Joel Osment did the voice of Mowgli, and John Goodman did the voice of Baloo. The movie was going to be a direct-to-video movie, but it was released in theaters first. The movie is not based on The Second Jungle Book by Rudyard Kipling (published in 1895). However, they do have some of the same characters. When released, the movie was criticised mainly for its bad animation and a story similar to the original movie. Disney released the VHS and DVD versions on June 10, 2003. On June 17, 2008 a Special Edition DVD was released.

[[King Louie]]

CATEGORIES: Disney characters

King Louie is a fictional orangutan who kidnaps Mowgli in Disney's 1967 animated musical adaptation of The Jungle Book. He does not appear in Rudyard Kipling's original book, as orangutans are not native to India. But the movie is "inspired by" rather than "based on" the Kipling stories. King Louie has been called an example of a racial stereotype in Disney movies. 

[[Cindy McCain]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, American Baptists, Businesspeople from Phoenix, Arizona, Politicians from Phoenix, Arizona, US Republican Party politicians

Cindy Lou Hensley McCain (born May 20, 1954) is an American businesswoman. She was the wife of Republican Senator John McCain. During the Donald Trump presidency, she became a critic of the president and the Republican Party.

In the 2020 presidential election, she was one of the few key Republicans who supported form Vice President Joe Biden over President Trump.

In late November 2020, McCain was seen as a possible pick for an ambassador role in the Biden administration. In May 2021, it was reported that President Biden would nominate McCain to be the United States Ambassador to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture.

[[Thread (computer science)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A thread in computer science is short for a thread of execution. Threads are a way for a program to split itself into two or more simultaneously (or pseudo-simultaneously) running tasks. Threads and processes differ from one operating system to another but, in general, a thread is contained inside a process and different threads in the same process share the same resources while different processes in the same multitasking operating system do not. Threads are lightweight, in terms of the system resources they consume, as compared with processes.

[[Tilde de Paula]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Swedish television presenters, Chilean television presenters

Tilde de Paula (November 14, 1972) is a Swedish television host and presenter. She was born and raised in Chile and has won many awards for her television work in Sweden.

[[Sofia Wistam]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Swedish television presenters

Sofia Wistam (may 15 1966) is a Swedish television host and radio talk show host.

[[Gry Forssell]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Swedish television presenters

Gry Forssell (born February 16, 1973 in Växjö, Sweden) is a television presenter on TV4.

[[Cynthia McKinney]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, African American politicians, Greens politicians, Politicians from Atlanta, Georgia

Cynthia McKinney (born March 17, 1955) is an American politician. She was born in Atlanta, Georgia. She was the 2008 presidential candidate for the Green Party.

[[Task (computers)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A task is a set of program instructions that are loaded in memory, then the address registers is loaded with the initial address to start running the task. It is defined as "an execution path through address space where part of a plan will be accomplished after executing the task'". 

Processes are often called tasks in embedded operating systems so "task" gives a meaning of a real-time (also small) application, which differs from a process. A process is an instance of a computer program. The kernel creates a process by allocating some memory (in kernel address space and user address space), loading program code from a disk or another part of memory into the newly allocated space, building the process tables and other operating systems structures, calculating the initial address then executes the process as one or more tasks.

Both "task" and "process" should be distinguished from event, which takes place at a specific time and place, and which can be planned for in a computer program. In a computer graphical user interface (GUI), an event can be as simple as a mouse click or keystroke.

[[Brock]]

Brock may refer to:

[[Eddie Brock]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1988, Marvel Comics characters

Eddie Brock is a fictional character from the Spider-Man comic book universe.  He made his first appearance in Amazing Spider-Man #299 (April 1988).  He is best known for being the host of Venom.

[[Process (computing)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computing, a process is an instance of a computer program that is being sequentially executed by a computer system that has the ability to run several computer programs concurrently.

A computer program itself is just a passive collection of instructions, while a process is the actual execution of those instructions. 

Several processes may be associated with the same program; for example, opening up several windows of the same program often means more than one process is being executed. In the computing world, processes are formally defined by the operating systems (OS) running them and so may differ in detail from one OS to another; for example in Microsoft Windows environment each instance of the same application is called a task.

[[Imam Samudra]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Criminals, Indonesian people

Abdul Aziz aka Imam Samudra aka Qudama (January 14, 1970, Serang, Banten - November 9, 2008, Bali, Indonesia) was an Indonesian criminal. He was sentenced to execution for his part in the 2002 Bali bombings. The execution was expected to be made during early November 2008. It was done on November 9. Samudra is one of three in a network of the Bali bombers who were sentenced to death.

[[Huda bin Abdul Haq]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Criminals

Huda bin Abdul Haq (February 1960 – 9 November 2008) was an Indonesian sentenced to death for his role in the 2002 Bali bombings. He is a senior and influential Jemaah Islamiah leader with ties to Osama bin Laden. The exectution of Huda and Imam Samudra are expected to happened in early November 2008,and was handed down on November 9 by a firing squad.

[[Amrozi bin Nurhasyim]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2008 deaths, Indonesian people, Muslim terrorists, People executed by firearm

Ali Amrozi bin Haji Nurhasyim (also known as Amrozi; 5 July 1962 - 9 November 2008) was an Indonesian who was convicted for his part in the 2002 Bali terrorist bombing. He was executed along with two other men involved in the bombing in early November 2008. Ali was executed on November 9 by a firing squad.

[[Studs Terkel]]

CATEGORIES: American historians, Jewish American actors, American journalists, Actors from New York City, Actors from Chicago, Writers from New York City, Writers from Chicago, 1912 births, 2008 deaths, Pulitzer Prize winners, American movie actors, American television actors

Louis "Studs" Terkel (May 16, 1912–October 31, 2008) was an American author, historian, actor, and broadcaster who lived in Chicago. He won the Pulitzer Prize in 1985 for his work The Good War.

[[Bob Barr]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American Methodists, Politicians from Iowa, 2008 United States presidential candidates, United States representatives from Georgia, US Libertarian Party politicians, US Republican Party politicians

Robert Laurence "Bob" Barr, Jr.

(born November 5, 1948) is the Libertarian Party nominee for President of the United States in the 2008 election.  He is  a  former federal prosecutor

and a former member of the United States House of Representatives. He represented Georgia's 7th congressional district as a Republican from 1995 to 2003.

Barr is known as one of the leaders of the impeachment of President Bill Clinton.  Barr joined the Libertarian Party in 2006,

and until May 2008May 2008 served on its National Committee.

[[Multi-user]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Computing, Video games

Multi-user is a term that defines an operating system, computer program, or a game that allows use by more than one users of the same computer at the same time.

An example is a Unix server where multiple remote users have access (such as via Secure Shell) to the Unix shell prompt at the same time. Another example uses multiple X terminals so that multiple remote users can use X Window on a single machine.

The complementary term, single-user commonly refers to an operating system being usable only by one person at a time, or in reference to a single-user software license agreement.  

Single-user mode is a mode for Multi-user operating system where the computer boots or switches into a single superuser mode. It is mainly used for maintenance of multi-user environments such as network or Unix servers. 

[[Flying squirrel]]

CATEGORIES: Squirrels

Flying squirrels are a tribe of 44 species in the squirrel family Sciuridae. Despite the name, none use powered flight: all are gliders.

They are sociable, noisy rodents that glide from tree to tree, using a flap of loose skin that connects their front and hind legs. They can glide up to 150 feet (46 m), steering with their tail, and landing on tree trunks, gripping it with all four feet.

These squirrels are nocturnal (most active at night). They have a life span of about five years in the wild, and about 13 years in captivity. Flying squirrels live in forests in North America, Europe and Asia. 

Flying squirrels eat mostly plants, like seeds, nuts, leaves, maple sap, bulbs, bark, flowers, and roots. Less often, they eat insects, eggs, worms, small birds, and other small animals.

Flying squirrels are hunted by weasels, foxes, hawks, and coyotes.

[[S1m0ne]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 comedy-drama movies, 2002 science fiction movies, American comedy-drama movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies

S1m0ne is a 2002 American comedy-drama science fiction movie. It was directed by Andrew Niccol and released to movie theaters by Warner Bros. It stars Al Pacino.

[[Big Brother]]

Big Brother may mean:

[[Sooty mangabey]]

CATEGORIES: Old World monkeys, Mammals of Africa

The sooty mangabey (Cercocebus atys), is an Old World monkey of Guinea Bissau, Gabon, Senegal and Ghana. It has social groups of four to twelve individuals.

[[Joe Byrne]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1880 deaths, Australian criminals, Ned Kelly, Bushrangers, People from Victoria (Australia), Booker Prize winners

Joseph Byrne also known as Joe Byrne (November 1856 - June 28 1880) was an Australian bushranger. He is known as the lieutenant of the Kelly Gang. He was shot dead in the siege of Glenrowan. Joe Byrne was a very good shot, a good horseman and skilled at living in the bush. This made it difficult for the police to capture him. His skill at writing helped him to write the items that were important in starting the Kelly legend. He wrote the famous Jerilderie letter. There is also a legend that Ned Kelly, with Byrne's help, was going to start an independent republic in north east Victoria. The siege at Glenrowan was the first step.

[[College basketball]]

CATEGORIES: College basketball

College basketball is basketball played between teams from colleges or universities, usually in the United States. The most popular American college basketball league is the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA).  Basketball in the NCAA is put into three divisions: Division I, Division II and Division III. However, there are other college basketball leagues, such as the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA). College basketball teams are split into conferences, which are groups of about 10 teams.

Division I of the NCAA has two tournaments to determine who the national champion. One tournament is for men and one is for women. The men's tournament has 68 teams, and the women's tournament has 64 teams. These tournaments are often called "March Madness".

[[Public university]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities

A public university is a university that is given money by the public or the government.

[[University of Michigan-Flint]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Michigan, University of Michigan, Flint, Michigan, 1956 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Michigan

The University of Michigan–Flint is in Flint, Michigan, United States. It is one of the three campuses in the University of Michigan, Michigan's oldest university and main campus.

[[Shirley Hufstedler]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Education, Politicians from Denver, Colorado, Deaths from cerebrovascular disease, 1925 births, 2016 deaths

Shirley Mount Hufstedler (August 24, 1925 – March 30, 2016) was United States Secretary of Education under President Jimmy Carter. She was born in Denver, Colorado.

In 1966, she was appointed Associate Justice of the California Court of Appeal. President Lyndon Johnson appointed her Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in 1968. She served for eleven years before President Jimmy Carter appointed her U.S. Secretary of Education.

Hufstedler was considered to be a candidate for the Supreme Court if a vacancy had occurred under a Jimmy Carter Presidency.

On March 30, 2016, Hufstedler died in Glendale, California from cerebrovascular disease at the age of 90.

[[University of Michigan–Dearborn]]

CATEGORIES: University of Michigan, 1959 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Michigan

The University of Michigan–Dearborn is a university in Dearborn, Michigan, United States. It is one of the three campuses in the University of Michigan, Michigan's oldest university and main campus.

[[Margaret Spellings]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Education, Politicians from Michigan, Politicians from Texas, US Republican Party politicians, 1957 births, Living people

Margaret Spellings (born Margaret Dudar on November 30, 1957) was the second  Secretary of Education under the administration of U.S. President George W. Bush. She was previously Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy to President Bush. 

She was one of the principal authors of the 2001 No Child Left Behind Act.

[[Public Ivy]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the United States

Public Ivy is a term started by Richard Moll in his 1985 book Public Ivys: A Guide to America's best public undergraduate colleges and universities. The book is about universities which "provide an Ivy League collegiate experience at a public school price." Public Ivies are chosen, according to the Journal of Blacks in Higher Education, to be able to be "successfully competing with the Ivy League schools in academic rigor... attracting superstar faculty and in competing for the best and brightest students of all races."

[[Nundle, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Nundle is a village in the New England area of New South Wales, Australia.  It was once the centre of Nundle Shire. Most of this area, including the village of Nundle, was added to the new Tamworth Regional Council in 2004. The village is 400 km north of Sydney and about 56 km south east of Tamworth. In 2006 there were 289 people living in Nundle.

[[National Library of Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in Australia, National libraries, Government agencies of Australia, Buildings and structures in Canberra, 1960 establishments in Australia, Libraries in Australia

The National Library of Australia is Australia's largest reference library. It was started by the National Library Act. The library has to keep and develop a national collection of library material. This includes a broad and complete collection of library material about Australia and the Australian people. It is in Canberra, the capital of Australia.

[[Breeza, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Breeza is a small village in New South Wales, Australia. It is about 43 kms south of Gunnedah and 393 km north of Sydney. It is a part of the Gunnedah Shire Local Government Area.  Breeza is in the Liverpool Plains agricultural area. The area around Breeza is called the "Breeza Plains". There are about 25 people who live in Breeza, and 133 who live in the area.

Breeza is on the Kamilaroi Highway about halfway between Gunnedah and Quirindi. It is also on the North-west railway line, close to where it crosses the Mooki River.  Breeza has a grain silo.

It is often erroneously said that the bushranger Ben Hall was born at Breeza.  He was in fact born near Maitland, NSW but his father, Ben HAll Snr worked on Breeza Station at one time. There is a Ben Hall wall with a painting at the roadside rest area/picnic spot. The mural was painted by Bronwyn Bassett. 

The bushranger, Frederick Ward, known as 'Thunderbolt',  robbed a Mr Matthews on the Breeza Plain in 1865. 

Dow AgroSciences has established an agricultural research field station at Breeza which researches wheat breeds.

[[Retail]]

CATEGORIES: Shops, Retail markets

Retail is selling goods or items to the people who will use them. This is different from wholesale, which is selling to a retailer.

According to  Oxford Dictionary, Retail is the sale of goods to the public in relatively small quantities for use or consumption rather than for resale.

Retailers buy finished goods or items directly from a manufacturer or a wholesaler and then distribute in smaller quantities to the final consumer who has a need for such items.

For instance, when we buy shoes to wear or food to eat, we buy from a retailer.

Retailing can be done at shops and stores. This includes department stores, malls and markets where stalls or stands are set up at a cleared area.

Another way of purchasing retail items is by ordering them by mail, telephone, Internet or other methods, to be delivered by post or package delivery service such as United Parcel Service. Some items are sold door-to-door, in which a sales person goes to a possible customers home and tries to sell an item.

[[Mauro Zárate]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires, Argentine footballers

Mauro Zàrate (born March 18 1987 in Buenos Aires, Argentina) is a Argentine football player (footballer). He plays for Lazio.

[[Gunnedah, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Gunnedah is a town in north-western New South Wales, Australia. In 2006 there were 7,542 people living in the town.

Gunnedah is on the Oxley and Kamilaroi Highways. It is 475 kms from  Sydney. There is also a railway to Sydney. There is a daily train service, the Countrylink Xplorer, between Sydney and Moree.

The major business is agriculture. Gunnedah produces cotton, coal, beef, lamb, pork, and cereal and oilseed grains.

Gunnedah is also the home of AgQuip, Australia's largest annual exhibition of agricultural equipment.

[[Instruction pipelining]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Instruction pipelining is a technique used in the design of modern microprocessors, microcontrollers and CPUs to increase their instruction throughput (the number of instructions that can be executed in a unit of time).

The main  idea is to divide (termed "split") the processing of a CPU instruction, as defined by the instruction microcode, into a series of independent steps of micro-operations (also called  "microinstructions", "micro-op" or "µop"), with storage at the end of each step.  This allows the CPUs control logic to handle instructions at the processing rate of the slowest step, which is much faster than the time needed to process the instruction as a single step.

The term pipeline refers to the fact that each step is carrying a single microinstruction (like a drop of water), and each step is linked to another step (analogy; similar to water pipes).

Most modern CPUs are driven by a clock. The CPU consists internally of logic and memory (flip flops). When the clock signal arrives, the flip flops store their new value then the logic requires a period of time to decode the flip flops new values. Then the next clock pulse arrives and the flip flops store another values, and so on. By breaking the logic into smaller pieces and inserting flip flops between pieces of logic, the time required by the logic (to decode values till generating valid outputs depending on these values) is reduced. In this way the clock period can be reduced.For example, the RISC pipeline is broken into five stages with a set of flip flops between each stage as follows:

Processors with pipelining consist internally of stages (modules) which can semi-independently work on separate microinstructions. Each stage is linked by flip flops to the next stage (like a "chain") so that the stage's output is an input to another stage until the job of processing instructions is done. Such organization of processor internal modules reduces the instruction's overall processing time.

A non-pipeline architecture is not as efficient because some CPU modules are idle while another module is active during the instruction cycle. Pipelining does not completely remove idle time in a pipelined CPU, but making CPU modules work in parallel increases instruction throughput.

An instruction pipeline is said to be fully pipelined if it can accept a new instruction every clock cycle. A pipeline that is not fully pipelined has wait cycles that delay the progress of the pipeline.

[[Sami Hyypiä]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Finnish footballers

Sami Hyypiä (born 7 October 1973 in Porvoo) is a Finnish football player. He plays for Bayer Leverkusen and the Finland national team.  He is a defender in both of his teams and is captain of Finland and used to be the captain of Liverpool.

[[Now That's What I Call Music! 29 (U.S. series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Compilation albums

Now That's What I Call Music! 29 is the 29th album in the original Now series. This compilation album was released in November 2008. Songs include "Thunder" by Boys Like Girls, "Whatever You Like" by T.I., "Got Money" by Lil Wayne, and "Dangerous" by Kardinal Offishall and Akon and 16 other tracks.

[[Thrissur]]

CATEGORIES: Kerala

Thrissur is one of the fourteen districts of Kerala in southwest India. It is the second largest city in Kerala and 20th largest city in India. At the center of the city is a temple, the Vadakkumnathan temple which has Lord Siva as its presiding deity. It is known as the cultural capital of Kerala because of the city's association with history, culture and archaeological remains. Thrissur was once the capital of the Kingdom of Cochin. It is located 300 kilometers (186 mi) towards north-west of the state capital Thiruvananthapuram. It is famous for Thrissur Pooram which is a temple festival. Thrissur is also known as the “cultural capital of Kerala” as its well known for its cultural, spiritual and religious learnings throughout history.    

[[Michigan Territory]]

CATEGORIES: History of Michigan, 1805 establishments in the United States, 1837 disestablishments, 19th-century disestablishments in the United States, Former territories of the United States

Michigan Territory was a territory of the United States in the early 19th century, between June 30, 1805 and January 26, 1837, when it became Michigan, the 26th state of the Union. Detroit was the territory's capital.

[[Syro-Malabar Catholic Church]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Catholicism

The Syro-Malabar Catholic Church is a Chaldean Rite, Major Archiepiscopal Church in the Roman Catholic Church. It is the largest group among the Saint Thomas Christians. It originates from St. Thomas the Apostle who is believed to have come to India in AD 52. The Syro Malabar Church is the largest St. Thomas Christian community in India. They are also referred to as Syrian Catholics in Kerala. This church has its headquarters in Cochin, Kerala.

Cardinal Mar George Alencherry is the current head of this church.

The first Indian woman Saint, Saint Alphonsa belongs to this church.

Syro-Malabar Church has its presence all over the world. However the proper location is in South India. There are 26 Syro-Malabar dioceses world wide.

[[Jurassic Coast]]

CATEGORIES: Devon, Dorset, Geography of England, World Heritage Sites in the United Kingdom

The Jurassic Coast is a stretch of  coast in south-west England. It is between Orcombe Point near Exmouth in East Devon and Old Harry Rocks near Swanage in East Dorset. This is 96 miles long (154 km).

It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Its entire length can be walked on the South West Coast Path.

[[Instruction (computer science)]]

CATEGORIES: Microprocessor design

In computer science, an instruction is a single operation of a processor defined by the processor instruction set.

The size or length of an instruction varies widely, from as little as 4-bits in some microcontrollers to many as multiples of a bytes in some very long instruction word (VLIW) systems.  Most modern processors used in personal computers, mainframes, and supercomputers have instruction sizes between 16 and 64 bits. In some architectures, especially Reduced instruction set computers, instructions are of fixed length, typically corresponding with that architecture's word size.

On traditional architectures, an instruction includes an opcode specifying the operation to be performed, such as "add contents of memory to register", and zero or more operand specifiers, which may specify registers, memory locations, or literal data. The operand specifiers may have addressing modes determining their meaning or may be in fixed fields.

In VLIW architectures, which include many microcode architectures, multiple simultaneous operations and operands are specified in a single instruction.

Instructions are rarely specified using their machine code form; they may be specified by programmers using an assembly language or, more commonly, may be generated by compilers.

There is another more general definition for an "instruction" not only related to the processor instruction set, which is: An "instruction" may be any representation of an element of an executable computer program.

[[Piacenza]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Emilia-Romagna, Capital cities in Italy

Piacenza is a city in the region of Emilia-Romagna in Italy. It is the capital city of the province of Piacenza. 99,897 people live there. Piacenza is famous for its palazzi.

[[Superscalar]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A superscalar CPU design makes a form of parallel computing called Instruction-level parallelism inside a single CPU, which allows more work to be done at the same clock rate. This means the CPU executes more than one instruction during a clock cycle by running multiple instructions at the same time (called instruction dispatching) on duplicate functional units. Each functional unit is just an execution resource inside the CPU core, like an arithmetic logic unit (ALU), floating point unit (FPU), a bit shifter, or a multiplier.

Most superscalar CPUs are also pipelined, but it's possible to have a non-pipelined superscalar CPU or a pipelined non-superscalar CPU.

The superscalar technique is supported by several features of the CPU core:

Each instruction run by a scalar processor changes one or two data items at a time, but each instruction executed by a vector processor handles many data items at once. A superscalar processor is a mixture of the two:

In a superscalar CPU an instruction dispatcher reads instructions from memory and decides which ones can be run in parallel, dispatching them on the multiple duplicate functional units available inside the CPU.

Superscalar CPU design is concerned with improving accuracy of the instruction dispatcher, and allowing it to keep the multiple functional units busy at all times. As of 2008, all general-purpose CPUs are superscalar, a typical superscalar CPU may include up to 4 ALUs, 2 FPUs, and two SIMD units. If the dispatcher can't keep all of the units busy, the performance of the CPU will be lower.

[[Abercrombie]]

Abercrombie may refer to:

In places:

In business:

Other:

[[SA80]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms, British Army equipment

SA80 (Small Arms for the 80s) is the name of a weapons family used by the British Army and Royal Marines. All are of bullpup design: this means the magazine is behind the trigger so the weapon is shorter yet still has a long barrel.

The series includes an assault rifle known as the L85 and a Light Support Weapon (LSW) designated the L86 as well as a carbine variant for helicopter crews and a bolt action army cadet variant. 

The LSW variant is far more accurate than its predecessor, and is used in army FSGs (Fire Support Groups). They are amazingly accurate for their size (Army marksmanship tests were redesigned after the SA80 introduction because it was so accurate). Nevertheless, the SA80 family has been plagued by poor reliability. They have had an upgrade by the German arms company H&K when it was British owned. This resulted in the A2 series, but not all models have been upgraded. 

The SA80 also has a cadet force variant (L98 A2 Cadet GP) that is the same size, and is used throughout the ACF. It has a success rate far higher than the old, bolt-action A1 version.

[[Geoff Bunn]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, English artists, People from Birmingham

Geoff Bunn is an English author and artist. He was born in Birmingham, England in 1963.  He has been in galleries such as the Tate but is better known for placing his work in the ordinary environment rather than 'traditional' art galleries.  During the early 2000s, he worked in France, for a time, with painter Fred Yates. 

Bunn has also painted a number of large and rather disturbing canvases of empty interiors. This series of paintings - which Bunn entitles 'Interior Landscapes' - led to Bunn being awarded the Cartazini Prize in 2007.

As author, Bunn has written a number of books, including the best-selling transgender romance 'Blonde Boy, Red Lipstick'. 

[[Fred Yates]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2008 deaths, English painters, People from Lancashire

Fred Yates (1922-2008) was an English artist. His work was very much in the style of the late LS Lowry.  Yates lived and worked all over England but in later years he was based in France.

[[Sauerbraten]]

CATEGORIES: German food, Meat dishes

Sauerbraten is a meat dish eaten mainly in Germany, but also neighbouring countries. The name comes form sauer (sour) and braten (roast). It refers to the way the dish is prepared: the meat is left in a kind of sour sauce (based on vinegar) to marinate

[[The Economist]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines of the United Kingdom

The Economist is a magazine published each week in England. It was founded in 1843. It currently has about 1.3 million subscribers.

It was founded in 1843 by Scotsman James Wilson with assistance from the Anti-Corn Law League as a voice against England’s Corn Laws, regulations governing the import and export of grain. Wilson’s son-in-law Walter Bagehot, who served as editor of The Economist from 1861 to 1877, expanded the publication’s coverage into politics and strengthened its focus on U.S. affairs. A later admirer of Bagehot's was Woodrow Wilson, president of the United States from 1913 to 1921.

In 1992 WT Layton was appointed as editor. His editorship was of profound importance to the newspaper, and he was probably the person to whom it owes most thanks for its survival and continued independence.The Economist is classically liberal and economically liberal. It supports free trade, globalization, and the legalization of same-sex marriage and illegal drugs. It targets highly educated readers, as well as famous people such as Bill Gates, Ronald Reagan, Margaret Thatcher, and Ted Turner.  

[[Our Lady of Guadalupe]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholicism, Christian symbols, Mexico City, Marian apparitions, 1531

Our Lady of Guadalupe (Spanish: Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe) is a name for the Virgin Mary who is said to have appeared at Tepeyac Hills in Guadalupe, a town near Mexico City. She is said to have appeared to a poor native American named Juan Diego. Our Lady of Guadalupe is one of the most popular cultural and religious icons in the Hispanic world. The feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe is celebrated each year by the Catholic Church on December 12, the anniversary of her appearance.

[[Poison (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American hard rock bands, Glam metal bands, Musical groups from Pennsylvania, Enigma Records artists

Poison is an American glam metal band from Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania.  They were formed in 1983. Their lead singer is Bret Michaels. One of their most popular hits was "Every Rose Has Its Thorn" which was the Hot 100 number-one single of December 24, 1988 and lasted until January 7, 1989.

[[Yao Ming]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Autobiographers, Basketball players, Chinese sportspeople, Houston Rockets players, Living people, People from Shanghai

Yao Ming (姚明; born September 12, 1980) is a former Chinese professional basketball player. He played for the Houston Rockets of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He was the tallest player in the NBA, at 7. 

Yao was born in Shanghai, People's Republic of China. He started with the Shanghai Sharks as a teenager and played on their senior team for five years in the Chinese Basketball Association (CBA). The team won a championship in his final year. Then he entered the 2002 NBA Draft. The CBA had to release him, and he was selected by the Houston Rockets to play on their team. He had also been chosen to play for the NBA All-Star Game for all six of his seasons. However, the Rockets have not advanced past the first round of the playoffs since he joined the team, and he has also had injuries in each of the past three seasons. On July 20, 2011, Yao announced that he was retiring from basketball after many foot and ankle injuries. 

His father, Yao Zhiyuan, is 2.08 m or 6 ft 10 in tall; his mother, Fengdi Fang, is 1.88 m or 6 ft 2 in tall. She was captain of the Chinese national women's basketball team. Yao's parents were the tallest couple in China when he was born.

Yao is married to Ye Li, who used to play for the China women's national basketball team. He is one of China's best-known athletes. He has sponsorships with several major companies, and he has been the richest celebrity in China for six straight years, earning US$51 million (CN¥357 million) in 2008. 

His rookie year in the NBA was the subject of a documentary film, The Year of the Yao, and he recently wrote an autobiography titled Yao: A Life in Two Worlds.

[[Ray Emery]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2018 deaths, Accidental deaths by drowning, American Hockey League players, Anaheim Ducks players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Ontario Hockey League players, Ottawa Senators players, People from Hamilton, Philadelphia Flyers players, Stanley Cup champions

Raymond "Ray" Emery (September 28, 1982 – July 15, 2018) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player. He played for the Philadelphia Flyers of the National Hockey League (NHL) until his death. Emery played for the Ottawa Senators, Anaheim Ducks and Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL). He also played in KHL with the Atlant Moscow Oblast. Emery was awarded many honors, most from the minor league.

[[Execution unit]]

CATEGORIES: Microprocessor design

In computer engineering, an execution unit is a part of a CPU (not to be confused with the CPUs main control unit) that performs specific operations or calculations. It may have its own internal control sequence unit, some registers, and other internal units such as a sub-ALU or FPU, or some smaller, more specific components.

Now modern CPUs have multiple parallel execution units, referred to as scalar or superscalar design. The simplest arrangement is to use one, the bus manager, to manage the memory interface, and the others to perform calculations. Additionally, modern CPUs execution units are usually pipelined.

[[Pre-1600 Atlantic hurricane seasons]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons

The pre-1600 Atlantic hurricane seasons talks about all known Atlantic tropical cyclones before to 1600. While info for every storm that happened is not available, some parts of the coastline had enough people to give info of hurricane happenings. Each season was an event in the annual cycle of tropical cyclone formation in the Atlantic basin. Most tropical cyclone formation occurs between June 1 and November 30.

Observation info for years before 1492 is completely unavailable because record keeping was non-existent in the pre-Columbian era, and any records that may have once existed have long since been lost. Even info from the early years of the Columbian era is suspect and incomplete because the difference between a hurricane and an extratropical system was not drawn by Renaissance scientists and sailors and because European exploration and colonization of the regions affected by hurricanes did not begin in earnest until the mid-16th century.

However, paleotempestological research allows reconstruction of pre-historic hurricane activity trends on timescales of centuries to millennia. A theory has been postulated that an anti-phase pattern exists between the Gulf of Mexico coast and the Atlantic coast. During the quiescent periods, a more northeasterly position of the Azores High would result in more hurricanes being steered towards the Atlantic coast. During the hyperactive period, more hurricanes were steered towards the Gulf coast as the Azores High—controlled by the North Atlantic Oscillation—was shifted to a more southwesterly position near the Caribbean. In fact, few major hurricanes struck the Gulf coast during 3000–1400 BC and again during the most recent millennium; these quiescent intervals were separated by a hyperactive period during 1400 BC and 1000 AD, when the Gulf coast was struck frequently by catastrophic hurricanes and their landfall probabilities increased by 3–5 times. On the Atlantic coast, chance of landfalling hurricanes has doubled in the recent millennium compared to the one and a half millennia before.

[[Valley Parade]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England, 1886 establishments in England

Valley Parade, also known by its sponsored name of the Coral Windows Stadium is a football stadium in Bradford in England. It is home to the club Bradford City A.F.C. It was built in 1886. In 1985, a fire in one of the stands killed 56 people.

[[Levi Lincoln Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1749 births, 1820 deaths, United States Attorneys General, Lieutenant Governors of Massachusetts, Governors of Massachusetts

Levi Lincoln, Sr. (May 15, 1749–April 14, 1820) was an American revolutionary. He was a Minuteman at the beginning of the American Revolutionary War, a state legislator in Massachusetts, Governor of Massachusetts, Lieutenant Governor of Massachusetts, a U.S. Representative, Attorney General for President Thomas Jefferson and Acting Secretary of State.

[[James R. Schlesinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Politicians from New York City, United States Secretaries of Defense, United States Secretaries of Energy

James Rodney Schlesinger (February 15, 1929 - March 27, 2014) was United States Secretary of Defense from 1973 to 1975 under presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford. He became America's first Secretary of Energy under Jimmy Carter.

On March 27, 2014, Schlesinger died from complications of pneumonia at a Baltimore hospital. He was 85.

[[Simultaneous multithreading]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Simultaneous multithreading, acronym SMT, is a technique for improving the overall efficiency of superscalar CPUs with Hardware multithreading. SMT permits multiple independent threads of execution to better utilize the resources provided by modern computer architectures.

Multithreading is similar in concept to multitasking but is implemented at the thread level of execution in modern superscalar processors.

In processor design, there are two ways to increase on-chip parallelism with less resource requirements: 

There are many ways to support more than one thread inside a chip, namely:

The key factor to distinguish them is to look at how many instructions the processor can issue in one cycle and how many threads from which the instructions come. 

[[Out-of-order execution]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer engineering, out-of-order execution, OoOE, is a technique used in most high-performance microprocessors to make use of cycles that would otherwise be wasted by a certain type of costly delay. Most modern CPU designs include support for out of order execution.

The key concept of OoO processing is to allow the processor to avoid a class of delays (termed: "stalls ") that occur when the data needed to perform an operation are unavailable.

OoO processors fill these "slots" in time with other instructions that are ready, then re-order the results at the end to make it appear that the instructions were processed as normal. The way the instructions are ordered in the original computer code is known as program order, in the processor they are handled in data order (the order in which the data, operands, become available in the processor's registers). Fairly complex circuitry is needed to convert from one ordering to the other and maintain a logical ordering of the output; the processor itself appears to be running the instructions in random order.

The benefit of OoO processing grows as the instruction pipeline expands and the speed difference between main memory (or cache memory) and the processor increases. On modern machines, the processor runs many times faster than the memory, so during the time an in-order processor spends waiting for data to arrive, it could have processed a large number of instructions.

In earlier In-order processors, the processing of instructions is normally done in these steps:

Out-of-order processors breaks up the processing of instructions into these steps:

In the examples outlined above, the OoO processor avoids the stall that occurs in step (2) of the in-order processor when the instruction is not completely ready to be processed due to missing data.

[[Speculative execution]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer science, speculative execution is the execution of code, before being sure if the result will be needed.

The technique is used in most high-performance microprocessors to execute a complete instructions or parts of instructions before being sure whether this execution is required

In the context of functional programming, the term "speculative evaluation" is used instead.

[[Branch prediction]]

CATEGORIES: Microprocessor design

In computer architecture, a branch predictor is the part of a processor that determines whether a conditional branch (jump) in the instruction flow of a program is likely to be taken or not. This is called branch prediction. 

Branch predictors are important in today's modern, superscalar processors for achieving high performance. They allow processors to fetch and execute instructions without waiting for a branch to be resolved.

Almost all pipelined processors do branch prediction of some form, because they must guess the address of the next instruction to fetch before the current instruction has been executed.  

Many earlier microprogrammed CPUs did not do branch prediction because there was little or no performance requirements; for this reason there is no need for altering the flow of the instruction stream.

[[Aka]]

A.K.A, AKA, Aka or aka may refer to:

[[Key exchange]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

Key exchange is any method in cryptography by which cryptographic keys are exchanged between users, allowing use of a cryptographic system.

If two parties wish to exchange encrypted messages, each needs to know how to decrypt received messages and to encrypt sent messages. The information they require to do so depends on the encryption technique they might use. If they use a code, both will require a copy of the same codebook. If they use a cipher, they will need appropriate keys. If the cipher is a symmetric key cipher, both will need a copy of the same key. If an asymmetric key cipher with the public/private key property, both will need the other's public key.

The key exchange problem is how to exchange whatever keys or other information needed so, in such a way, that no one else can obtain a copy. Usually, this required trusted secure channel. With the arrival of (public key / private key) cipher algorithms, the encrypting key (aka, the public key) could be made public, since (at least for "high quality" ciphers) no one without the decrypting key (aka, the private key) could decrypt the message.

In principle, then, the only remaining problem was to be sure that a public key actually belonged to its claimed owner, this is not a problem easy to solve; specially when the two users involved have never met and know nothing about each other.

In 1976, Whitfield Diffie and Martin Hellman published a cryptographic protocol, (Diffie-Hellman key exchange), which allows users to establish secure channels in order to exchange keys, even if an attacker is monitoring that communication channel. However, Diffie-Hellman key exchange did not address the "identity authentication" problem of being sure of the actual identity of the person or an entity.

Public key infrastructures have been proposed go around the problem of "identity authentication". In their most usual implementation, each user applies to a "certificate authority" for a digital certificate which serves for other users as a correct (termed: non-tamperable) authentication of identity.

In contrast, the web of trust system, which do not use central "certificate authority" at all. Each user is responsible for verifying any certificate from another user before using that certificate to communicate with the user who claims to be associated with the particular public key in a certificate, (see digital signatures).

The problem of key exchange has not yet been solved. In particular, it has not yet been solved for the modern situation of two previously unknown users attempting to communicate electronically, as, for instance, in electronic commerce. Some of the existing work-around designs work, more or less, but are not fully satisfactory.

[[Secure channel]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a secure channel is a way of transferring data that is very difficult (called resistant) to overhear or copy (called interception) and understand (called decrypt) or change (called tampering).

A confidential channel is a way of transferring data that is resistant to interception, but may not be resistant to tampering and may not be resistant to impersonation by someone else (called spoofing).

An authenticatable channel is a way of transferring data that is resistant to spoofing but may not be resistant to interception or tampering.

[[Terminology]]

CATEGORIES: Terminology

Terminology is the study of terms and their use. Terminology studies the "labelling or designating of concepts" in one or more subject fields or areas of human activity. Terms are words and compound words that are used in specific contexts.  Terminology studies among other things how such terms of art come to be and their interrelationships within a culture.

[[Communes of the Vaucluse department]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse, Lists of communes of France

There are 261 communes in the Vaucluse department in France, all included in the following list:

[[Althen-des-Paluds]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Althen-des-Paluds is a commune of 1988 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Ansouis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Ansouis is a commune of 1,105 people (2006). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Apt, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse, Subprefectures in France

Apt is a commune of 11,229 people (2006). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Aubignan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Aubignan is a commune of 3,877 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Aurel, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Aurel is a commune of 158 people (2008). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Auribeau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Auribeau is a commune of 59 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Le Barroux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Le Barroux is a commune of 615 people (2006). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[La Bastide-des-Jourdans]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

La Bastide-des-Jourdans is a commune of 964 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[La Bastidonne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

La Bastidonne is a commune of 677 people (1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Le Beaucet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Le Beaucet is a commune of 352 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Beaumes-de-Venise]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Beaumes-de-Venise is a commune of 2,070 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Beaumettes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Beaumettes is a commune of 197 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Beaumont-de-Pertuis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Beaumont-de-Pertuis is a commune of 934 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Beaumont-du-Ventoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Beaumont-du-Ventoux is a commune of 286 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Bédarrides]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Bédarrides is a commune of 5,110 people (as of 1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Bédoin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Bédoin is a commune of 2,609 people (as of 1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Blauvac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Blauvac is a commune of 337 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Bollène]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Bollène is a commune of 13,835 people (2006). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Bonnieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Bonnieux is a commune of 1,417 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Brantes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Brantes is a commune of 65 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Buisson]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Buisson is a commune of 264 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Buoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Buoux is a commune of 112 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Cabrières-d'Aigues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Cabrières-d'Aigues is a commune of 819 people (2006). It is in the  Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Vaucluse department in south France.

[[Cabrières-d'Avignon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Cabrières-d'Avignon is a commune of 1,705 people (2006). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Flag of Oman]]

CATEGORIES: Oman, National flags

The national flag of Oman (علم عمان) has three stripes (white, green and red) with a red bar on the left that contains the national emblem of Oman.  The white stands for peace and prosperity, the green for fertility and the Green Mountains, and the red for battles against foreign invaders.  The red is also the colour of the former flag of the nation when it was known simply as the Sultanate of Muscat and Oman.

Until 1970, Oman used the plain red banner of the indigenous people, the Kharijite Muslims. In 1970, the Sultan introduced a complete new set of national flags. Bands of green and white were added to the fly, and the national emblem, the badge of the Albusaidi Dynasty, was placed in the canton. This shows crossed swords over a Gambia, a traditional curved dagger. White has been associated historically with the Imam, the religious leader of Oman and at times the political rival to the ruling Sultan. It also symbolizes peace. Green is traditionally associated with the Jebel al Akhdar, or "Green Mountains," which lie toward the north of the country. Red is a common color in Gulf state flags. The national emblem is said to date back to the 18th century. A curved dagger is fastened over a pair of crossed swords. An ornate horsebit links the weapons.

[[Cadenet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Cadenet is a commune of 3,950 people (2006). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Caderousse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Caderousse is a commune of 2,496 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Coat of arms of Oman]]

CATEGORIES: Oman, National coats of arms

The National Emblem of Oman (شعار سلطنة عمان) consists of a khanjar dagger in a sheath that is superimposed upon two crossed swords. This is the traditional symbol of Oman. It is found on numerous flags as well as the currency of Oman and on the planes of the Omani Air Force, among other locations.

[[Cairanne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Cairanne is a commune of 850 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Camaret-sur-Aigues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Camaret-sur-Aigues is a commune of 3,553 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Caromb]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Caromb is a commune of 3,117 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Carpentras]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse, Subprefectures in France

Carpentras is a commune of 27,249 people (2006). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Caseneuve]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Caseneuve is a commune of 355 people (1999). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in south France.

[[Castellet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Castellet is a commune of 106 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Caumont-sur-Durance]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Caumont-sur-Durance is a commune of 4,253 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Cavaillon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Cavaillon is a commune of 24,563 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Châteauneuf-de-Gadagne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Châteauneuf-de-Gadagne is a commune of 2,838 people (as of 1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Châteauneuf-du-Pape]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Châteauneuf-du-Pape is a commune of 2,078 people (as of 1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Cheval-Blanc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Cheval-Blanc is a commune of 3,524 people (1999). It is in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Courthézon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Courthézon is a commune of 5,364 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Crestet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Crestet is a commune of 432 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Crillon-le-Brave]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Crillon-le-Brave is a commune of 398 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Cucuron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Cucuron is a commune of 1,828 people (2004). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Entraigues-sur-la-Sorgue]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Entraigues-sur-la-Sorgue is a commune of 6,612 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Entrechaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Entrechaux is a commune of 1,008 people (2007). It is in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Vaucluse department in south France.

[[Faucon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Faucon is a commune of 380 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Flassan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Flassan is a commune of 341 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France. It is at the bottom of Mont Ventoux.

[[Fontaine-de-Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Fontaine-de-Vaucluse is a commune of 610 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Gargas, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Gargas is a commune of 196 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Gignac, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Gignac is a commune of 48 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Gigondas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Gigondas is a commune of 648 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Gordes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Gordes is a commune of 2,092 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Goult]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Goult is a commune of 1,285 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Grambois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Grambois is a commune of 1,113 people (as of 1999). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Grillon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Grillon is a commune of 1,686 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[L'Isle-sur-la-Sorgue]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

L'Isle-sur-la-Sorgue is a commune of 16,971 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Jonquerettes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Jonquerettes is a commune of 1,236 people (1999). It is in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Jonquières, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Jonquières is a commune of 3,926 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France. It is also very slippy.

[[Joucas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Joucas is a commune of 317 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Lacoste, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Lacoste is a commune of 408 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Lafare]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Lafare is a commune of 97 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Lagarde-d'Apt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Lagarde-d'Apt is a commune of 26 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Lagarde-Paréol]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Lagarde-Paréol is a commune of 297 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Lagnes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Lagnes is a commune of 1,674 people (2007). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Lamotte-du-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Lamotte-du-Rhône is a commune of 416 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Lapalud]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Lapalud is a commune of 3,267 people (1999). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in south France.

[[Lauris]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Lauris is a commune of 3,102 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Lioux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Lioux is a commune of 248 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Loriol-du-Comtat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Loriol-du-Comtat is a commune of 1,871 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Lourmarin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Lourmarin is a commune of 1,119 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Malaucène]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Malaucène is a commune of 2,669 people (2008). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Malemort-du-Comtat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Malemort-du-Comtat is a commune of 1,203 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France. During the time of the Roman Empire, the village was called "Calvia." The name Malemort means "bad death" and was probably used after the destruction of the village by the Franks. Comtat means "county", the land belonging to a count. Wine making has been carried out in region for at least 2,400 years. When wine making started again in medieval times, the Archbishop of Carpentras gave his monks a vineyard in Malemort du Comtat in 882.

The village is in the mountains, surrounded by olive and cherry trees. The city was protected by high walls and eleven towers which were built in the 12th century. Three of the gateways in the wall are still standing. The church, Notre Dame de l’Assomption, was built in the 13th century.

[[Maubec, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Maubec is a commune of 1,581 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Mazan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Mazan is a commune of 4,943 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Ménerbes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Ménerbes is a commune of 1,157 people (2006). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Mérindol]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Mérindol is a commune of 1,923 people (2006). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France. The town has a Mediterranean climate with hot and dry summers and mild winters. It does not rain very often and snow is rare. Protected by the Luberon, a mountain range, the town is sheltered from the mistral, a cold dry wind that blows from the north. The town was first built on a hill which was easy to defend. After the town was destroyed in 1545, it was rebuilt on the plain, near the river.

[[Méthamis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Méthamis is a commune of 397 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Mirabeau, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Mirabeau is a commune of 907 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Voice over Internet Protocol]]

CATEGORIES: Telephone, Internet protocols

110px|thumb|right|1140E VoIP PhoneVoice over Internet protocol (or VoIP) is a term used for a number of protocols that are used to carry voice data over packet switched networks. Beforehand, telephony used a dedicated line, that was only for calls. This was known as PSTN (or "public switched telephony network"). Using VOIP will reduce costs, as the "dedicated line" for telephony (and fax) is no longer needed.

There are a number of technical problems that must be solved first, though:

The vast majority of VoIP systems rely on the two main protocols.

SIP :- SIP, or also known as session initiation protocol, has become the standard for multimedia sessions on the internet. The Engineering Task Force thinks of this protocol as the standard for audio, video and even instant messaging solutions. This task force is simply a large, international community, composed of anyone involved in the networking evolution online. SIP is modular, meaning that it can be changed around in whatever way needed. Depending on the type of data your business is wishing to transmit, your SIP deployment will need to be designed specifically for this. With that being said, VoIP and IM communications will need to work around these aspects, and be designed for one total approach. 

H.323 :- This protocol has become the international standard for all communication over packet-switched networks. This includes LAN, WAN and even the general internet networks we all connect to. H.323 is considered an umbrella that includes all types of standards, which is what the internet is based on. H.323 focuses on voice, video, and data communications, designed specifically to operate over IP networks. At this point, this protocol has become the world market leader for voice and voice communications over IP networks. H.323 was developed by the international telecommunications union, which is the organization responsible for building the public telephone network. 

[[Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The Vaucluse (Vauclusa) is a department in the southeast of France in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its prefecture is Avignon.

It is named after a famous spring, in the commune Fontaine-de-Vaucluse. The name Vaucluse comes from the Latin Vallis Clausa ("closed valley") as the valley here ends in a cliff from which rises a spring.

[[Diffie-Hellman key exchange]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

The Diffie-Hellman key exchange (sometimes called an Exponential key exchange) is a protocol used to secretly share information with keys.

[[British royal family]]

CATEGORIES: British royalty, British monarchy, House of Windsor

The British royal family is the group of close relatives (family) of the monarch, currently Elizabeth II, of the United Kingdom.

[[MQV]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

MQV (Menezes-Qu-Vanstone) is an authenticated protocol for key agreement based on the Diffie-Hellman scheme. MQV provides protection against an active attacker. 

[[Cher (department)]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Centre-Val de Loire

Cher is a department in the centre of France in the Centre-Val de Loire region. It is named after the Cher river, the most important river in the department.

Its prefecture is Bourges.

[[Corrèze]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Corrèze (Corresa) is a department in south-western France, named after the Corrèze river. It is in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region and its capital is the city of Tulle.

[[Runtime]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer science, runtime or run time describes the operation of a computer program, the duration of its execution, from beginning to termination.

The term runtime can also refer to a virtual machine to manage a program written in a computer language while it is running.

Run time is sometimes used to mean  runtime library, a library of basic code that is used by a particular compiler but when used in this fashion, runtime library is more accurate.

A runtime environment is a virtual machine state which provides software services for processes or programs while a computer is running.

Runtime activities include loading and linking of the classes needed to execute a program, optional machine code generation and dynamic optimization of the program, and actual program execution.

For example, a program written in Java calls for services from the Java Runtime Environment by issuing commands from which the expected result is returned by the Java Runtime. By providing these services, the Java Runtime Environment is considered the runtime environment of the program. Both the program and the Java Runtime Environment request services from the operating system. The operating system kernel provides services for itself and all processes and software running under its control. The Operating System may be considered as providing a runtime environment for itself.

[[Java virtual machine]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A Java virtual machine (JVM) is a set of computer software programs and data structures which use a virtual machine model for the execution of other computer programs and scripts.  The model used by a JVM accepts a form of computer intermediate language commonly referred to as Java bytecode. 

Java virtual machines operate on Java bytecode, which is normally (but not necessarily) generated from Java source code; a JVM can also be used to implement programming languages other than Java. 

The JVM is an important component of the Java Platform. Because JVMs are available for many hardware and software platforms, Java can be both middleware and a platform in its own right – hence the expression "write once, run anywhere." The use of the same bytecode for all platforms allows Java to be described as "compile once, run anywhere", as opposed to "write once, compile anywhere", which describes cross-platform compiled languages. 

[[Station-to-Station protocol]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

The Station-to-Station (STS) protocol is a cryptographic (information-hiding) key agreement scheme based on the classic Diffie-Hellman key exchange that provides mutual key and entity (party) authentication.

In addition to protecting the established key from an attacker, the STS protocol uses no timestamps and provides perfect forward secrecy.  It also requires two-way explicit key confirmation, making it an Authenticated key agreement with Key Confirmation (Acronym: AKC) protocol.

STS was originally presented in 1987 in the context of ISDN security O'Higgins, finalized in 1989 and generally presented by Whitfield Diffie, Paul C. van Oorschot and Michael J. Wiener in 1992.

[[Internet Key Exchange]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

Internet Key Exchange (IKE or IKEv2) is the protocol used to set up a security association (SA) in the IPsec protocol suite. IKE uses a Diffie-Hellman key exchange to set up a shared session secret, from which cryptographic keys are derived. Public key techniques or, alternatively, a pre-shared key, are used to mutually authenticate the communicating parties.

IKE builds upon the Oakley protocol.

[[Shared secret]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a shared secret is a piece of data only known to the parties involved in a secure communication. The shared secret can be a password, a passphrase, a big number or an array of randomly chosen bytes.

The shared secret is either shared before parties start to communicate; in this case it can also be called a pre-shared key. Or it is created at the start of the communication session by using a key-agreement protocol, for-instance using public-key cryptography such as Diffie-Hellman or using symmetric-key cryptography such as Kerberos.

The shared secret can be used for authentication (for instance when logging in to a remote system) using methods such as challenge-response or it can be fed to a key derivation function to produce one or more keys to use for encryption and/or MACing of messages.

To make unique session and message keys the shared secret is usually combined with an initialization vector (IV).  An example of this is the derived unique key per transaction method.

[[Styphnolobium japonicum]]

CATEGORIES: Faboideae

Pagoda Tree or Chinese Scholar Tree (Styphnolobium) is a genus of flowering plants in the Fabaceae family. After the segregation of Sophora, this genus comprises 9 species.

[[Horsforth]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Yorkshire

Horsforth is a town and civil parish within the City of Leeds, in West Yorkshire, England, lying about five miles north-west of Leeds city centre. Historically within the West Riding of Yorkshire, it has a population of 18,895 according to the 2011 Census.1 Horsforth was considered to have the largest population of any village in the United Kingdom during the latter part of the 19th century. It became part of the City of Leeds metropolitan borough in 1974. In 1999 the community created a civil parish to cover the area, which voted to rename itself a town council. The area sits within the Horsforth ward of Leeds City Council, which also includes the southern part of Rawdon.

[[Pre-shared key]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a pre-shared key or PSK is a shared secret which was previously shared between the two parties using some secure channel before it is used. Such systems almost always use symmetric key cryptographic algorithms. 

The characteristics of this secret or key are determined by the system which uses it; some system require that such keys be in a specific format. It can be a password like 'bret13i', a passphrase like 'Idaho hung gear id gene', or a hexadecimal string like '65E4 E556 8622 EEE1'. The secret is used by all systems involved in the cryptographic processes used to secure the traffic between the systems.  

The term is used in Wi-Fi encryption such as WEP or WPA, where both the wireless access points (AP) and all clients share the same key.   

Since one weakpoint of the crypto system is the encryption algorithm's key, the key strength is important, and since the strength of a key is in part dependent on the key length, it is important to choose a key whose length is cryptographically secure (see password strength). There are several tools available to help one choose a strong key.  The Diceware method is one example.

[[Corse-du-Sud]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Corsica

Corse-du-Sud is a department in the south of France. Its prefecture is Ajaccio. As of 2006, about 125,000 people live there.

[[Haute-Corse]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Corsica

Haute-Corse is a department in the south of France. Its prefecture is Bastia. Haute-Corse has a population of about 148,000 (2006 estimation).

[[Côte-d'Or]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

Côte-d'Or (literally, "Slope of Gold", "Golden Slope") is a department in the eastern France. It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution and one of the eight departments of the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region.

Its prefecture (capital) is the city of Dijon. The inhabitants of the department are called Costaloriens (women:Costaloriennes) or Côte-d'Oriens (women:Côte d'Oriennes).

[[Côtes-d'Armor]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Brittany

Côtes-d'Armor is a department found in the west of France. Its prefecture is Saint-Brieuc and its population is about 561,000 (2006). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

Côtes-d'Armor has also 3 subprefectures: Dinan, Guingamp and Lannion.

[[Creuse]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Creuse (Cruesa) is a department in central France in the region of Nouvelle-Aquitaine. It is named after the Creuse river that flows through the department.

[[Dordogne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Dordogne (Dordonha) is a department in the southwest of France. It is named after the Dordogne river that runs through the department.

The department is in the region of Nouvelle-Aquitaine. It is between the valley of the Loire river and the Pyrenees. Its prefecture (capital) is Périgueux.

[[Doubs]]

CATEGORIES: Doubs

Doubs is a department in eastern France. It is in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. It is named after the Doubs river.

The largest city in the department, and its prefecture (capital), is the city of Besançon.

[[Drôme]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Drôme (Droma) is a French department in southeastern France in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region and named after the Drôme river. Its prefecture is the city of Valence.

[[IPsec]]

CATEGORIES: Internet protocols, Cryptography

Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) is a way of making Internet communications more secure and private.

IPsec is a collection of protocols for securing Internet Protocol (IP) communications by authenticating (and optionally encrypting) each IP packet of a data stream. IPsec also includes protocols for establishing mutual authentication between agents at the beginning of the session and negotiation of cryptographic keys to be used during the session. IPsec can be used to protect data flows between a pair of hosts (e.g. computer users or servers), between a pair of security gateways (e.g. routers or firewalls), or between a security gateway and a host. RFC 2406

IPsec is an end-to-end security solution and operates at the Internet Layer of the Internet Protocol Suite, comparable to Layer 3 in the OSI model. Other Internet security protocols in widespread use, such as SSL, TLS and SSH, operate in the upper layers of these models. This makes IPsec more flexible, as it can be used for protecting all the higher level protocols, because applications do not need to be designed to use IPsec, whereas the use of TLS/SSL or other higher-layer protocols must be built-in the application.

The term "IPsec" is officially defined by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). This definition includes the form of capitalization used for the term; it is often incorrectly spelled IPSec.

[[Eure]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Normandy

Eure is a department found in the northwest of France in the Normandy region. Its prefecture is Évreux. Eure has a population of about 557,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Eure-et-Loir]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Centre-Val de Loire

Eure-et-Loir is a department in north-central France in the Centre-Val de Loire region. It is named after the two main rivers that flow through the department: Eure and Loir.

Its prefecture is Chartres and there are three subprefectures: Châteaudun, Dreux and Nogent-le-Rotrou.

[[Key-agreement protocol]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a key-agreement protocol is a cryptographic protocol by which two or more parties can agree on a key in such a way that both have an effect on the results.

[[Finistère]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Brittany

Finistère is a department found in the west of France in the Brittany region. Its prefecture is Quimper. Finistère has a population of about 874,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[1800–1809 Atlantic hurricane seasons]]

CATEGORIES: 1800s in the United States, Atlantic hurricane seasons

The decade of 1800s featured the 1800–1809 Atlantic hurricane seasons. While info for every storm that happened is not available, some parts of the coastline were had enough people to give info of hurricane happenings. Each season was an ongoing event in the annual cycle of tropical cyclone formation in the Atlantic basin. Most tropical cyclone formation is between June 1 and November 30.

[[1810–1819 Atlantic hurricane seasons]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons, 1810s

The decade of 1810s featured the 1810–1819 Atlantic hurricane seasons. While info for every storm that happened is not available, some parts of the coastline were had enough people to give info of hurricane happenings. Each season was an ongoing event in the annual cycle of tropical cyclone formation in the Atlantic basin. Most tropical cyclone formation is between June 1 and November 30.

[[1820–1829 Atlantic hurricane seasons]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons, 1820s

[[1830–1839 Atlantic hurricane seasons]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons, 1830s

[[Jigglypuff]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon monsters

Jigglypuff, known in Japan as Purin (プリン), is one of the fictional species of Pokémon from the Pokémon media franchise owned by Nintendo and Game Freak. Since it was introduced early in the Pokémon anime, it has become one of the most famous Pokémon.

Jigglypuff is perhaps most famous for the song it sings which puts everyone who hears it into a deep sleep. Jigglypuff then becomes upset because it assumes everyone is very bored by the song, and it draws all over their faces with a marker.

Jigglypuff is a small Pokémon, slightly shorter than Pikachu. It is shaped like a balloon and has a pink body with blue eyes, catlike ears, and a strange tuft of fur on its forehead.

[[Muhammad al-Qaim Bi-Amrillah]]

CATEGORIES: 893 births, 946 deaths, Muslims

Muhammad al-Qaim Bi-Amrillah (893 - 17 May, 946) (محمد القائم بأمر الله) was the second Caliph of the Fatimids in Ifriqiya and ruled from 934 to 946. He is the 12th Imam according to Isma'ili Faatemi faith.

Al-Qaim (sometimes also spelled Ka'im) was born in Salamya in Syria in 895 with the name Abd ar-Rahman. After his father Ubayd Allah al-Mahdi Billah (910-934) seized power in Ifriqiya he was named heir to the throne in 912, and helped put down several revolts. But campaigns into Egypt failed because of the resistance of the Abbasids (914-915 and 919-921).

In 934 Al-Qaim succeeded his father as Caliph. The Fatimid realm became an important power in the Mediterranean. After the re-conquest of Sicily the Byzantine province of Calabria and the coast of Italy and France were plunder. 

But from 944 to 947 there was a crisis by the revolt of Abu Yazid, who had united the Kharijite Berber tribes of eastern Algeria and overrun Ifriqiya. Imam Al-Qaim was able to hold out in Mahdia with the help of the navy for over a year, but died (17 May 946) before the revolt could be put down. 

He was succeeded by his son Ismail al-Mansur (946-953).

He died on 13 th Shawwal 334 AH (Mahdiyya)/ 17th May 946 AD

[[Victoria Falls]]

CATEGORIES: Waterfalls, Bodies of water of Africa, World Heritage Sites in Africa, Geography of Zambia, Geography of Zimbabwe

Victoria Falls is a waterfall in south central Africa in the Zambezi River between southeast Zambia and northwest Zimbabwe. It is 108.3 m high and 1,703 m wide. 

The falls were discovered by David Livingstone in November 1855, where he saw it on what is now known as Livingstone Island. He named it after Queen Victoria. The Chitonga name for the Falls is Mosi-oa-Tunya. That word means "the smoke that thunders". They call it that because the Falls are very misty. 

The Falls more or less dry up in the dry season.

It is listed as one of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites.

[[Anti-nuclear movement]]

CATEGORIES: Political movements, Nuclear energy

Many people who are anti-nuclear, are against the use of nuclear power for electricity generation, since they think nuclear power is dangerous. They consider the risk of a nuclear accident unacceptable and generally believe that radioactive waste cannot be disposed of safely. Many also see uranium mining and nuclear reprocessing as bad, because of the environmental risks of these activities. The 2011 Japanese nuclear accidents have "revived anti-nuclear passions worldwide, putting governments on the defensive and undermining the nuclear power industry's recent renaissance".

