[[2011 Brisbane International]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in tennis, 2011 in Australia, Hard court tennis tournaments, Tennis tournaments in Australia

The 2011 Brisbane International was a combined Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) and Women's Tennis Association (WTA) tennis tournament, played on outdoor hard courts. It was the 3rd edition of the tournament and took place at the Queensland Tennis Centre in Tennyson, Brisbane. It was held from January 2 to 9 . It was part of the Australian Open Series in preparation for the first grandslam of the year.

[[Jhang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Jhang is a capital of Jhang District and a city of Pakistan.  It is on the east bank of the Chenab River.

[[Bhawana Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Bhawana Tehsil is in Chiniot District, Punjab, Pakistan. It is on the bank of the Chenab River.

[[Bhawana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Bhawana (Bhowana) (بھوانہ, بھوآنہ) is a capital of Bhawana Tehsil and a city of Punjab, Pakistan. It is on the bank of Chenab River. Its administration (Bhawana Tehsil) was made a tehsil of Chiniot District on 2 February 2009 when Mian Shahbaz Sharif (Chief Minister of Punjab) came to Chiniot to make it a district. Before that, Bhawana was a sub-tehsil of Chiniot Tehsil and Chiniot Tehsil was a tehsil of Jhang District.

[[Chiniot]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Chiniot is a city of Punjab province in Pakistan. It is the capital of Chiniot District. It is on the bank of the Chenab River.

[[All-India Muslim League]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in India, Muslim League, Nationalist organizations in India, 1906 establishments in Asia

The All-India Muslim League   was a political party in British India. It was founded at Dacca (now Dhaka, Bangladesh), in the Bengal Presidency, in 1906. The League played an important role during the 1940s in the Indian independence movement. It  was a driving force behind the creation of Pakistan as a Muslim state on the Indian subcontinent.

After the independence of India and Pakistan, the Muslim League was split. The major part went to Pakistan and continued politics as the Muslim League there. The Muslim League remained as a minor party in India, especially in Kerala.

In Pakistan, the League formed the country's first government. The League disintegrated into a number of factions during the 1950s after an army coup by General Ayub Khan. One or more functions of the Muslim League have been in power in most of the civilian governments of Pakistan since 1947.

In Bangladesh, the party gained strength in 1976 and won 14 seats in 1979 parliamentary election. Its importance has decreased since then. The League no longer holds any major or significant role in Bangladesh.

In Pakistan, the Pakistan Muslim League (PML) is still one of the major political parties. It has split into a number of separate groups now, like the PML-N, PML-Q and others.

[[Mir Taqi Mir]]

CATEGORIES: 1723 births, 1810 deaths, Indian poets, Urdu poets

Mir Taqi Mir (born 1723  

in Agra - died September 21, 1810 in Lucknow). He was an Urdu poet and one of the pioneers who gave Urdu shape to itself.  He is remembered as Khuda-e-Sukhan which means "god of poetry".his father name was syed ali muttaqi .

[[Kristina Keneally]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Premiers of New South Wales, Politicians from Sydney, Australian Labor Party politicians, Politicians from Las Vegas, Nevada

Kristina Kerscher Keneally (born 19 December 1968) is an American-born Australian politician. She was the 42nd Premier of New South Wales. On 3 December 2009 the Australian Labor Party caucus elected Keneally to replace Nathan Rees as leader and she became the first woman premier of New South Wales. The Labor Party lost the 2011 state election, and Barry O'Farrell of the Liberal Party became the new premier on 28 March 2011. 

On 29 June 2012, Keneally resigned from Parliament as she started her job as CEO of Basketball Australia. 

[[List of Urdu language poets]]

CATEGORIES: Urdu poets, Lists of writers, Pakistan-related lists, India-related lists

Below is a list of Urdu Poets. They are sorted by their birth years.

[[Ted Baillieu]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Premiers of Victoria, Politicians from Melbourne, Liberal Party of Australia politicians

Edward Norman "Ted" Baillieu MLA (born 31 July 1953) is an Australian politician. He was the Premier of Victoria from 2010-2013, and member for the Legislative Assembly seat of Hawthorn. He became the leader of the Victorian Division of the Liberal Party of Australia since May 2006 and Premier of Victoria from 2 December 2010 after the Liberal/Nationals Coalition defeated the Brumby-led Australian Labor Party government with 45 seats to 43 in the Legislative Assembly. He resigned as Premier on 6 March 2013. There had been complaints about his ability to lead and there was a scandal involving his Chief of Staff. Earlier on 6 March, a member of the party, Geoff Shaw, resigned which meant Baillieu no longer had a workable majority in Parliament.

[[University of the Punjab]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Pakistan, Lahore

University of the Punjab is a public university located in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. It was established in 1882 and is the oldest university in Pakistan. The university is spread over an area of 3000. It is affiliated with the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan and the Pakistan Engineering Council.

[[Marital status]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage

A person's marital status is the answer to the question about whether he is married. This question is usually seen on the forms such as censuses and credit card applications. The application forms ask you to select either the word "Single" or the word "Married".

[[Location]]

CATEGORIES: Geography, Cartography

In geography, the term location means defining where a certain place is, with reference to some other place. This reference is usually done using a coordinate system.

[[Jhang Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Jhang Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Jhang District. It is on the bank of Chenab River and Jhelum River.

[[Islamic studies]]

CATEGORIES: Asian studies

Islamic studies is a term that can mean two different things.

"Islamic studies" can mean researching or learning any topic in a way that agrees with Islamic knowledge.  It includes all the traditional forms of religious thought, such as Kalam  (Islamic theology) and Fiqh (Islamic law). It also looks at areas of study that look at secular topics from an Islamic understanding. For example, Islamic science and Islamic economics.

"Islamic studies" can also mean studying the history of Islam and Islamic philosophy.  Academics from many different disciplines (areas of study) study and share knowledge on Muslim societies as it is today and as it has been in the past.  Some non-Muslim scholars have written works which are read by many Muslims.  Before 1980, such non-Muslim scholars in this field had been called "Islamicists". The field of study was often a part of  Oriental studies It is now more often said to be a part of Asian studies. Many universities have degrees on the subject of Islamic studies.

[[Punjab International Public High School]]

CATEGORIES: Education in Pakistan, Schools

Punjab International Public School is a high school on Aminpur road in Bhawana. It has a well educated faculty of males and females. It studies the classes Nursery to Matric.

[[Aminpur]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Pakistan

Aminpur is a town in Faisalabad, Pakistan. It is near the border with the Chiniot District.

[[Life peer]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United Kingdom

A Life Peer is a member of the British House of Lords, who is appointed to serve for his or her lifetime.  The first life peers were made in the 19th century, to help the House of Lords carry out its job as England's highest court, but this is now done by the Supreme Court.

[[Liquid scintillation counting]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

Liquid scintillation counting is an analytical technique. It is used to measure radiation from beta (alpha) - emitting nuclides. It can also detect the auger electrons emitted from Chromium-51 (51Cr) and Iodine-125 (125I) samples. Samples of nuclides are dissolved or suspended in a "cocktail". The "cocktail" is containing an aromatic solvent and small amounts of other additives known as fluors. Beta (alpha) particles emitted from the sample transfer energy to the solvent molecules. The molecules  in turn transfer their energy to the fluors. The excited fluor molecules dissipate the energy by emitting light. Scintillation cocktails often contain additives that shift the wavelength of the emitted light. It makes it more easily detected.

The samples are placed in small transparent (often glass or plastic) vials. They are loaded into a liquid scintillation counter. The counter has two photomultiplier tubes. They are connected in a coincidence circuit. The coincidence circuit assures that genuine light pulses are counted. 

Counting efficiencies under ideal conditions is about 30% for tritium. Tritium is a low-energy beta emitter. It is nearly 100% for phosphorus-32 (32P). Phosphorus is a high-energy beta emitter. Some chemical compounds and highly colored samples can interfere with the counting process. This interference is known as "quenching". It can be overcome through data correction or through careful sample preparation. 32P can also be counted in a scintillation counter without the cocktail. This technique is known as Cherenkov counting. It relies on the Cherenkov radiation being detected directly by the photomultiplier tubes. Cherenkov counting in this experimental context is normally used for quick rough measurements.

[[Sarah Jessica Parker]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Actors from Ohio, American child actors, American fashion designers, American movie actors, American movie producers, American stage actors, American television actors, American television producers, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Jewish American actors, Jewish businesspeople, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Sarah Jessica Parker (born March 25, 1965) is an American television and movie actress, producer, and fashion designer. She was born in Nelsonville, Ohio.

Parker is partly of Jewish descent (her father is Jewish) and considers herself Jewish.

She played Carrie Bradshaw in the television series Sex and the City. She has also starred in many movies, such as the 1984 movie Footloose.

Sarah Jessica Parker married Matthew Broderick in 1997.

[[Old Street station]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Line stations, Railway stations in Islington, Tube stations in Islington, Transport in Hackney, Railway stations served by First Capital Connect, 1901 establishments in England, 1904 establishments in England

Old Street station is a central London National Rail and London Underground station. It is at the junction of Old Street and City Road. This is just north of the City of London. It is on the border between the boroughs of Islington and Hackney. The station is in Travelcard Zone 1.

[[Multiple working]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport

Multiple Working is the term used in the UK where more than one operational diesel or electric locomotives are coupled together under the control of one driver. The term can also apply when diesel or electric multiple unit trains are coupled together and also under the control of one driver. 'In tandem' is the term usually used in the UK when more than one diesel or electric locomotive are hauling a single train and under the control of a driver on each locomotive.

If the front locomotive of a pair in multiple has failed the driver can still control the rear locomotive for as long as air and electricity supplies are available on the failed locomotive.

[[Al-Qaeda Organization in the Islamic Maghreb]]

CATEGORIES: Al-Qaeda, Islamic terrorism, Algeria, Sunni organizations, Shiaphobia

The Al-Qaeda Organization in the Islamic Maghreb is an Islamic organisation which has its roots in Algeria. They are armed, and were called Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (French: Groupe Salafiste pour la Prédication et le Combat; GSPC) beforehand. In English they were sometimes referred to as Group for Call and Combat. They want to overthrow the Algerian government and put an Islamic state in its place. To that end, it is currently engaged in an insurgent campaign.

It is commonly believed that the group is a false flag operation created by the Algerian state intelligence agency.

The group has said it would attack Algerian, Spanish, French, and American targets. It has been designated as a Foreign Terrorist Organization by the U.S. Department of State, and similarly classed as a terrorist organization by the European Union.

The group is believed to be allied with Al-Qaeda, and to have between 300 and 800 active fighters.

[[Julia Louis-Dreyfus]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, Emmy Award winners, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Seinfeld

Julia Scarlett Elizabeth Louis-Dreyfus (born January 13, 1961 in New York City) is an American actress  of partly Jewish descent. 

Louis-Dreyfus is best known for her role as "Elaine Benes" in the television series Seinfeld. She is also noted for her work in other television programs and in movies. She also starred on the situation comedy The New Adventures of Old Christine. She also starred in the HBO show "Veep" where she played Selina Meyer, the Vice President of the United States.

She won many awards, like the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series in 2017.

[[Wall Street]]

CATEGORIES: Landmarks in Manhattan

Wall Street is a street in Lower Manhattan, New York City. It runs southeast from Broadway, through the Financial District to South Street on the East River. It is home to the New York Stock Exchange, the world's largest stock exchange and Federal Hall. Most headquarters of many other American exchanges NYSE, NASDAQ, AMEX, NYMEX, NYBOT are also run from Wall Street.

[[Nancy Kerrigan]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American figure skaters, American Olympic bronze medalists, American Olympic silver medalists, Sportspeople from Massachusetts

Nancy Kerrigan (born October 13, 1969) is an American silver medalist and figure skater. During the Winter Olympics of 1994, Kerrigan was clubbed behind the knee by an attacker. As a result, Tonya Harding, her figure skating rival, was banned from professional skating.

Kerrigan married her agent, Jerry Solomon, on September 9, 1995. The couple have three children together, Matthew, Brian, and Nicole.

[[Tonya Harding]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American boxers, American figure skaters, Sportspeople from Portland, Oregon

Tonya Harding (born November 12, 1970) is an American former figure skater and boxer. She became well known because of her role in the attack on fellow skater Nancy Kerrigan in 1994. She was then banned by USFSA from professional skating. In her later years, Harding became a boxer.

[[Rufus Wainwright]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Rufus Wainwright, Musicians from New York, Canadian singers, singers from New York

Rufus Wainwright (born July 23, 1973, Rhinebeck, New York) is a Canadian-American singer. He is the son of singers and performers Loudon Wainwright III and Kate McGarrigle. His sister Martha Wainwright is also a well known singer.

In 2009 he wrote his first opera, Prima Donna, which was first performed at the Manchester International Festival.

Wainwright made his first album in 1998. It was called Rufus Wainwright.

[[Iran Air]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the Middle East, Iran, 1944 establishments in Asia, 1940s establishments in Iran

Iran Air is an airline based in Iran. It is the flag carrier of Iran, and is owned by the government of Iran.

[[Edmund Pevensie]]

CATEGORIES: The Chronicles of Narnia, Fictional characters

Edmund "Ed" Pevensie, is a fictional character in C. S. Lewis's Chronicles of Narnia. He comes out in three of the seven books (The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, Prince Caspian, and The Voyage of the Dawn Treader), and a smaller character in two other books (The Horse and His Boy, and The Last Battle).

In the live-action films, The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe, Prince Caspian and  The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, Edmund is portrayed by actor Skandar Keynes. Actor Mark Wells portrays an older Edmund at the end of the first movie.

In The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, he betrays his siblings to Jadis, the White Witch while under her influence, but as the story goes on he accepts that he has done wrong. In the book, Edmund is described as having ash blonde hair, grey eyes and dimples like his siblings. He is the only one out of brother and sisters to have light hair which as Lewis states represents him being an outsider.

[[Dexter's Laboratory]]

CATEGORIES: Cartoon Network series, American television series revived after cancellation, Television series created by Genndy Tartakovsky, English-language television programs, 1990s American comedy television series, 1996 American television series debuts, 2000s American comedy television series, 2003 American television series endings, Comedy science fiction

Dexter's Laboratory (commonly abbreviated as Dexter's Lab) is an American comic science fiction sitcom animated series created by Genndy Tartakovsky for the Cartoon Network from 1996-2003. The show was about a red-haired boy named Dexter who had an enormous secret laboratory filled with an endless collection of his inventions. His inventions are destroyed by his older sister Dee Dee. That makes Dexter have to create his inventions again. with the exception of the franchise also spin-offs and related media. also with the tv movie Dexter's Lab Movie in Ego Trip (1999). in development in 2020 an planned reboot series produced by HBO Max and Cartoon Network Studios works for Dexter's Laboratory series called Dexter and Dee Dee parody adaptation series involved it was based of the original series by Genndy Tartakovsky, planning producing seasons over 1-5, notable voices in this reboot, Haley Tju/Alyson Stoner as the main character, Bella Thorne, Anais Fairweather, Travis Willingham.

[[Southwestern Bell]]

CATEGORIES: Telephone companies

Southwestern Bell is an American telephone company. It serves Missouri, Oklahoma, Kansas, Arkansas and Texas. Southwestern Bell is currently owned by AT&T. The company was founded around 1920.

[[Rufus Wainwright (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 albums, Rufus Wainwright albums, Debut albums, Pop rock albums

Rufus Wainwright is the first studio album by Rufus Wainwright.

[[Poses]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums, Rufus Wainwright albums

Poses is an album by Rufus Wainwright.

[[Want One]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Rufus Wainwright albums

Want One is an album by Canadian-American singer and songwriter Rufus Wainwright. It was released in 2003.

[[Want Two]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Rufus Wainwright albums

thumb|220px|Rufus WainwrightWant Two is the fourth album by Canadian-American singer and songwriter Rufus Wainwright. It was released in 2004. Most of the songs were recorded at during the sessions for his third album, Want One. Want Two was made using what Wainwright described as " the weird stuff." The song "Memphis Skyline" was a tribute to his friend Jeff Buckley.

[[Release the Stars]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Rufus Wainwright albums

Release the Stars is an album by Canadian-American singer and songwriter Rufus Wainwright. It was produced by Marius de Vries and released in 2007. Other musicians on the album are Richard Thompson, Teddy Thompson and Kate McGarrigle.

[[Rufus Does Judy at Carnegie Hall]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Rufus Wainwright albums

Rufus Does Judy at Carnegie Hall is a live album by Rufus Wainwright.  It was released in 2007. Wainwright performs the songs that Judy Garland performed at her concert at Carnegie Hall in 1961.

[[Loudon Wainwright III]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Singers from North Carolina, American guitarists, Musicians from Delaware, Singers from Delaware, Musicians from North Carolina, People from Chapel Hill, North Carolina

Loudon Wainwright III (born September 5, 1946, Chapel Hill, North Carolina) is an American singer. He is the father of singers Rufus Wainwright, Martha Wainwright and Lucy Wainwright Roche. He is the former husband of Kate McGarrigle.

[[Tidal]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 albums, Fiona Apple albums, Debut albums, Rock albums

Tidal is the 1996 first album by Fiona Apple. Six singles were released from it: "Shadowboxer", "Slow Like Honey", "Sleep to Dream", "The First Taste", "Criminal" and "Never Is a Promise". "Criminal" received the 1997 Grammy Award for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance. Tidal reached number 15 on the U.S. Billboard 200. Rolling Stone put it at #83 in their 100 Best Albums of the Nineties. 

[[When the Pawn...]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 albums, Fiona Apple albums

When the Pawn... is a 1999 album by Fiona Apple. The following poem is the full title of the album:

"When the pawn hits the conflicts he thinks like a king

What he knows throws the blows when he goes to the fight

And he'll win the whole thing 'fore he enters the ring

There's no body to batter when your mind is your might

So when you go solo, you hold your own hand

And remember that depth is the greatest of heights

And if you know where you stand, then you know where to land

And if you fall it won't matter, cause you'll know that you're right" When it was released it had the world record for the longest album title.

Three singles were released from the album: "Fast as You Can", "Limp", and "Paper Bag". "Paper Bag" was nominated for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance for the 43rd Grammy Awards (2001).

The album got good reviews. Pitchfork gave it a score of 8.0.

[[Extraordinary Machine]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums, Fiona Apple albums

Extraordinary Machine is the third album by American singer Fiona Apple. It was released in 2005. Four singles were released from the album: "O'Sailor", "Not About Love", "Get Him Back", and "Parting Gift". Critics generally had positive responses to the album. It was going to be released in 2003.

[[Angela Bassett]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, African American actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, 1958 births, Living people

Angela Bassett (born August 16, 1958) is an American actress. She is best known for her movies including Waiting to Exhale and How Stella Got Her Groove Back.

[[Cindy Crawford]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Actors from Illinois, Models from Illinois, American movie actors, American television actors

Cynthia Ann "Cindy" Crawford (born February 20, 1966) is an American fashion model, actor and producer. She was born in DeKalb, Illinois, USA. Her brother died of leukaemia when she was 10 years old. At age 16 she was scouted by a photographer and entered a "Look of the Year" contest put on by Elite Model Management. She was a runner-up and the agency agreed to represent her. She graduated from DeKalb High School as valedictorian and received a scholarship to Northwestern University. She later dropped out to pursue her modelling career.

[[Galmudug]]

CATEGORIES: States of Somalia

Galmudug is a secular state in the central region of Somalia. The administrative capital is South Galcayo. It is in the southern half of the city and district of Gaalkacyo. To the north is Puntland, to the west is Ethiopia and to the south and east is the rest of Somalia, presently under the control of the Transitional Federal Government  (TFG). The name is a combination of Galguduud and Mudug. Unlike the Somaliland  region in northwestern Somalia, Galmudug is not trying to be accepted as a separate country. It believes itself to be a federal division within the larger federal republic of Somalia, such as defined by the 2004 Transitional Federal Charter (TFG).

[[Sketch]]

CATEGORIES: Arts

A sketch (from Ancient Greek σχέδιος - schedios "temporary") is a fast freehand drawing that is not supposed to be a finished work. If in oil paint it is called an oil sketch. In general, a sketch is a quick way to practice an idea for later use. Artist's sketches usually serve as a way to try out different ideas and start a painting before starting a more finished work, especially when the finished work is costly and takes up time (as in the case of a large painting or fresco).  Sketching eases an artist's ability to focus on the most important parts of a subject and is a main part of artistic learning for students.

[[Yogyakarta Principles]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights, LGBT, November events, 2000s in Indonesia, 2006 in Asia

Yogyakarta Principles, formally The Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in Relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity is an advocacy document relating to international human rights law on the dignity and asserted rights of LGBT people. It was adopted after an international meeting held by the International Commission of Jurists in Yogyakarta, Indonesia from 6 to 9 November 2006. Mary Robinson, a former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, is one of 29 people who signed the Principles. The Council of Europe esteems these Principles in a document, "Human Rights and Gender Identity". These Principles have also been translated into the official languages of the United Nations: Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish. They have also been translated into other languages.

The Principles also reports that there are refugees from persecution and even honour killings because of sexual orientation or gender identity.

To realize the human rights on sexual orientation and gender identity according to the Vienna Declaration and those Principles, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has made up a document for the 19th sessions of United Nations Human Rights Council. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime also use those Principles for the human treatment of prisoners.

[[Moorgate station]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Line stations, Circle Line stations, Tube stations in the City of London, Hammersmith & City Line stations, Metropolitan Line stations, 1865 establishments in the United Kingdom

Moorgate station is a central London National Rail and London Underground station in the City of London. It is on Moorgate, north of London Wall. At one time the station was named "Moorgate Street". It is the central London railway terminus for suburban First Capital Connect services from Hertford, Welwyn Garden City and Letchworth. Until March 2009 it was also a terminus for trains on the Thameslink line, also run by First Capital Connect. It is the site of the Moorgate tube crash of 1975 in which 46 people were killed and 74 were injured.

The Underground station is on the Bank branch of the Northern line between Old Street and Bank, and also on the Circle, Hammersmith & City and Metropolitan lines, between Barbican and Liverpool Street.

[[United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations, Human rights

United Nations High Commissiner for Human Rights is an office of the United Nations made in 1993 according to the Vienna Declaration. The end of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights is to promote globally the human rights and to consider the treatiess on human rights and humanitarian laws.

[[Patrick M. Byrne]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Chief executives, Living people

Patrick M. Byrne (born 1962, Fort Wayne, Indiana, United States) is the CEO and chairman of Overstock.com. He took control of the company in 1999.

He had previously lead two smaller companies, including one owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway.

[[Overstock.com]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, Websites

Overstock.com is an Internet retailer based in Cottonwood Heights, Utah, near Salt Lake City. 

It was started in 1997 by Robert Brazell and originally called D2: Discounts Direct. It was an online seller of surplus merchandise which, upon its failure in 1999, was taken over by Patrick M. Byrne, who changed its name to Overstock.com.

[[Janusz Palikot]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Polish politicians

Janusz Marian Palikot, born in Biłgoraj on October 26, 1964, is a Polish politician, activist and businessman known for his controversial remarks.

He was elected to the Sejm twice—on September 25, 2005, when he got over 26,000 votes in 6 Lublin district, running on the Platforma Obywatelska (PO) list and getting over 44,000 votes in 2007.

He left the Civic Platform on October 6, 2010 and started his own party, Modern Poland on October 22.

[[Numerator]]

CATEGORIES: Arithmetics

In math, the top part of a fraction is called the numerator. If the line part of the fraction is flat, the numerator is on top. If the line part of the fraction is at a slant, the numerator is on the left.  The lower part is called the denominator of the fraction. For example:

The numerator can be any real number, including zero. A proper fraction is where the top number is smaller than the bottom number. If the numerator is larger than the denominator, then it is called an improper fraction.

[[Denominator]]

CATEGORIES: Arithmetics

In math, the bottom part of a fraction is called the denominator.  A denominator cannot be zero. If the line part of the fraction is flat, the denominator is on the bottom. If the line part is at a slant, the denominator is on the right.The upper part is called the numerator of the fraction. For example:

[[Gary Weiss]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, American journalists, Writers from New York City, American bloggers

Gary Weiss is an American investigative journalist, columnist and author. He wrote two books about the ethics and morality of Wall Street.

The articles he wrote for Business Week exposed organized crime on Wall Street and the Salomon Brothers bond trading scandal in the 1990s. He also has covered the financial crisis of 2007–2010 and the events caused by it."

[[Sam Brownback]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Governors of Kansas, Ambassadors of the United States, United States representatives from Kansas, United States senators from Kansas, US Republican Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, 21st-century American politicians, Kansas Republicans

Sam Brownback (born September 12, 1956) is an American politician. He was the United States Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom from February 1, 2018 until January 20, 2021. He served as the 46th Governor of Kansas from 2011 to 2018. Before he was governor, Brownback was a United States Senator and a member of the U.S. House of Representatives.

[[Populus sect. Aigeiros]]

CATEGORIES: Trees, Malpighiales

Populus'' section ''Aigeiros is a section of three species in the genus Populus, the poplars. Commonly known as cottonwood, the species are native to North America, Europe and western Asia. The cottonwood is the state tree of Kansas.

[[List of Kansas state symbols]]

CATEGORIES: Symbols of Kansas, Kansas-related lists

The following is a list of symbols of the U.S. State of Kansas.

[[Homogenic]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums, Björk albums

Homogenic is an album by Björk.  It was released in 1997. Music critic Sal Cinquemani said that it is the best electronic music album of the 1990s. Pitchfork gave it 9.9 out of 10. Five singles were released from the album. It was nominated in the Best Alternative Music Performance at the 1998 Grammy Awards.

[[Vespertine]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums, Björk albums

Vespertine is an album by Björk. It was released in 2001. Three singles were released from it. It was nominated for Best Alternative Album at the 2002 Grammy Awards.

[[Medúlla]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Björk albums

Medúlla is an album by Björk. It was released in 2004. All the music is made with voices and corporal noises, heavily edited with computers. The album got good reviews from critics. Pitchfork gave it 8.4/10. It was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Alternative Music Album. Four singles were released from the album. Is an a cappella album with a beatbox, electronic music and experimental music influences.

[[Jerry Springer]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, Actors from London, Actors from New York City, American mayors, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television presenters, American television actors, American television producers, Politicians from London, Politicians from New York City, Politicians from Chicago, US Democratic Party politicians, Television personalities from London, Television personalities from Chicago, Television personalities from New York City, British movie actors, British radio actors, British stage actors, British television presenters, British television actors, British television producers

Gerald Norman "Jerry" Springer (February 13, 1944) is an English-born American talk show host, movie, television, radio, and stage actor. He is host for The Jerry Springer Show. He served as Mayor of Cincinnati from 1977 to 1978 as a Democrat.

Springer was born in February 13, 1944 in Highgate, London to Jewish parents from Germany. He was raised in London until he and his parents moved to New York City and in Chicago, Illinois. He was the Mayor of Cincinnati from 1977 through 1978. He has been married to Vicki Melton since 1973. He now lives in Cincinnati, Ohio and in Chicago, Illinois.

[[Aynishan Quliyeva]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Azerbaijani pop singers, Azerbaijani musicians, People from Baku

Aynişan Quliyeva (born 1992 in Baku, Azerbaijan) is a singer. She is the daughter of Azeri singer Aybeniz Hasimova. In 2010 she made it to the Azerbaijani national final for the chance to represent Azerbaijan in the Eurovision Song Contest in 2011 held in Germany. In her semifinal she received 25000 votes, about 10000 more votes then any of the other winners of the semifinals. She is considered favourite to win the national final.

[[Audible]]

Audible may refer to:

[[The Sea of Monsters]]

CATEGORIES: Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Young adult novels

The Sea of Monsters is a fantasy-adventure novel based on Greek mythology. It was written by Rick Riordan and published in 2006. It is the second novel in the Percy Jackson & the Olympians series and is the sequel to The Lightning Thief. This book is about the adventures of thirteen-year-old demigod Percy Jackson. It describes how he and his friends rescue his satyr friend Grover from the Cyclops Polyphemus. They also save Camp Half-Blood, a summer camp for demigods, from a Titan attack. They bring the Golden Fleece from Polyphemus' island which cures Thalia's poisoned pine tree, that protected the camp.

The Sea of Monsters received good reviews and was nominated for many awards such as the 2006 Book Sense Top Ten Summer Pick  and the 2009 Mark Twain Award.  It sold over 100,000 copies in paperback. It was released as an audiobook on September 6, 2006. The Sea of Monsters is followed by The Titan's Curse, which is the third book of the five in the series.

[[Debut (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 albums, Björk albums, Debut albums, Dance albums

Debut is an album by Björk. It was released in 1993. It has sold 4.7 million copies around the world. Five singles were released from it. These were "Human Behaviour", "Venus as a Boy", "Play Dead", "Big Time Sensuality" and "Violently Happy". Most of the reviews of Debut said that it is a good album. The video for "Human Behaviour" was nominated for Best Short Form Music Video at the 1994 Grammy Awards.

[[Off the Wall]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 albums, Michael Jackson albums, Disco albums, Funk albums, R&B albums

Off the Wall is an album by Michael Jackson. It was released in 1979. 5 of the 10 songs on the album were released as singles: "Don't Stop 'til You Get Enough", "Rock With You", "Off the Wall", "She's Out of My Life", and "Girlfriend". Three of them had videos. It sold over 8 million copies in the United States and 20 million copies around the world. The album got good reviews. Rolling Stone compared his vocals to the "breathless, dreamy stutter" of Stevie Wonder and described his tenor as "extraordinary beautiful".

The first single, "Don't Stop 'til You Get Enough", reached No.1. It won a Grammy Award for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance in 1980. However, Jackson was disappointed at this. He said, "It was totally unfair that it didn't get Record of the Year and it can never happen again".

Off the Wall was Jackson's first album produced by Quincy Jones.

In 2001 a special edition of the album was released by Sony Records with 9 extra tracks.

Rolling Stone put the album at number 68 on their list of the 500 greatest albums of all time in 2003.

In 2008 the album became part of the Grammy Hall of Fame.

[[Thriller (Michael Jackson album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 albums, Michael Jackson albums, Pop albums, Funk albums, R&B albums

Thriller is an album by Michael Jackson. It was released in 1982 and is the biggest selling album of all time. Seven singles were released from the album. It won eight Grammy Awards, the most anyone has won at once.

In 1979 Jackson released Off the Wall. It was very successful. However Jackson was not happy. At the 1980 Grammys he won one Grammy from the album. It was the Grammy Award for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance for the single "Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough". Jackson said that "It was totally unfair that it didn't get Record of the Year and it can never happen again". When Jackson made Thriller he wanted it to be more successful than Off the Wall. Thriller won Record of the Year.

In October 2001 a special edition of the album was released. It has an extra twelve tracks.

[[Generation X]]

CATEGORIES: Cultural anthropology

Generation X, commonly abbreviated to Gen X, is the generation born after the Western Post–World War II baby boom and before the Millennials. Commentators typically use birth years ranging from the mid-1960s to the early 1980s.

Many sources describe Generation X as people born between the years 1965 to 1980. 

Examples of Gen Xers include Chris Pratt, Billy Corgan, Ben Stiller, Scott Weiland, Will Smith, Adam Sandler, Orlando Bloom, Kurt Cobain, Claire Danes, Brooke Shields, Sarah Jessica Parker, and Isla Fisher.

[[Bad]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 albums, Michael Jackson albums, Pop rock albums, Soul albums, R&B albums

Bad is an album by Michael Jackson. It was released in 1987 by Epic Records. It is one of the 20 best-selling albums of all time and the ninth best-selling album ever in the UK. 9 out of the 11 songs on the album were released as singles, 10 had music videos, and five reached number one in the US Billboard Hot 100. This was the most number ones an artist had ever had from one album. The album is a mixture of R&B, pop rock and soul. It was produced by Quincy Jones. Rolling Stone magazine put the album at number 202 in their 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. The album is in the book 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die. Bad won two Grammy Awards. Jackson wanted the album to have thirty songs on it. Quincy Jones cut this down to ten. The CD release of Bad included "Leave Me Alone" as the eleventh song. Davitt Sigerson, of Rolling Stone wrote that "Bad is a better record than Thriller."

[[Dangerous (Michael Jackson album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 albums, Michael Jackson albums, Pop albums, New jack swing albums, R&B albums

Dangerous is the eighth studio album by Michael Jackson, released on November 26, 1991 on Epic Records. Dangerous has sold over 32 million albums worldwide, 8 million albums were sold in the United States alone. It was his fastest selling album in the US. It was the best selling album in the world of 1992.

Dangerous was the first album to be produced fully by Michael Jackson. Since 1979, Jackson's albums had been produced by Quincy Jones. The album has a New Jack Swing sound.

Rolling Stone gave the album four out of five stars. The themes of the lyrics on the album include social justice, lust, romance, and religion.

[[List of governors of Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Kansas, 1861 establishments in Kansas

The Governor of the State of Kansas is the head of state for the State of Kansas. Under the Kansas Constitution, the Governor is also the head of government. The Governor is the Commander-in-Chief of the Kansas National Guard when not called into Federal use.

Kansas has had 47 governors since becoming a state.

The current governor is Laura Kelly. She started on January 14, 2019.

Since 1962, the governor lives in the governor's mansion.

[[The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy]]

CATEGORIES: Cartoon Network series, The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy, 2003 American television series debuts, 2008 American television series endings, English-language television programs

The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy is an American animated television series. It was created by Maxwell Atoms. It was originally shown on the Cartoon Network. It began on June 13, 2003 and ended on October 12, 2008 with the finale "Underfist".

The series is targeted at 9–14 year olds.

The directors of episodes included Juli Murphy, Robert Alvarez, Brain Sheesley, Shaun Cashman, Eddy Houchins, Sue Perrotto, Randy Myers, John McIntyre, Phil Cummings, Matt Engstrom, Kris Sherwood, and Russell Calabrese.

Writers for the series were Maxwell Atoms, Gord Zajac, C.H. Greenblatt, Vincent Walter, Matt Sullivan, and Chris Reccardi.

It is related to Evil Con Carne.

== Cast == 

[[Melanie Griffith]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American child actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Skin cancer survivors, 1957 births, Living people, American bloggers

Melanie Griffith (born August 9, 1957) is an American actress. She is the daughter of Tippi Hedren. She has been in many motion pictures. She is an Academy Award nominee and Golden Globe winner for her performance in the 1988 movie Working Girl.

[[N.W.A]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments in the United States, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 1991 disestablishments in the United States, African-American musical groups, American rap music groups, Musical groups disestablished in 1991, Musical groups established in 1986, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California, People from Compton, California, 1990s disestablishments in California

N.W.A (Niggaz Wit Attitudes also Niggaz With Attitude) was an American rap group from Compton, California, and its members were Eazy-E, DJ Yella, MC Ren, Ice Cube and Dr. Dre. It was first managed by Jerry Heller.

The rap group started in 1986 and lasted until 1991. The group originated gangsta rap and had lyrics unique to gangsta rap that were very explicit, violent, misogynist, sexist, and racist which made them controversial. Their controversies included being banned from many American radio stations. One of their most controversial songs was "Fuck tha Police", which expressed anger, violence and racism towards police officers. Many people believed that N.W.A glamorized gang violence, street thugs and the violent lifestyle among many people in Compton.

[[Philip K. Dick Award]]

CATEGORIES: Literary awards, Science fiction awards, Lists of books

The Philip K. Dick Award is a science fiction award. It is named after science fiction and fantasy writer Philip K. Dick.  It has been awarded since 1983. Dick died in 1982. The prize is given to the best original paperback published each year in the US. It is given at the Norwescon science fiction convention every year. The Philadelphia Science Fiction Society supports the award. The Philip K. Dick Trust has supported the award since 2005. Books that have won the award have Best Original SF Paperback printed on their covers. 

Thomas Disch started this award with help from David G. Hartwell, Paul S. Williams, and Charles N. Brown.  David G. Hartwell and Gordon Van Gelder manage the award now. Some other people who have been in charge of the award include Algis Budrys and David Alexander Smith.

[[Rincah (island)]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Indonesia

Rincah, is a small island near Komodo island, East Nusa Tenggara, Indonesia. The island is famous for giant lizards called Komodo dragons. Rincah also has many other animals such as wild pigs, buffalos, and birds. The island may also be called Rinca and Rindja.

Rincah is less popular than Komodo Island, so it is an excellent place to see the Komodo Dragon in nature with fewer people around. Day trips can be arranged from Labuanbajo on Flores by small boat at the park headquarters.

[[Diane Keaton]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, Movie directors from California, Movie producers from California, 1946 births, Living people, American bloggers

Diane Keaton (born Diane Hall, January 5, 1946) is an American movie actress, director, producer, and screenwriter.

[[Manticore]]

CATEGORIES: Mythology

Manticores (from Greek martikhoras, meaning man-eater) were creatures in Greek mythology. They had the body of a lion, a human head, and three rows of teeth similar to sharks. Although it changes from story to story, they also often had the tail of a dragon or a scorpion. Sometimes they could shoot poisonous spines from their tails. When early Greeks noticed that someone had gone missing, some said this as proof that manticores were real.

[[Typhon]]

CATEGORIES: Greek mythology, Titans

Typhon (Greek Τυφῶν), also Typhoeus, Typhaon, and Typhos, was the final son of Gaia in Greek mythology. He attempted to destroy Zeus after Zeus imprisoned the Titans. Zeus won and sent Typhon to be trapped under Mount Etna. Typhon was the father of the Nemean lion, Cerberus, and the Gorgons. He was married to Echidna. Meanwhile, all of the Greek gods (except for Hermes and Zeus) had fled to Egypt. In Egypt, many of the gods made themselves turn into animals to hide fromTyphon. They reproduced, and the Egyptian gods and goddesses were born.

Typhon was a giant that was so tall that his head touched the stars. His torso was that of a man, but his legs were coils of vipers that would hiss and attack as he moved. His main head had on it 100 snakeheads who would make different sounds of animals. His eyes were glowing red and would terrify everyone who looked upon them, and he had what was called a savage jaw which would breathe fire. His body had hundreds of different wings on it and his hands were made up of 100 snake coils just like his legs.

[[Varanidae]]

CATEGORIES: Monitor lizards

Varanidae is the family of monitor lizards. The family is a group of carnivorous lizards. It includes the largest living lizard, the Komodo dragon, and the crocodile monitor. Varanidae contains the living genus Varanus and some extinct groups. Their closest living relatives are the anguid and helodermatid lizards.

[[Electromagnetic Pulse]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear weapons

An Electromagnetic Pulse, or EMP, is a burst of electromagnetic radiation (light, magnetism, electricity), and is caused by a huge release of energy. A "common" cause for an electromagnetic pulse is a nuclear explosion. A scientist named Enrique Fermi predicted that electromagnetic pulses would result from a nuclear weapon being launched. An EMP can damage electronic recording equipment and shut off digital clocks, regardless of their electronic shielding.

[[Honey (disambiguation)]]

Honey is a sweet, edible fluid produced by bees.

[[Huntingdon College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Alabama, Montgomery, Alabama, 1854 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Alabama

Huntingdon College, founded in 1854, is a liberal arts college in Montgomery, Alabama, United States. It is known for its business and science programs. The college has recently made a football team and marching band.

[[Ballistics]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Mechanics, Ballistics

Ballistics is a science about the motion of projectiles (flying objects), mainly about bullets which are fired from guns.  This science shows us the path and behavior of projectiles.  Gun ballistics may be divided into the following  four categories.

[[Southern Gothic]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction genres

Southern Gothic is a kind of gothic fiction, different from American literature, that usually takes place in American South. It can be ironic and unique. It is used in writing for subjects such as social issues and the culture of the American South.

[[Maserati]]

CATEGORIES: Italian automobile companies, 1926 establishments in Italy

Maserati is an Italian luxury car making company. It began working with the company known as Ferrari, but recently changed to a group that includes Alfa Romeo. The Maserati brothers were named Alfieri, Bindo, Carlo, Ettore, and Ernesto. Alfieri initially raced with cars from a company called Diatto, but in 1926 when they stopped being produced, Alfieri and his brothers created a company called Maserati. One of the first cars that they made (driven by Alfieri) won the 1926 Targa Florio. Alfieri died in 1932, but the three other brothers continued making the cars. Their trident logo was probably created by an artist named Mario.

Maserati also ran a Formula One racing team between 1950 and 1957, employing numerous drivers, including the five-time drivers' champion Juan Manuel Fangio.

[[Bernard Montgomery]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 births, 1976 deaths, British Army generals, British military personnel of World War I, British military personnel of World War II, People from London

Field Marshal Bernard Law Montgomery, 1st Viscount Montgomery of Alamein, KG, GCB, DSO, PC (məntˈɡʌmərɪ əv ˈæləmeɪn; 17 November 1887 – 24 March 1976) was a British Army officer.

Usually called "Monty", he fought in World War I. In World War II he successfully commanded Allied forces at the Battle of El Alamein, a major turning point in the Western Desert Campaign.

He was later an important commander in Italy and in North-West Europe. He was in command of all Allied ground forces during Operation Overlord until after the Battle of Normandy, and was the principal commander for Operation Market Garden. After the War he became Commander-in-Chief of the British Forces of Occupation in Germany and then Chief of the Imperial General Staff.

[[Millennials]]

CATEGORIES: Cultural anthropology

Millennials (also known as Generation Y) are typically defined as the generation of people born between 1981 to 1996. Generation Y is preceded by Generation X and is succeeded by Generation Z. 

People in this generation are sometimes called Echo Boomers because of the high birth rate during this period. The high birth rate almost matches that of the Baby Boom period after World War II. 

Some of the famous celebrities who are from Generation Y include Harry Styles, Katy Perry, Lady Gaga, Kate Bosworth, Justin Bieber, Mandy Moore, Miley Cyrus, Mara Wilson, Colbie Caillat, Dua Lipa, and Avril Lavigne.

[[Aeolus]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

Aeolus or Eolus was the king of winds in Greek mythology. Although he varied from story to story, he was sometimes said to have had all the winds in a bag. In the Odyssey, he gave that bag to Odysseus to help him get home. Aeolus was the son of Hellen and a nymph named Orseis. Aeolus' brothers were Dorus, Xuthus and Amphictyon.

[[Nemean lion]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures

The Nemean lion (Λέων της Νεμέας el; Latin: Leo Nemaeus) was a vicious monster in Greek mythology that lived at Nemea. It was eventually killed by Heracles. It could not be killed with mortal weapons because its golden fur was impervious to attack. Its claws were sharper than mortal swords and could cut through any armor.

[[Hornblende]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals

Hornblende is a complex series of silicate minerals.

Hornblende is not a recognized mineral in its own right, but the name is used as a general or field term, to refer to a dark amphibole.

It is an isomorphous mixture of three molecules; a calcium-iron-magnesium silicate, an aluminium-iron-magnesium silicate, and an iron-magnesium silicate.

Hornblende has a hardness of 5–6, a specific gravity of 2.9–3.4 and is typically an opaque green, greenish-brown, brown or black color. It is most often confused with the minerals augite and biotite mica, both of which are black and can be found in granite.

[[Echidna (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures

Echidna (Greek: from “Snake”) is a monster of Greek mythology, half woman, half serpent. Her parents were either the sea deities Phorcys and Ceto (according to Hesiod’s Theogony) or Tartarus and Gaia (in the account of the mythographer Apollodorus); in Hesiod, Tartarus and Gaia are the parents of Echidna’s husband, Typhon. Among Echidna’s progeny by the 100-headed Typhon, were Ladon (the dragon who protected the Golden Apples of the Hesperides), another dragon who protected the Golden Fleece, the Hydra, the goatlike Chimera, and the infernal hounds Orthus and Cerberus. The Sphinx and the Nemean lion, both sired by Orthus, were also among her offspring.

[[Ultrarelativistic limit]]

CATEGORIES: Relativity

Particles which go near the speed of light are called ultrarelativistic.

The ultrarelativistic limit is the maximum velocity that a particle can move at. Albert Einstein found the equation for energy: E=mc². This means that energy is equal to a certain amount of mass. However, this is a simplified version of his equation. The longer version of his equation is E2=m2c4+p2c2. (Mathematically, if you ignore the p2c2 and take the square root of the equation, you get E=mc2). p2c2 refers to the velocity of a particle multiplied by a very large number. 

Particles which go below the speed of light (all particles which have mass) are called tardyons. Theoretical particles which go above the speed of light are called tachyons.

[[Atmospheric circulation]]

CATEGORIES: Atmosphere, Meteorology

Atmospheric circulation is a large-scale movement of masses of air. The origin of these processes is the sun's radiation. The sun waves radiate the short-wave radiation. The earth absorbs only a part of this energy. The other part is radiated back to the atmosphere and to the universe. The back radiation is long-waved. The thermal energy is distributed thanks to the circulation of the air on the surface of the earth.

The demonstration of circulation varies from year to year, but the basic climatologic structure is almost constant. We recognize 3 cells: the Hadley cell, the Ferrel cell and the Polar cell. The movement of air masses is influenced by coriolis force. It means that the air diverts to the west.

[[Pat Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, People from Dodge City, Kansas, People from Topeka, Kansas, United States representatives from Kansas, United States senators from Kansas, US Republican Party politicians, 21st-century American politicians, 20th-century American politicians, Kansas Republicans

Charles Patrick "Pat" Roberts (born April 20, 1936 in Topeka, Kansas) was a senator from Kansas. Before Roberts was a senator, he was a U.S. House of Representatives member and the chairman for the United States House Committee on Agriculture.

On January 4, 2019, Roberts announced that he will not seek reelection in 2020.

[[Firestar's Quest]]

CATEGORIES: Warriors books

Firestar's Quest is a volume in the Warriors novel series by Erin Hunter.

[[Monitor lizard]]

CATEGORIES: Monitor lizards

Monitor lizards, the genus Varanus, are also known as biawak or goannas. They are members of the family Varanidae. Their closest living relatives are the anguid and Heloderma lizards.

Varanus is a genus of largely carnivorous lizards. There are about 60 species in 10 subgenera. The species cover a vast area, occurring through Africa, the Indian Subcontinent, to China, down Southeast Asia to Brunei, Indonesia, the Philippines, New Guinea, Australia and islands of the Indian Ocean, and the South China Sea. A large concentration of monitor lizards occurs on Tioman Island in the Malaysian state of Pahang. Some are now found in South Florida, particularly in the Everglades.

Monitor lizards  have long necks, powerful tails and claws, and well-developed limbs. The species include the largest living lizard, the Komodo dragon, and the crocodile monitor. 

Most species are terrestrial, but arboreal and semi-aquatic monitors are also known. International trade in five species is banned, and all the others are threatened species.

[[Musado]]

CATEGORIES: European martial arts, Dortmund

The musado is a modern martial art which is divided into two branches: the traditional musado destined for civil persons and the Musado MCS (Military Combat System) destined for the army and the police. The term musado (from Korean language) means "the way of warrior". Nevertheless, the musado is a German martial art, based on the Korean arts.

The international centre of the musado is in Dortmund.

The grand master of the musado is Herbert Grudzenski (1947-September 20, 2012)  from Germany, the main instructors for the Czech Republic are Oldřich Šelenberk and Antonín Sokol.

[[Lancia Thema]]

CATEGORIES: Lancia automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles

The Lancia Thema is a car produced by Lancia. It replaced the Lancia Gamma in 1984, and were replaced by the Lancia Kappa in 1994.

[[Ruslan Fedotenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, American Hockey League players, Living people, New York Islanders players, New York Rangers players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Sportspeople from Kiev, Stanley Cup champions, Tampa Bay Lightning players, Ukrainian ice hockey players, ECHL players, United States Hockey League players

Ruslan Viktorovych  Fedotenko (born January 18, 1979) is  professional Ukrainian hockey player, he has played in National Hockey League ice hockey left winger for the New York Rangers. Fedotenko has also played for the Philadelphia Flyers for two seasons, the Tampa Bay Lightning for four seasons, the New York Islanders for one season and the Pittsburgh Penguins for two seasons before being signed to a 1-year-deal worth $1 million after accepting a tryout with the New York Rangers.

Was recognized as the best hockey player in Ukraine in 2009.

He is a two-time Stanley Cup winner with the Tampa Bay Lightning (2004) and the Pittsburgh Penguins (2009).

[[Chris Oddleifson]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, Vancouver Canucks players, Winnipeg Jets (WHL) players, Central Professional Hockey League players

Christopher Roy Oddleifson (born September 7, 1950 in Brandon, Manitoba) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. He in the National Hockey League from 1972 until 1981. He is best known for his time with the Vancouver Canucks, where he was one of the team's top players for much of the 1970s and served as team captain in 1976–77.

[[Alex Plante]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League players, 1989 births, Calgary Hitmen players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Edmonton Oilers players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people

Alexandre "Alex" Plante (born May 9, 1989) is a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who is currently playing for the Oklahoma City Barons of the American Hockey League. He was selected by the Edmonton Oilers 15th overall in the 2007 NHL Entry Draft and made his National Hockey League (NHL) debut in 2009–10. He is the son of former professional defenceman Cam Plante, while his brother, Tyler, is a goaltender in the Florida Panthers organization.

[[Phan Thanh Giản]]

CATEGORIES: 1796 births, 1867 deaths, Suicides by poison, Vietnamese people, Asian politicians

Phan Thanh Giản or Phan Thanh Jan(潘淸簡, 1796 - 1867) was a Vietnamese politician, diplomat and historian. He was Vietnam's diplomat in France, the war.

[[Silversun Pickups]]

CATEGORIES: Alternative rock bands, Indie rock bands, American rock bands, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California

Silversun Pickups is an American indie band from Los Angeles, California. Silversun Pickups has four members in the band; the current band members are Brian Aubert, Nikki Monninger, Joe Lester, Christopher Guanlao.

[[Tube worm]]

A tube worm is a worm-like sessile invertebrate which anchors its tail to an underwater surface. It creates a mineral tube around its body, and can withdraw the body into it.

Tube worms are found in these groups:

[[Kraken]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptozoology

Kraken are legendary sea monsters of gargantuan size, said to have dwelt off the coasts of Norway and Iceland. The sheer size and fearsome appearance attributed to the beasts have made them common ocean-dwelling monsters in various fictional works. 

The legend may actually have originated from sightings of real giant squid that are variously estimated to grow to 13–15 m (40–50 ft) in length, including the tentacles.

[[Leviathan]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament, Monsters

Leviathan (לִוְיָתָן, "twisted, coiled"), is a monster mentioned in the Bible. In Satanism Leviathan is believed to be one of the princes of Hell. The word has become synonymous with any large sea monster or creature. In classical literature (such as the novel Moby-Dick) it refers to great whales, and in Modern Hebrew, it means simply "whale."

[[K-line]]

CATEGORIES: Internet Relay Chat

A k-line or kill line is an IRC term. When a user is k-lined, he or she is banned from a certain server, either for some time or forever. When the user is banned they are not allowed to join that server again and have to join another one to get back onto IRC. This is recorded as a line in the server's IRC daemon configuration file which has the letter "K" at the beginning. This is where "K-line" comes from.

[[Coinage metal]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table, Chemical elements, Currency, Coins

A Group 11 element is one in the series of elements in group 11 (IUPAC style) in the periodic table, consisting of transition metals which are the traditional coinage metals of copper (Cu), silver (Ag), and gold  (Au). Roentgenium (Rg) belongs to this group of elements based on its electronic configuration, but it is a short-lived transactinide with a 22.8 seconds half-life that has only been observed in laboratory conditions. The name "coinage metals" is often used in casual speech to refer to these elements, but various cultures have used many other metals in coinage including aluminium, lead, nickel, stainless steel,  and zinc.

[[Shadow cabinet]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A shadow cabinet is a term which applies in some parliamentary democracies based on the UK parliamentary tradition. It is a group of politicians who hold a political position in their party, but whose party is not in government (that is, an opposition party). A member of the shadow cabinet is a shadow minister. The leader of a shadow cabinet is called the Leader of the Opposition. The term is of United Kingdom origin, and is used by some members of the Commonwealth. Some elements are found in other democratic systems of government.

Each minister of a Cabinet has a corresponding shadow minister. The shadow minister may provide alternative policies to the minister in the government. The two of them may debate on issues relating to their area of jurisdiction. For example, the British "Shadow Secretary of State for Health" often replies to the Secretary of State for Health.

The current UK Shadow Cabinet is made up of members of the Labour Party. The term refers only to the party in opposition which has the most seats of the opposition parties.

[[Smartphone]]

CATEGORIES: Smartphones

A smartphone is a mobile phone that can also be used as a computer. They work as a computer but are mobile devices small enough to fit in a user's hand.

Uses include:

Another way to think of them is that they are PDAs that can make voice calls like any other mobile phone. Older phones also used computer technology, but lacked many of the parts of a computer that were too big to fit into a phone. Modern phone makers have been able to use smaller parts. Most smartphones are also GPS receivers and digital cameras.

Because smartphones are small computers, they run an operating system that is often common between devices to ensure compatibility. The majority of smartphones run on Apple iOS or Google Android but others use Windows Phone or BlackBerry OS. Most can do multitasking, running  more than one program which helps the user do things quicker and easier. Users can get more programs, called mobile apps, from the manufacturer's app store, such as the Apple App Store and Google Play which can help them complete special tasks. 

Data communication has become faster. Smart phones can send and receive data much faster than older phones. The industry uses different standards to label the data transmission rates. 2G was introduced in 1991. 2G means ''2nd Generation''. 2G phones transmit data at about the same speed as a 56kbit/s (kilobits per second) dial-up modem would get.

3G was introduced in the early 2000s. Depending on where they are, 3G phones vary in speed between about 200kbit/s to 14Mbit/s (megabits per second). This is comparable to a DSL or low end cable modem speed. Most smart phones use 3G technology to make them fast enough to practically use internet and other data features. Faster 4G networks operate in many places, with speeds estimated as fast as 100Mbit/s to 1Gbit/s (gigabit per second). This is as fast as some computer networks that use ethernet. Many smart phones introduced after 2010 use 4G technology including LTE, as later, even faster version. 5G was introduced in a few places in 2019.

Smartphones are powered by batteries.  The amount of energy they can store is reduced over time, and they become weaker.  This causes the phone to become slower and later to turn itself off without the user asking for it.  Some smartphones are designed so the user is able to take off the rear cover and replace the weakened battery.  Most newer smartphones are not made like this.

[[Michelle Malkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American conservatives, American political commentators, American political writers, American bloggers

Michelle Malkin (Born October 20, 1970) is a conservative blogger, political commentator and author. She runs a weekly syndicated column. Her weekly syndicated column is in a number of newspapers and websites. She is a Fox News Channel contributor and has been a guest on MSNBC, C-SPAN, and national radio programs. Malkin has written four books published by Regnery Publishing.

[[Dodge Ram Van]]

CATEGORIES: Vans

The Dodge B-Series were a series of passenger or cargo vans which began around 1971 and ended in 2003. These vans were full sized. They had the names of Sportsman for the passenger van. The cargo vans were named Dodge Tradesman. This was before 1979, beginning in which year these vehicles were renamed Dodge Ram. The vehicles were marketed under Dodge. The B-Series vans were discontinued in June 2003 and replaced with the Dodge Sprinter, a rebadged Mercedes which was already on sale since 2002. 

[[Lincoln Town Car]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Sedans, Lincoln automobiles

The Lincoln Town Car is an American-made full size sedan. It was launched in 1980 as a 1981 model. However, the Town Car name was first used on the Lincoln Continental starting in 1959 and ending in 1979. For 1980, the Town Car name was used on a downsized version of the Continental before it was used on its own model. The first official generation of the Town Car was made from 1981 to 1989. For 1990, the second generation got a complete redesign and was facelifted for the 1995 model year. For 1998, the Town Car entered its third generation and got a rounder, more sleek design. For 2003, the Panther platform got new rack and pinion steering along with a slight redesign which lasted till its end in 2011. The Lincoln Town Car was distributed by The Ford Motor Company, Ford's Lincoln (automobile) division. This automobile was the most used limousine in the United States and in Canada. The automobiles are sometimes used as taxis. They were used as hearses as well. The Town Car was discontinued in 2011.

[[Seventh Son of a Seventh Son]]

CATEGORIES: Iron Maiden albums, 1988 albums

Seventh Son of a Seventh Son is a studio album by Iron Maiden.  It went on sale on 11 April 1988.

It is a concept album, and talks about the idea that a seventh son of a seventh son has special powers.  The album was the most popular one in th eUnited Kingdom when it went on sale.

The album got good reviews.  One person who reviewed it said that "ranks among Maiden's best work."

[[Candida albicans]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi

Candida albicans is a yeast which causes oral and genital infections in humans. The infection is candidiasis, better known as "thrush". It is treated with antimycotics (anti-fungal drugs).

C. albicans biofilms readily form on the surface of medical devices. Hospital-related infections in patients are a major health concern.

C. albicans is among the gut flora, the many organisms that live in the human mouth and gastrointestinal tract. Under normal circumstances, it lives in 80% of the human population with no harmful effects, although overgrowth results in candidiasis.

[[America's Got Talent]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 American television series debuts, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, NBC network shows, American reality television series, Reality television competitions, English-language television programs

America's Got Talent (sometimes abbreviated as AGT) is an American reality television series on the NBC television network, and part of the global British ''Got Talent series'' franchise. It began in June 21, 2006. It features singers, dancers, magicians and other talents from America to compete for a contract and $1,000,000 and as a headliner on the Las Vegas Strip since season 3. 

[[Stained glass]]

CATEGORIES: Glass, Art, Architectural elements

Stained glass is glass coloured by adding metallic salts when it is made. The coloured glass is made into stained glass windows. Small pieces of glass are arranged to form patterns or pictures. The glass is held together  by strips of lead and supported by a rigid frame.

Painted details and yellow stain are often used to improve the design. The term stained glass is also applied to windows in which the colours have been painted onto the glass and then fused to the glass in a kiln.

Stained glass is much used in Christian art but other themes are not rare. It is still popular today, and often called art glass. It is often used in luxury homes and commercial buildings.

Some colours are added to stained glass by the salts of:

[[Shutter Island (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 thriller movies, 2010 mystery movies, American mystery movies, American thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books

Shutter Island is a 2010 American psychological thriller movie directed by Martin Scorsese, with Leonardo DiCaprio, based on novel Dennis Levane.

The movie cost about $80 million to make.  Worldwide, it had a total gross profit of $294,803,014.

[[Chevrolet Caprice]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Chevrolet automobiles

Chevrolet Caprice and Caprice Classic are fully sized vehicles produced by General Motors. The vehicles were first produced around 1965. The cars were discontinued in the United States during 1996, though they returned for 2011. These cars are used as police vehicles or as taxis in many countries.

[[List of United States senators from Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of politicians from the United States, United States senators from Kansas

This is a list of United States senators from Kansas.

[[Euston Road]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in London

Euston Road is the main east/west road in the north central London.

A number of railway stations are on the Euston Road including Marylebone station, Baker Street tube station, Great Portland Street tube station, Euston railway station, Euston tube station, Euston Square tube station, King's Cross station, St Pancras station and King's Cross St Pancras tube station.

It is also the home of the British Library, the Friend's Meeting House (a place of worship for Quakers) and various buildings associated with University College London.

Euston Road is connected to Marylebone Road, Baker Street, Tottenham Court Road, Pentonville Road and many other roads.

[[Calvin cycle]]

CATEGORIES: Plant physiology, Biochemistry

The Calvin cycle (also known as the Benson-Calvin cycle) is the set of chemical reactions that take place in chloroplasts during photosynthesis.  

The cycle is light-independent because it takes place after the energy has been captured from sunlight. 

The Calvin cycle is named after Melvin C. Calvin, who won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry for finding it in 1961. Calvin and his colleagues, Andrew Benson and James Bassham, did the work at the University of California, Berkeley.

[[Political machine]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A political machine (sometimes called just machine in politics) is a political organization in which a person or small group with authority that has enough votes or is popular enough to have control over political administration or any type of government in a city, county, or state. The term political machine has been used mostly since the 19th century in the United States, used to describe machines like Tamanny Hall who stayed in control mostly because of the large support from the immigrants in Manhattan during the 19th century.

[[Hall & Oates]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 establishments in the United States, 1960s American music groups, 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American pop music groups, American rock bands, Musical groups from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Soul bands, 1960s establishments in Pennsylvania

Hall & Oates is an American musical group. The members are Daryl Hall and John Oates. They came from Philadelphia. Their greatest fame was from the late 1970s to mid 1980s. During this time they had many hit songs. They faded from view in 1990, but the duo are still performing together.

[[Duke of Normandy]]

CATEGORIES: House of Normandy, Kings and Queens of England, Channel Islands

The title Duke of Normandy was given to the rulers of the duchy of Normandy. This fief was created in 911 by Charles the Simple King of France for Rollo, a leader of Northmen. In 1066 the seventh duke, William II, became King William I of England. The title of Duke of Normandy was held by the Kings of England until Henry III gave up the title by treaty in 1259. King John had lost mainland Normandy in 1204, and kept only the Channel Islands.  Today the Channel Islands are a British Crown dependency.

In 1660 when King Charles II was restored to the throne, the King of France, Louis XIV, created Charles' brother James Duke of Normandy, probably as a show of support for monarchy and to stop Charles claiming the title himself.

[[Fernando Wood]]

CATEGORIES: 1812 births, 1881 deaths, US Democratic Party politicians, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Mayors of New York City, United States representatives from New York

Fernando Wood (14 June 1812 – 14 February, 1881) was an American politician of the Democratic Party from Pennsylvania. He served as the Mayor of New York City twice (1855 – 1857, 1860 – 1862), United States Representative three times (1841–1843, 1863–1865, and 1867–1881) and as Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means in both the 45th and 46th United States Congress (1877–1881). He was head of the political machine Tammany Hall. In 1854 he was elected Mayor of New York City and took office in 1855. He ran again in 1856, but lost to Daniel F. Tiemann, who was mayor from 1857 to 1859.  Wood was re-elected in 1860 and took office again that year, for the last time. After being a mayor, Wood returned to the United States Congress. He died at the age of 68.

[[Terry Branstad]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Governors of Iowa, Lieutenant Governors of Iowa, Ambassadors of the United States, US Republican Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Terry Edward Branstad (born November 17, 1946) is an American politician. He was the United States Ambassador to China from May 24, 2017 to October 4, 2020. He was the 42nd Governor of Iowa from in January 14, 2011 until his resignation on May 24, 2017. Branstad was the 39th governor of Iowa from 1983 to 1999 and President of Des Moines University from 2003 to 2009. He is a member of the Republican Party and is the longest-serving governor in Iowa or American history.

In 2010, he won a three-way primary election to run as the Republican candidate for governor. He ran against incumbent Governor Chet Culver, a Democrat, and four third party candidates in the November 2, 2010 general election. He won the general election in November, defeating Culver by 52.9% to 43.1%.

Branstad started the 2010 race with a lead in both the primary and general elections. He won the Republican primary with 50.4% of the vote, 9.5% ahead of the next candidate.

On December 14, 2015, Branstad became the longest serving governor in American history.

In December 2016, Branstad was nominated by President-elect of the United States Donald Trump to become the United States Ambassador to China. Branstad was confirmed by the Senate on May 22, 2017, and was succeeded as Governor of Iowa by Lieutenant Governor Kim Reynolds after he resigns to take up the ambassadorship. He resigned in October 2020.

[[Ford Expedition]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Ford automobiles, Full-size vehicles, Sport utility vehicles

The Ford Expedition is a full sized SUV that can carry up to nine people. This SUV debuted around 1997 as a replacement for Ford Bronco. The vehicle is used by EMS, by law enforcement and by fire department agencies.

[[Chironex fleckeri]]

CATEGORIES: Cnidarians, Venomous animals

Chironex fleckeri, commonly known as sea wasp, is a well-known, lethal,  venomous species of Box jellyfish. It lives in coastal waters from northern Australia and New Guinea north to the Philippines and Vietnam. Humans can easily be killed by its sting. It is considered the most lethal jellyfish in the world because of the numerous incidents resulting in injury or death to humans.

[[2010–2011 Queensland floods]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 disasters, 2011 disasters, 2010s in Australia, Floods, Queensland

The 2010–11 Queensland floods were a series of floods in Australia which began in December 2010 and ended in January 2011. The majority of the floods were in Queensland including its capital city, Brisbane. The rain also caused floods further south in central and western Victoria. at least 90 towns flooded. A huge area of Queensland, the size of Texas and France combined, was flooded. The floods forced thousands of people to leave their homes. At least 70 towns In Queensland and over 200,000 people were affected. Three-quarters of the state of Queensland has been declared a disaster zone. The 2010–2011 floods have killed 35 (not 30) people across Queensland since November and 14 are still missing. More than 20 people have died in flash floods between Brisbane and Toowoomba.

The floods were caused by heavy rain from tropical cyclone "Tasha" that joined with a trough during a La Niña event. La Niña is an unusual weather pattern, which brings wet weather to eastern Australia. The 2010 La Niña was the strongest since 1973. This caused heavy rainfall across Queensland. December 2010 was the wettest on record, with 107 places getting their highest rainfalls ever. The state average rainfall level of 404.7mm was much bigger than the old record of 369mm set in 1975. 2010 was also recorded as the state's wettest spring since 1900 and Australia's third wettest year. Flooding started across parts of the state in early December. On 28 December a monsoonal trough crossed the coast from the Coral Sea, bringing very heavy rain from the Gulf of Carpentaria to the Gold Coast.

About 300 roads were closed, including nine major highways. Many places, including Condamine and Chinchilla were flooded several times. Coal railway lines were closed and many mine sites flooded. The floods have caused fruit and vegetable prices to rise as crops have been destroyed. The wet conditions have also led to a large number of snakes seeking safety on the higher ground or in houses with people. Saltwater crocodiles and sharks were seen in some flooded areas of towns.

[[Ford Flex]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The Ford Flex is a full size crossover which is manufactured by Ford Motor Company. Its styling was based on the concept of the Ford Fairlane. The vehicle made its debut in 2007 at the New York International Auto Show. It replaced the Ford Freestar as well as Ford Taurus X and began sales in June 2008 as a 2009 model. It was facelifted for the 2013 model year and ended production in 2019.  

[[Rod Blagojevich]]

CATEGORIES: American fraudsters, American prisoners, American boxers, United States representatives from Illinois, Criminals from Chicago, Governors of Illinois, 1956 births, Living people

Rod R. Blagojevich (born December 10, 1956) was 40th Governor of Illinois beginning January 13, 2003 and ending January 29, 2009. He succeeded George Ryan, who would also be arrested for non-related charges. Blagojevich was the first Governor of Illinois to be impeached while in office and the first Democratic politician in over 25 years to face such charges. In February 2020, President Donald Trump ended Blagojevich's prison sentence four years earlier.

[[The Prodigy]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 establishments in England, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, Dance music groups, Musical groups established in 1990, Musical groups from Essex

The Prodigy are an English electronic dance music group. It was by Liam Howlett in 1990 in Braintree, Essex. Along with Fatboy Slim, The Chemical Brothers and The Crystal Method, as well as other acts, members of the Prodigy have been said as founders of the big beat genre which achieved mainstream popularity in the 1990s and 2000s. They have sold over 25 million records worldwide. They named the band after the  synthesizer, Moog Prodigy.

[[Daintree Rainforest]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Queensland, World Heritage Sites in Australia, Rainforests, Forests of Australia

The Daintree Rainforest is a tropical rainforest in Queensland, Australia. At around 1200 square kilometres the Daintree is the largest continuous area of tropical rainforest on the Australian mainland. It is named after Richard Daintree, an Australian geologist and photographer.

The Daintree Rainforest is a main part of the Wet Tropics of Queensland, listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1988. These are some of its ancient flora:

The Daintree Rainforest itself meets all four natural criteria on the Criteria for Selection to be a World Heritage Site, though it is just part of the Wet Tropics site. The Wet Tropics are one of only twelve natural World Heritage Sites in the world which meet all four criteria. The Daintree area is next to another World Heritage site, the Great Barrier Reef. This makes it the only place in the world where two natural World Heritage Sites meet.   

The Daintree Rainforest contains 30% of the frog, marsupial and reptile species in Australia, and 65% of Australia's bat and butterfly species. 18% of bird species in the country can be found in this area. There are also over 12,000 species of insects. All of this diversity is contained within an area that takes up 0.2% of Australia.

The Daintree Rainforest is extremely ancient; it is thought to be over one hundred and thirty-five million years old. About 430 species of birds live among the trees. The primitive flowering plants Austrobaileya scandens and Idiospermum australiense are also endemic to the Daintree.

The forest is north of Mossman, Queensland, on the coast, north of Cairns in the tropical far north of Australia. Part of the forest is protected by the Daintree National Park and drained by the Daintree River.

The Daintree Rainforest is loosely defined as the area between the Mossman Gorge and the Bloomfield River. The roads north of the Daintree River wind through areas of lush forest, and have been designed to minimize damage to the forest.

The Daintree Region is home to a number of rare and endangered species, including the southern cassowary and Bennett's tree-kangaroo. It is listed as an important bird area, but might just as well be listed for its fungi, which are said to be astonishing. Animals include the saltwater crocodile and the musky rat-kangaroo.

The rainforest also holds many ancient plants which have survived from the southern supercontinent Gondwana.

[[Rotes Rathaus]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Berlin, 1860s establishments, Landmarks in Germany

The Red City Hall (Rotes Rathaus) is the town hall of Berlin, in the Mitte borough on Rathausstraße near Alexanderplatz. It is the home to the governing mayor and the government (the Senate of Berlin) of the Federal state of Berlin. The landmark building got its name from the red clinker bricks with which it is covered.

[[List of mayors of Berlin]]

CATEGORIES: Mayors of Berlin, Lists of politicians, Germany-related lists

The following list of mayors of Berlin shows all the mayors (Oberbürgermeister, Regierender Bürgermeister) of Berlin, Germany since 1809:

[[Gondwana Rainforests]]

CATEGORIES: Gondwana rainforests

The Gondwana Rainforests of Australia, formerly known as the 'Central Eastern Rainforest Reserves', are the most extensive area of subtropical rainforest in the world. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

The area includes 50 separate reserves covering 3665. It is around the New South Wales–Queensland border.

The Gondwana Rainforests are so-called because the fossil record indicates that when Gondwana existed it was covered by rainforests containing the same kinds of species that are living today. The number of visitors to the reserve is about 2 million per year.

[[Unter den Linden]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Berlin, Landmarks in Germany

Unter den Linden ("under the linden trees") is a boulevard in the Mitte district of Berlin, the capital of Germany. It is named for its linden (lime in British English) trees that line the grassed pedestrian mall in the middle of the road

Unter den Linden runs east–west from the site of the former Stadtschloss royal palace at the Lustgarten park, where the demolished Palast der Republik used to be, to Pariser Platz and Brandenburg Gate. Eastward the boulevard crosses the river Spree near the Dom (Berlin Cathedral) and continues as Karl-Liebknecht-Straße. The western continuation behind Brandenburg Gate is Straße des 17. Juni. Major north–south streets crossing Unter den Linden are Friedrichstraße and Wilhelmstrasse. 

Unter den Linden at the heart of the historic section of Berlin developed from a bridle path laid out by Elector John George of Brandenburg in the 16th century to reach his hunting grounds in the Tiergarten. It was replaced by a boulevard of linden trees planted in 1647, stretching from the city palace to the gates of the city, by order of the “Great Elector” Frederick William. While the western part of the boulevard retained its character, the area around present-day Bebelplatz was changed after the Thirty Years' War and fortified. There are no trees.

By the 19th century, as Berlin grew and expanded to the west, Unter den Linden became the best-known and grandest street in Berlin. In 1851 the famous equestrian (horse-riding) statue of King Frederick the Great, designed by Christian Daniel Rauch, was put up on the centre strip. In the course of the building of the Nord-Süd-Tunnel for the Berlin S-Bahn in 1934/35 most of the linden trees were cut down and during the last days of World War II the remaining trees were destroyed or cut down for firewood. The present-day linden were replanted in the 1950s, they are affected by air pollution as well as by soil contamination.

Since 1937, the numbering has started at the Schlossbrücke (Palace Bridge), connecting Unter den Linden with the Lustgarten and Museum Island. The disputed replica of the Alte Kommandantur is No. 1, vis-à-vis the Zeughaus arsenal, the oldest building on Unter den Linden, built between 1695 and 1706, today the seat of the Deutsches Historisches Museum (No. 2). Buildings along the street include (from east to west) the Kronprinzenpalais (former palace of the Hohenzollern crown princes, No. 3), the Neue Wache war memorial built in 1817 (No. 4), considered by many to be Karl Friedrich Schinkel’s masterpiece. Furthermore, on Bebelplatz the Berlin State Opera (No. 7), coloquially called Lindenoper, St. Hedwig's Cathedral and the Altes Palais (No. 9), favoured residence of Emperor Wilhelm I; in the north the main building of the Humboldt University (No. 6) and House I of the Berlin State Library (No. 8). On the western end are the Russian Embassy (former Soviet Embassy, No. 63-65) the Hungarian Embassy (No. 76) at the corner of Wilhelmstrasse and finally the Hotel Adlon (No. 77) at the corner of Pariser Platz, which has been completely rebuilt on the site of the prewar hotel. Well-known statues of Alexander and Wilhelm von Humboldt in front of the university as well as of the Prussian generals Scharnhorst and Bülow also adorn the street.

[[Baja California]]

Baja California may refer to:

[[Yucatán]]

Yucatán may refer to:

[[Chihuahua]]

Chihuahua may refer to:

[[Chihuahua Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua

Chihuahua is one of the 67 municipalities of Chihuahua, in northern Mexico. The municipal seat is the state capital, the city of Chihuahua.

As of 2005, the municipality had a total population of 758,791, with 748,551 in the municipal seat. It covers an area of 9219.30.

[[Chihuahua City]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Mexico, Settlements in Chihuahua

The city of Chihuahua is the state capital of the Mexican state of Chihuahua. It is also the seat of Chihuahua Municipality. It has a population of about 825,327. The predominant activity is industry, including domestic heavy, light industries, consumer goods production, and to a smaller extent maquiladoras.

[[Bridle path]]

CATEGORIES: Horse riding, Trails

A bridle path is a pathway or trail between two places.  It is designed for people riding horses, but can also be used by people walking.  A footpath is a track between two places designed only for people walking.

[[Frederick II of Prussia]]

CATEGORIES: 1712 births, 1786 deaths, People from Berlin, House of Hohenzollern, Kings and Queens of Prussia, Electors and Electresses, Civil servants, Crown Princes and Princesses of Prussia

Frederick II (Friedrich II; 24 January 1712 – 17 August 1786) was a King in Prussia (1740–1786) from the Hohenzollern dynasty. As a prince-elector of the Holy Roman Empire, he was Frederick IV Margrave of Brandenburg. He was also the sovereign prince of the Principality of Neuchâtel. Victorious in war, he became known as Frederick the Great (Friedrich der Große) and was nicknamed der alte Fritz ("Old Fritz").

When he was young, Frederick was mostly interested in music and philosophy and not military affairs. Frederick tried to escape from his strict father, Frederick William I, with childhood friend, Hans Hermann von Katte.  When they were captured Frederick was forced to watch von Kattel's execution. Many historians consider him to be bisexual and perhaps possibly celibate in his later life. After the death of Frederick William I in 1740, Frederick the Great only attended his wife with formal visits once a year.

Shortly after becoming King in Prussia, he attacked Austria and claimed Silesia during the Silesian Wars. Near the end of his life, Frederick united most of his separated parts of his kingdom through the First Partition of Poland.

For years Frederick exchanged letters with Voltaire. He modernized the Prussian bureaucracy and civil service and promoted religious tolerance. Frederick patronized the arts and philosophers, and wrote flute music. Frederick is buried at his favorite residence, Sanssouci in Potsdam. Because he died childless, Frederick was succeeded by his nephew, Frederick William II of Prussia, son of his brother, Prince Augustus William of Prussia.

[[Gabrielle Giffords]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American crime victims, United States representatives from Arizona, US Democratic Party politicians

Gabrielle Giffords is an American politician. She was born June 8, 1970. She is a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives. She was badly injured January 8, 2011, during a shooting in Tucson, Arizona. Giffords was shot in the head at very close range, but survived. She was holding a meeting around the parking lot of a supermarket when the shooting happened.

Since 2007, she has been married to astronaut and United States Senator Mark Kelly.

[[King in Prussia]]

CATEGORIES: Prussia

King in Prussia was the title used by the rulers of Prussia from 1702 to 1772.

The rulers, who were also Princes and Margraves of Brandenberg wanted to be Kings, but knew that the Holy Roman Emperor would not allow them the title.  

In return for support in the War of the Spanish Succession Emperor Leopold I allowed Frederick to call himself King in Prussia.  The Duchy of Prussia was outside the Empire, and he was only regarded as King outside the Empire.

In 1772 Frederick II annexed most of Poland and decided to call himself King of Prussia.  The Holy Roman Emperor was not as strong as they had been, and in 1806 the Empire ceased to exist.

[[Tabasco pepper]]

CATEGORIES: Vegetables, Food ingredients, Capsicum

The tabasco pepper is a variety of chili pepper species Capsicum frutescens. It is best known through its use in Tabasco sauce, followed by peppered vinegar. 

[[Tabasco sauce]]

CATEGORIES: Condiments, Sauces

Tabasco sauce  is the brand name for a hot sauce produced by  US-based McIlhenny Company of Avery Island, Louisiana. Tabasco sauce is made from tabasco peppers (Capsicum frutescens var. tabasco), vinegar, and salt, and aged in white oak barrels for three years. It has a hot, spicy flavor.

[[Tabasco]]

Tabasco may refer to:

[[Kansas–Nebraska Act]]

CATEGORIES: 1854 in the United States, Franklin Pierce, 1850s in Kansas, History of Nebraska, Origins of the American Civil War

The Kansas–Nebraska Act of 1854 made the territories of Kansas and Nebraska, allowing the states to vote on whether slavery was legal or not. This law canceled the Missouri Compromise, which declared that slavery was not legal in those areas. It was passed on May 30, 1854. The Kansas-Nebraska Act angered many in the North who considered the Missouri Compromise to be a long-standing agreement. In the pro-slavery South, it was strongly supported.  

After the Kansas-Nebraska Act was passed, pro-slavery and anti-slavery supporters rushed in to settle Kansas to affect the outcome of the first election held after the new law went into effect.  Pro-slavery settlers carried the election but anti-slavery settlers claimed the results were fraudulent, and did not accepted defeat.  The resulting fighting in Kansas gave it the nickname "Bleeding Kansas". 

[[King of Prussia]]

CATEGORIES: German Empire, Prussia

King of Prussia was the title Frederick the Great started using in 1772 after he got part of the Kingdom of Poland.

Before this he had called himself King in Prussia.

The rulers of Berlin kept using the title after they also became German Emperors, up until Kaiser Wilhelm II abdicated (resigned) in 1918.

[[Guerrero]]

Guerrero may refer to:

[[Guerrero Municipality, Chihuahua]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Chihuahua

Guerrero is one of the 67 municipalities of Chihuahua, in northern Mexico. The municipal seat lies at Vicente Guerrero (aka Ciudad Guerrero). The municipality covers an area of 5,603.6 km².

[[Guerrero Municipality, Coahuila]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Coahuila

Guerrero is a one of the 38 municipalities of Coahuila, in north-eastern Mexico. The municipal seat lies at Guerrero. The municipality covers an area of 3,219.7 km² and is located on the international border between Mexico and the USA, here formed by the Río Bravo del Norte (Rio Grande), adjacent to the U.S. state of Texas.

[[Guerrero Municipality, Tamaulipas]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico, Tamaulipas

Guerrero is a municipality in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas.

[[2006–07 Chicago Blackhawks season]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in ice hockey, 2007 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2000s in Chicago, 2007 in Illinois, 2006 in Illinois

The 2006–07 Chicago Blackhawks season was the Hawks' 81st season.

[[Kathie Lee Gifford]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American television presenters, People from Paris, Actors from Maryland, Emmy Award winners

Kathie Lee Gifford (born August 16, 1953) is an American talk show host, singer and actress. She is best known for hosting Live with Regis and Kathie Lee from 1985-2000 with Regis Philbin. She later co-hosted the fourth hour of NBC's Today show. She has received 11 Daytime Emmy nominations. She won her first Daytime Emmy in 2010 as part of the cast in The Today Show.

Before she hosted talk shows, Gifford's first television appearance was Tom Kennedy's singer/sidekick on Name That Tune, from 1974-1978. 

She also appeared in television advertisements for Carnival Cruise Lines since 1984.

[[Prince-elector]]

CATEGORIES: Electors and Electresses

Prince-electors Kurfürst were the group of rulers of German countries which elected the Holy Roman Emperor.  In English they were usually called "Electors" and included the Elector of Brandenburg, who also began ruling as King of Prussia, and the Electors of Hanover, who were also kings of Great Britain after 1714.

[[Electorate of Brunswick-Lüneburg]]

CATEGORIES: Holy Roman Empire, 1692 establishments, 1690s establishments in Europe

In 1692 the Duke of Hanover was made an Elector of the Holy Roman Emperor.  After then the Dukes were usually called Electors of Hanover, Kurfürst von Hannover.

Queen Anne of England and Great Britain had no children, Sophia-Dorothea was chosen as her protestant heir.  When Anne died in 1714, Sophia Dorothea's son the Elector of Hanover became King George I of Great Britain.  

[[Mantis shrimp]]

CATEGORIES: Decapods

Mantis shrimps are crustacean stomatopods. 

They are not actually shrimps, but members of the order Stomatopoda. There are about 400 species.

They are predators which kill their prey by hitting them at high speed. 

They hold their body in a manner like that of a praying mantis, and have large, complex eyes. Some species can be 30 cm long. 

They are highly coloured, and live in shallow tropical and subtropical habitats such as coral reefs.

[[List of rulers of Saxony]]

CATEGORIES: History of Germany, Holy Roman Empire, Electors and Electresses, Lists of heads of state

This article lists Dukes, Electors, and Kings ruling over territories named Saxony from the beginning of the Saxon Duchy in the 9th century to the end of the Saxon Kingdom in 1918.

[[Base Ball Bear]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands

Base Ball Bear is a Japanese rock band from Tokyo, Japan. Base Ball Bear has four members in the band; the current band members are Yūsuke Koide, Shiori Sekine and Daisuke Horinouchi.

[[Pontiac Bonneville]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s automobiles, 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Pontiac automobiles

The Pontiac Bonneville is an American automobile. It was introduced in 1957 and discontinued in 2005 model year. The Bonneville was available as a convertible, sedan or coupe. This car was distributed through the Pontiac division of General Motors.

[[Pontiac Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Pontiac automobiles

The Pontiac Grand Prix was an American-made car. It was first introduced around 1962. The car was sold through the Pontiac division of General Motors. They stopped selling the car in 2008.

[[Aeronwy Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2009 deaths, Welsh writers, Poets

Aeronwy Bryn Thomas-Ellis (3 March 1943 – 27 July 2009)

was the second child of the Welsh poet Dylan Thomas.

Born in London, where her parents lived at the time, she was named for the River Aeron. In 1949, the family moved to the Boat House, Laugharne, Carmarthenshire, Wales.

After her father's death in 1953, she and her mother went to Rome, later moving to Sicily.

She learnt Italian and became a translator of Italian poetry. She was also known as an ambassador for her father's work, and as a patron of the Dylan Thomas Society.

Visiting professor in schools and universities in the U.K. and abroad, in the late ‘90s  she was very popular with the students of Giuseppe Perotti School in Torino, Italy,  for her "creative writing" courses.

In 2007 she became President of IMMAGINE&POESIA (Image and Poetry), the international artistic literary movement founded at Teatro Alfa, Torino, Italy.

Aeronwy Thomas died in 2009 in New Malden London, aged 66.

[[Droseraceae]]

CATEGORIES: Caryophyllales, Carnivorous plants

Droseraceae is a family of flowering plants. The family is also known under its common name, the sundew family.

It consists of carnivorous plants: besides the sundews, the genus Drosera, it also contains the even more famous Venus flytrap (Dionaea muscipula). The sundews produce sticky substances on their leaves that traps prey, and the Venus fly trap has leaves that form traps that close when disturbed.

[[Amaranthaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Amaranthaceae

Amaranthaceae is a family of flowering plants are the Amaranth family, contains about 160 genera and 2,400 species. Most of these species are herbs or subshrubs; very few are trees or climbers.

This is a widespread and cosmopolitan family found mostly in subtropical and tropical regions, although many species belong in cool temperate regions.

[[Art Fleming]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, American game show hosts, Cornell University alumni, Actors from New York City, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, 1924 births, 1995 deaths, Emmy Award winners

Art Fleming (May 1, 1924-April 25, 1995) was an American television host. He is best known as the original host of the game show Jeopardy! from 1964 until 1975 and again from 1978 to 1979. on 1964 to 1979 The All New Jeopardy Before Alex Trebek or Other Art Fleming Born on May 1 1924-April 1995 

[[David Herman]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, 1967 births, Living people, Actors from New York City

David Herman is an American actor, comedian and voice actor best known as an original cast member of MADtv and for his role as Michael Bolton in Office Space. He is also known for his voice roles on television programs such as Futurama, and King of the Hill.

[[Dimples]]

CATEGORIES: Human body features

Dimples are genetically inherited indentations of the skin. They are caused by the flesh underneath the skin, that forms on some people's cheeks, especially when they smile. Some people may only have one dimple on only one side of the face.

[[Ford Aerostar]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The Ford Aerostar was the first minivan manufactured by Ford. The vehicle was introduced in 1985 as a 1986 model. The Aerostar was discontinued after 1997 and replaced by the Windstar, which was sold alongside since 1995. although Aerostar's role went unfilled until the 2010 introduction of the Ford Transit Connect van.

[[Acinetobacter baumannii]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Acinetobacter baumannii is a species of pathogenic bacteria, referred to as an aerobic gram-negative bacterium, which is resistant to most antibiotics. As a result of its resistance to drug treatment, some estimates state the disease is killing tens of thousands of U.S. hospital patients each year and specialists say they could emerge as a bigger threat. They are typically short, almost round, and rod shaped. The illness can cause severe pneumonia and infections of the urinary tract, bloodstream and other parts of the body. 

[[Strict weak ordering]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

Strict weak ordering is a binary relation on a set. Such relations define a strict ordering, but they contain several elements of the same type. An example might be the relation "costs less than", or "is cheaper than". For any two elements that are of different types, the relation holds. On the other hand, there are some elements that cannot be ordered that way, because they are of the same type. An example for such a relation may be the relation, costs less than: milk may cost less than bread, and bread may cost less than cake. Two items of different types may cost less than another, but they can otherwise have the same price.

Two different algorithms that sort words by the number of letters in the word may not give the same ordering of the words with the same number of letters, but they will always give an ordering where the four-letter words come before the five-letter-words, and after the three-letter-words.

Time will give a strict weak ordering too; Events that are equivalent in the timeframe happen at the same time.

[[Colour vision]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology, Vision, Color

Colour vision is the capacity of an organism to distinguish objects based on the wavelengths (or frequencies) of the light they reflect, emit, or transmit. Colour is a quality made by the visual brain and not a property of objects.

A 'red' apple does not emit red light. Rather, it simply absorbs all the frequencies of visible light shining on it except for a group of frequencies that are reflected.

It is these frequencies which are perceived as red.

[[Compound eye]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology, Vision

Compound eyes consist of many photoreceptor units or ommatidia. Each 'ommatidium' (singular) is an individual 'eye unit'. 

The image perceived is a combination of inputs from ommatidia on a convex surface. Thus they point in slightly different directions. 

Compared with simple eyes, compound eyes possess a wide-angle view. They can detect fast movement and, in some cases, the polarization of light. 

[[Miyazaki Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Miyazaki Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Miyazaki Prefecture is a prefecture in the Kyūshū region of Japan on the island of Kyushu.  The capital city is Miyazaki.

[[Thundersnow]]

CATEGORIES: Severe weather

Thundersnow is a thunderstorm with snow instead of rain.  This rare kind of weather is less rare around the Midwestern United States, the Great Lakes and Rocky Mountains, the Sea of Japan, and Mount Everest.  Thundersnow mostly happens in March.

[[Alachua County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1824 establishments in Florida Territory

Alachua County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on February 29, 1824. As of 2000, the population is 217,955. Alachua County's seat is Gainesville.

[[Opsin]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology, Biochemistry

Opsins are the universal photoreceptor molecules of all visual systems in the animal kingdom.   

They change from a resting state to a signalling state by absorbing light. This activates the G protein, resulting in a signalling cascade which produces physiological responses. 

This process of capturing a photon and transforming it into a physiological response is known as phototransduction.

Five groups of opsins are involved in vision. Another opsin found in the mammalian retina, melanopsin, is involved in circadian rhythms and pupillary reflex, but not in image-forming.

Some opsins allows vision in just a short stretch of wavelength. This is equivalent to seeing in only one colour. Two opsins allow vision in two colours, and is usual in mammals. Four opsins allows vision in full colour, and is usual in teleost fish, reptiles and birds. In mammals, only Old World monkeys, apes and humans have trichromacy, full colour vision. 

It is thought – see evolution of colour vision – that mammals lost much of their colour vision capability during the long period in the Mesozoic when they lived as mostly nocturnal animals. 

[[Sinoceratops]]

CATEGORIES: Ceratopsids

Sinoceratops, whose name means 'horned face from China', was a very large ceratopsian dinosaur. The dinosaur used to live in what is now China during the Upper Cretaceous. Sinoceratops is an ancestor of Styracosaurus and Centrosaurus. The head of a full-grown Sinoceratops was probably about 1.8 long.

[[Crash Bandicoot]]

Crash Bandicoot may refer to:

[[Crash Team Racing]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 video games, Crash Bandicoot games, Naughty Dog games, PlayStation games, Racing video games

Crash Team Racing is a racing video game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation. The game was released in North America on September 30, 1999. It was released in Europe and Australia later the same year. It was released again for the Greatest Hits chain in 2000.

Crash Team Racing is the fourth game in the Crash Bandicoot series. It is the first Crash Bandicoot racing game and the last to be developed by Naughty Dog. The characters of the Crash Bandicoot series, must race against the evil Nitros Oxide and save their planet from destruction. In the game, players can take control of one of fifteen Crash Bandicoot series characters. Although only eight are available at first. During the races, speed power-ups and other objects to use for safety, can be used to help the player win the game.

The game received very good reviews from video game critics. They liked its gameplay and graphics. However, the audio had a mixed review. In 2003, Crash Nitro Kart, was released for the PlayStation 2, Nintendo GameCube, Xbox, Game Boy Advance and N-Gage game consoles. It is not a sequel to Crash Team Racing. With 2.2 million copies sold, Crash Team Racing remains one of the most popular PlayStation and best-selling video games as of 2012.

[[Crash Bash]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 video games, PlayStation games, Crash Bandicoot games

Crash Bash (or Crash Bandicoot Carnival in Japan) is the fifth video game for the Crash Bandicoot series. In this game, a variety of mini-games are available for the player to play. The warp rooms were brought back here. 

[[Bowery]]

CATEGORIES: Manhattan

Bowery, (commonly called The Bowery) is the name of a street and a small neighborhood in the southern Manhattan. The name comes from the Dutch bouwerij, which is an old word for "farm." The neighborhood is surrounded by the East Village to the north, Canal Street and Chinatown to the South, Allen Street and the Lower East Side to the east and Little Italy to the west. The area was home to many Irish immigrants in the early 19th century after the Great Irish Famine.

[[Five Points, Manhattan]]

CATEGORIES: Manhattan, Neighborhoods of New York City

Five Points (or The Five Points) was a slum (poor neighborhood) named after the five-cornered intersection of Anthony (now Worth St.), Cross (now Mosco), and Orange (now Baxter) in Manhattan it was located on. However, over time, the intersection sometimes had four or six corners. Five Points was the home of to a lot of Irish and Italian immigrants, and to the 18th century Five Points Gang.

[[Amber Heard]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Actors from Austin, Texas, American movie actors, American television actors, Bisexual people, LGBT actors, LGBT models, LGBT people from Texas

Amber Laura Heard (born April 22, 1986 in Austin, Texas) is an American actress.

[[Magnoliids]]

CATEGORIES: Magnoliopsida

Magnoliids (or Magnoliidae or Magnolianae) are a group of flowering plants. They are descendants of the earliest flowering plants: they keep some features which look like those of conifers.

The group include magnolias, nutmeg, bay laurel, cinnamon, avocado, black pepper, tulip tree and many others.  They  have three-part flowers, pollen with one pore, and usually branching-veined leaves.

The magnoliids has today about 9,000 species of flowering plants. The group has many food crops (such as avocados) and many with psychotropic effects. The famous Polynesian drink kava is prepared from a magnoliad, and nutmeg fruits are a source of the hallucinogen myristicin. 

Psychotropic effects are usually a defence against herbivory.

[[Commelinids]]

CATEGORIES: Plant taxonomy

The name commelinids is a plant taxonomy (plural, not capitalised) is used by the APG II system for a clade within the monocots, which in its turn is a clade within the angiosperms. The commelinids are the only clade that the APG II has named within the monocots, the remaining monocots are a paraphyletic unit, occasionally referred to as the "basal monocots".

[[Ford Thunderbird]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s automobiles, 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The Ford Thunderbird is an American car manufactured by the Ford Motor Company starting in 1955. The Thunderbird was also known as the T-Bird. The car was often used in NASCAR races.

John Denver recorded a song in 1986 called "Along for the Ride", about the 1956 Thunderbird. The words and music were by Danny O'Keefe and Bill Braun. The Beach Boys had a big hit with the song "Fun Fun Fun" which also was about the Thunderbird.

[[Chevrolet Camaro]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Chevrolet automobiles

The Chevrolet Camaro is a car manufactured by Chevrolet. The Camaro was first sold in 1967. The Chevrolet Camaro was designed to compete with Ford Mustang, which was a very successful car. The Camaro was discontinued in 2002, but returned again in 2010 as a completely new car. The current generation Camaro's body shell comes from GM Korea formerly known as GM Daewoo.

[[International Species Information System]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, Non-profit organizations

The International Species Information System (ISIS) is an international non-profit organization that helps zoos and aquariums around the world. ISIS gives its members software to collect and share information about animals. The ISIS database has information on 2.4 million animals of 10,000 species. ISIS members use basic information (age, sex, parents, place of birth, reports of deaths, etc.) collected in the ISIS system to care for and manage their animals.

[[National Wildlife Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Environmental organizations, Virginia, Organizations based in the United States, 1936 establishments in the United States

The National Wildlife Federation (NWF) is the United States' largest private, nonprofit conservation education and advocacy organization. It has over four million members and supporters.

NWF seeks to educate people of all ages by publishing a variety of wildlife magazines, including Wild Animal Baby, Your Big Backyard, Ranger Rick, and National Wildlife Magazine, and by the Backyard Habitat series on Discovery's Animal Planet along with IMAX films, such as Coral Reef Adventure, India: Kingdom of the Tiger, Bears, Wolves, and Dolphins. It has an online field guide of plants and animals called Enature.com. Also, the NWF offers hands-on training and support for habitat restoration through its Backyard Wildlife Habitat and Schoolyard Habitat programs.

Some of NWF's goals include: solutions to global warming; reducing mercury pollution; strengthening the Endangered Species Act; fighting invasive species; saving the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge from oil drilling; restoring America's waterways; reforming the Army Corps of Engineers; and educating future environmental stewards.

NWF's headquarters is in Reston, Virginia.

[[Gums]]

CATEGORIES: Mouth

The gums are the mucosal tissue that lies over the mandible and maxilla. They are also called gingiva. They surround the teeth and provide a seal around them. 

[[Jacobson's organ]]

CATEGORIES: Sensory system, Vertebrates

The Jacobson's organ, is part of the body that helps an animal smell things. It is found in many animals. It was discovered by Frederik Ruysch and later by Ludwig Jacobson in 1813. It is also called the vomeronasal organ or VNO.

This body part is mainly used to detect  pheromones, chemicals that carry information between individuals of the same species. So, sometimes it is called the "sixth sense."

[[Los Angeles Zoo]]

CATEGORIES: Zoos in the United States, Buildings and structures in Los Angeles, California, 1966 establishments in California

The Los Angeles Zoo, founded in 1966, is a 113 zoo in  Los Angeles, California. The City of Los Angeles owns the entire zoo, its land and buildings, and the animals. Animal care, grounds maintenance, construction, education, public information, and administrative staff are city employees.

[[Phil Bronstein]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Businesspeople from San Francisco, 1951 births, American editors

Phil Bronstein (born October 4, 1950) was the executive vice president and editor of the San Francisco Chronicle. 

[[Danny DeVito]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Actors from New Jersey, American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, American stage actors, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American voice actors, Emmy Award winners, Golden Globe Award winners, Movie directors from New Jersey, Movie producers from New Jersey

Daniel Michael "Danny" DeVito, Jr. (born November 17, 1944) is an American actor, director, producer and screenwriter. He has starred in and directed a number of movies. DeVito is of Italian descent. He was born in Neptune Township, New Jersey and grew up in Asbury Park, New Jersey.

[[Predation]]

CATEGORIES: Carnivores

In ecology, predation describes a relationship and actions between two creatures. A predator catches, attacks, and eats its prey. Predators may or may not kill their prey before eating them. But the act of predation always causes the death of its prey and taking in the prey's body parts into the predators body. A true predator can be thought of as one which both kills and eats another animal, but many animals act as both predator and scavenger.

A predator is an animal that hunts, catches, and eats other animals. For example, a spider eating a fly caught at its web is a predator, or a pack of lions eating a buffalo. The animals that the predator hunts are called prey. A top predator or apex predator is one that is not the prey of other predators.

Predators are usually carnivores (meat-eaters) or omnivores (eats plants and other animals). Predators will hunt other animals for food. Examples of predators are hawks, eagles, falcons, cats, crocodiles, snakes, raptors, wolves, killer whales, lobsters, lions, and sharks.

Predators mostly do not eat other predators.

[[Pink (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B singers, American pop musicians, American rock singers, American hip hop musicians, American singer-songwriters, Brit Award winners, Grammy Award winners, Singers from Pennsylvania, 1979 births, Living people, Pink (singer)

Alecia Beth Moore better known as P!nk (or Pink, born September 8, 1979), is an American singer-songwriter and actress. Her father is of English Jamaican , German, Irish and Scottish descent, and her mother is Jewish (of Bohemian Jewish, Czech Jewish, Lithuanian Jewish and Russian Jewish descent). She started off as a R&B singer and then included pop and rock to her music. As of 2012, she sold over 40 million records and 70 million singles worldwide. She has won three Grammy Awards and a Brit Award.

[[Smithsonian National Zoological Park]]

CATEGORIES: Zoos in the United States, Smithsonian Institution, National Register of Historic Places, 1889 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Washington, D.C.

The Smithsonian National Zoological Park is one of the oldest zoos in the United States. It is part of the Smithsonian Institution and does not charge admission. It began in 1889 and wants to be a leader in animal care, science, education, sustainability, and visitor experience. It is also called the National Zoo. The Zoo has two campuses. The first is a 163 urban park in northwest Washington, D.C.. It is 20 minutes from the National Mall by Metro. It offers family fun, excitement and interesting education programs. The other campus is the 3200 Smithsonian Conservation and Research Center (SCBI; formerly known as the Conservation and Research Center) in Front Royal, Virginia. SCBI is not open to the public. It is for training wildlife professionals in conservation biology and to propagating rare species through natural means and assisted reproduction. The National Zoo is accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA).

Altogether, the two facilities contain some 2,000 animals of 400 different species.

[[Avoca River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Victoria (Australia)

thumb|220px|Avoca River at Avoca, Victoria The Avoca River drains a large area of western and central Victoria, Australia. It is 270 kilometres from its beginnings near Amphitheatre to Lake Bael Bael. It flows through several towns including Avoca, Bealiba, Charlton and Culgoa. It is not a deep river, most of it is less than 2m, but there are some deeper pools near Logan. There are 13 creeks which flow into the Avoca River. The river carries varying amounts of water, and in summer can stop flowing for several months. At other times it can flood. In January 2010 the river flooded and covered about 80% of the town of Charlton. The roads into the town were cut and emergency food supplies had to be brought in by helicopter. The town of Culgoa was also flooded.

[[Thomas S. Monson]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2018 deaths, American Latter Day Saints, Christian religious leaders, Christian writers, Writers from Salt Lake City, Utah

Thomas Spencer Monson (August 21, 1927 – January 2, 2018) was an American religious leader and writer. On February 3, 2008, he became the sixteenth President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, after the death of Gordon B. Hinckley. He was appointed on the basis of seniority following the death of the previous president. He was born in Salt Lake City, Utah.

Monson was made an apostle at age 36. He was a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles until he became the President of the Church. As president of the church, Monson is said to be a prophet, seer, and revelator of God's will. Monson has spent most of his time engaged in various church leadership positions and in public service.

He has received three honorary doctorates. He is Chairman of the Church Boards of Trustees/Education of the Church Educational System. He was appointed by Ronald Reagan to the President's Task Force for Private Sector Initiatives. Monson received the Boy Scouts of America's Silver Buffalo and the World Organization of the Scout Movement's Bronze Wolf—both awards. Both awards are the highest given in each organization.

Monson died in Salt Lake City on January 2, 2018 at the age of 90. He was replaced by Russell M. Nelson.

[[Alter Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, 2004 establishments in Florida, Alternative metal bands, American hard rock bands, American heavy metal bands, Post-grunge bands, Musical groups from Orlando, Florida, Musical groups established in 2004

Alter Bridge is an American hard rock band from Orlando, Florida that was formed in 2004. It was formed by the then-former members of Creed. Alter Bridge has received relatively low mainstream success in the United States. They have released 3 studio albums and one live album. They released their latest album AB III which has received critical acclaim among critics.

Alter Bridge has been influenced by bands such as Led Zeppelin, Rush, and Tool. Alter Bridge's vocalist, Myles Kennedy is also known for his work with Slash. He is currently touring with Slash as the lead singer of his band. As of January 2011, Alter Bridge's most successful song is "Isolation" from their album "AB III". WWE Hall of Famer Edge used their song "Metalingus" as his theme song from November 1, 2001 to April 23, 2012. The band also appeared on WWE Raw during a backstage segment with Edge in 2005.

[[Manila Sound]]

CATEGORIES: Filipino culture

Manila Sound is a type of music that started in Manila, Philippines, from the last years of the 1960s to the middle of the 1970s. It is commonly known as the "bright side" of the time of President Ferdinand Marcos because of its cheerful words and was often used in protest to his dictatorship. 

This music type has affected all modern music types in the country as the beginner of Original Pilipino Music (OPM).

[[Imelda Marcos]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Filipino politicians, Filipino Roman Catholics, First Ladies and First Gentlemen of the Philippines, Government ministers, People from Manila

Imelda Marcos (born Imelda Remedios Visitacion Romualdez on July 2, 1929) is a Filipino government person and widow of 10th Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos. Her nicknames are Steel Butterfly and Iron Butterfly.

She is remembered both for her husband's presidential time, and because of her collection of 1,060 pairs of shoes. In 2001, Imelda opened the Marikina City Footwear Museum in the shoe-making district of Manila. The museum includes hundreds of her own shoes.

On 9 November 2018, Marcos was convicted and sentenced to 77 years in prison on corruption charges in a court proceeding that lasted twenty-seven years.

[[Liver failure]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases and disorders of the digestive system, Organ failure

Liver failure or Hepatic failure is when the liver is no longer able to work. Things the liver does include making proteins. Liver failure can either be acute or chronic.

[[Goodbye Lullaby]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne albums, 2011 albums

Goodbye Lullaby is the fourth studio album by Canadian Avril Lavigne. It was released on March 2, 2011 through RCA Records. Her first single off the album was "What the Hell" which was released on January 10, 2011. The second single, "Smile", was released on April 11, 2011. The album is a lot more personal and softer than her three previous albums, Let Go, Under My Skin and The Best Damn Thing.

[[Battle of Fort Blair]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s in Kansas, American Civil War battles, 1863 in the United States, October events, Massacres of the American Civil War

The Battle of Fort Blair (also known as the Battle of Fort Baxter) was a Civil War battle. It was fought in Cherokee County, Kansas, on October 6, 1863. The Union lost 103 peoples, while the Confederate States of America only lost three.

[[Olivenza]]

CATEGORIES: Territorial disputes

Olivença (Spanish: Olivenza) is a territory disputed by Portugal and Spain. The territory was under Portuguese rule between 1297 (Treaty of Alcañices) and 1801. Then, it was occupied and ruled by Spain. After the Napoleonic Wars, Spain promised to give Olivença back to Portugal. It still has not done this to this day.

Portugal does not recognize the Spanish rule of the Olivença/Olivenza territory. Therefore, the border between Portugal and Spain in the Olivença/Olivenza region has never been defined.

Olivença/Olivenza territory is 750 Km2 in area. 

Besides the town, the territory of Olivença/Olivenza includes seven villages:

[[Lamprey]]

CATEGORIES: Agnatha

Lampreys are jawless fish, whose adults are characterized by a toothed, funnel-like, sucking mouth. Lampreys belong to the order Petromyzontiformes. They live in coastal and fresh waters, and are found in temperate regions around the world. 

[[Nat Turner]]

CATEGORIES: Slaves, People from Virginia, 1800 births, 1831 deaths, American Baptists, American abolitionists, American people convicted of murder, American revolutionaries, Executed American people, People executed by hanging, Slave rebellions

Nathaniel "Nat" Turner (October 2, 1800 – November 11, 1831) was an American slave and Christian preacher.

He believed God gave him visions. When he was 21 years old, Nat Turner escaped from his master Samuel Turner following in his father's footsteps  and hid in the woods. 30 days later he had a vision telling him to "return  Turner thought an eclipse in February 1831 was a sign from God to plan a slave rebellion. The rebellion happened in Southampton County, Virginia on August 21, 1831. He wasn’t that far from the North Carolina border. Seventy black people took part. Some of these people were free, and others were slaves. After Turner and his fellow slaves killed his master and his family, they took their horses, firearms, hatchets and knives; and continued on with their destruction. 

The Governor had scheduled about three thousand militiamen to stop the rebellion. The violent rebellion lasted two days until soldiers finally ended it, but Turner escaped. He hid for 6 weeks to avoid being killed.  He was found on October 30. Turner was executed on November 11 by hanging. He was skinned. At least 55 white people were killed in the rebellion. The state executed 55 people, but acquitted a few. 200 black people were killed by groups of white people. Slaves as far away as North Carolina were said to be connected with the rebellion. Many were tried and executed. Because of the rebellion, new laws were made in Virginia. People could not bring black people together to teach them how to read and write. Nat Turner was an American Hero

[[Royal Rumble (2011)]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Rumble, 2011 in professional wrestling, 2011 in American television, 2010s in Boston, Massachusetts, January 2011 events

Royal Rumble (2011) was the twenty-fourth annual Royal Rumble professional wrestling pay-per-view event made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on January 30, 2011 at the TD Garden in Boston, Massachusetts. As always, the Royal Rumble match winner, Alberto Del Rio got a main event match at WrestleMania XXVII for his choice at either the WWE Championship or the World Heavyweight Championship.

Six professional wrestling matches were on the event's supercard, a scheduling of more than one main event. The main event was the 40-man Royal Rumble match instead of the original 30-man match which featured wrestlers from both brands.

[[Princess Royal]]

CATEGORIES: Princesses Royal, Lists of princesses

Princess Royal is a title often given by the reigning British King or Queen to his or her eldest daughter. The title is a gift of the monarch, unlike Prince of Wales which is always given to the eldest son

There can only be one Princess Royal at a time, so Elizabeth II never held the title because her aunt, Princess Mary was already called Princess Royal.

[[Common Sense (pamphlet)]]

CATEGORIES: American Revolutionary War, 1776, 1770s works

Common Sense is a pamphlet (short book) written by Thomas Paine.  It was first published on January 10, 1776.  Paine wrote the pamphlet to change the minds of people who wanted to peacefully settle their differences with the British government to fight for independence instead. 

The pamphlet said that the British government and other European monarchies were tyrannical, meaning they did not acknowledge the rights of people. Pained called the pamphlet Common Sense because he wrote that it was against common sense for an island to rule a larger nation.  Therefore, the colonies should overthrow the British government.

The pamphlet was one of the bestselling works of the 18th century in America.  Thomas Paine wrote in a style that was easy for most people to understand, instead of the hard to understand writing common in the Enlightenment Era.  He also referenced the Bible and used idioms that many of the Protestant colonists understood.

The document was an important part of the American Revolutionary War.  It lead to the Declaration of Independence, which the Second Continental Congress wrote and signed into law later that year.  Common Sense helped by creating mass suppor.

and it was published in 1776

[[Jeopardy!]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 television series debuts, 1960s American television series, 1970s American television series, 1980s American television series, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, First run syndicated television programs, Jeopardy!, NBC network shows, Television quiz shows, Emmy Award winning programs, English-language television programs

Jeopardy! is an American television game show created by Merv Griffin. The show first appeared on NBC, where it was hosted by Art Fleming from March 30, 1964 to January 3, 1975 and again from October 2, 1978 to March 2, 1979. Beginning Sony Pictures Television on September 10, 1984 and continuing into the present, the show is in syndicated format and was hosted by Alex Trebek from 1984 until his death in 2020. Versions of the show have been made in many foreign countries throughout the world.

Since the syndicated version premiered, the show has won the most Emmy Awards of any game show on daytime television. In 2001 & 2012, TV Guide named it the second-best game show of all time. The 37th season of the syndicated version premiered on September 14, 2020.

On March 10, 2020, an announcement was made that Jeopardy will be filmed without a live audience due to the 2019–20 coronavirus outbreak.  A week later on March 17, production was suspended entirely, but resumed in late July 2020 without a live audience.

[[Alexander Calder]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1976 deaths, American sculptors

Alexander Calder (July, 22,1898 - November 11, 1976) was an American sculptor. He lived in Philadelphia, in the United States. He invented the mobile. Mobiles are a kind of sculpture where the pieces are moved by motors or the wind. Mobiles are a kind of kinetic sculpture. He also made sculptures that did not move that were called "stabiles."

[[Electron affinity]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

Electron affinity is a phrase used in chemistry.  When an atom that is neutral gets an electron, the energy that is changed in the atom is the electron affinity. Across a period, the electron affinity increases. 

[[Oleg Tverdovsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, American Hockey League players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Carolina Hurricanes players, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Mighty Ducks of Anaheim players, New Jersey Devils players, Phoenix Coyotes players, Russian ice hockey players, Stanley Cup champions, Olympic bronze medalists, Ukrainian ice hockey players, Winnipeg Jets (1979–96) players, Ice hockey defencemen

Oleh Fedorovych "Oleg" Tverdovsky (Олег Федорович Твердовський; born May 18, 1976), was a Ukrainian-Russian  professional ice hockey defenceman that played for Salavat Yulaev Ufa of the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL). He also played for the Los Angeles Kings, Carolina Hurricanes, New Jersey Devils, Phoenix Coyotes, Winnipeg Jets, and Mighty Ducks of Anaheim in the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Anton Babchuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American Hockey League players, Calgary Flames players, Carolina Hurricanes players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Living people, Russian ice hockey players, Sportspeople from Kiev, Stanley Cup champions, Ukrainian ice hockey players, Ice hockey defencemen

Anton Anatoliiovych Babchuk (Антон Анатолійович Бабчук; born May 6, 1984) is a Ukrainian-Russian professional ice hockey defenceman currently playing for Calgary Flames of the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Charlie Sheen]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American people convicted of assault, American television actors, American voice actors, People with HIV/AIDS, Republicans (United States)

Carlos Irwin Estévez (born September 3, 1965), better known by his stage name Charlie Sheen, is an American actor in movies and television. He starred in television show Two and a Half Men. Sheen had a cameo appearance in Ferris Bueller's Day Off. In 2010, Sheen was the highest paid actor on television and earned US$1.8 million per episode of Two and a Half Men.

[[Jacobite succession]]

CATEGORIES: British monarchy, Jacobitism, House of Savoy, House of Wittelsbach

The Stuarts who claimed the thrones of England, Scotland, Ireland and France after the Glorious Revolution of 1688 were:  

When Henry died, the succession passed to a different house, and none of the Jacobite heirs since has claimed the thrones of England or Scotland or put the arms of England and Scotland in their coats-of-arms.

[[Geography of Taiwan]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Taiwan

Taiwan is a medium-sized chain of islands in East Asia at 23°30" N, 121°00" E .  It runs through the Tropic of Cancer.  Also known as Formosa, it makes up most of the territories of the Republic of China (commonly known as Taiwan).

==Formation== 

The island of Formosa (or Taiwan) was formed about 4.5 million years ago from a Geosyncline.  It is part of an island arc. It was formed when the Eurasian Plate slid under an old chain of volcanic islands in the Philippine Mobile Belt. At the northern end of the island, the Philippine Mobile Belt sank under the Eurasian Plate.

[[Chevrolet Suburban]]

CATEGORIES: Chevrolet automobiles

Chevrolet Suburban is a fully sized SUV from Chevrolet. This vehicle was first produced around 1935, longer than any other car still being made.  It was first made as a station wagon, and was later made as an SUV.  Up until the eleventh generation, the Chevrolet Suburban was based on the Chevrolet Silverado pick-up truck.  For a number of years, the Suburban was the largest SUV made in America. There was also a GMC Suburban, although GMC's version was later rebranded the GMC Yukon XL in 2000. From 1998 to 2001 a right-hand drive version was made in Mexico and sold in Australia and New Zealand by Holden using the Suburban name, but was not a best seller and was withdrawn afterwards.

Since its inception, there has been twelve generations of Suburbans, the latest introduced in December 2020 and went on sale in May 2020 as a 2021 model.

[[House of Wittelsbach]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens in Germany, Kings and Queens of Denmark, Kings and Queens of Norway, Hungarian people, Greek people, Holy Roman Emperors, Kings and Queens of Sweden

The Wittelsbach family is a European royal family and a German dynasty from Bavaria. 

Members of the family were rulers of Bavaria, either as Dukes, Electors or Kings, from 1180 until the revolution in 1918, after the defeat of Germany in World War I.

Other land, controlled by other branches of the family include

Wittelsbachs also ruled as

[[Dodge Caravan]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Dodge automobiles

The Dodge Caravan is an American minivan manufactured by FCA US, LLC. and sold by Dodge. The Caravan was introduced around 1983, and Grand Caravan was introduced around 1987. The original Caravan was dropped after the 2007 model year and replaced by the Dodge Journey. Grand Caravan has been redesigned many times through the years. Chrysler announced that 2015 would be the last model year for the Grand Caravan, as part of the plan to refocus Dodge as a performance brand. However the Grand Caravan made a come for a later successor.

[[Conversion van]]

CATEGORIES: Vans

The conversion van is a full-sized cargo van. The vans are sent to third party companies and then outfitted with luxuries for road trips and camping. They are available in high topped or in low topped versions, as office vans, travel vans and disability vans. Conversion vans began coming into style during the 1970s and 1980s. Early conversion vans were simply vans which had seats inserted in them.

[[Quinoa]]

CATEGORIES: Amaranthaceae, Edible nuts and seeds

Quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa; (ˈ or k, from Quechua kinwa or kinuwa) is a species of goosefoot (Chenopodium). It is a grain-like crop grown primarily for its edible seeds. 

Quinoa is not a real cereal, or grain, but more of a vegetable, as it is not a member of the grass family. As a chenopod, quinoa is closely related to species such as beets, spinach, and tumbleweeds. Its leaves are also eaten as a leaf vegetable, much like amaranth. Quinoa greens are not widely available for purchase.  Quinoa gives high quality protein and other nutrients. It has been called a 'superfood'.

[[Chenopodioideae]]

CATEGORIES: Amaranthaceae

The Chenopodioideae is a subfamily of flowering plants are family Amaranthaceae, formerly treated as a distinct family Chenopodiaceae and comprising all of the genera formerly included in this family except for those transferred to the subfamilies Salicornioideae and Salsoloideae. The precise circumscription of the subfamily is still uncertain, with research continuing; significant changes may occur to the genera included.

The subfamily as currently circumscribed has a cosmopolitan distribution, with about 1,400 species accepted. It is a particularly significant component of the vegetation of the arid region that extends from north Africa to central Asia.

[[Kathy Griffin]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, American LGBT rights activists, American movie actors, American television producers, American television talk show hosts, American television writers, Comedians from Chicago, People from Oak Park, Illinois, Writers from Chicago, People with cancer

Kathleen Mary "Kathy" Griffin (born November 4, 1960) is an American actress, stand-up comedian and television writer and producer. She is also an LGBT rights advocate. She hosted her own talk show, Kathy. From 2007 until 2016, she presented the New Year's Eve celebrations from New York City for CNN along with Anderson Cooper.

[[Juliette Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American rock singers, American television actors, Singers from Los Angeles, California

Juliette Lewis (born June 21, 1973) is an American actress and singer. She gained fame for her role in the 1991 thriller Cape Fear. She was nominated for both an Academy Award and Golden Globe. This followed with major roles in What's Eating Gilbert Grape, Natural Born Killers, The Evening Star, and From Dusk Till Dawn. Her work in television has earned her two Emmy nominations.

She was the lead singer of rock band "Juliette and the Licks". Her father was actor Geoffrey Lewis.

[[Central Visayas]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

Central Visayas, designated as Region VII, is a region of the Philippines in the central part of the Visayas island group. It consists of four provinces–Bohol, Cebu, Negros Oriental, and Siquijor– and the highly urbanized cities of Cebu City, Lapu-Lapu City, and Mandaue. The region is dominated by the native speakers of Cebuano. Cebu City is its regional center.

The land area of the region is 15,875 km². As of the 2010 census, 6,800,180 people lived there. Only three of the country's 17 regions had more people.

[[Mandaue]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Philippines

Mandaue City is a city in the province of Cebu in the Philippines. It is one of the three urbanized cities in the island and forms a part of the Cebu Metropolitan area. Mandaue City is on the middle eastern coastal region of Cebu, bordering to its right-side are Mactan Island where Lapu-Lapu City is. Mandaue is connected to Mactan Island via two bridges which includes the Mactan-Cebu Bridge and Marcelo Fernan Bridge  And is bounded south and the west by the Provincial Capital, Cebu City and north by Consolacion which is linked with Cansaga Bay Bridge. The city has an area of about 34.87 square kilometres and has a total population of about 337,320 people.

[[Candida]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi

Candida is a genus or grouping of yeasts. Yeasts are a type of fungus. This group of fungi are the most common cause of fungus infections in the world. Most people have or are exposed to this group of fungus but are not sick. If a person is weak because of another illness, this fungus can cause disease. Candida albicans is the most common kind of Candida. Infection with this fungus is called candidiasis or thrush. Other species in this group can be found in the human gut.

People can get a blood infection from this fungus.

Medicines called antibiotics do not cure yeast infections.  In fact, an antibiotic can make a Candida infection worse. Women can get a Candida infection in their vagina.  Men can also get a Candida infection in their genital area. If a person takes antibiotics for a long time, they have a greater chance of having a Candida infection.  People with diabetes or HIV are more likely to get a yeast infection.

[[Charles Edward Stuart]]

CATEGORIES: 1720 births, 1788 deaths, House of Stuart, Jacobite pretenders, People from Rome

Charles Edward Stuart (Prince Charles Edward Louis Philip Casimir Stuart, 31 December 1720 - 31 January 1788) is better known as Bonnie Prince Charlie or as 'The Young Pretender'.

Bonnie Prince Charlie was the Jacobite pretender to the thrones of England, Scotland, and Ireland. This claim was as the eldest son of James Francis Edward Stuart, and grandson of James II and VII.

Charles is perhaps best known as the leading the unsuccessful Jacobite uprising of 1745. He led a rebellion which ended in a heavy defeat at the Battle of Culloden. That ended the Jacobite cause. Charles's escape from Scotland after the uprising made him a romantic figure of heroic failure. The Skye Boat Song remembers him.

He lived, and died, in Rome, where his father had been given a home by Clement XI.

[[Henry Benedict Stuart]]

CATEGORIES: 1725 births, 1807 deaths, British priests, British Roman Catholics, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, House of Stuart, Jacobite pretenders, People from Rome, Roman Catholic archbishops, Roman Catholic priests

Henry Benedict Maria Clement Thomas Francis Xavier Stuart (11 March 1725 - 13 July 1807) was a Roman Catholic Cardinal, as well as the fourth and final Jacobite heir to publicly claim the thrones of England, Scotland, and Ireland. Unlike his father, James Francis Edward Stuart, and brother, Charles Edward Stuart, Henry made no effort to seize the throne. After Charles's death in January 1788 the Pope did not recognise Henry as the lawful ruler of England, Scotland and Ireland, but referred to him as the Cardinal Duke of York.

He spent his life in the Papal States and had a long career in the clergy of the Roman Catholic Church, rising to become the Dean of the College of Cardinals and Cardinal-Bishop of Ostia and Velletri. At the time of his death he was (and still is) one of the longest serving Cardinals in the Church's history.

When he was young, Henry's father made him Duke of York (in the Jacobite peerage), and that was how he was best known. Upon the death of his brother in 1788 Henry became known by Jacobites, and within his personal entourage, as Henry IX of England, although publicly he referred to himself as Cardinal-Duke of York nuncupatus.

[[Cam Plante]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, American Hockey League players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, Toronto Maple Leafs players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Colonial Hockey League players

Cam Plante (born March 12, 1964 in Brandon, Manitoba) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey defenceman.  He was drafted in the seventh round, 128th overall, by the Toronto Maple Leafs in the 1983 NHL Entry Draft.  He played two games in the National Hockey League with the Maple Leafs in the 1984–85 season.

Plante holds the Western Hockey League record for points in a season by a defenceman.  He scored 140 points as a member of the Brandon Wheat Kings in the 1983–84 WHL season. He finished his playing career with the Wichita Thunder of the CHL, having returned to North America following four seasons on the United Kingdom. Most of that time was spent with the Peterborough Pirates, but also encompassed short spells with the Chelmsford Chieftains and Humberside Hawks. He is the father of current Florida Panthers prospect Tyler Plante and current Edmonton Oilers prospect Alex Plante.

[[Tyler Plante]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, American Hockey League players, American ice hockey players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, ECHL players, Living people, Sportspeople from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Swedish Hockey League players

Tyler Plante (born May 17, 1987) is a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender currently with the Rochester Americans of the American Hockey League.

[[Sargon]]

Sargon may refer to different rulers. The name Sargon is what texts in the Bible use, the people were not known as Sargon in their native language: 

[[Urbi et Orbi]]

CATEGORIES: Popes

Urbi et Orbi ("to the City of Rome and to the World") was a standard opening of  proclamations in Imperial Rome.

Now Urbi et Orbi refers to a papal address and Apostolic Blessing that is addressed  to the City of Rome and to the entire world from the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican.  Usually they are only given at Christmas and Easter, but also the first speech of a new pope is Urbi et Orbi, and sometimes one is given to special gatherings of pilgrims in Rome and during Holy Years

The blessing after the speech is given in Latin, and usually many other languages too.  Catholics who listen to the blessing, either because they are present at the Vatican or because they are listening to the radio or television broadcasts, have their sins forgiven because the blessing includes a plenary indulgence.

[[Šarru-kên I]]

CATEGORIES: Assyrian people

other people called "Sargon"'

Šarru-kên I, also known as Sargon I was the 35th king of Assyria. He reigned from 1920 BC to 1881 BC (Middle chronology), or 1856 to 1817 BC (short chronology). He bears the name Sargon with reference to Sargon of Akkad. 

[[Quercus basaseachicensis]]

CATEGORIES: Fagales, Trees

Quercus basaseachicensis is a kind of oak tree in the Fagaceae family. It is believed to be a cross of 

Quercus rugosa and Quercus depressipes. It is native to Chihuahua and Durango in Mexico, where there are five known small populations; one in Durango and four in Chihuahua. 

[[Ringkøbing]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Europe

Ringkøbing is a town in Ringkøbing-Skjern municipality in Region Midtjylland on the Jutland peninsula in west Denmark.

As of 1 January 2010, 9,850 people live in the town.

Archeologists believe that the town was started in the 13th century.

[[Bill Ranford]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Detroit Red Wings players, Edmonton Oilers players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, New Westminster Bruins players, Stanley Cup champions, Tampa Bay Lightning players, Washington Capitals players

William Edward Ranford (born December 14, 1966 in Brandon, Manitoba) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender and is the current goaltending coach for the Los Angeles Kings. He graduated from New Westminster Secondary School in 1985. He was selected in the third round of the 1985 NHL Entry Draft, 52nd overall, by the Boston Bruins.  Over the course of fifteen NHL seasons, Ranford would play with Boston, the Edmonton Oilers, Washington Capitals, Tampa Bay Lightning, and Detroit Red Wings, winning two Stanley Cups, a Canada Cup, and the 1994 Hockey World Championships while playing for Canada.

[[Sargon II]]

CATEGORIES: Assyrian people, Year of birth unknown, 705 BC deaths

Sargon II (Šarru-kên, "legitimate king", reigned 722 – 705 BC) was an Assyrian king. Sargon II became co-regent with Shalmaneser V in 722 BC.  Shalmaneser V died in 722 BC. From then on, Sargon II was the only ruler of Assyria.  It is not clear if he was the son of Tiglath-Pileser III or a usurper unrelated to the royal family. In his inscriptions, he styles himself as a new man and rarely talks about his predecessors. He nevertheless took the name Sharru-kinu ("true king"), after Sargon of Akkad — who had founded the first Semitic Empire in the region about 16 centuries earlier. Sargon is the Biblical form of the name.

[[Biłgoraj]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Poland

Biłgoraj is a town in south-eastern Poland. Since 1999, it has been a part of the Lublin Voivodeship; it was previously a part of the Zamość Voivodeship (1975–1998). It is located 90 km south of Lublin and it is also the capital of Biłgoraj County.

In 2006, 27,225 people lived in Biłgoraj.

[[Bryce Salvador]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Lethbridge Hurricanes players, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, St. Louis Blues players

Bryce Chad Salvador (born February 11, 1976 in Brandon, Manitoba) is a former Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman that played for the New Jersey Devils of the NHL. He also played for the St. Louis Blues. Salvador was drafted in the sixth round, 138th overall by the Tampa Bay Lightning in the 1994 NHL Entry Draft. 

[[Lewis and Harris]]

CATEGORIES: Inner and Outer Hebrides

Lewis and Harris in the Outer Hebrides make up the largest island in Scotland. This is the largest single island of the British Isles after Great Britain and Ireland.

The northern part of the island is called Lewis, the southern is Harris and both are frequently referred to as if they were separate islands. The boundary between Lewis and Harris is formed by a line with Loch Resort on the west and Loch Seaforth on the east. The main town is Stornoway in Lewis.

The island does not have a common name in either English or Scottish Gaelic and is referred to as 'Lewis and Harris'. Until 1975, Lewis belonged to the county of Ross and Cromarty and Harris to Inverness-shire. The entire island group now belongs to the Western Isles Council.

The island is the ancestral homeland of the Highland Clan MacLeod, and the Clan Morrison.

[[Station wagon]]

CATEGORIES: Automobile body styles

The station wagon, or estate, is a variant of sedan. The difference between station wagons and regular sedans is that the station wagon has no trunk, plus the roofs are extended backwards over a shared passenger or cargo volume with access in the back. 

Station wagons have been mostly replaced by minivans/MPVs, SUVs, and crossovers.

[[Chevrolet Silverado]]

CATEGORIES: Chevrolet automobiles, Pickup trucks

The Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra are pickup trucks manufactured from General Motors. The Chevrolet Silverado first began around 1998, although the name Silverado actually got its use on pickup trucks beginning in 1975.

[[Chuck Scherza]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, New York Rangers players

Chuck Scherza (February 15, 1923 – March 16, 2014) is a former professional ice hockey player who played 11 seasons in the American Hockey League, winning a Calder Cup championship in 1949. He was born in Brandon, Manitoba.

[[Servant of God]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholicism

Servant of God is a title given to individuals by different religions, but in general the phrase is used to describe a person believed to be pious in his or her faith tradition. In the Catholic Church, it designates someone who is being investigated by the Church for possibly being recognized as a saint. In the Eastern Orthodox churches, this term is used to refer to any Eastern Orthodox Christian.

The Arabic name Abdullah عبد الله, the Hebrew name Obadiah עובדיה and the German name Gottschalk literally mean "servant of God".

[[Venerable]]

CATEGORIES: Venerated Catholics

The Venerable is used as a style in several Christian churches. It is also the common English-language translation of a number of Buddhist titles.

[[Jane Pauley]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, People from Indiana, American journalists, American television presenters

Margaret "Jane" Pauley is a news anchor and reporter. She hosted NBC Today between 1976 and 1989 and Dateline NBC starting in 1992 and ending in 2003. Pauley was born 31 October 1950 in Indianapolis.

[[Burrito]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican food

A burrito is a traditional Mexican dish. It is based on a tortilla filled with foods such as meat, beans or cheese. In the United States, however, there are usually several ingredients. They use foods such as Mexican rice, beans, lettuce, salsa (ex. pico de gaillo), meat (ex. carne asada), avocado, cheese, and sour cream.

== Related pages == 

[[Port of Gladstone]]

CATEGORIES: Queensland

The Port of Gladstone is a seaport in Gladstone, Queensland.  It exports the fourth largest amount of coal of any seaport in the world.

The port has several different parts to it. Auckland Point was where coal began to be exported in 1925.

Later, live horses were moved there in the mid 1930s. Barney Point was used to export coal from Moura. Barney Point was made part of the Port of Gladstone in November 1998.

The Fisherman’s Landing part was opened in 1980. It was expanded in the 1990s and is planned to be expanded more. Boyne Wharf is used by the Boyne Island aluminium smelter and was opened in August 1982. The South Trees part of the port have been used by Queensland Alumina Limited, an aluminum company. The RG Tanna Coal Terminal was opened in 1997 and is used to export coking coal to Japanese steel mills.

[[Lawrence massacre]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1860s in Kansas, 1863 in the United States, August events, Lawrence, Kansas, Massacres of the American Civil War

The Lawrence Massacre (also known as Quantrill's Raid) was an attack on the town of Lawrence, Kansas on August 21, 1863. The attack was a battle in the U.S. Civil War. The Confederates won the battle. They won because groups of guerillas led by William Quantrill rode into town and shot every man they saw. They killed about 150 people.

The guerillas attacked Lawrence because the city supported abolition and because it was a center for the Jayhawkers. The Jayhawkers were free-state militia groups known for attacking plantations in the pro-slavery western counties of Missouri.

[[Pedro Álvares Cabral]]

Pedro Álvares Cabral (c. 1467 or 1468 Belmonte – c. 1520 Santarém) was a Portuguese nobleman, navigator and explorer who was the first European to see Brazil (on 22 April 1500).

King Manuel I of Portugal sent Cabral on an expedition to India. 

Cabral sailed on 9 March 1500, with 13 ships, following the route of Vasco da Gama. 

On 22 April 1500, he sighted land (Brazil), claiming it for the Portuguese Crown and naming it the "Island of the True Cross." 

King Manuel I renamed this land "Holy Cross"; it was later renamed once again, to "Brazil", after a kind of wood found there, called pau-brasil. 

Cabral stayed in Brazil for 10 days and then continued on his way to India, in a dangerous trip with storms, and he suffered the destruction of some ships at the Cape of Good Hope, and fighting against Muslim traders in Calicut, India (50 men of Cabral were killed in this attack). 

Cabral successfully traded for spices in Cochin, now called Kozhikode, India (in early January, 1501). 

Cabral returned to Portugal on 23 June 1501, with only 5 of the original 13 ships, carrying a big load of spices.

After this journey, King Manuel I appointed Vasco da Gama to head the next expedition (1502) because Cabral refused to command another expedition to India.

Cabral retired to his properties in Santarém. He died in c. 1520 and was buried in a monastery in Santarém, Portugal.

[[Toyota Sequoia]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Toyota automobiles

Toyota Sequoia is a large SUV made by Toyota. The production of the Sequoia began during 2000. This sport utility vehicle is among the largest vehicles from Toyota. It can seat around seven or eight passengers.

[[Mandaue City Central School]]

CATEGORIES: Education in the Philippines

Mandaue City Central School is the oldest school in Mandaue, in Cebu, Philippines. It is an elementary school. The school occupies an area of more than 20000. It belongs to the Central District council. For several decades, Mandaue City Central School stood as the only school in the Central District until three schools were established sometime in the 1990s. The first building, the Gabaldon Building, was built in 1904 which is still in use.

[[Battle of Mine Creek]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1860s in Kansas, 1864 in the United States

The Battle of Mine Creek (also known as the Battle of the Osage) was a battle in the American Civil War. In total, 1,300 people were killed. The battle was fought in Linn County, Kansas.

[[Wilson prime]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory

A Wilson prime is a special kind of prime number. A prime number p is a Wilson prime if (and only if  (iff) )

where n is a positive integer (sometimes called natural number). Wilson primes were first described by Emma Lehmer.

The only known Wilson primes are 5, 13, and 563 A007540; if any others exist, they must be greater than 58. It has been conjectured that  there are an infinite number of Wilson primes, and that the number of Wilson primes in an interval , y is about

Compare this with Wilson's theorem, which states that every prime p divides (p − 1)! + 1.

[[Honda Odyssey]]

CATEGORIES: Honda automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Honda Odyssey is a minivan that has been made by Honda since 1994. From 1994-1999, it was also sold as the Isuzu Oasis. A larger version of the minivan has been available since 1999 in North America. It was redesigned in 2005 and 2011. The 2015 model was awarded the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety's top rated pick because of it's collision avoidance system.

[[Short-faced bear]]

CATEGORIES: Ursidaes

The short-faced bear or bulldog bear (Arctodus) is an extinct genus of bear endemic to North America during the Pleistocene era about 1.8 million years ago (mya) to 11,000 years ago. At that time, Arctodus simus may have been one of the largest mammals that lived on land and ate meat.

Arctodus simus first appeared during the middle Pleistocene in North America, about 800,000 years ago. It became extinct about 11,600 years ago.   

[[Typhoon Mike]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 in Asia

Super Typhoon Mike (international designation: 9025, JTWC designation: 27W, PAGASA name: Ruping) was the strongest and deadliest typhoon of the 1990 Pacific typhoon season as it crossed the Philippines in November.

[[Control variable]]

CATEGORIES: Science

A control variable is something in an experiment that is kept the same.  Having control variables means that the experiment will be a fair test.

The Control Variable is often used with the independent and dependent variables.

[[Negative feedback]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering, Physiology, Systems theory

Negative feedback is a basic concept of cybernetics; it is the basis of regulation and control. It is important in engineering and physiology. In biology and physiology negative feedback is known as homeostasis.

Negative feedback occurs when the output of a system acts to oppose changes to the input of a system. This has the result that the changes are made less, and the system kept within limits. The classic example is a central heating system which cuts off when a (suitably placed) temperature sensor hits a pre-set mark. The negative feedback part is the thermostat.

[[980]]

CATEGORIES: 980

[[Vorarlberg]]

CATEGORIES: Vorarlberg

Vorarlberg (Vorarlbergian: Vorarlbearg, Voralbärg, or Voraadelbearg) is the westernmost federal state in Austria. The capital is Bregenz. The biggest cities are Feldkirch and Dornbirn. As of 2016, there were about 384,000 people.

It is the only province in Austria that does not speak Austro-Bavarian.  Instead they speak an Alemannic dialect. This makes it more in common with its Alemannic-speaking neighbors Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Swabia than with Bavaria and the rest of Austria.

The highest mountain is Piz Buin.  The main rivers in Vorarlberg are the Ill, the Bregenzer Ach and the Dornbirner Ach.

78% of the population is Roman Catholic.  The second most follow Islam which has a share of 8.4%.

Vorarlberg is divided into four large districts.  They are Bregenz, Dornbirn, Feldkirch and Bludenz.

On land, Vorarlberg has borders with Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany. The respextive states are the Swiss cantons of St.Gallen and Graubünden, and the German state of Bavaria. Lake Constance is special, there are no borders apart fro the borders on land. Legally, all the states that share this lake, also have a common border. That way, Vorarlberg also has a common border with the German state of Baden-Württemberg, and the Swiss canton of Thurgau.

[[Princess of Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Princes and Princesses of Wales

Princess of Wales (Tywysoges Cymru) is a royal title used in the United Kingdom. It is held by the wife of the Prince of Wales. It has been used since the first English Prince of Wales, in 1283.

There have been only ten Princesses of Wales, even though there have been a lot more than ten male heirs to the throne. The majority of Princes of Wales married after acceding to the throne as King. A number of other Princes of Wales died too young to marry.

The second wife of the present Prince of Wales, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, is the current Princess of Wales, but does not use the title, out of respect for her husband's first wife, the late Diana, Princess of Wales.

The princess is usually entitled to the style of Her Highness.

[[Goh Kun]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Prime Ministers of South Korea, Presidents of South Korea, 1938 births, Mayors of Seoul

Goh Gun (고건; hanja 高建; born January 2, 1938 ) is a Korean politicians and civil servants. 

[[Flip Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 1998 deaths, Comedians from New Jersey, Deaths from liver cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, Television personalities from New Jersey, Actors from New Jersey

Clerow "Flip" Wilson Jr. (8 December 1933 – 25 November 1998) was an African-American comedian whose career was successful in the 1960s and 1970s. He is perhaps best known for his television variety series The Flip Wilson Show, which earned him a Golden Globe and two Emmy Awards.

On November 25, 1998, Wilson died from liver cancer in Malibu, California, aged 64.

[[Defense mechanism]]

CATEGORIES: psychology

Defense mechanism is a psychological concept of the mind. It is the coping technique individuals unconsciously use to protect themselves from getting hurt in unpleasant situations (e.g. conflicts, unhappiness). Without defense mechanisms, people may suffer from psychological and mental illness.

[[Chevrolet Volt]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s automobiles, Chevrolet automobiles

Chevrolet Volt is an American plug-in hybrid car. The car was first produced in 2011  and is manufactured by Chevrolet division of General Motors. This vehicle travels 25 to 50 miles (38 miles average) on electric power alone. After the battery is depleted, it switches to the extended range mode.

In the United States, the car has a suggested price of $34,185, but qualifies for a $7500 tax credit.  It can carry up to four people (including the driver).

[[La Brea tar pits]]

CATEGORIES: Lagerstätten, Geography of Los Angeles, California, Fossils, Natural history museums

The La Brea tar pits (or Rancho La Brea) are a famous cluster of tar pits in central Los Angeles. Complete skeletons of many thousands of large animals have been found here. They date mostly from 40,000 to 8,000 years ago.

Hancock Park was formed around the tar pits, in the heart of Los Angeles. Asphalt or tar (brea in Spanish) has seeped up from the ground here for tens of thousands of years. The tar is often covered with water. Over many centuries, animals that came to drink the water fell in, sank in the tar, and died. In the tar, their bones turned into fossils.

The George C. Page Museum is dedicated to researching the tar pits and displaying specimens from the animals that died there. The La Brea Tar Pits are now a registered National Natural Landmark.

[[Royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: National coats of arms, British monarchy

The Royal Coat of Arms of the United Kingdom is the official coat of arms of the British monarch, currently Queen Elizabeth II. These arms are used by the Queen in her official capacity as monarch of the United Kingdom, and are officially known as her Arms of Dominion. Different versions are used by other members of the Royal Family; and by the British Government in connection with the administration and government of the country. In Scotland, the Queen has a separate version of the Royal Arms, a variant of which is used by the Scotland Office.

The shield is quartered, depicting in the first and fourth quarters the three passant guardant lions of England; in the second, the rampant lion and double tressure fleury-counter-fleury of Scotland; and in the third, a harp for  Ireland.

The version used by the government does not have the helmet or lion, the version used by the government in Scotland does not have the lion or "In Defens" motto.

[[James Earl Ray]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 1998 deaths, American burglars, American fraudsters, American murderers, American prisoners, American robbers, American thieves, Assassins, Criminals from Illinois, Deaths from hepatitis, Disease-related deaths in the United States, People from Alton, Illinois, People who died in prison custody in the United States

James Earl Ray (March 10, 1928 – April 23, 1998) was the man who was convicted of murdering Martin Luther King, Jr on April 4, 1968. He was sentenced to 99 years in prison. At first he said that he had shot King, but he later said that he did not do it. There are many conspiricies about this but the truth is still unknown.

[[Leadership]]

CATEGORIES: Management, Political philosophy, Sociology

Leadership is an approach where “acts by persons influence other persons in a shared direction/goal” (Seeman, 1960).

[[Deltora Quest]]

CATEGORIES: Fantasy books

Deltora Quest is three series of books for children by Emily Rodda. It has 15 books overall: the first series Deltora Quest has eight books, the second series Deltora Shadowlands has three books, and the third series Dragons of Deltora has four books. They are all about a group of three friends who try to defeat the evil Shadow Lord and his friends.

[[Yaws]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria, Integumentary system

Yaws is a tropical infection of the skin, bones and joints. It is caused by the spirochaete bacterium Treponema pallidum pertenue.

The disease begins with a round, hard swelling of the skin, two to five centimeters in diameter. The center may break open and form an ulcer. This usually heals after three to six months. After several weeks, or even years later, the joints and bones may become painful, fatigue may develop, and new skin sores may appear. The skin of the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet may become thick and break open. The bones (especially those of the nose) may change shape. After five years or more large areas of skin can die. This leaves large scars.

Yaws is spread by touching the fluid from the sores of a person with the disease. The disease is most common among children, who spread it by playing together.

Other similar diseases are caused by different strains of the same bacterium, such as syphilis (Treponema pallidum pallidum). Once the lesions have appeared doctors are able to tell it is yaws. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is the best method of diagnosis.

The main way of stopping the disease spreading, is by curing those who have it. This stops them passing it on to others. Where the disease is common, treating the entire community is effective. Improving cleanliness and sanitation will also decrease spread. Yaws can be treated with antibiotics. Without treatment, physical deformities happen in 10% of cases.

Yaws is common in at least 14 tropical countries as of 2012. The disease infects only humans. In the 1950s and 1960s the World Health Organization (WHO) nearly destroyed yaws. Since then the number of cases has increased.

One of the first descriptions of the disease was made in 1679 by Willem Piso. Archaeology shows that yaws may have been present among humans as far back as 1.6 million years ago.

[[Vibrio]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Vibrio is a genus of gram-negative bacteria possessing a curved rod shape, several species of which can cause foodborne infection, usually associated with eating undercooked seafood. Typically found in saltwater, Vibrio are facultative anaerobes that test positive for oxidase and do not form spores. All members of the genus are motile and have polar flagella with sheaths. Recent phylogenies have been constructed based on a suite of genes (multi-locus sequence analysis).

The name Vibrio derives from Filippo Pacini who isolated microorganisms he called "vibrions" from cholera patients in 1854.

[[Pele (goddess)]]

CATEGORIES: Gods and goddesses, Culture of Hawaii

Pele was the goddess of fire, dancing, and volcanoes in Hawaiian religion. Pele's husband is Wahielo, also spelled with an a.

There are several stories about who Pele is. One story says that her sister is the goddess of the ocean. In another story, she lives in a land in the sky.

Pele is well known as a volcano goddess living in the crater of Kilauea on the island of Hawaii.

Pele (Pele), the Hawaiian  transmitted to the volcano of goddesses.

[[Hootie & the Blowfish]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, American pop music groups, Post-grunge bands, People from Columbia, South Carolina, Musical groups established in 1986, Musical groups disestablished in 2008

Hootie & the Blowfish are an American rock band It formed in 1986. Their first studio album, Cracked Rear View, was released in 1994. This group became popular in the second half of the 1990s. The group have been semi active since 2008.

[[Chevrolet Impala]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s automobiles, 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, 2020s automobiles, Chevrolet automobiles, Full-size vehicles

The Chevrolet Impala is a full size car made from the Chevrolet network of General Motors. The name Impala comes from the southern African antelope. The car was first produced in 1957, discontinued around 1985 and then resumed for the 1994 model year. From 2000 to 2005, the Impala was a mid-sized sedan and succeeded Chevrolet's dwindling Lumina. The 2006 to present Impala is a full-sized sedan and is sold to the public, the previous generation is restricted to fleet and commercial buyers and is dubbed Impala Ltd. The Impala limited is set to conclude production in 2016. Its final generation, introduced in 2012, went on sale in May 2014 until General Motors discontinued the vehicle in March 2020.

[[Hydrogenophilaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

The Hydrogenophilaceae are a family of Betaproteobacteria, with two genera. Like all Proteobacteria, they are gram-negative. Hydrogenophilus are thermophilic, growing around 50 °C and obtaining their energy from oxidizing hydrogen. It includes the genera Hydrogenophilus and Thiobacillus (see below for the removal of certain species).

[[Coral Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Seas of the Pacific Ocean, Bodies of water of Oceania

The Coral Sea is a small sea off the north east coast of Australia. It has Queensland on its west side and the islands of Vanuatu and New Caledonia on its east. On the north edge is the Solomon Islands, and in the south it joins the Tasman Sea. The Great Barrier Reef is in the Coral Sea. It has a warm climate, it often rains and there are often tropical cyclones. It covers an area of about four times the size of Great Britain. The WWF describe the Coral Sea as being one of the last complete tropical wilderness areas on earth. It has beautiful coral reefs with many different sea creatures including  grey and white tip reef sharks, hammerheads, manta rays, tuna, barracuda, turtles, whales and the rare nautilus.

Australia claims many of the islands as part of its 780,000 square kilometre Coral Sea Islands Territory. Most of them are small coral or sand islands, and only one has people living on it. It has a population of only four.

[[Gulf of Carpentaria]]

CATEGORIES: Bodies of water of Australia, Gulfs, Geography of Queensland, Geography of the Northern Territory

The Gulf of Carpentaria (14) is a large, shallow sea surrounded on three sides by northern Australia. Its north edge is the Arafura Sea; the sea between Australia and New Guinea. At its mouth, the Gulf is 590 km wide, and further south, 675 km. The north south distance is more than 700 km. It covers a water area of about 300,000 km². The gulf is between 55 and 66 meters deep, although there are spots as deep as 82 meters. In the last ice age the Gulf would have been dry land.

[[Le Monde's 100 Books of the Century]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century books, Lists of books

''Le Mondes 100 Books of the Century' is a list of books thought to be the 100 best of the 20th century. The list was made in 1999 by the French retail store Fnac and the Paris newspaper Le Monde''.

Starting with a list of 200 titles made by bookshops and journalists, 17,000 French people answered the question, "Which books have stayed in your memory?" The list includes novels, poetry, theatre, and comic strips. Some received the Nobel Prize in Literature. 

[[Anton de Bary]]

CATEGORIES: 1831 births, 1888 deaths, German doctors, Microbiologists

Heinrich Anton de Bary (26 January 1831 – 19 January 1888) was a German surgeon, botanist, microbiologist, and mycologist (fungal systematics and physiology). 

He is considered a founding father of plant pathology (phytopathology) as well as the founder of modern mycology. His extensive and careful studies of the life history of fungi and contribution to the understanding of algae and higher plants were landmarks of biology.

[[Systematics]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Taxonomy

Systematics is one of the main fields in biology. It is closely related to taxonomy.

Systematics is the study of the diversification of life on the planet Earth, both past and present, and the relationships among living things through time. 

Relationships are usually seen as evolutionary trees (cladograms, phylogenetic trees, phylogenies). 

Phylogenies have two components, branching order (showing group relationships) and branch length (showing amount of evolution). Phylogenetic trees of species and higher taxa are used to study the evolution of traits (anatomical or molecular characteristics), and the distribution of organisms (biogeography). Systematics is used to help us understand the evolutionary history of life on Earth.

"Systematic biology" and "taxonomy" are terms that are often confused and used interchangeably. They were defined as follows:

Systematics is the field which (a) provides scientific names for organisms, (b) describes them, (c) preserves collections of them, (d) provides classifications for the organisms, keys for their identification, and data on their distributions, (e) investigates their evolutionary histories, and (f) considers their environmental adaptations. Taxonomy is that part of systematics concerned with topics (a) to (d) above.

[[Artivism]]

CATEGORIES: Activism

Artivism combines art and activism. Artivism developed since the Berlin wall collapsed while the anti-globalization and antiwar protests emerged and proliferated. In most of the cases artivists attempt to push political agendas by the means of art and especially, but not only street art.

[[List of science fiction awards]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction awards, Lists of awards and nominations

Several awards are given to authors, editors and illustrators for creating works of science fiction. These awards show that fans or other professionals recognize the quality of stories, novels, movies, illustrations, or other works.  Awards are usually given once a year. The list below gives the name of the award, additional information, and the year it began.

[[Gold Coast, Queensland]]

CATEGORIES: Gold Coast, Queensland

thumb|220px|View of the Gold Coast from the 78th floor of Q1 The Gold Coast is the name given to a 57 kilometer long stretch of coast in the south east corner of Queensland, Australia. At the south end is the town of Coolangatta on the border with New South Wales. The north end of the Gold Coast is at Beenleigh and includes South Stradbroke Island. It also includes the foothills of the Great Dividing Range. The Gold Coast is famous for its surf beaches which include Coolangatta, Currumbin, Palm Beach, Burleigh Heads, Miami, Broadbeach, Surfers Paradise and Main Beach. The Gold Coast City is the sixth largest city in Australia with a population of more than 515,000 people (2010). It has a humid subtropical climate (Cfa in the Koeppen climate classification). Summers are hot and wet; winters are warm with moderate rainfall. It is a very popular place for holidays and has its own international airport. Many people go there for the beaches and to visit the theme parks which include Warner Bros. Movie World, Dreamworld, Seaworld and Wet and Wild.

A lot of houses on the Gold Coast are built in canal estates with over 260 kilometers of canals. Q1 is the tallest residential building in the world. Including the spire it reaches 322.5 metres above the street.

[[Plaza Monumental Román Eduardo Sandia]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 establishments, Venezuelan culture

Plaza Monumental Román Eduardo Sandia also known as the Plaza de Toros de Mérida is a plaza de toros first class located in the city of Mérida, Venezuela being one of the main infrastructure for cultural and artistic events to large scale of the city after the Estadio Olímpico Metropolitano and the fence locations for the bullfights in the frame of the Feria Internacional del Sol.

The Plaza was inaugurated in 1967 to serve as a forum to various events of Ferias del Sol, and has a capacity of 16,000 spectators.

He has received prominent bullfighters like Julian López "El Juli", Francisco Rivera Ordóñez, Juan José "Morante de la Puebla", Miguel Ángel Perera, Enrique Ponce, Francisco Rivera "Paquirrí", Pálomo Lináres, Javier Conde, Manuel Bénitez "El Cordobés", José María Manzanares, Antonio Barrera, Paquito Perlaza, Leonardo Bénitez, Luis Bolivar, David Fandila "El Fandi", Mary Paz Vega, Morenito de Maracay, Nerio Ramirez "El Tovareño", Rafael Orellana, César Vanegas, César Faraco, Eduardo Valenzuela, among others.

But he has also received several Venezuelan and international artists and singers like Juanes, Maná, Desorden Público, Caramelos de Cianuro, Franco De Vita, Paulina Rubio, Chino y Nacho, Don Omar, Tito El Bambino, Molotov, Wisin & Yandel, Dalmata, Vos Veis, Los Hombres G, Aterciopelados, Jorge Celedón, Jean Carlos Centeno, L'squadron, Tecupae, Luis Silva, Armando Martínez, among others.

[[Angolemi]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Cyprus

Angolemi (Turkish: Taşpınar or Angolem - the old name) is a village in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Its population is 212. Its area is 6.727 km2. It is a village of Lefka Municipality. It is in the Nicosia District of the Republic of Cyprus and Güzelyurt District of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus.

[[Kim Jong-pil]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Anti-Communists, Generals, Military personnel of the Korean War, Prime Ministers of South Korea, South Korean military people

Kim Jong-pil (김종필, January 7 1926 – June 23, 2018) was a former South Korean politician and general. 

He fought in the Korean War. He was the 11th Prime minister of South Korea (1971 to 1975), 31th Prime minister of South Korea (1998 to 2000). first Central Intelligence Agency of South Korea 1961 to 1963. nickname was 'Unjeong'(Korea:운정, hanja:雲庭) or 'JP'.

Kim died on June 23, 2018 in Seoul from respiratory failure at the age of 92.

[[Vanessa Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, African American musicians, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American pop musicians, American R&B singers, Singers from New York, Actors from New York, Miss America winners

Vanessa Lynn Williams (born March 18, 1963), known professionally as Vanessa L. Williams or Vanessa Williams, is an American singer, actress, producer and former fashion model. In 1983, she became the first African-American woman crowned Miss America, but a scandal occurred when Penthouse bought and published nude photographs of her. She left her title early and was succeeded by the first runner-up, Suzette Charles of New Jersey. Williams earned multiple Grammy, Emmy, and Tony Award nominations.

Williams released her debut album The Right Stuff in 1988, which spawned the hits "The Right Stuff". "The Right Stuff" was a No. 1 on Hot Dance Songs. "Dreamin'" was a No. 1 on R&B and No. 8 on Billboard Hot 100. Her second studio album The Comfort Zone in 1991 topped the Billboard R&B Album Chart, which spawned the Billboard Hot 100 number-one hit "Save the Best for Last". In 1994 she performed on Broadway in the musical Kiss of the Spider Woman. In 1995 she recorded "Colors of the Wind", which became the Oscar-winner for Best Original Song from the Disney animated feature movie Pocahontas, which reached No. 4 on the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Tiger salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

The tiger salamander is a species of mole salamander.  Another name for this  salamander is the eastern tiger salamander.

[[Brewing]]

CATEGORIES: Beer

Brewing is the process of making beer. It is usually made in a brewery, though it can be made at home. It is made by adding bacteria that ferment malt, barley or sugar into a large vat. Ethanol is produced by bacteria using up the energy from the mixture (which the bacteria digest into glucose) because there is no oxygen in the vat.

[[Interborough Rapid Transit Company]]

The Interborough Rapid Transit Company (IRT) was the first operator of the original underground New York City Subway line that opened in 1904, as well as other earlier railways and rapid transit lines in New York City. The company was bought by New York City in June 1940. The former IRT lines (the numbered lines in the current subway system) are now the A Division or IRT Division of the Subway.

The following services are or were part of the IRT or MTA IRT Division:

[[BSFA award]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction awards, Literary awards, Lists of books

The BSFA Awards are prizes given every year by the British Science Fiction Association (BSFA). The prize is for excellent works of science fiction. The first BSFA Award was given in 1970. Prizes are given for works from the year before the award is given. At first, the award was only for novels. Categories for short works and artwork were added in 1980. Awards for media were given from 1979 to 1992. In 2002, the BSFA Award started to be given for nonfiction too.

Members of the BSFA vote for the nominees who may win an award and then for the final winners. Recently members of Eastercon also vote.

[[Reticulated python]]

CATEGORIES: Pythons

The reticulated python (Python reticulatus) is a species of Python found in Southeast Asia. Adults can grow to 22.8 feet (6.95 m) in length but average is 9.8-19.7 feet. They are the world's longest snakes and longest reptile, but not the most heavily built. They usually weigh about 350 lbs. The thickest and heaviest living snake is the anaconda, also known as the green anaconda. Like all pythons, they are non-venomous constrictors (they squeeze their prey) and normally not considered dangerous to humans. Although large ones are powerful enough to kill an adult human, attacks seldom happen.

[[Qwest]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s establishments in Colorado, 1996 establishments in the United States, 2011 disestablishments in the United States, American technology companies, Telecommunications, Denver, Colorado

Qwest Communications International Inc. was an American telecom company. It served 14 north central and western states. Qwest merged with Baby Bell company US West Communications during 2000. US West had consisted of Pacific Northwest Bell, Mountain Bell and Northwestern Bell before 1991, during which year the three telephone companies merged to become US West. Qwest Communications was founded around 1996.

On April 22, 2010, CenturyLink announced that it was going to buy Qwest for $22.4 billion. CenturyLink's purchase of Qwest was completed in early 2011. Qwest now operates as part of CenturyLink.

[[Conan (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American television talk shows, English-language television programs

Conan is a late-night talk show on TBS. It is hosted by Conan O'Brien, who used to host The Tonight Show and Late Night with Conan O'Brien. His sidekick and announcer is Andy Richter, and his band is Jimmy Vivino and the Basic Cable Band. The show started in November of 2010, and ended in 2021. A show has two celebrity guests and a monologue.  In addition, there is either a musical guest or a stand-up comedian. Rounding out the show are comedy bits, which include spoofs of local newscasts, recurring characters, and ridiculous things happening to trombone player LaBamba Rosenberg.

[[Flag carrier]]

CATEGORIES: Transport

A flag carrier is an airline or ship line that is owned by the government of the country it is based in. Sometimes this means that the company has a monopoly on some routes, especially those to other countries.  The term may have come about because of laws that all planes and ships have to show the flag of the country they are registered in.

[[Somewhere in Time (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 albums, Iron Maiden albums, Heavy metal albums

Somewhere in Time is a studio album by Iron Maiden.  It went on sale on 29 June 1986. It was the third most popular album in England when it started being sold.

The album got average reviews; one reviewer said that it was "less inspired" than Iron Maiden's earlier albums, but that the first half of it was still good.

[[Baird's tapir]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of North America, Mammals of South America

Baird’s tapir (Tapirus bairdii) is a species of tapir that is native to Central America and northern South America. It is one of four Latin American species of tapir.

Baird’s tapir is found in the dense jungles of Central America, including southeastern Mexico, Belize, Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama, Colombia, and Ecuador.

The animal can be found at altitudes as high as 3,350 metres (10,990 ft).

[[Malayan tapir]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Asia

The Malayan tapir (Tapirus indicus), also called the Asian tapir, Asiatic tapir, Oriental tapir, Indian tapir, or piebald tapir, is the largest of the five species of tapir. It the only one native to Asia. This shows that the original distribution of its family was much wider, because all the other species are found in Central or South America.

The scientific name refers to the East Indies, the species' natural habitat. In the Malay, the tapir is commonly referred to as "cipan", "tenuk" or "badak tampong".

[[Ford Ranger]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Ford automobiles

Ford Ranger is a North American pickup truck distributed via Ford Motor Company. The Ranger currently in operation dates back to around 1983, although the name Ranger first got used on other types of Ford trucks in 1965. The Ford Ranger was discontinued in 2011, though it will be brought back in 2019.

[[Korea under Japanese rule]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Japan, History of Korea

Korea under Japanese rule is a term to define Korea when it was under Japanese control. Japanese victory in the First Sino-Japanese War in 1895 and in the Russo-Japanese War in 1905 cleared the way. Japan controlled Korea for 35 years during Japanese Imperialism. The Japanese control of Korea lasted from 22 August 1910  until 15 August 1945. The Japanese rulers of Korea left the country on 2 September 1945. In Japan, the more common term is "Korea of the Japanese-Governed Period" (日本統治時代の朝鮮, Nippon Tōchi-jidai no Chosen).

The period is usually divided into three parts. In 1910-1919, the Japanese treated Koreans very badly. From 1919 to 1930-s they created better policies to deal with the Korean people. However, they later tried to force them to become Japanese.

Despite them being allies to the United States and having an interest in each other's cultures, Japanese and Koreans still tend to have suspicion of each other because of how Japan treated Korea during its time as a colony. 

[[Melanin]]

CATEGORIES: Integumentary system, Pigments

Melanin is a special pigment of the epidermis. It helps protect the body from the sun's radiation. This pigment contributes to the color of the skin and is produced deep within the layers of the epidermis. It is created from amino acid tyrosine. 

[[Hey There, It's Yogi Bear]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 comedy movies, 1960s musical movies, American animated movies, American musical comedy movies, English-language movies, Warner Bros. movies

Hey There, It's Yogi Bear is a movie starring Daws Butler, Don Messick, Julie Bennett, and Mel Blanc. It is based on the Hanna-Barbera cartoon show, The Yogi Bear Show.

[[Mercury (automobile)]]

CATEGORIES: Ford, 1938 establishments in the United States, 2011 disestablishments in the United States

Mercury was the automobile division for Ford. The company was founded in 1938. Between 1945 and 2011, it was the Mercury half of the Lincoln-Mercury division of the Ford Motor Company. The vehicles made by Mercury include Mountaineer, Sable, Milan and Grand Marquis. The Mercury brand was phased out in early 2011.

The car was called Mercury because it was the name of the Roman god of messengers. This claims the car's performence was good.

[[Adelaide of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens of Sardinia, 1822 births, 1855 deaths, People from Milan, Princes and Princesses of Savoy, House of Habsburg-Lorraine, Deaths in childbirth, Dukes and Duchesses of Savoy, Burials at the Basilica of Superga

Adelaide of Austria (Adelheid Franziska Marie Rainera Elisabeth Clotilde; 3 June 1822 – 20 January 1855) was the first wife of Victor Emmanuel II of Sardinia, future King of Italy. She was the mother of eight children including the future Umberto I of Italy. She was the Queen of Sardinia from 1849 until 1855 when she died as a result of childbirth. The present Italian pretender is her direct great great grandson.

[[Wolbachia]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Wolbachia is a genus of bacteria which infects arthropod species, including a high proportion of insects. It is one of the world's most common parasitic microbes and is possibly the most common reproductive parasite in the biosphere. 

[[Erotica (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 songs, Madonna songs, Madonna albums

"Erotica" is the lead single of Madonna's 1992 album of the same name. The song was released during October 1992. This single caused controversy when it was released because the music and lyrics are suggestive of sexual intercourse. This was thought to be bad by some people and critics. 

[[American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in the United States

AASHTO means American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials. It is a standards setting body which publishes specifications, quality control protocols and guidelines which are used in highway design and construction throughout the United States. Despite its name, the association represents not only highways but air, rail, water, and public transportation as well.

Though AASHTO is not a government body, it possesses quasi-governmental powers in the sense that the organizations that supply its members customarily obey most AASHTO decisions. 

Besides its publications, AASHTO performs or cooperates in research projects. 

[[Great Migration (African American)]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in the United States, African-American history

The Great Migration was the migration (movement) of around 6 million African Americans out of the Southern United States to the Midwest, Northeast and West. The main reasons African Americans left the South were to escape racism and seek jobs in industrial cities. There is a series of paintings about it. 

When a lot of African Americans moved to the south from the 1960s and onwards, it was called the New Great Migration. In 1963 to 2000, data shows the movement of African Americans back to the South following de-industrialization in Northeastern and Midwestern cities, the growth of good jobs in the South, and better racial relations. Many people moved back because of family ties.

[[Dione (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

Dione in Greek mythology is a vague goddess presence who has her most concrete was the mother of Aphrodite. Zeus was the father are stories about Dione are in the Iliad by Homer. Aphrodite journeys to Dione's side after she has been wounded in battle while protecting her favorite son Aeneas.

[[Marilyn Quayle]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American lawyers, American novelists, Politicians from Indianapolis, Indiana, Second Ladies of the United States, Writers from Indianapolis, Indiana

Marilyn Tucker-Quayle (born July 29, 1949) is an American politician, lawyer and novelist. She is the wife of former U.S. Vice President Dan Quayle. She was the Second Lady of the United States from 1989 until 1993. 

[[New York Herald]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in New York City, 1835 establishments in the United States, 1924 disestablishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in New York (state), 1920s disestablishments in New York (state)

The New York Herald was a daily newspaper based in New York City. The paper was circulated from 1835 to 1924. The first issue of the paper was published by James Gordon Bennett, Sr. on May 6, 1835. By 1845, it was the most popular and most bought daily newspaper in the United States. In 1861, it had sold about 84,000 copies and called itself "the most largely circulated journal in the world." Bennett said that the point of newspapers "is not to instruct but to startle."

Bennett's politics influenced the articles in the Herald. He tended to be anti-Catholic, but not particularly anti-immigrant like most people who did not like the Catholics in New York at the time. During the American Civil War, it was a staunch supporter of the Democratic Party. When the Herald was still controlled by Bennett, it was considered to be the most sensationalist of the leading New York papers at the time.

[[Yelawolf]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American rap musicians, Singers from Alabama, Native American people

Michael Wayne Atha (born December 30, 1979), known by his stage name  Yelawolf, is an American rapper. He is of Caucasian and Cherokee descent, and his stage name Yelawolf is a reference to his Native American roots.

Yelewolf is currently signed to Shady Records and signed with them on January 12th, 2011.

[[Condamine, Queensland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Queensland

Condamine is a very small town of 150 people in Queensland, Australia, 373km west of the state capital, Brisbane. It is built on the banks of the Condamine River. The town is famous for being mentioned in songs, stories and poems. The song "Banks of the Condamine" is about the girlfriend of a shearer who wants to go shearing with him. In it also mentioned in poems by Breaker Morant and Dame Mary Gilmour. Steele Rudd also mentions the town in his stories.

In 1827 Allan Cunningham became The first Europen to visit the Condamine area was Alan Cunningham in 1827. He named the river after Governor Ralph Darling's assistant whose surname was De la Condamine. The town was settled in 1859.

During the 2010-2011 Queensland floods the town was flooded twice, and all the people had to be taken to other areas.

[[Premier of Queensland]]

CATEGORIES: Premiers of Queensland

The  Premier of Queensland  is the head of the Government of Queensland, Australia. The Premier does the same job at a state level as the Prime Minister of Australia does at a national level. Formal power is held by the Queen who is represented in Queensland by the Governor of Queensland. The Governor acts on the advice given to him by the Premier. The current Premier of Queensland is Annastacia Palaszczuk.

Queensland is governed under the Westminster  system of parliamentary government. Unlike other Australian states, it is not a bicameral system, having only one elected house. This house is called the Legislative Assembly. After an election, the State Governor appoints as Premier, the leader of the party who can control a majority of the elected members in the lower house. The Premier must resign if they no longer have a majority in the  Legislative Assembly. This can happen if they lose seats at an election, or if their own political party does not support them.

Queensland was a British colony, and power was held by the Governor. In 1859 Britain allowed Queensland to have its own parliament, and the power was passed to the Premier.

==Other websites== 

[[Mary Fallin]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, American Protestants, Governors of Oklahoma, People from Shawnee, Oklahoma, United States representatives from Oklahoma, US Republican Party politicians, State legislators of the United States, Lieutenant Governors of Oklahoma

Mary Fallin (born December 9, 1954) is an American politician. She was the 27th Governor of the U.S. state of Oklahoma from 2011 to 2019. Before becoming governor, she was a U.S. Representative, serving from 2007 until 2011.

She is the second woman elected to the United States Congress from Oklahoma. The first was Alice Mary Robertson in 1921. She was the first Republican and first woman to serve as Lieutenant Governor of Oklahoma. She served in that post from 1995 to 2007. She is also the first woman to serve as Governor in the state of Oklahoma.

[[Laayoune]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Western Sahara, Capital cities in Africa

Laayoune (or El Aaiún) is a city in northern Western Sahara. It is the capital. About 200,000 people live in El Aaiún. 

[[Loris]]

CATEGORIES: Lorisoidea

The Lorises are solitary mammals that live in tropical rainforests in southeast Asia. The loris is arboreal, living in trees. It is nocturnal, most active at night. In captivity, the loris lives for up to 13 years.

The loris is a group of primates. They are closely related to galagos and slightly less closely related to lemurs. 

The loris has enormous eyes, grasping fingers, and toes with opposable digits. The loris ranges from 7 to 15 inches (18 to 38 cm) long. It has a stubby tail, only about 1 inch (3 cm) long.

The loris is an omnivore (eating plants and animals); it eats mostly insects, lizards, fruits, and some plant shoots.

[[Sogod, Cebu]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Philippines

Sogod is a 4th class municipality in the province of Cebu, Philippines. According to the 2007 census, it has a population of 28,955 people.

[[Rockhampton]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Queensland, 1855 establishments, 1850s establishments in Australia

Rockhampton is a city of more than 60,000 people in Queensland, Australia. It is built on the banks of the Fitzroy River about 30 km from the coast. It is called the "Beef Capital of Australia." The town was first settled in 1855, but really began to grow when gold was found in the Fitzroy River in 1858, and later at Mount Morgan. The town is the service centre for a large number of cattle stations (large farms). There are two abattoirs for exporting beef from Rockhampton. There are also large coal mines to the west of Rockhampton, and a magnesium mine.  

Rockhampton was flooded during the 2010-2011 Queensland floods and was completely cut off. Road, rail and the airport were covered in water.

[[Lightning Bar]]

CATEGORIES: Racehorses

Lightning Bar was an American Quarter Horse racehorse and breeding stallion. He was owned by Art Pollard.  Lightning Bar's father was a Thoroughbred, and his mother was originally from Louisiana.  Louisiana was known for breeding racehorses that ran short distances. Although he only raced for one year, he still managed to achieve an AAA speed index. His racing career was cut short by illnesses. After racing, he became a show horse and a roping horse. As a breeding stallion, he only fathered eight crops of foals, but fathered a number of important horses.  His most famous son was Doc Bar. Lightning Bar died in 1960 from disease, at the age of 9. Lightning Bar was inducted into the American Quarter Horse Association's (AQHA's) American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame in 2008.

[[Shonisaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Ichthyosaurs, Reptiles of North America

Shonisaurus is the largest ichthyosaur, and the largest extinct marine animal that has yet been found. It was found first in rocks of the Upper Triassic in Nevada, and later in British Columbia.

[[Twenty20]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket

Twenty20 or T20 cricket is a short version of the game of cricket. It started in England for inter-county competitions in 2003. A Twenty20 game has two teams, each has a single innings at batting for a maximum of 20 overs. 

A Twenty20 game is usually takes about three and half hours, with each innings lasting around 75 minutes. This means that it is similar to other team sports. It was hoped that the games would have more action and that people would enjoy the games, both at the ground and on television. It has been very successful. The England Cricket Board did not want Twenty20 to take over from other forms of cricket and these are still played.

The game has now spread around the cricket world. On most international tours there is at least one Twenty20 match and all Test-playing nations have their own competitions. The first ICC World Twenty20 was played in South Africa in 2007 with India winning by five runs against Pakistan in the final. Pakistan won the 2009 ICC World Twenty20, defeating Sri Lanka by eight wickets. England won the 2010 ICC World Twenty20 defeating Australia in the final by seven wickets.

[[Hands All Over (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Maroon 5 songs

"Hands All Over" is a single released under A&M/Octone Records by pop/rock band Maroon 5. It is the 3rd single released off of the band's 3rd studio album called Hands All Over. It was released on December 22nd, 2010. The music video for the song was leaked on YouTube and Yahoo! Music on December 23rd, 2010. 

[[Never Gonna Leave This Bed]]

CATEGORIES: Maroon 5 songs

Never Gonna Leave This Bed is the 4th single released by pop/rock band Maroon 5 under A&M/Octone Records off the album Hands All Over. The song was written by frontman Adam Levine and produced by producer Robert "Mutt" Lange. The single was released on February 22nd, 2011.

[[Epoch (geology)]]

CATEGORIES: Geological periods

An epoch in geology is a part of a period. Thus the Cainozoic era is now divided into three periods, the Palaeogene, the Neogene and the Quaternary. These are finally broken down into these epochs: Palaeocene, Eocene, Oligocene, Miocene, Pliocene, Pleistocene and Holocene.

The Tertiary, now not used ('deprecated'), included the Palaeogene and Neogene. That is why the last period is called the Quarternary, and there was a big debate about that, too. These decisions are made by the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS). This organisation runs an International Commission on Stratigraphy, which decides how we should name geological strata and stages. They describe their work as follows:

[[Tesla (unit)]]

CATEGORIES: SI units, Magnetism

The tesla (symbol T) is the SI derived unit used to measure the strength of magnetic fields. Tesla can be measured in different ways; for example, one tesla is equal to one weber per square meter.

The tesla was first defined in 1960 by the General Conference on Weights and Measures (CGPM).  It was named in honor of the physicist, electrical engineer, and inventor, Nikola Tesla.

[[Demography]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology

Demography studies the statistics of human populations. Demography is usually  used to study dynamic (constantly changing) populations. It covers the study of the size, structure and distribution of these populations and the changes in these populations due to births, deaths, migration and emigration.

Demography can also be applied to entire groups defined by nationality, religion and ethnicity. 

Formal demography limits its object of study to the measurement of populations processes, while the more broad field of social demography population studies also analyze the relationships between economic, social, cultural and biological processes influencing a population.

[[Fiorello La Guardia]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1947 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, United States representatives from New York, Mayors of New York City

Fiorello Henry La Guardia (sometimes LaGuardia) (pronounced /fiəˈrɛloʊ ləˈɡwɑrdiə/; born Fiorello Enrico La Guardia) was Mayor of New York City for three terms from 1934 to 1945 as a liberal Republican.

He was elected to Congress in 1916 and 1918, and again from 1922 through 1930. La Guardia and is often touted as one of the three or four greatest mayors in American history. Since he was only five feet tall and his first name was Italian for "Little Flower", he was called "the Little Flower" throughout his life. He moved to Arizona with his family, where his father had a bandmaster position at Fort Whipple in the U.S. Army.

La Guardia, a Republican who was liked across party lines, was very popular in New York during the Great Depression. As a supporter of the New Deal, he supported President Franklin D. Roosevelt, a Democrat, and in turn Roosevelt heavily funded the city and cut off patronage from many politicians and establishments who did not support La Guardia. Many people felt that La Guardia improved New York City economically and socially and restored public faith in City Hall.

During his terms, he unified the transit system, directed the building of low-cost public housing, public playgrounds, and parks, constructed airports, reorganized the police force, defeated the powerful political machine Tammany Hall, and improved employment rates in New York City, even during the depression.

In the mid-1940s There was a newspaper strike in New York City. La Guardia responded to the public clamor by sitting at a radio microphone and describing and reading the Sunday comics to the children of the city. He described the cartoons and portrayed the dialects and accents of the characters. This endeared La Guardia to the electorate and the children of New York and gave him a larger national image.

[[Chinchilla, Queensland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Queensland

Chinchilla is a small town of 3,100 people in Queensland, Australia. It is 294 kms west of the state capital Brisbane. The Chinchilla area was first explored by Europens when Alan Cunningham made his journey from Sydney to explore the Darling Downs in 1827. Farmers arrived to settle the area in 1848 and set up Chinchilla Station. This was part of the Wongongera Station which had been set up in 1846. It was probably named after the local Aboriginal word jinchilla meaning cypress pine.

The railway from Brisbane reached Chinchilla in 1878. The area became well known for its' dairy farming which became the main industry. In the 1920s, the Chinchilla area, and more than 24 million hectares of Australia had become overgrown with an imported cactus, called prickly pear. In 1925 the Australian government imported a moth from Argentina, cactoblastis, which ate the prickly pear. The Chinchilla Experimental Station was set up to breed these moths and release them. At one time the station was sending out 14 million moth eggs a day.

Built on the banks of Charley's Creek, Chinchilla has been flooded several times. During the 2010-2011 Queensland floods, Chinchilla was flooded twice in two weeks.

[[Revelstoke Mountain Resort]]

CATEGORIES: Ski areas and resorts in Canada, British Columbia

Revelstoke Mountain Resort (RMR) is a ski resort near the town of Revelstoke, British Columbia, Canada.  The resort is located on Mount Mackenzie, south of the town of Revelstoke.  The resort has 1263 hectares (3121 acres) of terrain to ski on, accessible by chairlifts. It has a 1713 vertical meter descent.  The resort has two high-speed quad chairs and an eight-person gondola.  Besides the lift-access terrain, the resort also has a large cat skiing operation in the three alpine bowls immediately east of the lift terrain. In addition to the lift and cat skiing operations, there is also a heli-skiing operation with access to 200,000 hectares (500,000 acres) of skiable terrain.

The resort first opened on December 22, 2007. It was thought to be the biggest North American ski resort debut in twenty years. The event was overshadowed by the death of an Edmonton ski instructor who disappeared on the "Jalapeno" run and whose body was found in a tree well three days later.

[[Reformism]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Sociology

Reformism is the belief that gradual democratic changes in a society would mean that a society's fundamental economic relations and political structures would change. This belief grew out of opposition to revolutionary socialism, which challenges that revolutions are necessary to fundamentally change a society. Someone who believes in reformism is a reformist.

[[Pisanosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Ornithischia

Pisanosaurus (meaning "Pisano lizard") is a genus of primitive ornithischian dinosaur from the Upper Triassic of what is now South America. It was a bipedal herbivore described by Argentine paleontologist Rodolfo Casamiquela in 1967. Only one species the type, Pisanosaurus mertii, is known, based on a single partial skeleton. 

It is the oldest known ornithischian.

[[Golden Fleece]]

CATEGORIES: Greek mythology

In Greek mythology, the Golden Fleece is the fleece of the gold-haired winged ram. It is in the story of Jason and his group of Argonauts. They set out on a quest ordered by King Pelias to get the fleece so that Jason can rightfully claim the throne of Iolcus in Thessaly. The story is very old; it was current in the time of Homer in the 8th century BC. There are many different versions of the story. In later versions the ram is said to have been the child of the sea god Poseidon and Themisto (less often, Nephele or Theophane). The famous telling is the Argonautica of Apollonius of Rhodes, written in mid-third century BC Alexandria. It reused early sources that have not survived. Another, much less-known Argonautica, using the same body of myth, was written in Latin by Valerius Flaccus during the time of Vespasian. The story of Jason, the Argonauts, and the Golden Fleece is told in two modern movies: Hercules starring Steve Reeves, and Jason and the Argonauts starring Todd Armstrong.

[[Zack Ryder]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from New York, WWE wrestlers

Matthew Cardona (born May 14, 1985 in Merrick, New York) better known by his ring name Zack Ryder, is an American professional wrestler currently signed to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and to the Raw brand.

Ryder was also known for being part of a tag team with Curt Hawkins.  

Ryder is a one time WWE Tag Team champion with Curt Hawkins and has also won a Slammy Award for Most Annoying Catchphrase in 2010.

[[Pinacosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Ankylosauria

Medium-sized ankylosaur dinosaur's Pinacosaurus is a genus from the Upper Cretaceous of Mongolia and China. It lived about 80–75 million years ago. Pinacosaurus had between two and five additional holes near each nostril, which have not been explained.

[[Gorgosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Tyrannosaurids

Gorgosaurus is a genus of theropod dinosaur that lived in western North America during the Upper Cretaceous, between about 76.5 and 75 million years ago.

Fossil remains have been found in the Canadian province of Alberta and possibly the U.S. state of Montana. It was closely related to T. rex and Albertosaurus. Gorgosaurus, like T. rex, had huge jaws with large, sharp, cone-shaped teeth, powerful legs, tiny arms and two-fingered hands.

Gorgosaurus lived in a lush floodplain environment along the edge of an inland sea. It was an apex predator: it preyed on  ceratopsids and hadrosaurs. 

Gorgosaurus spent as much as half its life in the juvenile phase before ballooning up to near-maximum size in only a few years.

Most specimens of Gorgosaurus libratus have been recovered from the Dinosaur Park Formation in Alberta. This formation was laid down in the later Cretaceous, between 76.5 and 74.8 million years ago.

[[Masiakasaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs of Africa, Ceratosaurs

Masiakasaurus  was a small predatory theropod dinosaur from the Late Cretaceous of Madagascar. Its a small, bipedal, meat-eating dinosaur that had forward-pointing teeth, a long neck, and a long tail. It was about the size of a really big dog.

The species name Masiakasurus knopfleri, was named for Mark Knopfler, a guitarist and singer from the rock band Dire Straits. The paleontologists who discovered this dinosaur were listening to Knopfler's music when they found and dug up Masiakasaurus.

[[Yeonsangun of Joseon]]

CATEGORIES: 1476 births, 1506 deaths, Korean politicians, Murder victims, Kings of Joseon

Yeonsangun of Joseon (연산군, 燕山君, 1476 - 1506) was a Korean ruler. 11th King of Joseon Dynasty (1494 - 1506) of Korea. name was Lee Yung (이융, 李隆), nickname was The Great of Heoncheonhongdokyungmoonwemoo (헌천홍도경문위무대왕, 憲天弘道經文緯武大王).

Son's of King Seongjong, great-grandson of Sejong the Great.

[[Sporangium]]

CATEGORIES: Plant anatomy, Plant tissues, Fungi

A sporangium (pl: sporangia)  is an enclosure in which spores are formed. It can be a single cell or multicellular. All plants, fungi, and many other lineages form sporangia at some point in their life cycle. Sporangia can produce asexual spores by mitosis, but in nearly all land plants and many fungi, sporangia are the site of meiosis, and produce genetically unique haploid spores.

In flowering plants the sporangium tissue (except the epidermis) that produces the female spores is also called the nucellus.

[[Central Queensland University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Australia, 1967 establishments in Oceania, 1960s establishments in Australia

The Central Queensland University is a large ten campus university in Queensland, Australia. It has main campuses at Bundaberg, Gladstone, Rockhampton and Mackay. It has two learning centres at Noosa and Emerald. It also has campuses for international students in Brisbane, the Gold Coast, Sydney and Melbourne. The university began in 1967 as the Queensland Institute of Technology (Capricornia). It was made a university in 1992 as the University of Central Queensland and changed the name to CQUniversity Australia in 2008. 

[[Federico Barocci]]

CATEGORIES: 1530s births, 1612 deaths, 16th century Italian painters, 17th century Italian painters

Federico Barocci, or Federigo Barocci (born 1535 or 1536 in Urbino, died 1612) was an important Italian painter. He is also known as Fiori da Urbino. His real name was  Federico Fiori. His style is between that of Mannerism and Baroque. 

[[Deinosuchus]]

CATEGORIES: Crocodilia, Marine reptiles

Deinosuchus is an extinct relative of the alligator which lived 80 to 73 million years ago, in the Upper Cretaceous period. 

The first remains were discovered in North Carolina in the 1850s, but it was not until 1909 that the genus was named and described. 

Additional fragments were discovered in the 1940s and were later made into an influential, but inaccurate, skull reconstruction at the American Museum of Natural History. Knowledge of Deinosuchus is still incomplete, but better skull material has been found in recent years.

Deinosuchus was far larger than any modern crocodile or alligator: it was up to 12 and weighed up to 8.5. However, its overall appearance was fairly similar to its modern relatives. 

It had large, robust teeth that were adapted to crushing, and its back was covered with thick round bony plates. One study suggests that Deinosuchus may have lived for up to 50 years, growing at a similar rate to that of modern crocodilians, but growing for a much longer period.

Deinosuchus fossils have been found in ten U.S. states, as well as northern Mexico. It lived on both sides of the Western Interior Seaway, and was an ambush apex predator in the coastal regions of eastern North America. 

Deinosuchus reached its largest size in its western habitat, but the eastern populations were far more abundant. Opinion remains divided as to whether these two populations represent separate species. Deinosuchus was probably capable of killing and eating large dinosaurs. It may have also fed upon sea turtles, fish, and other aquatic and terrestrial prey.

[[Windows on the World]]

CATEGORIES: American restaurants, September 11 attacks, Manhattan

Windows on the World was a complex of venues at the top floors (106th and 107th) of the North Tower of the World Trade Center and it included Windows on the World, a smaller restaurant which was called Wild Blue, and a bar which was called The Greatest Bar on Earth. The restaurant was destroyed in the September 11 attacks and it has also been speculated that "The Falling Man" was an employee at Windows on the World but his identity was never released.

[[Sarcosuchus]]

CATEGORIES: Crocodilia, Marine reptiles

Sarcosuchus is an extinct genus of giant  crocodile. It lived in the Lower Cretaceous of what is now Africa 135 to 112 million years ago. 

Strictly speaking, it was not a modern type of crocodile but a kind of pre-crocodile. These earlier types are called Crocodylomorphs. True crocodiles arrived in the Upper Cretaceous. 

Sarcosuchus was one of the largest giant crocodile-like reptiles that ever lived. It was almost twice as long as the modern saltwater crocodile and weighed about 8 tonnes. 

Until recently, all that was known of it was a few fossilised teeth and armour scutes, which were discovered in the Sahara Desert in the 1940s or 1950s. 

In 1997 and 2000, Paul Sereno discovered half a dozen new specimens, including one with about half the skeleton intact and most of the spine. All of the other giant crocodiles are known only from a few partial skulls, so which is actually the biggest is an open question.

[[HMS Endeavour]]

CATEGORIES: Exploration of Australia, British warships

HMS ''Endeavour, also known as 'HM Bark Endeavour''', was a British Royal Navy ship commanded by Lieutenant James Cook on his first voyage of discovery to Australia and New Zealand from 1769 to 1771.

Launched in 1764 as a coal carrying ship Earl of Pembroke, she was bought by the Navy in 1768 for a scientific mission to the  Pacific Ocean. She was also to search for the unknown southern land, Terra Australis Incognita. Renamed as His Majesty's Bark the Endeavour, she left Plymouth in August 1768. After sailing around Cape Horn she reached Tahiti to see the 1769 transit of Venus across the Sun. She then set sail into the largely uncharted ocean to the south, stopping at the Pacific islands of Huahine, Borabora, and Raiatea which Cook claimed for Great Britain. In September 1769, she anchored off New Zealand, the first European vessel to reach the islands since Abel Tasman's Heemskerck 127 years earlier. In April 1770, Endeavour became the first ship to reach the east coast of Australia, when Cook went ashore at what is now known as Botany Bay.

Endeavour then sailed north along the Australian coast. She ran into the Great Barrier Reef near Cape Tribulation. The crew were able to get the ship onto a beach on the mainland. This is now the site of the town of Cooktown. They stayed for seven weeks so that basic repairs could be made to her hull. On 10 October 1770, she limped into port in Batavia in the Dutch East Indies for more substantial repairs. She left on 26 December, rounded the Cape of Good Hope on 13 March 1771, and reached the English port of Dover on 12 July, having been at sea for nearly three years.

The Endeavour spent the next three years shipping Navy stores to the Falkland Islands. She was renamed and sold in 1775, but was used as a troop transport during the American Revolutionary War. She sank in a blockade of Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island in 1778. Her wreck has not been found, but relics, including six of her cannons and an anchor, are displayed at maritime museums worldwide. A full size working copy of Endeavour was launched in 1994 and is berthed alongside the Australian National Maritime Museum in Sydney Harbour.

[[Largest extinct animals]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology, Fossils, Lists of animals

The largest extinct animals known to date are listed here. They are arranged by their taxonomy (classification). The list only deals with individual animals; size of colonies (such as coral reefs) is not dealt with here.

[[FC Seoul]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean football clubs

FC Seoul is a professional football club based in Seoul, South Korea. It is currently owned by GS Sports, a subsidiary of GS Group. The club is usually considered a powerhouse in the K-League, with financial backing from the well-known GS Group. The club is currently managed by Choi Yong-Soo.

[[Oldsmobile 88]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s automobiles, 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles

Oldsmobile 88 (a.k.a. Eighty Eight) was a car distributed via Oldsmobile division of General Motors. The car was first manufactured in the 1949 model year. It underwent many facelifts and redesigns over the years. This vehicle was available in multiple versions. Oldsmobile 88 was discontinued after 1999. 

[[Pip Skid]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century births, Living people, Canadian rap musicians, Entertainers from Manitoba, Year of birth missing (living people)

Pip Skid (born Patrick Skene, AKA Wicked Nut) is a Canadian rapper and writer, and a cornerstone of the successful Vancouver based independent hip hop label Peanuts & Corn. Originally hailing from Brandon, Manitoba, Pip is known in underground hip hop circles for his distinctive gravel-throated vocals, as well as his clever writing, and angry delivery.

As a co-founder of landmark Canadian hip hop group Farm Fresh, as well as a member of other famed crews such as Fermented Reptile, Hip Hop Weiners, Taking Care of Business, and Break Bread, Pip has sold thousands of albums while starring on over a dozen albums since 1994, appearing on many more, and touring all over North America. His current album Skid Row peaked at #4 on the Canadian Hip Hop charts on May 1, 2010. This album follows in the footsteps of Funny Farm 2 which hit #3 on the hip hop charts and Funny Farm which hit #32 on the combined charts. His single Alone Again from the Funny Farm album achieved rotation on the national music network Much Music.

[[Lee "Scratch" Perry]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Reggae musicians, Jamaican singers

Lee "Scratch" Perry (born Rainford Hugh Perry, 20 March 1936 – 29 August 2021) is a musician, who was influential in the movement and acceptance of reggae and dub music in Jamaica and overseas. He had many pseudonyms, such as Pipecock Jackxon and The Upsetter.

[[Amagerbro station]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Denmark, Copenhagen, 2002 establishments in Europe, 21st century establishments in Denmark

Amagerbro station is a Metro station in Copenhagen in Denmark, established in 2002.

The station is operated by the Metro service M2 and Movias bus services 77, 78, 2A, 5A, 350S, 871, 872 and 81N.

[[Cliff Burton]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 1986 deaths, American songwriters, Bassists, Musicians from San Francisco, Road accident deaths

Clifford Lee Burton (February 10, 1962 – September 27, 1986) was an American bassist and songwriter. He is best known for playing the bass guitar in the thrash metal band Metallica from 1982 until his death in 1986.

He died during a European tour in Sweden on September 24, 1986 when Metallica was celebrating the success of their album Master of Puppets. The band’s tour bus skidded off the road and flipped over. Burton was thrown out of the bus window and the bus fell on him. They attempted to rescue Burton from underneath the bus by lifting it with a crane, but the crane slipped, and the bus landed down on top of Burton a second time.By that time, he was already dead at just 24 years old.

[[Beipiaosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous dinosaurs, Coelurosaurs, Feathered dinosaurs

Beipiaosaurus is a therizinosaur theropod dinosaur. It lived in the Lower Cretaceous, about 125 million years ago. Its fossil was found in the Yixian Formation near Beipiao, Liaoning Province of China. The theroziosaurs were a group of theropods which became herbivorous. Beipiaosaurus had a toothless beak, cheek teeth, and protofeathers. 

[[Prime Minister of Russia]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Russia

The Prime Minister of Russia (Премьер-министр России, Prem'er-ministr Rossii) is Russia's head of government. He is the second most powerful leader in the Russian Federation.

The Prime Minister serves the same time as the President of Russia, and has a term of office of six years but may be appointed again.

The President appoints the Prime Minister and must be approved by the State Duma. Only two acting Prime Ministers: Yegor Gaidar and Viktor Chernomyrdin were appointed by the President, but not approved by the Duma. The most recent Prime Minister is Mikhail Mishustin since 16 January 2020.

[[The American Crisis]]

CATEGORIES: American Revolutionary War, Pamphlets, 18th century works

The American Crisis is a series of pamphlets (short books) written by Thomas Paine.  They were written during the American Revolutionary War.  They begin with the quote, "these are the times that try men's souls".  The first of the pamphlets was written after a series of losses to the British, and was meant to keep the patriots in the fight.

[[Brian Guebert]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Canadian football, People from Saskatoon, Sportspeople from Saskatchewan

Brian Guebert (born December 19, 1981) is a Canadian Football League defensive end who last played for the Winnipeg Blue Bombers.

[[Iran Air Flight 227]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 disasters, Aviation disasters in the 2010s, 21st century in Iran

Iran Air Flight 277 was a passenger plane which, on January 9, 2011, crashed while trying to land in bad weather at Urmia Airport, West Azarbaijan province, Iran. The aircraft that crashed was going between Mehrabad International Airport, Tehran, Iran, and Urmia. It was an Iran Air Boeing 727-286Adv, registration EP-IRP.

[[Space colony]]

Space colony may mean:

[[Ford Focus (North America)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The North American Ford Focus was a compact vehicle made by the Ford Motor Company. The North American version was introduced in 1999 for the 2000 model year. It was then facelifted in April 2004 for the 2005 model year, a new version came in late 2007 for the 2008 model year and was then redesigned in early 2011 for the 2012 model year, that generation is the same that's sold worldwide. The US Focus was discontinued after the 2018 model year.  

[[Edward E. Smith Memorial Award]]

CATEGORIES: Literary awards, Science fiction awards

The NESFA gives the Edward E. Smith Memorial Award for Imaginative Fiction award each year to a science fiction writer. The award is for their work and for acting like "Doc" Smith. Many people who knew Smith loved him. The award is also called the Skylark.

The award is a trophy with a large lens in it. Regular members of the New England Science Fiction Association, Inc. vote for the winner. It is presented at Boskone, NESFA's annual convention.

[[Sinornithoides]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs of Asia, Cretaceous dinosaurs

Sinornithoides (meaning "Chinese bird form") is a genus of troodontid theropod dinosaur. It lived during the Early Cretaceous (Barremian stage, around 130 125 million years ago). It measured approximately 1 meter long (3 ft). It lived in Inner Mongolia, China, and probably ate invertebrates and other small prey.

[[Shuvuuia]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs of Asia, Cretaceous dinosaurs, Feathered dinosaurs

Shuvuuia is a genus of bird-like theropod dinosaur from the later Cretaceous of Mongolia. 

It is a member of the family Alvarezsauridae, small coelurosaurian dinosaurs which have short but powerful forelimbs specialized for digging. The name Shuvuuia is derived from the Mongolian word shuvuu meaning "bird".

[[WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2011]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation Portable games, Wii games, Xbox 360 games, WWE video game series, THQ games

WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2011 is a wrestling video game that's published by THQ, It is available for the PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Portable, Wii and Xbox 360 systems.

The game featured new physics system which can allow the player to use weapons more realistically for example tables can now break differently depending on the impact of them. Inside and outside the ring, ladders can now be rested onto the ring ropes and be broken into pieces and chairs can be thrown at the player's opponents. 

It is part of the WWE SmackDown vs. Raw video game series.

[[Collage]]

CATEGORIES: Works of art

Collage is an art term. It is a work of art like a painting but with pieces of paper and fabric ('found objects') stuck on a surface such as a piece of paper, wood or canvas. 

Collage is a popular technique in modern art. Types of collage are 'decoupage', photomontage and digital collage. When actual painting is included, or any other medium, the technique is called 'mixed media'. Work in three dimensions may be called 'assemblage'.

[[Chevrolet Van]]

CATEGORIES: Vans

Chevrolet Van-simply called Chevy Van-refers to passenger or cargo vans which were full size. The vans went by the names of Sport Van, Beauville and Chevrolet G-Series. GMC's version of the vans were called Vandura and Rally Wagon. The vehicles were first made around 1964 under Chevrolet and GMC divisions of General Motors. They were discontinued after 1996. The post 1996 replacements were the Chevrolet Express and GMC Savana.

[[Pro-choice]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Ethics, Abortion

Pro-choice is the view that a woman should have the right to decide whether or not to have an abortion and that there should not be laws that stop people from getting abortions. 

People who are pro-choice believe that people should be able to use abortion to end a pregnancy. The view that abortion should be against the law is called pro-life.

The pro-choice movement is sometimes called the abortion rights movement. It is largely based on the belief, that woman should be able to decide what they want to do with their bodies. Having a baby would be a huge invasion to the body and should be a choice. They believe that an unborn embryo should not be valued over the pregnant woman. Pro-choice believes in a woman's right to choose.

[[Clinical psychology]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Clinical psychology is the study in psychology of mental disorders. It is about learning, understanding, diagnosing, treating or preventing these types of illnesses. Clinical psychologists examine the mental functioning of a person and use psychotherapy to treat the disorder. Psychotherapy uses talking instead of medical or physical treatments.

The first psychological clinic opened in 1896 at the University of Pennsylvania by Lightner Witmer.In the first half of the 20th century, clinical psychology mainly about psychological assessment, not treatment. After World War II, there was a big increase in the numbers of trained clinical psychologists. There are two main educational models - the Ph.D. scientist-practitioner model which looks at research, and the Psy.D. practitioner-scholar model which looks at treatment. Clinical psychologists are now regarded as experts in psychotherapy.

[[Lapu-Lapu City]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Philippines, 1730 establishments, Establishments in the Philippines, 1730s establishments in Asia

Lapu-Lapu City is a first class highly-urbanized city in the Philippine province of Cebu. The city occupies most of Mactan Island, a few kilometer off the main island of Cebu and also covers the area of Olango Island further to the southeast region, plus a few other islands. According to the 2007 census, it has a population of about 292,530 people.

The city is linked to Mandaue on mainland Cebu by the Mactan-Mandaue Bridge and Marcelo Fernan Bridge. Mactan-Cebu International Airport, the second busiest airport in the Philippines, is in Lapu-Lapu City. The only aquarium attraction in the Visayas is also in Lapu-lapu City. It is known as "Opon'.

[[Lee Hoi-chang]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of South Korea, Anti-Communists

Lee Hoi-chang(Korean:이회창, hanja:李會昌, June 2 1935 - ) is South korean politicians and Judges. Chairman of Comptroller's, 26th prime minister of South Korea. nickname was 'Kyungsa'(경사), 'TaeZZeok'(대쪽).

After 1960, he was served to 30years as a judge, 1993 13th Chairman of Comptroller's of South Korea, prime minister of South Korea December 17 1993 to June 2 1994. 

[[Typhoon Xangsane]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in weather, Pacific typhoons, 21st century in the Philippines, 2000s in China, History of Vietnam, History of Cambodia, 2000s in Thailand

Typhoon Xangsane (international designation: 0615, JTWC designation: 18W, PAGASA name: Typhoon Milenyo) was a deadly typhoon that affected the Philippines, Vietnam, and Thailand during the 2006 Pacific typhoon season. It was the fifteenth tropical storm and ninth typhoon recognized by the Japan Meteorological Agency operationally during the season, although in post-operational analysis it became the tenth typhoon of the season with the addition of Typhoon Maria. According to the Joint Typhoon Warning Center, Xangsane was the sixteenth tropical storm and tenth typhoon of the season, and was a Category 4-equivalent typhoon in terms of 1-minute average wind speeds. The name Xangsane was submitted by Laos and means elephant.

Xangsane made landfall in the Philippines, battering the northern islands with torrential rains and strong winds, and causing widespread flooding and landslides. After passing over Manila and emerging over the South China Sea, the typhoon made a second landfall in central Vietnam, also causing flooding and landslides there and in Thailand. The storm was responsible for at least 279 deaths, mostly in the Philippines and Vietnam, and at least $747 million (2006 USD) in damage.

[[David Trimble]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, British lawyers, British Nobel Prize winners, British Protestants, Conservative Party (UK) people, Former members of the British House of Commons for Northern Irish constituencies, Leaders of political parties in the United Kingdom, Members of the House of Lords, Nobel Peace Prize winners, Northern Ireland Assembly, Former Members, Northern Irish Christians, Presbyterians, Privy Councillors (UK), UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005

William David Trimble, Baron Trimble, PC (born 15 October 1944, in Belfast), is a politician from Northern Ireland.  He was Leader of the Ulster Unionist Party (UUP; 1995–2005), the first First Minister of Northern Ireland (1998–2002), and was a Member of the House of Commons (1990–2005).

He is a life peer for the Conservative Party.  Trimble was awarded the 1998 Nobel Peace Prize, along with John Hume because of effort toward Belfast Agreement.

[[Stamen]]

CATEGORIES: Flowers, Plant anatomy

The stamen is a male reproductive organ of a flower. It produces the pollen. The stamen has two parts: anther and stalk. The stalk is also called a filament.

The anther contains microsporangia. Each microsporangium contains pollen mother cells. These undergo meiosis, and produce pollen grains, which contain the male gametes (sperm).

The pollen grains are actually haploid male gametophytes.

The pollen is released by the opening of the anther. The pollen is carried by some agent (wind, or some animal) to the receptive surface of the stigma of the same or another flower. This process is known as pollination. After successful pollination, the pollen grain (immature microgametophyte) completes its development by growing a pollen tube and the two male gametes move through the pollen tube to the ovule.

[[2011 Pacific typhoon season]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Hemisphere tropical cyclone seasons

The 2011 Pacific typhoon season was an event in which tropical cyclones formed in the Western Pacific Ocean. The season ran throughout 2011 with most tropical cycle agency storming between May and November. The scope of this article is limited to the Pacific Ocean to the north of the equator between 100th meridian east and the 180th meridian.

Within the Northwestern Pacific Ocean, there are two separate agencies who assign names to tropical cyclones. This can often result in a cyclone having two names. The Japan Meteorological Agency named a tropical cyclone if it was judged to have 10-minute sustained wind speeds of at least 65 km/h (40 mph) anywhere in the basin.

While the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration assigned names to tropical cyclones which moved into or form as a tropical depression in their area of responsibility between 135°E and 115°E and between 5°N and 25°N even if the cyclone has had a name assigned to it by the Japan Meteorological Agency. Tropical depressions that were monitored by the United States' Joint Typhoon Warning Center were given a number with a "W" suffix. On average, 27 storms form in this basin every year.

[[The Saga Begins]]

CATEGORIES: "Weird Al" Yankovic songs, Parodies, 1999 songs

"The Saga Begins" is a song by "Weird Al" Yankovic. It is a parody of "American Pie" by Don McLean

[[It's All About the Pentiums]]

CATEGORIES: "Weird Al" Yankovic songs, Parodies, 1999 songs

"It's All About the Pentiums" is a song by "Weird Al" Yankovic. It is a parody of "It's All about the Benjamins (Rock Remix)" by Sean "Puff Daddy" Combs . It is about a man who is obsessed with computers.

[[Pretty Fly for a Rabbi]]

CATEGORIES: "Weird Al" Yankovic songs, Parodies, 1999 songs

"Pretty Fly for a Rabbi" (also called "Pretty Fly (For a Rabbi)" in Australia) is a song by "Weird Al" Yankovic. It is a parody of "Pretty Fly (For a White Guy)" by The Offspring.

[[You're Pitiful]]

CATEGORIES: "Weird Al" Yankovic songs, Parodies, 2006 songs

"You're Pitiful" is a parody of "You're Beautiful" by James Blunt by parody musician "Weird Al" Yankovic. It was released only online in June 2006. Blunt's record label did not want Yankovic to release the song, so he put it on his website for a free download.

[[Stage (geology)]]

CATEGORIES: Geological periods

A stage or age in geology is a period of time measured in millions of years. It is less than an epoch, and more than a chron or chronozone.

Technically, a stage is a succession of rock strata laid down in a single age on the geologic timescale, which usually represents millions of years of sedimentation or deposition.  An example of a stage in the Geologic time scale is the Kimmeridgian.

[[Red beds]]

CATEGORIES: Sedimentary rocks

The term red beds usually refers to strata of reddish-colored sedimentary rocks such as sandstone, siltstone or shale that were deposited in hot climates under oxidizing conditions. They are usually formed in terrestrial situations: on land, and in rivers and lakes.

The red color comes from iron oxide in their mineral structure. Although they have been deposited throughout the Phanerozoic, they are most commonly associated with rocks deposited during the Devonian, Permian and Triassic periods. The Old Red Sandstone is one of the most famous rock formations.

Red beds have economic significance since many of them contain reservoirs of petroleum and natural gas.

Secondary red beds are linked to the uplift, erosion and surface weathering of previously deposited sediments and require conditions similar to primary red beds for their formation.

[[Wesel]]

CATEGORIES: Wesel (district)

Wesel is a city in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia. Wesel is near to Duisburg and belongs to the Ruhr area.

It has about 60,000 inhabitants.

It has been a city since 1241.

[[Titanosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous dinosaurs, Titanosaurs

Titanosaurus  was a genus of sauropod dinosaur, first described by Lydekker in 1877 from fragments, but not confirmed by later research. 

Titanosaurus was 9-12 metres (30-40 ft) long and weighed about 13 tons. Titanosaurus has traditionally been treated as a "wastebasket taxon" for poorly preserved sauropod remains. The most well-known species of Titanosaurus, "Titanosaurus" colberti, has been renamed Isisaurus. The remains were from the Upper Cretaceous of India.

[[First Minister and deputy First Minister]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Ireland politicians, 1999 establishments in the United Kingdom, 20th century establishments in Northern Ireland

The First Minister and the deputy First Minister (Irish: Céad-Aire agus an leas-Chéad-Aire, Ulster Scots: Heid Männystèr an tha Heid Männystèr depute), (FM/dFM for short), are jobs in the Northern Ireland Government. The First Minister is not more important than the deputy First Minister.  The two positions are a diarchy, meaning they have equal power; both are nominated and appointed by members of the Northern Ireland Assembly.

Currently, the position is held by Sir Jeffrey Donaldson (DUP) and Michelle O’Neill (Sinn Fein). Before however, the incumbents were Peter Robinson of the Democratic Unionist Party as First Minister and Martin McGuinness of Sinn Féin as deputy First Minister.

[[Outlook, Saskatchewan]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Canada

Outlook is a town in west central Saskatchewan. It is about 80 kilometres south-southwest of Saskatoon. About 2,000 people live in Outlook. It has the longest pedestrian bridge in Canada, the Skytrail.

[[Skytrail]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Canada, Steel bridges

The Skytrail Bridge is a bridge in Outlook, Saskatchewan that crosses the South Saskatchewan River. Today, it is a pedestrian bridge, but it was a railway until 1987. It is now the longest pedestrian bridge in Canada.

[[Scrophulariaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Scrophulariaceae

Scrophulariaceae, the figwort family, is a family of flowering plants, with around 3000 species in around 200 genera, mainly found in the northern temperate regions of the world. The family name is based on the name of the included genus Scrophularia.

[[Cold seep]]

CATEGORIES: Biological oceanography, Biomes

A cold seep (sometimes called a cold vent) is an area of the ocean floor where hydrogen sulfide, methane and other hydrocarbon-rich liquids leak out of the Earth's crust, often in the form of a brine pool. Cold seeps form a biome supporting several native species.

Cold seeps change the shape of the ocean floor over time, where reactions between methane and seawater create carbonate rock formations and reefs. These reactions may change when bacteria are present.

[[Calamba City]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Philippines, 2001 establishments in Asia, Establishments in the Philippines

Calamba City is a city in the province of Laguna, Philippines. It is the regional center of Calabarzon, after Lucena City, Calamba is a component city in the placed,

first is San Pablo City, The City of Calamba, is one of the fastest growth city in region 4A, and it growth population, which divided into barangays, because of its economic some, commercials, entertainment, factory companies and others, are served in city, Calamba City is 54 south of Manila. Calamba City is a popular tourist destination. It has several hot spring resorts. Most of these are in Barangay Pansol. There are 651 resorts and hot springs in the city. The Canlubang Golf and Country Club has been the host of many  Philippine Opens. Calamba is also an important modern industrial center in the CALABARZON region. This is shown by the large number of industrial parks and business estates in the city. 454,486 people live in the city (2015). There are in 58,466 households. Calamba City is  the most populated city in Laguna province. San Pedro, Santa Rosa City, Biñan City, and San Pablo City follow it as the top 5 municipalities and cities by number of people in the province.

Calamba City is the birthplace of José Rizal. He is a national hero in the Philippines.

[[Laguna (province)]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Laguna is a province in the Philippines. It is about 30 kilometres south of Manila. Laguna is named after "La Laguna" which means the lake, meaning Laguna de Bay. This is the largest lake in the Philippines, and is on the north edge of the province.  Laguna province has six cities: Biñan, Cabuyao, Calamba, San Pablo, San Pedro, and Santa Rosa.  There are two international schools, IB World Schools, to be specific, located in Biñan: Brent International School Manila, and The Beacon Academy.

[[Deposed Queen Lady Yun]]

CATEGORIES: 1440s births, 1482 deaths, Korean politicians, Murder victims

Deposed Queen Lady Yun or Waste Queen Lady Yun (폐비윤씨, hanja:廢妃 尹氏, 1445? - August 16, 1482) was Queen of Joseon Dynasty, King of Joseon Dynasty Seongjong's Second Wife, Mother of King Yeonsan. first cousin once removed to Shin Suk-ju.

[[Institute of Welsh Affairs]]

CATEGORIES: Wales

The Institute of Welsh Affairs is an independent, think-tank based in the capital of Wales, Cardiff. It focuses its research on politics, culture, economy, education, environment, science and technology in Wales, with the aim of developing plans for "policy innovation and improvement" and promoting new thinking on Welsh issues. The IWA publishes numerous reports on the research it carries out, and organises public seminars and conferences to encourage discussion and debate. It is highly regarded for the quality of its work and its commitment to informed public discussion.

2010 saw the begin of ClickonWales.org, the IWA’s online news-analysis magazine. ClickonWales is designed to bring users a new level of regular commentary and analysis on Welsh affairs, and opportunities for debate. Expert contributors and commentators from across the political spectrum will be commissioned daily. The site also features the ‘Wales factfile’ and the ‘Lecture Library’. Wales factfile is a handy one-stop shop for information and data about many aspects of Wales and its economic, social, cultural and political life. The ‘Lecture Library’ is a place where organisations will be able to post

the texts of public lectures on a wide range of subjects.

[[Table Mountain]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Africa, Geography of South Africa, Cape Town

Table Mountain is a flat-topped mountain overlooking the city of Cape Town in South Africa. It is 1084.6 meters (3,563-feet) tall, of sandstone and granite. With nearby mountains and Table Bay, it surrounds the central part of Cape Town.

It is a significant tourist attraction, featured in the flag of Cape Town and other local government insignia. Many visitors use the Table Mountain Aerial Cableway or hike to the top. The mountain forms part of the Table Mountain National Park.

[[Fingal’s Cave]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland, Igneous rocks

Fingal's Cave is a sea cave on the uninhabited island of Staffa, in the Inner Hebrides of Scotland, part of a National Nature Reserve owned by the National Trust for Scotland. It is formed entirely from hexagonally jointed basalt columns. These are part of the same ancient lava flow as the Giant's Causeway in Northern Ireland and those of nearby Ulva. 

In both cases, the cooling surface of the mass of hot lava cracked in a hexagonal pattern in a similar way to drying mud cracking as it shrinks. These cracks slowly extended down into the mass of lava as it cooled and shrank to form the columns, which were later exposed by erosion.

The breakup of Pangaea separated the two parts of the same rock formation.

The size of the cave, and its naturally arched roof, and the eerie sounds produced by the echoes of waves, give it the atmosphere of a natural cathedral. The cave's Gaelic name, Uamh-Binn, means "cave of melody."

[[Deadpool]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional Canadian people, Fictional characters introduced in 1991, Fictional characters with slowed ageing, Fictional pansexuals, Marvel Comics adapted into movies, Marvel Comics characters, Marvel Comics mutates

Deadpool (Finn Anderson the ranga), better known as Flanders not Randerz, is a comic book character in the Marvel Universe published by Marvel Comics. The character was created by Rob Leifeld in 1991. Deadpool began as a villain but is currently being used as an anti-hero and in his own comic book series he ended as a good guy. He is currently one of the most popular Marvel characters. He has had many of his own book series as well as been in most of Marvel's other titles. He is often seen in several of the X-Men series of books and is a regular character in the series "Uncanny X-Force".  His clothing is colored red and black, and he has two guns and short katanas as well as many other weapons.

Deadpool's special power is regeneration. His body can repair itself from any injury. He has formed a relationship with the personification of Death but because his healing power is so strong, he cannot die. This is a common theme in his stories. Deadpool is well known for "breaking the fourth wall". He knows he is a comic book character. Deadpool will often talk to the readers or refer to a specific issue when talking about something that happened in the past. He also can transport to the other alternative universes. His fighting skills are also very known. 

In the comic book universe, Deadpool was mostly considered neutral and sometimes even evil, but near the end of the series he was proved to be a good person. He tried really hard to fight his own psychotic mind behaviour and stop killing people. He got married with a person that cared for him and had a daughter. He made friends with an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. and by himself destroyed a whole evil army that was trying to kill his family. In the end, on a vacation with his family and friends, Deadpool hugged his daughter as a second earth came crashing down from the sky, presumably killing him and his family and friends, along with many lives on earth, joining up the story with Secret Wars.

However, Deadpool is seen again in the preview of All-new All-different Marvel, confirming his return. 

[[Villain]]

CATEGORIES: Literature, Movie terminology

A villain is a bad person in fiction. The word comes from a Latin word meaning a feudal farm worker or peasant. Villains, or antagonists, are usually found in fiction, such as books and movies. The audience do not usually like the villain and they support the hero or heroine. However, in some cases the villain is more praised by the public than the hero, as the example of Joker in the Batman franchise. In some movies and books (such as the movie Ocean's Eleven), the villain is a good person and the hero/heroine is bad (such as a robber). When used in comic books, they are depicted as supervillains. Supervillains usually hold some kind of unnatural force.

[[Giant's Causeway]]

CATEGORIES: County Antrim, World Heritage Sites in the United Kingdom, Igneous rocks, National Trust properties

The Giant's Causeway  is an area of about 40,000 interlocking basalt columns. The formation is a result of an ancient volcanic eruption. It is in County Antrim on the northeast coast of Northern Ireland. It is a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. It was named a National Nature Reserve in 1987 by the Department of the Environment for Northern Ireland. In a 2005 poll of Radio Times readers, the Giant's Causeway was named as the fourth greatest natural wonder in the United Kingdom.

The tops of the columns form stepping stones that lead from the cliff foot and disappear under the sea. Most of the columns are hexagonal, although there are also some with four, five, seven and eight sides. The tallest are about 12 metres (36 ft) high, and the solidified lava in the cliffs is 28 metres thick in places.

The Giant's Causeway is today owned and managed by the National Trust. It is the most popular tourist attraction in Northern Ireland.

[[Ornithopter]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft

An ornithopter from the ancient Greek language is an aircraft that flies by flapping its wings. Designers try to make the flapping-wing flight of birds, bats, and insects seem real. Though machines may differ in form, they are usually built on the same scale as these flying creatures. Manned ornithopters have also been built, and some have worked. The machines are of two general types: those with engines, and those powered by the muscles of the pilot.

[[Calgary Stampede]]

CATEGORIES: Calgary, Equestrian sports, 1886 establishments in North America, 1880s establishments in Canada

The Calgary Stampede happens every year and has a rodeo, exhibits, and a festival held every July in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. The ten-day event, which calls itself "The Greatest Outdoor Show on Earth," brings over one million visitors every year and has the world's largest rodeo. It also has a parade, rides, stage shows, concerts, farming games,and racing. People from Calgary also begin wearing cowboy hats and other cowboy gear in spirit of the event. The stampede began as a farming fair in 1886 and turned into the Calgary Stampede in 1923.

[[Juggling]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment, Performing arts

Juggling is a skill where a person (the juggler) keeps objects (props) moving for a long time, using their hands or other parts of their body. The most common props are balls (or beanbags), clubs and rings. Some jugglers use more dangerous-looking objects such as knives, fire torches and chainsaws. There are other kinds of juggling prop such as diabolos, yo-yos, poi, devil sticks, cigar boxes, foot bags and hats. Some jugglers use bouncing objects. 

Juggling can be for entertainment, art or sport.

[[3753 Cruithne]]

CATEGORIES: Asteroids

3753 Cruithne is an asteroid.

[[Mirror's Edge]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Windows games, 2008 video games, 2009 video games, Shooter video games

Mirror's Edge is a single-player first person action-adventure video game made by Electronic Arts for Microsoft Windows, Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.

[[WWE Fatal 4-Way]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment pay-per-view events, 2010 in professional wrestling, 2010 in New York (state), June events

Fatal 4-Way was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), which took place on June 20, 2010.

[[Okaloosa County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1915 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in Florida

Okaloosa County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on June 13, 1915. As of 2000, 170,498 people lived there. Okaloosa County's seat is Crestview.

[[Martin County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1925 establishments in Florida

Martin County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on June 13, 1915. As of 2000, 170,498 people lived there. Martin County's seat is Stuart. The county is named after John W. Martin. The state park Jonathan Dickinson State Park is in this county.

[[Wuerhosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs of Asia, Cretaceous dinosaurs, Stegosaurs

italic title

Wuerhosaurus was a stegosaurid dinosaur (related to Stegosaurus) from the Lower Cretaceous of China.

Many details of the skeleton are lacking. It had bony, rounded plates along its back and probably 4 bony spikes at the tip of its tail. It had a shorter body and wider hip bones than other stegosaurids. It was one of the last genera of stegosaur known to survive, since most others died out by the end of the Jurassic.

[[Franklin County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1832 establishments in Florida Territory

Franklin County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on June 13, 1915. As of 2000, 11,057 people lived there. Franklin County's seat is Apalachicola.

[[Hillsborough County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1834 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Florida Territory

Hillsborough County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on June 13, 1915. As of 2000, 11,057 people lived there. Hillsborough County's seat is Tampa.

[[Inner Hebrides]]

CATEGORIES: Inner and Outer Hebrides

The Inner Hebrides is an archipelago off the west coast of Scotland, to the south east of the Outer Hebrides.  

Together these two island chains form the Hebrides, which enjoy a mild oceanic climate because the Gulf Stream runs past them. 

There are 36 inhabited islands and a further 43 uninhabited Inner Hebrides with an area greater than 30. The main commercial activities are tourism, crofting, fishing, and whisky distilling. 

Combined, the islands have an area of approximately 415800, and had a population of 18,257 people in 2001. The population density is therefore a little over 4 persons per km2 (11 persons per square mile).

There are various important prehistoric structures, many of which pre-date the first written references to the islands by Roman and Greek authors. 

In the historic period the earliest known settlers were Picts to the north and Gaels in the south. The islands became part of the Kingdom of Mann and the Isles, the Suðreyjar kingdom of the Norse. The Norsemen ruled for over 400 years until sovereignty was transferred to Scotland by the Treaty of Perth in 1266. 

Control of the islands was then held by various clan chiefs, principal of which were the Clan MacLeod and Clan MacDonald. The Highland Clearances of the 19th century had a devastating effect on many communities and it is only in recent years that population levels have ceased to decline.

Sea transport is crucial and ferry services operate between the islands and the mainland Britain. The Gaelic language and the Wee Free Church of Scotland remains strong in some areas. The landscapes have inspired a variety of artists, and there is a diversity of wildlife.

[[Hebrides]]

The Hebrides are two archipelagos off the west coast of Scotland. They are:

Hebrides or Hebridean may also be:

[[Scion xB]]

CATEGORIES: Toyota automobiles

The Scion xB was a car made by Toyota for the United States and is sold under the Scion brand. It is a box-shaped, 5-door small car and is sometimes called the box car. There are two types of Scion xB cars on the road today. The first type was made from 2004 until 2006. This type was known for its boxy shape and high fuel economy. 

The second type started being made in 2008 and is still being made today. This type looks much rounder and it is more powerful than the first type of car. This type is also not as popular because it is a more generic type of car. There has been a lot of criticism about the second type of Scion xB because of this reason. Also, many original xB owners despise the xB2 even being called an xB. The xB2 has its own name in other markets. Scion used the xB name in an attempt to help sell it in America.

[[Earthquake protector]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering, Research

Earthquake protector is a type of base isolation made to protect building and non-building structures against damage from strong earthquakes.

A building's seismic performance may be improved by reducing vibrations. This may be done with damping mechanisms in vibration control technologies and especially in base isolation.

However, for the very pliant systems such as base isolated structures, with a relatively low bearing stiffness but with a high damping, the so-called "damping force" may turn out the main pushing force at a strong earthquake. This finding created a theoretical ground in earthquake engineering for a damping-disengaged base isolation technology called Earthquake protector.

[[Storegga Slide]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, Geography of Europe, Tsunamis, Seas

The three Storegga Slides were large landslides. They occurred under water, at the edge of Norway's continental shelf, in the Norwegian Sea. This is between Norway and Greenland, just north of Great Britain.

They caused a very large tsunami in the North Atlantic Ocean. About 290 km length of coastal shelf, 3,500 km3 of debris fell. This is an area the size of Iceland covered to a depth of 34 m (112 ft).

Based on carbon dating of plant material, the latest incident occurred around 6100 BC. 

In Scotland, traces of this tsunami have been found in the Montrose Basin (estuary of the South Esk river), and the Firth of Forth, up to 80 km inland and 4 metres above today's normal tide levels.

For the Ormen Lange natural gas field, the incident has been thoroughly investigated. One conclusion is that the slide was caused by material built up during the previous ice age, and that it would only happen again after a new ice age. This conclusion is supported by scientific studies. Facts and arguments supporting this conclusion were made public in 2004.

It was decided that the development of the Ormen Lange gas field would not significantly increase the risk of triggering a new slide. A new slide would trigger a very large tsunami which would be devastating for the coast areas around the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea.

[[Brett Skinner]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, ECHL players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, New York Islanders players, Swedish Hockey League players, United States Hockey League players

Brett Skinner (born June 28, 1983 in Brandon, Manitoba) is a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman currently playing in the Russian Kontinental Hockey League with Amur Khabarovsk.

[[Alex Smart]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2005 deaths, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Montreal Canadiens players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers

Alexander Smart (May 29, 1918 – April 18, 2005) was a Canadian ice hockey forward.  He played one season for the Montreal Canadiens of the National Hockey League and spent the majority of his career in the Quebec Senior Hockey League.

[[Brock Trotter]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Swedish Hockey League players, United States Hockey League players

Brock Trotter (born January 16, 1987) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who currently plays for the Dinamo Riga of the Kontinental Hockey League. He played two games in the NHL with the Montreal Canadiens during the 2009-10 NHL season.

[[Firth of Forth]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland

The Firth of Forth is the estuary or firth of Scotland's River Forth. It flows into the North Sea, between Fife to the north, and West Lothian, the City of Edinburgh and East Lothian to the south. 

Geologically, the Firth of Forth is a fjord, formed by the Forth Glacier in the last glacial period. The river is tidal as far inland as Stirling. 

Traffic is carried across the Firth on the Kincardine Bridge, the Forth Road Bridge and the Forth Rail Bridge. In the 21st century, the Clackmannanshire Bridge has been built close to the Kincardine Bridge and the Queensferry Crossing has been built close to the Forth Road Bridge to handle increased road traffic.

In July 2007, a hovercraft passenger service completed a two week trial between Portobello, Edinburgh and Kirkcaldy, Fife. The trial of the service (marketed as "Forthfast") was hailed as a major operational success, with an average passenger load of 85%. It was predicted to cut congestion for commuters on the Forth road and rail bridges by carrying about 870,000 passengers a year. The service was canceled in 2011.

[[Don't Download This Song]]

CATEGORIES: "Weird Al" Yankovic songs, 2006 songs

"Don't Download This Song" is a song by "Weird Al" Yankovic. It is a style parody of charity songs like "We Are the World".

[[White & Nerdy]]

CATEGORIES: "Weird Al" Yankovic songs, Parodies, 2006 songs

"White & Nerdy" is a song by "Weird Al" Yankovic. It is a parody of "Ridin' Dirty'" by Chamillionaire and Krayzie Bone. It is about him who is a nerd who wants to join a gang, but cannot because he is too "white and nerdy".

[[Canadian Idiot]]

CATEGORIES: "Weird Al" Yankovic songs, Parodies, 2006 songs

"Canadian Idiot" is a song by "Weird Al" Yankovic. It is a parody of "American Idiot" by Green Day.

[[EBay (song)]]

CATEGORIES: "Weird Al" Yankovic songs, Parodies, 2007 songs

"eBay" is a song by "Weird Al" Yankovic.  It is a parody of "I Want It That Way" by Backstreet Boys. It is about a man who buys strange and unnecessary things on eBay.

[[Northern Isles]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Scotland

The Northern Isles  are a chain of islands off the north coast of mainland Scotland.

The group includes Shetland, Fair Isle and Orkney.  Sometimes Stroma is included, which is part of Caithness.

[[Michele Bachmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American Evangelicals, Politicians from Iowa, 2012 United States presidential candidates, United States representatives from Minnesota, People from Waterloo, Iowa

Michele Marie (née Amble) Bachmann (born April 6, 1956) is a Republican politician and activist. Since 2007 she has been a United States Congresswoman from Minnesota.

[[Cam Newton]]

CATEGORIES: African American players of American football, American football quarterbacks, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), Living people, 1989 births, People from Savannah, Georgia

Cameron "Cam" Jerrell Newton (born May 11, 1989) is an American football quarterback for the New England Patriots of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football at Auburn University, where he won a National Championship in 2011.

[[Anna Louise Strong]]

CATEGORIES: American journalists, Industrial Workers of the World, American activists, Writers from Nebraska, 1885 births, 1970 deaths

Anna Louise Strong (November 24, 1885 – March 29, 1970) was an American journalist and activist who reported on communist movements in the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China. She also supported these movements.

[[Winona, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota, County seats in Minnesota

Winona is a city in southeast Minnesota just west of the Mississippi River. Winona State University serves the region.

[[For Your Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Debut albums, Dance pop albums, Adam Lambert

For Your Entertainment is the first studio album by American Idol season 8 runner-up artist Adam Lambert. The album was recorded during the summer and fall of 2009 and was released on November 23, 2010 in the United States. The album was released under RCA Records. The album was produced by Dr Luke, Max Martin, Linda Perry, and Ryan Tedder. It his #1 on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart and #29 on the 2010 Year-End U.S. Billboard 200 chart. 

[[Ingredient]]

CATEGORIES: Food ingredients

An ingredient is a part that forms part of a mixture (in a general sense). For example, in cooking, recipes specify which ingredients are used to prepare a specific dish. Many commercial products contain a secret ingredient that is purported to make them better than competing products. In the health industry, an active ingredient is that part of a recipe that yields the effect required by the buyer.

National laws usually require prepared food products to show a list of ingredients, and require that certain "bad things" be listed.

In most developed countries, the law requires that ingredients be listed according to their weight in the product. If an ingredient itself consists of more than one ingredient (such as the cookie pieces which are a part of "cookies and cream" flavor ice cream), then that ingredient is listed by what percentage of the total product it occupies, with its own ingredients showed next to it in brackets.

[[Chainsaw]]

CATEGORIES: Gardening tools

A chainsaw (or chain saw) is a portable mechanical saw, typically powered by a two-stroke engine. It is used for cutting trees, to fell snags, to cut firebreaks in wild land fires, and to harvest firewood. Special chainsaws are used for cutting concrete. 

[[Orion (spacecraft)]]

CATEGORIES: NASA spacecraft, Orion program

Orion is a spacecraft built by Lockheed Martin for NASA. Each Orion spacecraft will be able to carry up to six astronauts. The Orion vehicle will be launched on the Space Launch System. The first launch (Exploration Flight Test-1) was on the Delta IV Heavy.

Orion will launch from Launch Complex 39B at Kennedy Space Center, the same launch site used by the Space Shuttle and the Saturn V. Orion is meant to take humans to the Moon and Mars.

[[Bracket]]

CATEGORIES: Punctuation, Mathematical notation, Typography

Brackets are tall punctuation marks used in matched pairs within text. They are used in mathematics and in literature (written language). They are sometimes used to set apart or interject other parts of the text. They are noted as left/right: the left bracket is "and the right bracket is "".

In the American English, "bracket" usually refers specifically to the "square" or "box" type. In British English, "bracket" normally refers to the "round" type, which is called a "parenthesis" mark in American usage.

Parentheses are the curved brackets "(  )". They are also called round brackets, curved brackets, oval brackets, or, colloquially, parens.

Parentheses have several different meanings, such as:

There are also other uses for parentheses.

Parentheses enclose text which could be left out, without destroying or altering the meaning of a sentence. In most writing, overuse of parentheses is usually a sign of a badly structured text. A milder effect may be obtained by using a pair of commas around the text, although if the sentence contains commas for other uses, then visual confusion may result.

Parentheses may be used in formal writing to add more information, such as in:

They can also note "either singular or plural" for nouns, such as in the word "claim(s)".

In mathematics, various brackets are used for various purposes. These include, in particular:

[[Theogony]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Epic poems

The Theogony (Θεογονία, Theogonía, the birth of the gods) is a poem by Hesiod. It was written in the 8th or 7th century BC, and uses the same dialect of Ancient Greek as Homer. This dialect is known as Epic dialect today. With the exception of the Illiad and the Odyssey, the Theogony is the oldest known source of Greek mythology.

The poem is a synthesis of different Greek stories and traditions. It is a story that tells how the gods came to be and how they established permanent control over the cosmos. It is the first Greek mythical cosmogony. In the beginning, the state of the universe is chaos - a dark indefinite void. Everything else appeared from divine chaos.

[[Musaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Musaceae

The Musaceae are a family of flowering plants in the order Zingiberales. The family is native to the tropics of the Old World. The plants are large herbs with very big leaves; the lower parts of the leaves form a false stem so they look as trees.

The species of this family are native to the tropics of Africa, East Asia, Australia and South Pacific; some of them, like bananas and plantains, are grown in all tropical countries for their fruits.

[[Zingiberales]]

CATEGORIES: Zingiberales

Zingiberales is an order of flowering plants. The order has been widely recognised by the taxonomists, at least for the past few decades. This order includes many familiar plants like ginger, cardamom, turmeric, galangal and myoga of the Zingiberaceae or ginger family, and bananas and plantains of the Musaceae or banana family, along with arrowroot of the Marantaceae or arrowroot family.

[[Zingiberaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Zingiberales

Zingiberaceae, or the Ginger family, is a family of flowering plants consisting of aromatic perennial herbs with creeping horizontal or tuberous rhizomes, comprising ca. 52 genera and more than 1300 species, distributed throughout tropical Africa, Asia, and the Americas.

[[TWAS]]

CATEGORIES: Scientific organizations, Italy, 1983 establishments in Europe

Nobel Laureate Abdus Salam of Pakistan led a group of scientists in starting TWAS in 1983. This group of important and respected scientists knew that scientific research in developing countries was not good enough and wanted to improve it. TWAS meant Third World Academy of Sciences. The name was changed to TWAS, the academy of sciences for the developing world in 2004. TWAS is a science academy uniting 1,000 scientists in some 70 countries. Its main goals are promoting the ability to do science and excellence for sustainable development in the South (see North-South divide). Its headquarters are at the Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP) in Trieste, Italy.

The founding members of TWAS therefore decided to set up an organization that would help to: 

The Italian government has supported TWAS financially since it began. The director general of UNESCO  and the president of TWAS signed an agreement. UNESCO has managed TWAS finance and staff since 1991.

[[For Your Entertainment (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Adam Lambert songs, 2009 songs

For Your Entertainment is the debut mainstream single by pop singer/songwriter and runner up of American Idol's 8th season Adam Lambert. It is the lead single for the album For Your Entertainment. The song was released commercially on November 3, 2009. The single was written by Claude Kelly and Dr. Luke. It's set to be his first U.K single and his third Australian single. 

[[No Boundaries (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Adam Lambert songs

"No Boundaries" is a song originally written for season 8 American Idol winner Kris Allen. The song was covered by Allen in 2009 for the finale and winning of season 8. The song was officially released by Kris Allen on May 20, 2009. 

The song was written by Kara DioGuardi, Cathy Dennis, and Mitch Allen. Kris Allen's version of this single was produced by independent producer Emanuel Kiriakou.

Adam Lambert, runner-up of American Idol's 8th season, covered the song in late May. He released it as his own on June 9, 2009. Lambert's version was going to be featured on his first studio album, but it was replaced by his soon to be released single "Time for Miracles".

[[Purdue University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities

Purdue University, in West Lafayette, Indiana, U.S., is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University System. Purdue was founded on May 6, 1869, as a land-grant university, accepted a donation of land and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science, technology, and agriculture in his name. The first classes were held on September 16, 1874, with three buildings, six instructors, and 39 students. Today, Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the second largest international student population of any public university in the United States. 

Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in over 210 major areas of study. Purdue has produced multiple Nobel Prize winners, CEOs of Fortune 500 companies, and NFL Super Bowl MVPs.  The university has been highly influential in America's history of aviation, and Purdue's aviation technology and aeronautical engineering programs remain among the highest rated and most competitive in the world. In the mid-20th century, Purdue's aviation program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving rise to Purdue's nickname, Cradle of Astronauts. 

Purdue's tenured faculty comprises sixty Academic Deans, Associate Deans, and Assistant Deans; 63 Academic Department Heads; 753 Professors; 547 Associate Professors and 447 Assistant Professors. Purdue employs 892 non-tenure-track faculty, Lecturers, and Postdoctorals at its West Lafayette campus. Purdue employs another 691 tenured and 1,021 Non-Tenure Track Faculty, Lecturers, and Postdoctorals at its Regional Campuses and Statewide Technology.

Purdue University generated a record $333.4 million in sponsored research funding during the 2007–08 fiscal year with participation from National Science Foundation, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the U.S. departments of Agriculture, Defense, Energy, and Health and Human Services.

[[Whataya Want from Me]]

CATEGORIES: Adam Lambert songs, 2009 songs

Whataya Want from Me is the 2nd single released off the album For Your Entertainment by Season 8 runner-up of American Idol Adam Lambert. The song was written by Pink, Max Martin, and Shellback and was recorded by Pink for her fifth studio album, Funhouse, but did not make it to the final cut. It was produced by Max Martin and Shellback, who have collaborated with Pink, Britney Spears, Katy Perry, and fellow Idols Kelly Clarkson, Daughtry, Allison Iraheta and Carrie Underwood. The song received a Grammy nomination for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance. 

The track was originally recorded and co-written by Pink for the album Funhouse but did not make the final cut. On November 18, 2009, Lambert announced via his official website that his second single from his debut album would be "Whataya Want from Me". The song was the second single announced before the CD was officially available to the public. The song became available as a legal download in the United States on November 20, 2009 when his CD was officially released. The song was also included on Now That's What I Call Music! #34 and was covered in the Kidz Bop series.

In 2010, it was announced that Pink's recording on the song will appear on her first greatest hits compilation, Greatest Hits... So Far!!!.

[[If I Had You (Adam Lambert song)]]

CATEGORIES: Adam Lambert songs, 2010 songs

If I Had You (styled as If I Had U) is Adam Lambert's 3rd official mainstream single released of his debut album, For Your Entertaintment. The song was written by Max Martin, Shellback, and Savan Kotecha for Lambert's debut album, For Your Entertainment. It was released as the third single on May 5, 2010.

[[Capri pants]]

CATEGORIES: Trousers and shorts

Capri pants are a type of pants. They are shorter than normal pants; they end between the knee and lower leg.  

They were first made in 1948 by Sonja de Lennart, a clothes designer from Prussia. They were popular in the 1950s and 1960s, but went out of style until the 2000s, when they became popular again.

Some pants have a zipper at the knee, allowing them to be converted into shorts. This design allows people to change between shorts and pants in variable weather conditions.

[[Fever (Adam Lambert song)]]

CATEGORIES: Adam Lambert songs, 2010 songs

Fever is a song by international pop singer/songwriter Lady Gaga. The song, however, was given to Adam Lambert to be released off the album For Your Entertainment for mainstream radio in New Zealand. The song hit #3 on the New Zealand Pop chart in September 2010. The song was released by Lambert on August 3rd, 2010.

[[Sleepwalker (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Adam Lambert songs, 2010 songs

"Sleepwalker" is a song by Adam Lambert released off his debut album For Your Entertainment. The song was written by frontman of OneRepublic, Ryan Tedder, as well as Aimee Mayo, and Chris Lindsey. It was produced by Tedder and was released in Canada and New Zealand for radio mainstream on June 15, 2010. 

[[Time for Miracles]]

CATEGORIES: Adam Lambert songs, 2009 songs

Time for Miracles is a song written and composed by Alain Johannes and Natasha Schneider and produced by Rob Cavallo. Adam Lambert is the singer for the song and was released as a single off the album For Your Entertainment. It was also released as a promotional single for the 2009 action-thriller movie 2012. The single was released on October 18th, 2009 for promotional release and on November 3rd, 2009 for radio mainstream. 

Before "Time for Miracles" was released to the public, it had already garnered positive reviews.

Brian May of Queen was able to listen to the full track and praised the song as "truly sensational" and complimented Lambert's vocals, stating, "Adam's voice reaches out with sensitivity, depth, maturity, and awesome range and power that will make jaws drop all around the world."

[[2010–11 Philippine floods]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 disasters in Asia, 2011 disasters in Asia, 2010s floods, 2010s in the Philippines, December 2010 events, Floods in Asia, January 2011 events

In December 2010, strong rains in some places in the central part of Visayas and the eastern section of Luzon and Mindanao caused floods in the Philippines. By January 12, 2011, the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) pegged those affected at 235,867 families or 1,230,022 people in 1,267 villages in 137 towns and 10 cities in 23 provinces.

[[Ryan White (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Arizona Coyotes, Calgary Hitmen players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Minnesota Wild players, Philadelphia Flyers players, American Hockey League players

Ryan White (born March 17, 1988) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey center who previously played for the Montreal Canadiens, Philadelphia Flyers, Arizona Coyotes and  Minnesota Wild of the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Ken Wregget]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, American Hockey League players, Calgary Flames players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Lethbridge Broncos players, Living people, Philadelphia Flyers players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Kenneth Wregget (born March 25, 1964) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender.  He won the Stanley Cup in 1992 with the Pittsburgh Penguins.

[[Eau Claire, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, Eau Claire County, Wisconsin

Eau Claire is a city in west central Wisconsin just south of Chippewa Falls.

There is a campus of University of Wisconsin System. The Eau Claire river flows into the Chippewa river in this town. The city started as a lumber town and wood was transported over the river. The name is from the French eau claire (clear water).

[[Isles of Scilly]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty, Isles of Scilly

The Isles of Scilly form an archipelago off the southwestern tip of the Cornish peninsula of Great Britain.

The islands have had a unitary authority council since 1890, and are separate from the Cornwall unitary authority. Some services are combined with Cornwall and the islands are still part of the ceremonial county of Cornwall.

The islands are designated an 'Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty'. They have been dangerous for ships, and there are 530 known shipwrecks around the archipelago.

[[Calluna]]

CATEGORIES: Ericaceae

Calluna vulgaris (heather) is the sole species in the genus Calluna in the family Ericaceae.

It is a low-growing perennial shrub growing to 20 tall, or rarely to 1. It is found widely in Europe and Asia Minor on acidic soils in open sunny situations and in moderate shade.

Heather is the dominant plant on most heaths  and moorland in Europe, and in some bog vegetation and acidic pine and oak woodland. It is tolerant of grazing and regenerates following occasional burning. It is often managed in nature reserves and grouse moors by sheep or cattle grazing, and also by light burning.

The flowers emerge in late summer; in wild plants these are normally mauve, but white-flowered plants also occur occasionally.

[[Piperales]]

CATEGORIES: Piperales

Piperales is a botanical name for an order of flowering plants. It necessarily includes the family Piperaceae but otherwise has been treated variously over time. Well-known plants which may be included in this order include black pepper, kava, lizard's tail, birthwort, and wild ginger.

[[Piperaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Piperales

The Piperaceae, also known as the pepper family, is a large family of flowering plants. The group contains roughly 3,610 currently accepted species in five genera. The vast majority of peppers can be found within the two main genera: Piper (2000 species) and Peperomia (1600 species).

[[Carson Cistulli]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, American poets, American journalists, Columbia University alumni, Writers from New Hampshire, Living people

Carson Cistulli is a poet and a journalist.  He was born on December 23, 1979 in New Hampshire.  He writes about himself and life.  One important part of his life is baseball.  Another important part of his life are books.  He really likes the French poet Arthur Rimbaud and the American philosopher Ralph Waldo Emerson.  He is also a radio host.

[[Eastern wallaroo]]

CATEGORIES: Macropods, Marsupials of Australia

The eastern wallaroo (Macropus robustus) sometimes called the, common wallaroo, the red wallaroo, or just wallaroo lives on the sides of the Great Dividing Range. This runs for more than 3,000 km along the eastern and south-eastern coast of Australia. There are four subspecies of Eastern Wallaroo: 

[[Chrysler Town & Country]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Chrysler Town & Country is a family minivan made by Chrysler. It was first sold in 1990. This vehicle is a luxury variant for Dodge Grand Caravan, the Volkswagen Routan and Chrysler Grand Voyager. The design has been changed several times.

[[Marjoram]]

CATEGORIES: Herbs, Lamiaceae

Marjoram (Origanum majorana, Lamiaceae) is a somewhat cold-sensitive perennial herb or undershrub with sweet pine and citrus flavours. In some middle-eastern countries, marjoram is synonymous with oregano, and there the names sweet marjoram and knotted marjoram are used to distinguish it from other plants. 

[[Sidewise Award for Alternate History]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments, Science fiction awards, Literary awards, Lists of books

The Sidewise Awards for Alternate History were established in 1995. These awards are for the best alternate history stories and novels of the year.

The awards are named after the 1934 short story "Sidewise in Time" by Murray Leinster. In the story, a strange storm makes parts of the Earth exchange places with similar places from other timelines.

Steven H Silver, Evelyn C. Leeper, and Robert B. Schmunk created the award. The number of judges has changed in different years. There have been three to eight judges, including judges in the UK and South Africa.

There are two Sideways awards. The Short-Form award is for writing that is shorter than 60,000 words. The Long-Form award may be for writing that is longer than 60,000 words. This can include a novel or a complete series of novels. The judges may also give a Special Achievement Award, but this is not required every year. Special Achievement awards are for writing that was published befor1995. The awards are given each year, usually at Worldcon.

[[Gardner Dozois]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Disease-related deaths in Pennsylvania, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, American science fiction writers, Hugo Award winning writers, Nebula Award winning writers, Writers from Massachusetts, People from Salem, Massachusetts, American editors

Gardner Raymond Dozois (July 23, 1947 – May 27, 2018) was an American science fiction writer and editor. He was editor of Asimov's Science Fiction magazine from 1984 to 2004. He won several Hugo and Nebula awards. He won as an editor and as a writer of short fiction.

[[Linear equation]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In mathematics, a linear equation is a type of equation. In a linear equation, both terms have to be constant. A linear equation is the equation of a straight line. This type of equation is written in the form:

y = mx + b 

or  (y - y1) = m(x - x1)

where : m = the rate of change, or slope. 

The slope is how fast the line moves up or down. Larger numbers will make the slope steeper. 

If m is a negative number, then the line will appear to fall or go down the page when read from left to right. 

If m is a positive number, then the line will appear to climb the page when read from left to right. 

While b = the y-intercept of the function. 

This is where the function crosses the y - axis of the coordinate plane.The first equation is called slope-intercept form, because in it, the slope (m) and y-intercept (b) are easily found.The second equation is called point-slope form, because in it, a point on the graph (x1, y1) and the slope (m) are easily found.

[[Matt Duchene]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Canadian ice hockey centres, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Colorado Avalanche players, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Nashville Predators players, Ontario Hockey League players, Ottawa Senators players, Swedish Hockey League players

Matt Duchene (born January 16, 1991 in Haliburton, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre for the Nashville Predators of the National Hockey League (NHL). He also played for the Ottawa Senators, Colorado Avalanche, and Columbus Blue Jackets. He was picked by the Avalanche with the third overall pick in the 2009 NHL Entry Draft. He played in the OHL with the Brampton Battalion.

[[2081 (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 movies, 2009 science fiction movies, American science fiction movies, Movies set in the future, Short movies, Dystopian movies

2081 is a science fiction short film set in 2081. It was shown for the first time at the Seattle International Film Festival on May 29, 2009. Chandler Tuttle wrote and directed the film. It is based on the short story "Harrison Bergeron" by author Kurt Vonnegut. There are few actors in the film. The Kronos Quartet and Czech Philharmonic Chamber Orchestra performed thesoundtrack written by Lee Brooks.

IMDb ranks the movie in the top 10 Most Popular Short movies. 

[[Crystal Gayle]]

CATEGORIES: Country musicians, 1951 births, Living people, Singers from Indiana, Singers from Kentucky

Crystal Gayle (born Brenda Gail Webb, January 9, 1951 in Paintsville, Kentucky) is an American country singer. She had twenty one country hits in the 1970s and 1980s. She is the younger sister of singer Loretta Lynn. Crystal Gayle has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, near Loretta Lynn's star. She is well known for her hair, which is floor length.

[[Joannie Rochette]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Canadian figure skaters, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, People from Montreal, Sportspeople from Quebec

Joannie Rochette (born January 13, 1986 in Montreal, Quebec) is a French-Canadian figure skater and six time Canadian champion who is known for her powerful, dynamic and musical skating abilities that she has gained through years of experience. According to Postmedia Network Inc. newspaper Rochette has been able to succeed in her skating career while maintaining a healthy diet, exercising, always being hydrated and training hard as she is serious about being healthy under duress.

Postmedia Network Inc.newspaper claims that she emotionally captured her audiences attention during the 2010 Winter Olympics performance right after her mother died while arriving in Vancouver. Postmedia network newspaper quoted her stating that she was "not prepared either emotionally or physically" to compete in the World Championships. However, regardless of her emotional state, Rochette decided to courageously step out into the skating rink and complete her final performance making her mother proud. Rochette won a bronze medal in the 2010 Winter Olympics for her performance that year.

[[Duval County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1822 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Florida Territory

Duval County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on August 12, 1822. As of 2008, 850,962 people lived there. Duval County's seat is Jacksonville.

[[Brevard County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1844 establishments in Florida Territory

Brevard County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on March 14, 1844. In 2000, 476,230 people lived there. Brevard County's seat is Titusville.

[[Collier County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1923 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in Florida

Collier County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on May 8, 1923. As of 2007, 315,839 people lived there. Collier County's seat is Naples.

[[Highland Boundary Fault]]

CATEGORIES: Faults, Geography of Scotland

The Highland Boundary Fault is a geological fault that crosses Scotland diagonally from Arran and Helensburgh on the west coast to Stonehaven in the east. It separates two distinctly different regions: the Highlands from the Lowlands.

The geological history of Scotland can be understood as the result of two great tectonic events. The first was the formation of the global super-continent Pangaea, the second was the break-up of Pangaea to form the continents we know today.

The fault is the middle of three great faults which run south-east to north-west across Scotland. In the north there is the Great Glen Fault, and in the south the Southern Uplands Fault. Further south, just over the border with England, is the Iapetus Suture, where the palaeo-Iapetus Ocean closed. These four major geological signs mark the ancient history of Scotland.

The Highland Boundary Fault was active during the Caledonian orogeny. This was a plate tectonic collision which took place from Mid Ordovician to Mid Devonian periods (520 to 400 million years ago), during the closure of the Iapetus Ocean.

The fault allowed the Midland Valley to descend as a major rift by up to 4000 metres and there was subsequently vertical movement. This movement was later replaced by a horizontal shear. A complementary fault, the Southern Uplands Fault, forms the southern boundary for the Central Lowlands.

[[Columbia County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1832 establishments in Florida Territory

Columbia County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on February 4, 1832. As of 2000, 56,513 people lived there. Columbia County's seat is Lake City.

[[Glades County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1925 establishments in Florida

Glades County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on February 4, 1832. As of 2000, 10,576 people lived there. Glades County's seat is Moore Haven.

[[Hendry County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1923 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in Florida

Hendry County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on February 4, 1832. As of 2000, 36,210 people lived there. Hendry County's seat is La Belle.

[[Lake County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1887 establishments in Florida

Lake County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on May 27, 1887. As of 2000, 210,528 people lived there. Lake County's seat is Tavares.

[[San Fernando, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile, Settlements in the Region of O'Higgins

San Fernando (in Saint Ferdinand) is the capital of the province of Colchagua, in the central zone (central part) of Chile. San Fernando is the second most populated urban center of the Region of O'Higgins.  It is located near to the Tinguiririca River, in the valley of Colchagua, San Fernando is 1,112 feet (339 m) above the level of the se. San Fernando was founded in 1742, and became the provincial capital in 1840.

[[Leon County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1824 establishments in Florida Territory

Leon County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on December 29, 1824. As of 2008, 264,063 people lived there. Leon County's seat is Tallahassee.

[[Liberty County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1855 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Florida

Liberty County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on December 29, 1824. As of 2000, 7,021 people lived there. Liberty County's seat is Bristol.

[[2011 Egyptian revolution]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in Africa, 2010s crimes in Africa, 21st century in Egypt, Revolutions, Riots

In the 2011 Egyptian revolution, many demonstrations and riots were held in Egypt. It is also called The Day of Anger and The Day of Revolt. It started on January 25, 2011.

Before the demonstrations began, there was an uprising in Tunisia. In the weeks after that, demonstrations and riots began in Egypt. The people who started these protests hoped that people would be encouraged to mobilize (or start working together to protest) because of the Tunisian uprising. Protests happened in Cairo, Alexandria, Suez and Ismailiya.

On the first day of the protests, the Egyptian government censored most of the media (like newspapers and news stations) inside Egypt. The government also tried to block most social media websites, which the protesters had used to spread news about the events. On January 28, an Internet and cell phone "blackout" began across Egypt. However, before dawn the next morning, the blackout for cell phones was ended.

By January 29, about 1,000 people had been arrested. Also, at least 1,030 protestors had been hurt, and at least 53 deaths had been reported.

People demonstrated and protested about many different things. Some of these things were police brutality, state of emergency laws, not having free elections, corruption, limits on freedom of speech, high unemployment, low minimum wages, not having enough housing, food price inflation, and poor living conditions.

Mohamed ElBaradei said that one of the revolution's goals could be to force Hosni Mubarak to quit. ElBaradei was seen as someone who would probably be a leader in a new government.

Before 2011, protests were common, but they were always local; they did not spread to different parts of the country. However, on January 25, 2011, major protests and riots broke out all over the country. January 25 became the "Day of Anger". Egyptian opposition groups (groups working for change) and other activists had picked this date for a major demonstration. The 2011 protests have been called "unprecedented" for Egypt. This means that nothing like the protests had ever happened before. The protests have also been called "the largest display of popular dissatisfaction in recent memory".  These were the largest demonstrations seen in Egypt since the 1977 Egyptian Bread Riots. For the first time, Egyptians from different social backgrounds, economic backgrounds, and faiths joined together to protest.

During the protests, the capitol city of Cairo was described as "a war zone". In the port city of Suez, there were many violent clashes. The Egyptian government used different methods to try to break up and limit protests. Anti-riot police groups used shields, rubber bullets, batons, water cannons, and tear gas. At times, they also used live ammunition. Most of the police response to the protests was non-lethal. However, some people were killed. The government turned off internet access and set a curfew. The government argued that they needed to make sure there was as little disruption from the protests as possible. They said this was needed to keep order and to keep Islamic fundamentalist groups from rising up.

Many people across the world became interested in the protests in Egypt. This was partly because of things like Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube. Activists, and people interested in the protests, were able to use these social media platforms, and others. They used these platforms to talk to each other, work together, and keep records of what was happening. As the protests got more publicity, the Egyptian government tried harder to limit people's access to the Internet, especially social media.

On February 11, 2011, Mubarak resigned from the presidency. On 24 May, he was ordered to stand trial on charges of premeditated murder of peaceful protesters. He was found guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment.

[[Scottish Highlands]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland

The Scottish Highlands is an historic region of Scotland. It is the area to the north of the Highland Boundary Fault. The fault separates the hard igneous and metamorphic rocks to the north from the softer sedimentary rocks of the Scottish Lowlands in the south. 

The Highlands are divided in two parts. The Great Glen divides the Grampian Mountains to the southeast from the Northwest Highlands. 

[[Dick Scobee]]

CATEGORIES: American astronauts, People from Washington, 1939 births, 1986 deaths, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery

Francis Richard "Dick" Scobee (May 19, 1939 - January 28, 1986) was an American astronaut. He was flying as the commander of Space Shuttle Challenger when the shuttle exploded. In the explosion, Scobee and six other astronauts were killed. 

Scobee was selected for NASA's astronaut program in January 1978 and he completed his training in August 1979. In April 1984, Scobee piloted the Challenger mission STS-41-C, which successfully deployed one satellite and repaired another. 

[[Bay laurel]]

CATEGORIES: Herbs, Lauraceae

The bay laurel (Laurus nobilis, of the Lauraceae family) is also known as sweet bay, bay tree, true laurel, Grecian laurel, laurel lree, or simply laurel.

It is an aromatic evergreen tree or large shrub with green, glossy leaves. It is native to the Mediterranean region. Bay leaves used in cooking come from the bay laurel.

[[Scottish Lowlands]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland

The Scottish Lowlands is the part of Scotland not referred to as the Highlands.

That is everywhere south and east of the Highland Boundary Fault, between Stonehaven and Helensburgh (on the Firth of Clyde). 

Geographically, Scotland Lowlands are divided into two distinct areas: the Central Lowlands, and the Southern Uplands. 

The southernmost counties of Scotland, nearest the border with England, are also known as the Borders. 

[[Grampian Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland, Mountains of the United Kingdom

The Grampian Mountains or Grampians  are one of the three major mountain ranges in Scotland, occupying a considerable portion of the Scottish Highlands in northeast Scotland. They occupy almost half the land-area of Scotland.

The Grampians extend southwest to northeast between the Highland Boundary Fault (south) and the Great Glen (north). This includes the Cairngorms and the Lochaber hills. The range includes Ben Nevis (the highest point in the British Isles at 1,344 metres above sea level) and Ben Macdui (the second highest at 1,309 metres).

The mountains are composed of granite, and metamorphic rocks such as gneiss, marble, schists and quartzite. The other major mountain ranges in Scotland are the Northwest Highlands and the Southern Uplands.

[[Northwest Highlands]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland, Mountains of the United Kingdom

The Northwest Highlands are the northern third of Scotland, which is separated from the Grampian Mountains by the Great Glen. The Caledonian Canal, which extends from Loch Linnhe in the west, via Loch Ness to the Moray Firth in the north splits this area from the rest of the country. 

The Highlands are formed on Lewisian gneiss, the oldest layers of rock in Scotland. There are impressive rock islands of dark red or gray Torridonian sandstone which stick up out of the gneiss. Some of the peaks, such as Beinn Eighe and Canisp, are topped with light gray or white Cambrian quartzite.

The city of Inverness, known as the "Capital of the Highlands", is by far the largest settlement in the region. It is the administrative centre for the Highland Council area.

[[Exposé (group)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s music groups, 1990s music groups, American pop music groups, American girl groups, Musical groups established in 1984, Musical groups from Miami, Florida

Exposé is an American pop-rock group. The group was formed in 1984. Members of the group included Ann Curless, Jeanette Jurado and Gioia Bruno. They had success in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Exposé are the first music group to have four top 10 hit songs on the Billboard Hot 100. The group have had over 25 million records worldwide.

[[Caper]]

CATEGORIES: Medicinal plants, Capparaceae

The caper (Capparis spinosa), is a perennial winter-deciduous species that bears rounded, fleshy leaves and big white to pinkish-white flowers. A caper is also the pickled bud of this plant. Caper bush is present in almost all the countries and is included in the floristic composition of most of them but whether it is indigenous to this region is uncertain. Although the flora of the Mediterranean region has considerable endemism, the caper bush could have originated in the tropics, and later been naturalized to the Mediterranean basin.

[[Titan stick insect]]

CATEGORIES: Phasmids, Animals of Australia

The Titan stick insect is one of the largest stick insects in Australia. The scientific name is Acrophylla titan. It has a brown body with spikes on its neck. The Titan stick insect can reach up to 27 in length. It takes the form of a stick as a disguise to predators.

The Titan stick insect can be found in two states of Australia; Queensland and New South Wales.

The Titan Stick insect reproduces through sexual reproduction and lay eggs that hatch.

[[Physique]]

CATEGORIES: Society, Fitness, Physiques

Physique is the makeup (build, constitution, figure, form, shape) of a person's body. Constitution or body type refer to a number of classification systems used to empirically or theoretically classify the body shape of human individuals.

[[Saitama, Saitama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Saitama Prefecture

Saitama is the capital and the city of Saitama Prefecture that is in Japan. It is in the south-east of the prefecture. It includes the former cities of Urawa, Ōmiya, Yono and Iwatsuki. It is a city designated by government ordinance. It is about 15 - 30 kilometres north of central Tokyo, so many people commute from here into Tokyo.

[[Eino Tamberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2010 deaths, Composers, Estonian musical entertainers

Eino Tamberg (May 27 1930— December 24 2010) was a composer and musician from Estonia. He was famous for the variety of works he wrote including symphonies, concertos, operas and ballets. he was a student of the Tallinn Conservatory, where he later taught composition.

He was given many awards including:

[[Marilu Henner]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, American stage actors, American television actors, American television producers, American television writers, The Apprentice contestants, Writers from Chicago

Mary Lucy Denise Henner (born April 6, 1952), better known as Marilu Henner, is an American actress, author and producer. She is best known for her role in the television sitcom Taxi. Henner was born in Chicago.

Henner has been a contestant in two seasons of The Celebrity Apprentice. She was married to actor Frederic Forrest.

[[Danny Woodhead]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, New England Patriots players, American football running backs, Sportspeople from Nebraska, People from North Platte, Nebraska

Danny Woodhead (born January 25, 1985 in North Platte, Nebraska) is an American football  running back for the New England Patriots of the National Football League (NFL). Woodhead made his NFL debut with the New York Jets in 2008 and was signed by the New England Patriots on September 18, 2010.

[[Andean condor]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of South America, Vultures, Accipitriformes

The Andean condor (Vultur gryphus), is a vulture-like bird species found in the Andes mountains and adjacent Pacific coasts of western South America. It is the largest flying land bird in the Western Hemisphere and the heaviest member of the order Accipitriformes. The condor is primarily a scavenger, feeding on carrion, and belongs to the New World vulture.

Although about 5 cm shorter (beak to tail) on average than the California condor, the Andean condor is undoubtedly larger in wingspan: 108-122 in (274–310 cm). It is also heavier: up to 24-33 lb (11–15 kg) for males and 16-24 lb (7.5–11 kg) for females. Overall length can range from 46 to 53 inches (117 to 135 cm). Measurements are usually taken from specimens reared in captivity.

[[Lost Horizon (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 books, English novels, Fantasy books

Lost Horizon is a 1933 novel by English writer James Hilton.  In this book, Hilton imagined a special place high in the mountains of Tibet. It was a utopian city where people could live to be hundreds of years old. This perfect place was called Shangri-La.

[[Black vulture]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of North America, Vultures, Accipitriformes, Birds of South America

The black vulture (Coragyps atratus), also known as the American black vulture, is a bird in the New World vulture family.

Its range is from the southeastern United States to Central Chile and Uruguay in South America. It is a common and widespread species, but less so than the turkey vulture, which breeds well into Canada and south to Tierra del Fuego. Despite the similar name and appearance, this species is unrelated to the Eurasian black vulture.

[[Alabaster (disambiguation)]]

The term alabaster could mean:

[[Mark Dayton]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, United States senators from Minnesota, Governors of Minnesota, People with cancer, US Democratic Party politicians, Politicians from Minneapolis, Minnesota

Mark Dayton (born January 26, 1947) is an American politician. He was the 40th Governor of Minnesota from 2011 to 2019. He was the United States Senator from Minnesota 2001 to 2007. He is a member of the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party. He ran for Governor in 1998, but lost the nomination to Skip Humphrey.

In January 2017, Dayton was diagnosed with prostate cancer.

[[Daryn Colledge]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Green Bay Packers players, Miami Dolphins players, Arizona Cardinals players, American football offensive guards, Sportspeople from Alaska, People from Fairbanks, Alaska

Daryn Colledge (born February 11, 1982 in Fairbanks, Alaska) is an American football guard.

Colledge won Super Bowl XLV in 2011 with the Packers.

[[Welcome to Paradise]]

CATEGORIES: Green Day songs, 1994 songs

Welcome to Paradise is a song by rock band Green Day. It first appeared on their second album Kerplunk in 1992. A new version appeared on the album Dookie in 1994.

[[CP violation]]

CATEGORIES: Symmetry

CP Violation is the way that nature breaks the laws that say that when you change a system by C symmetry or P symmetry then some descriptions of the system should stay the same before and after the change. The 'violation' is that they don't stay the same and the amounts are not conserved.  CP symmetry says that the laws of physics should act the same on a particle and on its antiparticle (Charge conjugation symmetry) and if it was also turned around like in a mirror (P symmetry.) 

The 1964 nobel prize was given to James Cronin and Val Fitch for finding CP violation in the way neutral kaons decay.

[[Parity]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics, Symmetry, Nuclear physics, Conservation

In physics, parity is a transformation in which the mirror image of a system (meaning experiment) is considered.  If the system behaves in the mirror image as it normally would, it is said to respect parity symmetry, usually shortened to "P symmetry."   Most types of physics respects P symmetry.  One type of interaction that often does not respect this symmetry is the weak interaction.

[[Charge conjugation]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Symmetry

Charge conjugation describes a type of symmetry of nature.  To preform a charge conjugation, one would exchange all particles with their corresponding antiparticles.  This action would create a physical system where everything would be the same except the electromagnetic charge would be reversed.  For example, one could make an antihydrogen atom with an antiproton and an antielectron.  This would result in an atom with a negatively charged nucleus orbited by a positively charged positron.  The masses of the nucleus and the lepton orbiting the nucleus would remain unchanged.  If the behavior of the system (such as the atom mentioned above) remains unchanged after charge conjugation, the system is said to be symmetric with respect to charge conjugation.  This symmetry is also known as "C symmetry."

[[Another Love Song (Insane Clown Posse song)]]

CATEGORIES: Insane Clown Posse songs, 1999 songs

"Another Love Song'" is a 1999 midwest hip hop song by the American Horrorcore band Insane Clown Posse and is the first single from their fifth studio album The Amazing Jeckel Brothers, which was released in 1999. The song was produced by Insane Clown Posse and Mike Clark. The main music for "Another Love Song" comes from the 1996 single "Jack-Ass" from Beck.

[[Great Glen]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland, Valleys

The Great Glen  is a series of glens in Scotland. It runs 100 kilometres from Inverness on the Moray Firth to Fort William at the head of Loch Linnhe.

The Great Glen follows a large geological fault known as the Great Glen Fault. It bisects the Scottish Highlands into the Grampian Mountains to the southeast and the Northwest Highlands to the northwest.

The Glen is a natural travelling route in the Highlands of Scotland. It is used by both the Caledonian Canal and the A82 road, which link the city of Inverness on the east coast with Fort William on the West. 

[[Bizzar]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums, Insane Clown Posse albums

Bizzar is the sixth studio album by American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse and is the second half of Bizaar. It was released on October 31, 2000. The producer of the album were Mike E. Clark. While on the Howard Stern show, ICP talked with Sharon Osbourne who bet $50, 000 they could not sell more than 200,000 copies, and that it would be subsequently dropped from its distributor. Violent J predicted that the group's next album would sell at least 500,000 units and they sold 400,000 units but Sharon never paid them. They left Island Records after Bizaar and Bizzar because their contract expired.

[[Hell's Pit]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Insane Clown Posse albums

Hell's Pit is the ninth studio album by American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on August 31, 2004. The producer of the album was Mike Puwal. The album was the final of the "Joker Cards" chapter of the Dark Carnival mythology. The album peaked at number 12 on the Billboard 200, peaked number 1 on the Top Independent Albums and peaked at number 1 on the Top Internet Albums.

[[The Tempest (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Insane Clown Posse albums, Concept albums

The Tempest is the tenth studio album by American horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on March 20, 2007. The producer of the album was Mike E. Clark.

[[Bang! Pow! Boom!]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Insane Clown Posse albums

Bang! Boom! Pow! is the eleventh studio album by American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on September 1, 2009. The producer of the album was Mike E. Clark. The album is the first in a set of six new Joker's Cards since the conclusion of the original Joker's Cards. The music video for their song, "Miracles" became viral and was known for being parodied on Saturday Night Live which Insane Clown Posse called "A huge honor".

The album peaked at number 4 on the Billboard 200, peaked number 1 on the Top Independent Albums and peaked at number 3 on the Top Rap Albums.

[[The Mighty Death Pop!]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, Insane Clown Posse albums

The Mighty Death Pop! is the twelfth studio album by American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on August 14, 2012. The Mike E. Clark produced the album. The album is the second in a set of six Joker's Cards since the conclusion of the original Joker's Cards. The album features guest singers such as Hopsin and Tech N9ne on the song "Skreem!". They released their first single "Chris Benoit" from the album and it's about the professional wrestler Chris Benoit who died in a murder-suicide after he killed his wife and son.

[[Mike E. Clark]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, American record producers, DJs, Entertainers from Michigan

Mike E. Clark is an American record producer and DJ. Mike E. Clark has worked with famous musicians and groups like Insane Clown Posse, Kid Rock and George Clinton. As of 2012 he had produced all twelve of the Insane Clown Posse's albums.

[[Miracles (Insane Clown Posse song)]]

CATEGORIES: Insane Clown Posse songs, 2010 songs, Music memes

"Miracles'" is a 2010 midwest hip hop song by the American Horrorcore band Insane Clown Posse and is the first single from their eleventh studio album Bang! Pow! Boom!, which was released in 2009. The song was produced by Insane Clown Posse and Mike Clark. The song is also known becoming an internet meme.

The music video for the song became viral, and was parodied by Saturday Night Live which Insane Clown Posse called "a huge honor".

[[Insane Clown Posse discography]]

CATEGORIES: Insane Clown Posse, Discographies

This article presents the discography of the hip hop/horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse.

[[Beverly Kills 50187]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 albums, Insane Clown Posse EPs

Beverly Kills 50187 is the first EP by American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on July 16, 1993. The producers of the EP were Mike E. Clark, Insane Clown Posse, Esham and Chris Conley. The EP featured the only appearance of member Greez-E, who appears on the songs "In the Haughhh!" and "17 Dead". The EP's name is a parody of Beverly Hills 90210.

[[Betaucourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haute-Saône

Betaucourt is a commune. It is found in the region Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in the Haute-Saône department in the east of France.

[[Betoncourt-lès-Brotte]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haute-Saône

Betoncourt-lès-Brotte is a commune. It is found in the region Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in the Haute-Saône department in the east of France.

[[Bassigney]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haute-Saône

Bassigney is a commune. It is found in the region Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in the Haute-Saône department in the east of France.

[[Rosids]]

CATEGORIES: Rosids

The rosids are a large clade of flowering plants. It includes about 70,000 species, more than a quarter of all angiosperms. 

The rosids are divided into 17  orders. These orders together make up about 140 families. The rosids and the asterids are by far the largest clades in the eudicots.

Fossil rosids are known from the Cretaceous period. Molecular clock estimates indicate that the rosids originated in the Aptian or Albian stages of the Cretaceous, between 125 and 99.6 million years ago (mya).

Three different definitions of the rosids are in use. Some authors include the order Saxifragales in the rosids. Others exclude it.

[[Commelinales]]

CATEGORIES: Monocots

Commelinales is the botanical name of an order of flowering plants. It is considered that the Commelinales together with Zingiberales evolved in the Late Cretaceous around 80 millions of years ago. Two of the best-known genera in the order are Commelina and Tradescantia. Commelinales is made of the families Commelinaceae, Haemodoraceae, Hanguanaceae, Phylidraceae, and Pondteriaceae. Another name for this plant order is the Haemodorales.

[[White Center, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

White Center is a place in King County, Washington, United States. It is near Seattle and Burien. It is connected to Burien and has been ever since April 1, 2010. There were 13,495 people living in White Center in 2010.

[[Toni Collette]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Australian movie actors, Australian rock musicians, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, Australian movie producers, Actors from Sydney, Musicians from Sydney, Singers from New South Wales, Television producers

Antonia "Toni" Collette (born 1 November 1972) is an Australian actress and singer. She was born in Blacktown, New South Wales, a suburb of Sydney.

Collette's acting career began during the early 1990s. She starred in several Australian movies, including: Muriel's Wedding, In Her Shoes, Little Miss Sunshine and The Black Balloon. In 2013 she had a convincing starring role as an American mother in the Nat Faxon and Jim Rash Hollywood coming of age comedy "The Way, Way Back".  She is the lead singer of rock band Toni Collette & the Finish.

[[King vulture]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Central America, Birds of South America, Cathartidae, Vultures

The king vulture (Sarcoramphus papa), is a large bird found in Central and South America. This vulture lives predominantly in tropical lowland forests stretching from southern Mexico to northern Argentina. It is the only surviving member of the genus Sarcoramphus, although fossil members are known.

Large and predominantly white, the king vulture has gray to black ruff, flight, and tail feathers. The head and neck are bald, with the skin color varying, including yellow, orange, blue, purple, and red. The king vulture has a very noticeable yellow fleshy caruncle on its beak.

[[Turkey vulture]]

CATEGORIES: Vultures, Cathartidae, Ciconiiformes

The turkey vulture (Cathartes aura), is a bird found throughout most of the Americas. It is also known as the turkey buzzard (or just buzzard), and in some areas of the Caribbean as John crow or carrion crow. 

It is one of three species in the genus Cathartes, ranging from southern Canada to the southernmost tip of South America. It lives in open and semi-open areas, including subtropical forests, shrublands, pastures, and deserts. 

The turkey vulture got its common name from the resemblance of the adult's bald red head and its dark plumage to that of the male wild turkey. The name "vulture" comes from the Latin word vulturus, meaning "tearer", and is a reference to its feeding habits.

[[Ford Escape]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The Ford Escape is a compact crossover SUV that is manufactured by the Ford Motor Company. It was introduced during 2000 as a 2001 model year SUV. The Ford Escape is also available in a hybrid version. The current Escape is actually a European based model that is sold in Europe as the Ford Kuga (not to be confused with the similar sounding Cougar)

[[Battle of Wuhan]]

CATEGORIES: 1938, 1930s in Asia, Battles, Second Sino-Japanese War

The Battle of Wuhan was a Japanese attack on the Chinese city of Wuhan during the Second Sino-Japanese War. The battle started on February 1938 and ended on October 1938. The city of Wuhan had a military base with 1,100,000 Chinese soldiers. The Japanese, planned to encircle and invade Wuchang. In October, the Chinese army was able to retreat out of Wuhan.

[[Tatsu (roller coaster)]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in California, Steel roller coasters, Roller coasters by name, Roller coasters in California, 2006 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in California

Tatsu (Dragon) is a steel rollercoaster at Six Flags Magic Mountain in Valencia, California, United States. It was opened (people could go on it) on May 13, 2006. It is one of the coasters considered to be Six Flags Magic Mountain's signature roller coaster. The roller coaster is located in the Samurai Summit section of the park. It is a flying type coaster, which means it is suspended below the track, with riders secured so that their backs are parallel to the track. The maximum speed of the ride is 62 mph and it also broke records with a 124-foot (38 m) pretzel loop. It is also the only flying type to feature a Zero-gravity roll.

[[Alaska Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 establishments in North America, Airlines of the United States, Companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Low-cost airlines, Transport in Alaska

Alaska Airlines (ALK) is a large airline from the United States. They are headquartered in Seattle, Washington, where they have one of their four hubs. Alaska Airlines also has hubs in Anchorage, Alaska, Los Angeles, California and Portland, Oregon. The company was named the top "Traditional Carrier" in customer satisfaction for the third year in a row by J. D. Power and Associates. As of 2016, it goes to 104 cities and has 164 airplanes.

[[Okeechobee County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1917 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in Florida

Okeechobee County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on May 8, 1917. As of 2008, 40,334 people lived there. Okeechobee County's seat is Okeechobee.

[[Iapetus Ocean]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, History of the British Isles, History of North America

The Iapetus Ocean existed in the Neoproterozoic and Palaeozoic eras (between 600 and 400 million years ago). The ocean was in the southern hemisphere, between three paleocontinents. The ocean disappeared when these three continents joined to form one big landmass. That large continent has been given various names, such as Laurussia or the Old Red Sandstone continent. Probably the best name is Euramerica, because basically it was American and Europe stuck together.

The Iapetus Ocean was between continental masses that would at a much later time roughly form the opposite shores of the Atlantic Ocean. It was a kind of precursor of the Atlantic.

At the start of the 19th century, American paleontologist Charles Doolittle Walcott noticed differences in early Paleozoic benthic trilobites either side of the line which later was called the Iapetus Suture.

The so called "Pacific fauna" of Laurentia, as found in Scotland and western Newfoundland, was quite different from those of Baltica, often called the "Atlantic fauna". The latter is found in the southern parts of the British Isles and eastern Newfoundland. Geologists of the early 20th century thought a large trough, a so-called geosyncline, had existed between Scotland and England in the early Paleozoic, keeping both sides separated.

With the development of plate tectonics in the 1960s geologists concluded the Atlantic Ocean must have had a precursor before the time of Pangaea. That ocean had closed as three continents joined, producing the Iapetus Suture.

[[Osceola County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1887 establishments in Florida

Osceola County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida, and was formed on May 8, 1917. As of 2000, 172,493 people lived there. Osceola County's seat is Kissimmee.

[[St. Johns County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1821 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Florida Territory

St. Johns County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on July 21, 1821. As of 2000, 123,135 people lived there. St. Johns County's seat is St. Augustine.

[[Washington County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1825 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Florida Territory

Washington County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. It was formed on July 21, 1821. As of 2000, 20,973 people lived there. Washington County's seat is Chipley. The county is a dry county which means alcoholic drinks cannot be sold.

[[Eduardo Nájera]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Basketball players, Mexican sportspeople, Charlotte Bobcats players, Dallas Mavericks players, Denver Nuggets players, Golden State Warriors players, New Jersey Nets players

Eduardo Alonso Nájera Pérez (born July 11, 1976) is a Mexican basketball player that currently plays for the Charlotte Bobcats of the NBA. He also played for the Dallas Mavericks for five seasons, the Golden State Warriors for one season, the Denver Nuggets for 4 seasons and the New Jersey Nets for two seasons. He went to University of Oklahoma for college.

[[Pole vault]]

CATEGORIES: Events in athletics

Pole vault is a track and field event in which a person uses a long, flexible stick (which today is usually made either of fiberglass or carbon fiber) as an aid to leap over a bar. Pole jumping competitions were known to the ancient Greeks, as well as the Cretans and Celts. It has been a full medal event at the Olympics since the Summer Olympics at 1896 for men and 2000 for women. It started in the ancient Greece.

[[Samuel Dalembert]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Canadian basketball players, Houston Rockets players, Milwaukee Bucks players, Philadelphia 76ers players, Sacramento Kings players, Haitian people, Sportspeople from Quebec

Samuel Davis Dalembert (born May 10, 1981) is an Haitian-Canadian basketball player that currently plays for the Milwaukee Bucks of the NBA. He has also played for the Philadelphia 76ers from 2001 to 2010, the Sacramento Kings from 2010 to 2011 and the Houston Rockets from 2011 to 2012. He played college basketball at Seton Hall University. Dalembert pledged $100,000 to UNICEF and traveled to Haiti to help with the relief efforts. He won the 2009-10 J. Walter Kennedy Citizenship Award for helping with the relief efforts in Haiti.

[[Bobby Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, American Hockey League players, American ice hockey players, Anaheim Ducks players, Living people, Ontario Hockey League players, Ottawa Senators players, Sportspeople from New Jersey, Swedish Hockey League players

Bobby Ryan (born Robert Shane Stevenson; March 17, 1987 in Cherry Hill, New Jersey) is an American professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the Ottawa Senators of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Anaheim Ducks for 7 seasons.

Before playing in the NHL, Ryan played 4 seasons with the Owen Sound Attack of the Ontario Hockey League (OHL). He was drafted with the 2nd overall pick by the Anaheim Ducks in the 2005 NHL Entry Draft.

[[Luke McShane]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, British chess players, Sportspeople from London, Chess grandmasters

[[Alfa Romeo 147]]

CATEGORIES: Alfa Romeo automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Alfa Romeo 147 is a car produced by Alfa Romeo from 2000 until 2010. It replaced the Alfa Romeo 146.

[[Kevin Nash]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, American movie actors, American professional wrestlers, American television actors, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni, WWE Hall of Fame

Kevin Scott Nash (born July 9, 1959) is an American professional wrestler, actor and former basketball player. He is currently signed to WWE under a legends contract. Kevin Nash returned to the WWE during the 2011 Royal Rumble as a surprise entrant. Nash also wrestled for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) from 2004-2010.

On March 28, 2015, he was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by friend and Kliq member Shawn Michaels.

Nash has been married to his wife Tamara since 1988, the couple separated in 2000, but later reconciled. Together they have a son, named Tristan.

[[No Way Out (2003)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 in professional wrestling, Sport in Montreal, WWE No Way Out, 2003 in Canada, 2000s in Montreal

No Way Out was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on February 23, 2003 at the Bell Centre in Montreal, Quebec. It was the 4th No Way Out event. Eight matches were scheduled on the event's card.

[[Ivory (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Female professional wrestlers, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, People from Inglewood, California

Lisa Moretti (born November 26, 1961 in Inglewood, California) is an American professional wrestler. Moretti is better known by her ring name, Ivory. She is currently wrestling on the independent circuit. Moretti is best known for wrestling for WWF/E. She was the WWF Women's champion three times.

[[Ayako Hamada]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Female professional wrestlers, Japanese professional wrestlers, Mexican professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Mexico City

Ayako Valentina Hamada Villareal (born February 14, 1981 in Mexico City, Mexico) is a Japanese-Mexican professional wrestler currently wrestling on the independent circuit. She is probably best known for wrestling for TNA Wrestling where she won the TNA Knockout Tag Team Championship twice once with Awesome Kong and once with Taylor Wilde.

[[Rosa Mendes]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Bisexual people, Canadian LGBT people, Canadian models, Canadian professional wrestlers, Female professional wrestlers, LGBT sportspeople, Living people, Sportspeople from Vancouver

Milena Leticia Roucka (born October 25, 1979) is a Canadian professional wrestler, valet and former model. She currently wrestles for WWE on its SmackDown brand under the ring name, Rosa Mendes. She made her WWE debut as part of the 2006 Diva Search, even though she finished fourth WWE still hired her. She won a Slammy Award in 2010 for Best Use of Exercise Equipment. She is also a part of the main cast on the E! reality series Total Divas. In October 2014, Mendes came out as bisexual.

[[Highlands and Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland

The Highlands and Islands of Scotland are broadly the Scottish Highlands plus Orkney, Shetland and the Hebrides.

This area consisted of parts of seven counties of Scotland: 

[[Order of Merit]]

CATEGORIES: Orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom, Orders, decorations, and medals of Australia, 1902 establishments

The Order of Merit (Ordre du Mérite) is an award, for notable work in the armed forces, science, art, literature, or for the promotion of culture. The order was set up in 1902, by Edward VII. Membership of the order is a personal gift of its Sovereign (the monarch does not take advice from politicians about who should be a member). The sovereign of the order is the reigning monarch of the Commonwealth realms. The award is limited to 24 living recipients at any one time from these countries, plus a small number of honorary members. 

Whilst all members can use the post-nominal letters OM and a medallion for life, the Order of Merit's precedence, amongst other honours, differs between Commonwealth realms.

[[Ellsworth Street Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Oregon, Bridges in the United States, Concrete bridges, Steel bridges

The Ellsworth Street Bridge  is a highway bridge that crosses the Willamette River in Albany, Oregon, United States. Built in 1925, the two-lane structure carries U.S. Route 20 eastbound traffic, with the adjacent Lyon Street Bridge carrying westbound traffic. The 1090-long steel-truss bridge was designed by Conde McCullough and opened in 1926.

[[East Caribbean dollar]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of North America, 1965 establishments in North America

The East Caribbean dollar (sign: $; code: XCD) is the currency of eight of the nine members of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (the exception is the British Virgin Islands).

It has existed since 1965, when it replaced the British West Indies dollar, and it is normally abbreviated with the dollar sign $ or, alternatively, EC$ to distinguish it from other dollar-denominated currencies.  

The EC$ is subdivided into 100 cents. It has been pegged to the United States dollar since 1976 and the exchange rate is currently at US$1 = EC$2.70.

[[Hurdle race]]

CATEGORIES: Running

Hurdle race is a type of track and field race.

There are sprint hurdle races and long hurdle races. The standard sprint hurdle race is 110 meters for men and 100 meters for women. Men and women run 400 meters in the standard long hurdle race. Each of these races is run over ten hurdles and they are all Olympic events.

Other distances are sometimes run, particularly indoors. The sprint hurdle race indoors is usually 60 meters for both men and women, although races 55 meters or 50 meters long are sometimes run.

[[Hammer throw]]

CATEGORIES: Events in athletics

Hammer throw is an athletic throwing event. The goal of it is to throw a heavy metal ball attached to a wire and handle. The name "hammer throw" is derived from the older Scottish sport competitions.

Like in other throwing events, competitors gain maximum distance by swinging the hammer above their head to set up the circular motion.  Then, they apply force and pick up speed by completing one to four turns in the circle.  In competition, most throwers turn three or four times to gradually increase the velocity with each turn. The thrower releases the ball from the front of the circle. The most important factors for a long throw are the angle of release and the speed of the ball. The hammer throw was one of the first Olympic games played. Any gender can take part in the event.

[[Ocean thermal energy conversion]]

CATEGORIES: Hydropower

Ocean thermal energy conversion (OTEC) is a way of getting useful energy from the world's oceans. The sun shines on the oceans of the world and in the hot parts near the water at the sea's surface can be quite warm, sometimes as high as 30°C.

Many oceans are very deep and the water at depths of 1,000 meters can be around 5 °C.

If a pipe is put down into the ocean we can bring the cold water to the surface where we also have warm water available.

The difference in temperature between the warm surface water and the cold deep water may only be around 15 °C. But we can build a machine called a heat engine, which can use this harry difference to generate power that can be used by people that live in that place. A machine which can do this is called an OTEC machine which stands for ocean thermal energy conversion.

Because the difference in temperature is small we will need to get large quantities of warm and cold water to go through the machine to get a useful amount of work, but large quantities are available in the ocean.

It has been estimated that OTEC could give amounts of energy that are 10 to 100 times greater than the other ocean energy source, wave power.

The first OTEC machine was built in Cuba in 1930 and made 22 kW of electricity. The largest machine built so far generated 250 kW in 1999 and was made by the US. Plans to build even bigger machines of around 10 MW have been made.

OTEC can also supply quantities of cold water as a by-product. This can be used for refrigeration and can help crops and fish grow. OTEC can also produce large amounts of salt-free water, which can be useful on mid-ocean islands as drinking water.

[[Middle distance race]]

CATEGORIES: Running

Middle distance race event is longer than sprints, up to 3000 metres. The standard middle distances are the 800 metres, 1500 metres and the mile run, while the 3000 metres may also be classified  as a middle distance event. The 880 yard run, or half mile, was the forebear to the 800 m distance and it has its roots in competitions in the United Kingdom in the 1830s. The 1500 m came about as a result of running three laps of a 500 m track, which was commonplace in continental Europe in the 20th century.

[[Powerslave]]

CATEGORIES: Iron Maiden albums, 1984 albums, Heavy metal albums

Powerslave is a studio album by Iron Maiden. It went on sale on 3 September 1984. It was the second most popular album in England when it started being sold.

The album got good reviews; one person said it was "classic and essential."

One of the songs, "Rime of the Ancient Mariner," was adapted from a poem of the same name by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. It is Iron Maiden's longest song (almost 14 minutes).

[[New World vulture]]

CATEGORIES: Cathartidae, Vultures, Ciconiiformes

New World vultures are the group of vultures that are found in the Americas.  They form the  family Cathartidae.  There are seven species in five genera.  Four of the genera contain only one species each, so they are monotypic. 

These are large birds of prey that feed on the meat of dead or dying animals.  The name "Cathartidae" comes from the Greek word katharsis meaning to purge or make clean.  

Unlike other birds of prey, they have a good sense of smell.  The opening of their nostrils has a hole through from one side of the beak to the other.  Some other vultures hop to move on the ground, but the New World vultures walk.  

The two largest species are called condors. 

[[Counter-Strike]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 video games, Shooter video games, Windows games, Xbox games, MacOS games, Linux games

Counter-Strike is a first-person shooter video game. It was made by Valve Corporation and released on November 9, 2000. It was made for Microsoft Windows first, but it was also released for the Xbox in 2003 and for OS X and Linux in 2013. Before it became its own game, Counter-Strike was a mod for Valve's other game, Half-Life. It is a multiplayer game where two teams, counter-terrorists and terrorists, fight each other and try to finish their mission, or try to stop the other team from finishing their mission. These missions include exploding a bomb, rescuing hostages, or killing the VIP on the other team. The mission changes depending on the level the teams are playing on. A team wins if they finish their mission, or if they kill all the players on the other team. Players can buy weapons and equipment at the beginning of each round with the money they get from the previous rounds. People usually play the game online, where they connect to a server and fight other players. Counter-Strike is also sometimes called Counter-Strike 1.6, because there have been more games released in the series, and 1.6 was the last update for the game. There have been two sequels to the game, Counter-Strike: Source and Counter-Strike: Global Offensive.

[[Racewalking]]

CATEGORIES: Sports

Racewalking, or Walking race, is a long-distance athletic event. It is different from running: in that one foot must appear to be in contact with the ground at all times. Stride length is reduced, so to achieve competitive speeds, race walkers must walk at speeds close to those that Olympic 400-meter runners use. They must walk at those speeds for hours at a time since the Olympic events are the 20 km race walk and 50 km race walk.

[[Sriharikota]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of India, Space agencies, Andhra Pradesh

Sriharikota is a barrier island off the coast of the southern state of Andhra Pradesh in India. It houses India's only satellite launch centre in the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (also known as SHAR) and is used by the Indian Space Research Organisation to launch satellites using multi-stage rockets such as the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle and the Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle.

Sriharikota separates the Pulicat Lake from the Bay of Bengal, and is home to the town of Pulicat. It is in Sri Amarajeevi Potti Sri Ramulu Nellore district in Andhra Pradesh.February 2012 The nearest town is Sullurpeta, which has the nearest railway station. The nearest business city is Sri City. It is also connected by expressways to Chennai.

[[Monarchy of Saint Kitts and Nevis]]

CATEGORIES: Saint Kitts and Nevis, Current monarchies

As a Commonwealth realm, St Kitts and Nevis has the same monarch as several other Commonwealth countries, Queen Elizabeth II.

In St Kitts, or when representing St Kitts in another country, she is known as the Queen of St Kitts and Nevis, Her full official title being: Elizabeth the Second, by the Grace of God, Queen of Saint Christopher and Nevis and of Her other Realms and Territories, Head of the Commonwealth.

When acting as Queen of St Kitts, Elizabeth II only takes advice from the Government of St Kitts and Nevis.  This is because the Statute of Westminster of 1931 said that all Commonwealth countries were independent of each other, and that the British government no longer had the right to interfere or give orders to the other countries.

Usually the Queen's constitutional roles are carried out by the Governor-General of Saint Kitts and Nevis.

Royal succession (who is next in line to the throne) is governed by the English Act of Settlement of 1701, which is part of constitutional law.

[[Wonder Pets]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 American television series debuts, American children's television series, Nickelodeon television series, Emmy Award winning programs, English-language television programs

Wonder Pets is a children's television series that currently airs on Nick Jr. and is based on the short Nick Jr.'s film series which was called Linny the Guinea Pig. The series won an Emmy Award in 2008 for Outstanding Achievement in Music Direction and Composition.

[[Giant impact hypothesis]]

CATEGORIES: Moon, Earth sciences, Hadean

The giant impact hypothesis is that the Moon was created out of the debris from a collision between the young Earth and a Mars-sized protoplanet. This is the favoured scientific hypothesis for the formation of the Moon.

Evidence for this hypothesis comes from Moon samples which show that:

The colliding body is sometimes called Theia for the mythical Greek Titan who was the mother of Selene, the goddess of the moon.

There are several unanswered issues with this hypothesis. Lunar oxygen isotopic ratios are essentially identical to Earth, with no evidence of a contribution from another solar body. Also, lunar samples do not have expected ratios of volatile elements, iron oxide, or siderophilic elements (chemical elements which bond with iron), and there is no evidence that the Earth ever had the magma ocean implied by the hypothesis.

[[COBOL]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages, Acronyms

COBOL is a programming language that was developed in the year 1959. It was one of the first computer programming languages. The name COBOL stands for ''COmmon Business-Oriented Language''.

[[Edsger W. Dijkstra]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2002 deaths, Dutch academics, Dutch computer scientists, People from Rotterdam, Turing Award winners

Edsger Wybe Dijkstra (May 11, 1930 – August 6, 2002; ˈɛtsxər ˈwibə ˈdɛɪkstra) was a Dutch computer scientist. He received the 1972  Turing Award  for fundamental contributions to developing programming languages, and was the Schlumberger Centennial Chair of Computer Sciences at The University of Texas at Austin from 1984 until 2000.

Shortly before his death in 2002, he received the ACM PODC Influential Paper Award in distributed computing for his work on self-stabilization of program computation. This annual award was renamed the Dijkstra Prize the following year, in his honor.

[[3 Doors Down]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Musical groups from Mississippi, Post-grunge bands

3 Doors Down is an American Alternative rock band. They formed in 1994 in Escatawpa, Mississippi. The members of the group are Brad Arnold, the singer, Matt Roberts, who plays the lead guitar and backing vocals, Chris Henderson, who plays the rhythm guitar, Todd Harrell who plays the bass guitar and Greg Upchurch, who plays the drums. 

[[Third Treaty of San Ildefonso]]

CATEGORIES: Treaties

The Third Treaty of San Ildefonso (short for the Preliminary and Secret Treaty between the French Republic and His Catholic Majesty the King of Spain, Concerning the Aggrandizement of His Royal Highness the Infant Duke of Parma in Italy and the Retrocession of Louisiana) was a treaty between France and Spain. In it, Spain gave the territory of Louisiana to France.

[[Viglen]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United Kingdom, Technology companies of Europe

Viglen is an IT company based in the United Kingdom. Viglen is operated by UK businessman Lord Sugar and most schools in the UK own Viglen computers. Some of the products that Viglen have made are the Incepta II and the Genrie Pro. 

[[Lotus Cars]]

CATEGORIES: British automobile companies, Formula One constructors, 1952 establishments in Europe, 1950s establishments in the United Kingdom

Lotus Cars is a British builder of sports and racing cars. It is based at the old site of RAF Hethel, a World War II airfield in Norfolk. The company designs and builds race and production cars. The cars are built to have a low weight. The cars handle well (they can turn, start and stop quickly.)

Lotus Cars was founded and owned for many years by Colin Chapman. After his death and a period of financial instability, it was bought by General Motors, then by businessman Romano Artioli and DRB-HICOM through its subsidiary Proton. It is currently owned by Chinese multinational Geely.

[[Genetic counselling]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Medicine, Society

Genetic counselling, or counseling, is the process by which clients are advised about genetic disorders. Genetic disorders, by definition, can be passed on in heredity. Example: many descendents of Queen Victoria carried one or both alleles for haemophilia. It was a hereditary disease in European royal families.

Clients with a disorder may be interested in the probability of developing or transmitting a genetic disorder to their children. They may ask what the options are to prevent, avoid or improve it.

[[Susan Collins]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, United States senators from Maine, US Republican Party politicians, People from Bangor, Maine, 21st-century American politicians, 20th-century American politicians

Susan Margaret Collins is a Senator of the United States from Maine. She is a moderate in the Republican Party. Collins was elected to the Senate in 1996. The Senator was born December 7, 1952.

On February 13, 2021 Collins voted that no longer Republican President Donald Trump was guilty of starting the 2021 storming of the United States Capitol. She and six other Republican senators also voted that Trump was guilty. This was after the House of Representatives Second impeachment of Donald Trump. 

[[Frill-necked lizard]]

CATEGORIES: Reptiles of Australia, Lizards

The Frill-necked lizard (Chlamydosaurus kingii) has a large reptile, thin frill around its head, which it displays in order to frighten enemies. To appear even more impressive, it also opens its mouth wide and often rears up on its hind legs. When frightened, this lizard will run away, using its back-legs only, earning it the nickname, the "bicycle lizard." 

[[Jodi Picoult]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Writers from New York

Jodi Lynn Picoult (born 19 May 1966 in Nesconsent, Long Island, New York) is an American author. Picoult comes from what she calls a "non-practicing Jewish family". She was raised in her hometown in Long Island, but moved to the U.S. State of New Hampshire when she was 13 years old. She went to Princeton, a university in the U.S. state of New Jersey, where she studied writing and graduated from in 1987. She also went to Harvard University, where she earned a master's degree in education. She had many jobs, as a guest writer for magazines like Seventeen, to editing textbooks and teaching eighth grade English. She published her first novel Songs of the Humpback Whale in 1992. Her first book to debut as a New York Times best-seller was her 2007 novel Nineteen Minutes; the following year her novel Change of Heart became her second novel to debut as #1 on the New York Times Best Seller's list. Her last novel to be featured on the list was Handle With Care (2009). Four of her novels, The Pact (1998), Plain Truth (2000), The Tenth Circle (2006) and most recently, My Sister's Keeper, which published as a book in 2004 but released as a movie in 2009. She was awarded the New England Bookseller Award for fiction in 2003. Picoult currently has some 14 million copies of her books in print worldwide. In addition to writing novels, Picoult had written for DC Comics' third volume of Wonder Woman in 2007; she only wrote 5 issues. She lives with her husband, Tim Van Leer, their three children and pets in Hanover, New Hampshire.

[[Shad Gaspard]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2020 deaths, Accidental deaths by drowning in the United States, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from New York City, Former WWE wrestlers, Professional wrestlers

Shad Gaspard (January 13, 1981 – May 17, 2020) was an American professional wrestler and actor. He was best known for wrestling for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). He teamed with JTG and they formed the tag team, Cryme Tyme. Gaspard later began an acting career which he stated in an interview for Right After Wrestling. He starred in Get Hard.

Gaspard was born in New York City.

Gaspard married his longtime girlfriend Siliana Gaspard in 2009, together the couple had a son, in April 2010.

On March 5, 2011, Gaspard was arrested by police in Columbus, Ohio for having allegedly refused the commands of a police officer and then resisting arrest for jaywalking. He was later cleared of all charges in July 2011.

On May 17, 2020, Gaspard was caught in a strong rip current at Marina del Rey beach in Venice Beach, California. On May 20, 2020, his body was found washed up in Venice Beach, California, three days after he had gone missing and identified by the Los Angeles County coroner's office. He was 39 years old.

[[Bukittinggi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indonesia

Bukittinggi (Indonesian for "high hill", formerly called Fort de Kock) is a city in West Sumatra, Indonesia. The population of this city was estimated at 120,000 according to the 2010 census. Bukittinggi became the capital city of Indonesia from 1948 to 1949 when Indonesia was at war with the Netherlands.

[[Yogyakarta]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indonesia

Yogyakarta is a city in the Yogyakarta Special Region, Indonesia. Yogyakarta was the capital city of Indonesia from 1947-1948. The city is near two UNESCO World Heritage Sites: Borobudur and Prambanan.

[[Kenzo Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Japanese professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, People from Aichi Prefecture

Kenzo Suzuki (born July 25, 1974) is a Japanese professional wrestler who is best known for wrestling for WWE and New Japan Pro Wrestling.  Suzuki is currently wrestling for All Japan Pro Wrestling and is part of the stable, Voodoo Murders. He is often managed to the ring by his real-life wife, Hiroko Suzuki.

[[Gifu Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Gifu Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Gifu Prefecture is a prefecture in the Chūbu region of Japan. It is on the island of Honshu. Its capital is the city of Gifu.

Gifu is part of the Tōkai region. Shirakawa in Gifu is a UNESCO's World Heritage Site.

[[Xavier Woods]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), WWE wrestlers, People from Columbus, Georgia

Austin Watson (born September 4, 1986) is an American professional wrestler. He is currently signed to WWE where he competes under the ring name Xavier Woods. He is a member of The New Day stable with Kofi Kingston and Big E. He holds the WWE Tag Team Championship with Kingston and Big E. He defends the championship under the Freebird Rule. He has also wrestled for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) from 2007 to 2010 where he won the TNA World Tag Team Championship one time with Jay Lethal. Woods also is famous for a leaked   sexual intercourse video of himself and fellow wwe wrestler paige

[[Semih Erden]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Boston Celtics players, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Turkish basketball players

Semih Erden (born July 28, 1986 in Istanbul, Turkey) is an Turkish basketball player who currently plays for the Cleveland Cavaliers of the NBA. He was selected 60th overall in the 2nd round in the 2008 NBA Draft by the Boston Celtics, while he was playing for Fenerbahçe Ülker in his homeland. Erden arrived in Boston for the 2010–11 season, but was traded to Cleveland near the end of the season. During the 2011 NBA lockout, he returned to Turkey and played for Beşiktaş; after the lockout ended in December 2011, he returned to the Cavaliers.   

[[Doug Williams (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, English professional wrestlers, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Douglas Clayton Durdle (born September 1, 1972) is an English professional wrestler that is currently signed to TNA Wrestling wrestling under the ring name, Douglas Williams.  

[[Philidor defence]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

Philidor's defence, usually called the Philodor, is one of the basic chess openings. It was used often by the 18th century master Philidor, and he published analysis about it in his textbook L'Analyse du jeu des échecs (1849).

[[Robert Boyle]]

CATEGORIES: 1627 births, 1691 deaths, English chemists, Fellows of the Royal Society, People from County Waterford

Robert Boyle FRS (25 January 1627 – 31 December 1691) was a 17th-century natural philosopher, chemist, physicist, inventor and founding member of the Royal Society.

Boyle was born in Ireland to a titled Anglo-Irish family. He was the fourteenth child of Richard Boyle, 1st Earl of Cork, who had arrived in Ireland in 1588.

[[Myrtillocactus]]

CATEGORIES: Myrtillocactus, Cactaceae

Myrtillocactus is a genus of plants in the family Cactaceae.

All of these plants are succulents. The plants grows in Mexico and Guatemala. In total, there are 4 species:

Flowers are white or yellowish, its length is appr. 2.5 cm.

Some species of Myrtillocactus are popular houseplants.left

[[USS Nimitz (CVN-68)]]

CATEGORIES: Naval ships of the United States

The USS ''Nimitz'' (CVN-68) is a supercarrier of the United States Navy. Starting in late 2011, The USS Nimitz will be stationed at Naval Station Everett in Everett, Washington. It is named after Admiral Chester W. Nimitz.

It is set to replace the USS Abraham Lincoln. Its length is an amazing 1063 feet or 333 meters. It has four steam catapults that can speed up a 100,000 pound plane to 160 mph in 100 meters. It can launch early warning planes, F/A-18 hornets and Super Hornet fighter-bomber aircraft. It is powered by two nuclear reactors and can stay at sea for 24 years without refueling although refueling needs to be done carefully and only in special naval bases. It weighs 100,000 tons. It carries a maximum of 130 McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornets or 85-90 other planes.

[[Commelinoideae]]

CATEGORIES: Commelinaceae

Commelinoideae is a subfamily of monocotyledonous flowering plants in the dayflower family (Commelinaceae). The Commelinoideae is one of two subfamilies within the Commelinaceae and includes 39 genera (out of 41 in the family) and all but 12 of the family's several hundred known species.

[[Emma Bunton]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, English pop musicians, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from London, Spice Girls, Strictly Come Dancing participants

Emma Bunton, also known as Baby Spice, is a British singer-songwriter and television promoter. She was born on 21 January 1976. She was a member of girl group the Spice Girls. She gained her nickname from being the youngest member of the group and also because she looked young. She was a contestant in the 2006 series of Strictly Come Dancing. She is also the host of the Heart FM Saturday evening show from 4pm to 7pm.

On 12 August 2012, the Spice Girls performed a medley of "Wannabe" and "Spice Up Your Life" at the 2012 Summer Olympics closing ceremony. They got back together just for the event. Their performance was the most tweeted moment of the Olympics closing ceremony with over 116,000 tweets on Twitter per minute. 

[[Steeplechase (athletics)]]

CATEGORIES: Running

The steeplechase is an obstacle race in athletics, which derives its name from the word steeplechase in horse racing. its when you have to run around the track over hurdles an water to win

[[Ken Anderson (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, People from Green Bay, Wisconsin, Sportspeople from Wisconsin

Kenneth Anderson (born March 6, 1976 in Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin) is an American professional wrestler who is currently wrestling for TNA Wrestling under the ring name, Mr. Anderson and is the current reigning TNA World Heavyweight Champion. Anderson also wrestled for WWE from 2005-2009 as Mr. Kennedy before being released by the company because it was reported that Kennedy had injured his wrist during his last match with the company, and a stiff back suplex almost injured Randy Orton. 

[[South Sudan]]

CATEGORIES: Sudan, South Sudan, 2011 establishments, Least developed countries, 2010s establishments in Africa

[[S Club]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 establishments in England, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, English pop music groups, Musical groups established in 1998, Musical groups from London

S Club, formerly S Club 7 and currently touring under the name S Club 3 and a bit are a British pop group. They formed in 1998 in London and split up in 2003. The group reunited in 2008 with Jo O'Meara, Bradley McIntosh and Paul Cattermole and was renamed S Club. 

[[The New York Times Best Seller list]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in New York City, Books

''The New York Times'' Best Seller list is a list of best-selling books in the United States that has been published weekly on Sundays by the New York Times, a New York City based newspaper since 9 April 1942. It is also released a stand-alone publication, meaning it is sometimes published separately outside of the newspaper, and can also be found online. The list is usually split into fiction and non-fiction sections; each contain ten to twenty titles.

[[Muskmelon]]

CATEGORIES: Melons, Cucurbitales

Muskmelons (Cucumis melo) are a type of melon. Cantaloupes are a popular type of muskmelon, but there are other types like the Honeydew Melon.  They come from Persia  (Iran) and nearby countries.  They were transported west to Europe near the time of Christ's birth.  The name Cantaloupe comes from the italian town they were cultivated in: Cantalupo nel Sannio

The name of the muskmelon comes from the words "musk," which means "perfume" in Persian and "melon," which is French and comes from a Latin word melonem (melo in the accusative form - direct object function in a sentence) that means "fruit of a cucurbit."

[[2006 Hengchun earthquakes]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in Asia, 2000s in Taiwan, Earthquakes in Taiwan, Earthquakes in the 2000s, December events

The 2006 Hengchun earthquake happened on Tuesday December 26, 2006 at 12:25 UTC (20:25 local time) near Taiwan. On the surface the center of the earthquake was about 22.8 km west southwest of Hengchun, Pingtung County, Taiwan.  The center of the earthquake underground was 21.9 km deep in the Luzon Strait (21.89).

Reports of the strength of the quake do not all agree. Taiwan's Central Weather Bureau reported 7.0 ML  The United States Geological Survey estimated the quake to be 7.1 Mw  The Hong Kong Observatory   and the Japan Meteorological Agency  said 7.2 Mw. Taiwan's Central News Agency reported that it was the strongest earthquake to hit Hengchun in one hundred years. The earthquake hurt and killed many people and damaged many buildings. It also damaged several undersea cables. The broken cables were a problem for telecommunication services in parts of Asia.

The date of the earthquake was unusual. The earthquake happened exactly two years after the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake that caused terrible damage to the coastal communities across Southeast and South Asia. It was also exactly three years after the 2003 earthquake that almost destroyed the southern Iranian city of Bam.

[[Cuban solenodon]]

CATEGORIES: Soricomorphs

The Cuban solenodon or almiqui (Solenodon cubanus) is a species of soricomorph that is endemic to Cuba. It belongs to the family Solenodontidae along with a similar species, the Hispaniolan Solenodon (Solenodon paradoxus). The solenodon is unusual among mammals in that its saliva is venomous. Since its discovery in 1861 by the German naturalist Wilhelm Peters.

[[Chicago Tribune]]

CATEGORIES: 1847 establishments in the United States, Newspapers in Chicago, 1840s establishments in Illinois

Chicago Tribune is a major newspaper that serves Chicago, Illinois. It was founded on June 10, 1847 by James Kelly, John E. Wheeler and Joseph K. C. Forrest. The Tribune was also known for running the wrong result in its headline, "DEWEY DEFEATS TRUMAN" during the 1948 United States presidential election which it was expected Thomas E. Dewey would defeat Harry S. Truman.

[[Snooki]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Writers from New York City, Writers from New Jersey, Sportspeople from New Jersey, Sportspeople from New York City, American television presenters, American dancers, Television personalities from New Jersey, Television personalities from New York City, People from Santiago

Nicole Elizabeth "Snooki" LaValle (née Polizzi; born November 23, 1987) is an American reality television personality, television host, author, professional wrestler, and dancer. She is best known for being a cast member of the MTV reality show Jersey Shore and starring in Snooki & Jwoww and Jersey Shore: Family Vacation. She earned $150,000 per Jersey Shore episode by the last season. 

She also appeared as the guest hostess for WWE Raw in 2011 and competed at WrestleMania XXVII that same year.

[[Angelina Pivarnick]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Television personalities from New York City

Angelina Pivarnick (born June 26, 1986) is an American television personality. She is best known for starring in the first two seasons of the MTV's reality show Jersey Shore and the VH1 show Couples Therapy. Pivarnick made her return to television in Jersey Shore: Family Vacation. She was born in Staten Island, New York.

[[Vinny Guadagnino]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from New York City, Television personalities from New York City

Vincent "Vinny" Guadagnino (born November 11, 1987) is an American reality television personality and actor. He is best known for his time on MTV's Jersey Shore.

In the November 8, 2011 episode of 90210, he played a small role that he reprised in the episode titled "O Holly Night". 

MTV has also produced Guadagnino's own talk show, The Show with Vinny, which debuted in May 2013.

[[Sammi Giancola]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Television personalities from New Jersey, Television personalities from New York City

Sammi Giancola (born March 14, 1987)  is an American television personality and businesswoman. She is best known as one of the eight main cast members of the MTV reality series Jersey Shore.

[[Michael Sorrentino]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American prisoners, Criminals from New York City, Television personalities from New York City

Michael Sorrentino (born July 4, 1982), also known as The Situation, is an American television personality. He appeared on the MTV reality show Jersey Shore in all six seasons from December 2009 through its final episode in December 2012.

On January 19, 2018, Sorrentino pleaded guilty to one count of tax evasion, as part of a plea bargain with prosecutors. On October 5, 2018, Sorrentino was sentenced to 8 months in prison, 2 years of supervised probation, and 500 hours of community service.

[[JWoww]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Television personalities from New York City, Television personalities from New Jersey, Models from New York

Jennifer Lynn "Jenni" Farley (born February 27, 1986), also known as JWoww, is an American television personality. She is known for being one of the eight main cast members in the MTV reality series Jersey Shore, and is a main cast member of its spin-off, Snooki & Jwoww. 

[[Ronnie Ortiz-Magro]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, Television personalities from New York City

Ronald Magro Jr. (born December 4, 1985) is an American television personality and actor. He is best known as one of the eight main cast members in the MTV reality series Jersey Shore. She was born in The Bronx, New York City.

In 2017, Ortiz-Magro appeared in the second season of the E! reality series Famously Single. 

In 2018, Ronnie Ortiz-Magro became part of the main cast in the MTV reality television series Jersey Shore: Family Vacation.

[[Deena Nicole Cortese]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Television personalities from New Jersey

Deena Nicole Buckner (born Deena Nicole Cortese; January 12, 1987) is an American reality television personality. She appeared on the MTV reality show Jersey Shore from 2010 to 2012.

In November 2016, Cortese became engaged to Christopher Buckner. They were married on October 28, 2017.

[[Pauly D]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, American DJs, People from Providence, Rhode Island, Television personalities from New Jersey

Paul DelVecchio Jr. (born July 5, 1980), publicly known as DJ Pauly D, is an American television personality and disc jockey. He is best known for being a housemate on MTV's reality show Jersey Shore.

He is the first of the Jersey Shore cast to get his own spin-off show, The Pauly D Project.

[[Stephen Baldwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Actors from New York, American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, Celebrity Big Brother contestants

Stephen Andrew Baldwin (born May 12, 1966) is an American actor. He is known for his conservative religious and political beliefs. He is the youngest of the Baldwin brothers. He was a housemated in the 2010 series of Big Brother (UK).

[[Pirc defence]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

The Pirc defence is one of the asymmetrical hypermodern defences, usually to 1.e4. It is similar to the Modern defence, but reserves the decision as to whether to fianchetto the g8 bishop.

Because it is so flexible it lends itself to transpositions. This is one of the main lines:

A completely different idea is:

which is a transposition into Philidor's defence. Another idea is:

which is called Wade's defence.

[[Cyclone Yasi]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in weather, 2011 in Australia, February 2011 events, Queensland, Tropical cyclones in Oceania

Tropical Cyclone Yasi was a tropical cyclone that caused a lot of damage when it reached the Australian coast at about midnight on Wednesday 2 February 2011. The storm which started in the Coral Sea, destroyed hundreds of homes in the northern Queensland towns of Tully, Mission Beach, Innisfail and Cardwell. Yasi was a Category Five storm, the highest level, with winds of about 300 km/h. It was the biggest storm in Queensland's history, with more than 10,000 people moved from their homes. The storm passed between the two big cities of Cairns and Townsville which only suffered minor damage. Early estimates of damage put the cost at about AU$100 million.

Cyclone Yasi did not cause the damage that government expected as it missed major cities. It did however destroy 30% of the houses in Tully. At least 75% of the banana crop was destroyed, and damage to the sugar cane farms is expected to cost about AU$500 million. One person died when they were poisoned by fumes from a portable generator. Damage to power lines left 150,000 homes without electricity.

The rainforest around Mission Beach was flattened by the cyclone. This meant that most of the food and shelter needed for the wildlife has been destroyed. The Southern Cassowary, a large endangered bird, will need help to survive in the forest. After Cyclone Larry in 2006 it is thought that about one third of the cassowaries at Mission Beach died from starvation. A group, called Rainforest Rescue, is going to set up feeding areas in the forest for the birds.

[[Fianna Fáil]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Europe, Conservative parties, Politics of Ireland

Fianna Fáil is an Irish political party. It was founded in 1926 by Éamon DeValera and Constance Markievicz,

. Its leader is Micheál Martin, who has also been Taoiseach since 2020. It was a faction of Sinn Fein - another Irish political party alongside Fine Gael - before splitting to become its own political party in 1926. Its name is translated from Irish as 'Soldiers of Destiny' but literally means 'Warriors of Fál' (Fál was the name of Ireland in legends). 

The party is part of a coalition government with Fine Gael and the Green Party, with Fianna Fáil being the largest party in the Dáil Éireann.

[[Jim Agnew]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, American Hockey League players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Hartford Whalers players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, Portland Winterhawks players, Vancouver Canucks players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Jim Agnew (born March 21, 1966) is a Canadian retired professional hockey defenceman. Agnew was drafted by the Vancouver Canucks in the 8th round (157th overall) in the 1984 NHL Entry Draft. After a stellar career in the Western Hockey League with the Brandon Wheat Kings and Portland Winter Hawks, Agnew began his professional career with the Canucks in 1986.

[[Deloraine, Manitoba]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Manitoba

Deloraine is a farming town in the Canadian province of Manitoba.  It is situated near the Turtle Mountains in the southwestern corner of the province.

[[Western Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 establishments in North America, Western Hockey League, Lethbridge

The Western Hockey League (WHL) is a major junior ice hockey league based in Western Canada and the Pacific Northwest of the United States.  

[[Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s in Pakistan, 2010s in Pakistan, 2020s in Pakistan, Al-Qaeda, Insurgencies, Islamic State, Taliban, Wars involving Pakistan, Wars involving the United Kingdom, Wars involving the United States

[[Area code 869]]

CATEGORIES: Saint Kitts and Nevis

Area code 869 is the local telephone area code of Saint Kitts and Nevis. The 869 area code was created during a split from the original (809) area code which was done in October, 1996. Like many Caribbean countries St Kitts uses +1 followed by the area code as the international direct dial phone code.

When in Saint Kitts and Nevis, use the seven digits alone. When calling to Saint Kitts and Nevis from anywhere in the United States or Canada simply dial 1(869) + seven digit phone number.

[[Metropolitan Police]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in London, Law enforcement agencies of the United Kingdom, 1829 establishments in Europe, 1820s establishments in England

The Metropolitan Police is the name of the police service for the Metropolitan police district of Greater London.

It covers all of London boroughs, except the City of London.  It is the largest of the 52 police forces in the United Kingdom. In 2009, it had about 30000 police officers, more than three times the size of the next largest force.

[[Network port]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

A network port is a 16-bit number that identifies one side of a connection between two computers. Computers use port numbers to determine to which process or application a message should be delivered. As network addresses are like street address, port numbers are like suite or room numbers. Any program may use any port, though some port numbers have a standard use and some programs may be limited in which ports they can use for security reasons. Firewalls often block access to ports based on the network address and port of the source or destination computer, or the program using the port (if the firewall is running on the same computer).

[[False pregnancy]]

CATEGORIES: Female reproductive system

A false pregnancy, hysterical pregnancy or pseudopregnancy is when a mammal shows some of the symptoms associated with a pregnancy, but without being pregnant. False pregnancies commonly occur in dogs and mice. False pregnancy in humans is less common, and usually has psychological causes. False pregnancy is probably caused by changes in the endocrine system of the body, which leads to the secretion of hormones. These hormones are the reason physical changes happen, similar to those during pregnancy. The underlying cause is often mental.

[[Naomi Campbell]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, Black British actors, British people convicted of assault, English movie actors, English television actors, Models from London, 1970 births, Living people

Naomi Eliane Campbell (born 22 May 1970) is a British supermodel and actress who was born in Streatham, a district in Lambeth, London and started her modelling career in the 1980s. She has appeared on over 500 magazine covers.

Naomi was one of six models of her generation declared "supermodels" by the fashion world. As the most famous black model of her time, Campbell has been outspoken throughout her career against the racial bias that exists in the fashion industry. Her personal life is widely reported, particularly her affairs with famous men—including boxer Mike Tyson and actor Robert De Niro—and several high-profile assault convictions.

[[Blue-ringed octopus]]

CATEGORIES: Venomous animals, Cephalopods

The blue-ringed octopus (genus Hapalochlaena) is the most venomous octopus. This small cephalopod mollusc lives in warm, shallow reefs off the coast of Australia, New Guinea, Indonesia, and the Philippines. It has a life span of about two years. As of 2020, four different species have been described and named. Other species  likely exist.

[[Plasmodium falciparum]]

CATEGORIES: Parasites, Apicomplexa

Plasmodium falciparum is a protozoan parasite, one of the species of Plasmodium which cause malaria in humans. It is transmitted by the female Anopheles mosquito. P. falciparum is the most dangerous of these infections as P. falciparum (or malignant) malaria has the highest rates of complications and mortality.

There are about 200 species in the genus Plasmodium, divided into 15 sub-genera. The parasites are partners in a complex co-evolution with mosquitos and land vertebrate species. 

[[Alexander Kazarsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1797 births, 1833 deaths, Russian military people

Aleksandr Ivanovich Kazarsky (Алекса́ндр Ива́нович Каза́рский) (June 16, 1797 – June 16, 1833) was a Russian Navy officer. He was the hero of the Russo-Turkish War (1828–1829). Kazarsky was the captain of brig Mercury. He became famous after the victory in the battle against two Turkish ships of the line.

[[Chrissie Hynde]]

CATEGORIES: American rock guitarists, American rock singers, American singer-songwriters, Musicians from Akron, Ohio, New wave musicians, Singers from Ohio, Writers from Akron, Ohio, 1951 births, Living people

Christine Ellen "Chrissie" Hynde (born 7 September 1951 Akron, Ohio) is an American singer, songwriter and guitarist. She is a member of the rock band The Pretenders. She has been singing since about 1975.

[[Sandhill crane]]

CATEGORIES: Cranes

The sandhill crane (Grus canadensis) is a bird that lives in Canada and the northern U.S. It migrates to Mexico and the southern U.S. in winter.

[[Behind the Paint]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 books, Autobiographies

Behind the Paint is an autobiography of Joseph Bruce better known as Violent J, one half of the hip-hop group, Insane Clown Posse. The book was published by Psychopathic Records in July of 2003 and had a revised second edition that was released in August 2004. The book is about Bruce's childhood, professional wrestling career, and musical career. Brian Raftery, a writer for Wired magazine commented on the book saying: it was a "soul-baring memoir filled with unpleasant details."

[[Kratts' Creatures]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 American television series debuts, 1996 American television series endings, 1990s American television series, American children's television series, Canadian children's television series, Television series about animals

Kratts' Creatures was a 1996 children's television series. The show was about learning about the world of animals. The show produced a spin-off show called Zooboomafoo due to Kratts' Creatures popularity. Reruns are currently airing on PBS in America.

[[Lenticular cloud]]

CATEGORIES: Clouds

A lenticular cloud (Altocumulus lenticularis) is a type of cloud that forms at high altitudes. They are shaped like discs, and remain roughly in the same position. Because of the way they are shaped, they have been offered as an explanation for some UFO sightings. Lenticular clouds are formed when the wind forces the air up a mountain ridge to where the air is cooler and water vapor condenses.

[[Wiz Khalifa]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, American rap musicians, Singers from North Dakota, Musicians from North Dakota, People from Minot, North Dakota, African American musicians

Cameron Jibril Thomaz (born September 8, 1987 in Minot, North Dakota), known by his stage name, Wiz Khalifa, is an American rapper, singer, songwriter and actor . His stage name is derived from khalifa, an Arabic word meaning "successor", and wisdom, which was shortened to Wiz when he was fifteen. He released his fourth studio album on December 4, 2012 called O.N.I.F.C.

Wiz Khalifa is on the Atlantic Records label, which he signed with in April 2010.

[[Patric Hörnqvist]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, American Hockey League players, Living people, Nashville Predators players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Swedish ice hockey players, Swedish Hockey League players

Patric Gösta Hörnqvist (born January 1, 1987) is a Swedish professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Pittsburgh Penguins and Nashville Predators of the NHL and Djurgårdens IF of the SEL.

Hörnqvist was selected 230th overall in the 2005 NHL Entry Draft by the Nashville Predators. On June 28, 2014, the Predators traded Hörnqvist along with Nick Spaling to the Pittsburgh Penguins in exchange for James Neal.

[[Jackass (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 American television series debuts, 2002 American television series endings, 2000s American comedy television series, 2000s American reality television series, English-language television programs

Jackass was an American reality television comedy series which was first shown on MTV on October 1, 2000. The series centers around the cast and celebrity guests performing lots of dangerous, crude, ridiculous, and self-injuring stunts and pranks. The show has spawned three movies Jackass: The Movie, Jackass 2 and Jackass 3-D. The show has also made several spin-off shows including Viva La Bam, Wildboyz, Homewrecker, Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid and a video game called Jackass: The Game.

[[City of London Police]]

CATEGORIES: City of London, Law enforcement agencies of the United Kingdom

The City of London Police is the police force responsible for law enforcement within the City of London, including the Middle and Inner Temple. 

The service responsible for law enforcement within the rest of Greater London is the Metropolitan Police Service, a separate organisation. 

Nationally, as a result of the Fraud Review 2008, the force was recognised as the lead police force for fraud and granted funding from government to further develop its capabilities nationally and internationally. The police authority is the Corporation of London.

The City of London area has a resident population of 8,043 with 4,421 households. These numbers are increased by the daily influx of approximately 300,000 commuters working in the City, and many tourists. 300,000 cars passing through the square mile a day.

The Force has 1,200 employees, including 813 police officers, 85 Special Constables, 48 Police Community Support Officers and three police stations (in Snow Hill, Wood Street and Bishopsgate). The City of London Police is the smallest territorial police force in England, both in terms of geographic area – the square mile centre of London – and the number of police officers. 

[[Claudia Schiffer]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from North Rhine-Westphalia, German models, German movie actors, German television actors, 1970 births, Living people

Claudia Schiffer (born 25 August 1970) is a German supermodel and actress. She was born in Rheinberg, North Rhine-Westphalia, West Germany. Schiffer is one of the world's most successful models. She has appeared on over 500 magazine covers.

[[Jack Crawford (sailor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1775 births, 1831 deaths, Sunderland, Tyne and Wear, Royal Navy, People from Sunderland

thumb|right|Crawford's headstone at Holy Trinity graveyard in the East End.Jack Crawford (22 March 1775–10 November 1831) was a sailor of the Royal Navy.  He was most famous for his actions at the Battle of Camperdown in 1797, and so is known as the "Hero of Camperdown."

Crawford was born in the east end of Sunderland.  He trained as a keelman until 1786 when he joined the crew of the Peggy at South Shields as an apprentice. He was still only 11 or 12 years old.  In 1796, he was press-ganged into the Royal Navy and served on HMS Venerable under Admiral Duncan, the Royal Navy Commander-in-Chief of the North Seas.

At the Battle of Camperdown (11 October 1797), Venerable was Admiral Duncan's flagship.  During the battle, part of the Venerable's mast was felled, including the admiral's flag. Lowering the Admiral's personal flag was a sign of surrender.  Crawford climbed the mast and nailed the colours to the top.

After the victory procession in London he was formally presented to King George III of the United Kingdom and was given a government pension of £30 a year, and later a silver medal from the people of Sunderland. However, Crawford fell on hard times and drunkenness, and had to sell his medal.  He became the second victim of the cholera epidemic of 1831 and was buried in an unmarked "pauper's" grave. 

Towards the end of the nineteenth century interest in the 'Hero of Camperdown' was renewed.  A headstone was put up in Holy Trinity, Sunderland churchyard in 1888.  Two years later a monument was erected in Mowbray Park, opposite what is now the Civic Centre. 

A pub in Monkwearmouth was named the Jack Crawford and sported a carved figure of him on the side of the building.  After the pub was destroyed during World War II, the figure was removed. In 1987 it was loaned to Sunderland Museum and put on display in the local history gallery but has been returned to the owner. The Museum holds Jack Crawford in high regard. There was an exhibition about him on the bicentenary of the Battle of Camperdown and there was a display about him in SeaBritain Year (2005). One of the Learning Rooms is named after him and there are several pieces of nineteenth century Jack Crawford commemorative pottery on display in the Pottery Gallery and the silver medal that was presented to him by the Town following the battle in 1797, and given to the Museum by the Earl of Camperdown in 1880, is proudly on display in the Sunderland Heroes section of the Museum Street near the entrance of this award winning Museum.

Outside Sunderland doubt has been raised about Crawford's heroics.  Nevertheless, possible evidence that Crawford was not a volunteer, that he was forced to climb the mast, or that he was drunk is ignored by the people of his hometown.  One book, written by the American Sheri Holman, attracted criticism from the City's Mayor.  However, local historian William Corder had already made the criticism in the 1890s; Corder thought little of Crawford.  He claimed that it was reported by reliable witnesses that Crawford was "drunk, acted without orders, and should have been court-martialled".  Furthermore, Corder dismissed as a "deplorable monument" what others called the "fine headstone" of 1888.

[[Maria Cristina of Naples and Sicily]]

CATEGORIES: 1779 births, 1849 deaths, Kings and Queens of Sardinia, Princes and Princesses of Savoy, Dukes and duchesses, House of Bourbon, Burials at the Basilica of Superga

Maria Cristina of Naples and Sicily (Maria Cristina Amelia Teresa; 17 January 1779 – 11 March 1849) was a Princess of Naples and Sicily and later Queen of Sardinia as wife of Charles Felix of Sardinia. 

[[Court-martial]]

CATEGORIES: Trials, Military

A court martial is a trial by military authorities.  "Martial" is a word that is often used instead of military.

Martial law sometimes means, in time of emergency such as wartime, that civilians can be tried by court martial.

[[Plasmodiidae]]

CATEGORIES: Apicomplexa

The Plasmodiidae are a family of apicomplexan parasites, including the type genus Plasmodium, which is responsible for malaria. This genus was created in 1903 by Mesnil.

They are one of the four families in the order Haemosporida.

[[Martha Wainwright]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American singers, Canadian singers, People from Montreal

Martha Wainwright (born May 8, 1976) is a Canadian-American folk-rock singer. She is the daughter of singers Loudon Wainwright III and Kate McGarrigle. Her brother Rufus Wainwright is also a well known singer.

[[Philadelphia Quakers]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, Sports in Philadelphia

The Philadelphia Quakers was a professional ice hockey team from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The Quakers played in the National Hockey League for only one season, the 1930-31 NHL season. The team started as the Pittsburgh Pirates when the Pirates moved to Philadelphia.

[[Protest song]]

CATEGORIES: Songs, Protests

A protest song is a song that is part of a movement to change society. Many protest songs have lyrics that directly call for change, while others use humor, irony, or the ballad form to make their point. 

Protest songs can come from just about any type of music. In the 1960s in the United States, many folk musicians such as Phil Ochs, Joan Baez and Bob Dylan made protest songs. Some of these songs were against the United States fighting in the Vietnam War.

[[Love. Angel. Music. Baby.]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Debut albums, Gwen Stefani albums, Pop albums, Dance albums, R&B albums

Love. Angel. Music. Baby. is the debut  studio album by American singer and songwriter Gwen Stefani. Before releasing the album Stefani was the lead singer of a ska and rock band called No Doubt, the album's music was different as it was mainly a mixture of pop, dance and R&B; music that No Doubt hadn't made.

[[Ben Bernanke]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American chief executives, American economists, Bankers, Harvard University alumni, Chairs of the Federal Reserve, Jewish American academics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni, People from Augusta, Georgia, Time People of the Year, United States Council of Economic Advisers

Ben Shalom Bernanke (born December 13, 1953) is an American economist of Jewish descent. He was the Chair of the Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States.

[[Carrie Fisher]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Actors from Burbank, California, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, American movie actors, American novelists, People from Beverly Hills, California, People with bipolar disorder, Screenwriters from California

Carrie Frances Fisher (October 21, 1956 – December 27, 2016) was an American screenwriter, actress and writer. She acted in many movies. Fisher was best known for playing Princess Leia in the Star Wars movies. She was also known for her 1987 novel Postcards from the Edge.

Fisher was born in Beverly Hills, California. She was the daughter of actress Debbie Reynolds and singer Eddie Fisher. Fisher had bipolar disorder. In 2008 her memoir Wishful Drinking was published.

Fisher died on December 27, 2016 at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles, California from complications of cardiac arrest caused by sleep apnea along with other drug uses.at age 60. The next day, her mother died of a cerebral hemorrhage.

[[The Expendables 2]]

CATEGORIES: American action movies, German movies, Bulgarian movies, Chinese movies, Sequel movies, 2012 movies, 2010s action movies, Lionsgate movies

2

The Expendables 2 is an American action movie. It is the sequel to Sylvester Stallone's 2010 movie, The Expendables.  The movie was released in August 17th, 2012. It got many good reviews and did well at the box office. The movie earned $84.2 million in the United States and Canada and $285.7 million worldwide.

[[Sylvester Stallone filmography]]

CATEGORIES: Filmographies

This is a list of filmography of all of Sylvester ″Sly″ Stallone's most prominent onscreen acting action roles as well as directing, screenwriting, producing and voice acting roles. Also, included in this list are some of Stallone's special cameo appearances and exclusive extra.

American actor, filmmaker, singer, character actor,  voice actor, director, movie producer, film producer, and screen writer, Sylvester Sly Stallone has appeared in over seventy-six films.

[[Pygmy hippopotamus]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Africa, Even-toed ungulates

The pygmy hippopotamus (Choeropsis liberiensis) is a large mammal native to the forests and swamps of West Africa. The specific name liberiensis means "of Liberia", as this is where most live. The pygmy hippo is reclusive and nocturnal. It is one of only two living species in the Hippopotamidae family, the other being its much larger cousin the common hippopotamus.

The pygmy hippopotamus has many terrestrial adaptations, but like its larger cousin, it is semi-aquatic. It relies on proximity to water to keep its skin moisturized and its body temperature cool. Behaviors such as mating and giving birth may occur in water or on land. The pygmy hippo is herbivorous, feeding on ferns, broad-leaved plants, grasses and fruits it finds in the forests.

[[Ski jumping]]

CATEGORIES: Skiing, Winter Olympic sports

Ski jumping is, mostly, a winter sport performed on snow where skiers go down a take-off ramp, jump forward and land as far as possible down the hill below. Judges give points both for length of the jump and for the jump style. The skis used for ski jumping are wide and long (260). Ski jumping is a part of the Winter Olympic Games.  

True ski jumping originates in Norway in 1809 when a Norwegian lieutenant launched himself 9.5 metres in the air in front of his soldiers. The first widely known ski jumping competition was held in Oslo in 1879, with Olaf Haugann of Norway setting the first world record for the longest ski jump at 20 metres(meters)

Ski jump techniques are divided into four sections; 1) In-run, 2) Take-off (jump), 3) Flight and 4) Landing. In each part the athlete is required to pay attention to and practice a particular technique in order to maximize his or her length and style marks.

[[Ahura Mazda]]

CATEGORIES: Zoroastrianism

Ahura Mazdā (also known as Ohrmazd, Ahuramazda, Hormazd, Aramazd and Azzandara) is the Avestan name for what Zoroastrians believe is the Supreme, the creator of all good and all good things including people.

[[Angra Mainyu]]

CATEGORIES: Zoroastrianism

Zoroastrians believe that Ahura Mazda, the creator of all supreme beings, is opposed by Angra Mainyu or the destructive spirit, the creator of all evil things.

[[Limousine]]

CATEGORIES: Car classifications, Land vehicles

Limousines are luxury cars. They are longer than regular cars. The front and rear wheels are far apart. A limousine may have security features such as bulletproof glass.

[[KT Tunstall]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, British adoptees, Scottish singer-songwriters

Katherine Victoria "Katie" Tunstall, also known as KT Tunstall (born 23 June 1975), is a Scottish singer and songwriter. She was born in St Andrews, Fife. Her father is Irish; her mother is half-Chinese, half-Scottish. She was adopted when she was 18 days old. She has had many hit songs, including, "Black Horse and the Cherry Tree"'.

[[Self-synchronizing code]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications, Encodings

In telecommunications, a self-synchronizing code, or comma-free code, is a line code that can be easily synchronized. Such line codes have the property that the code which is made of a part of the code word, or two overlapping code words is not a valid code. An example, take the code words 11 and 00, and the code 11 00 00 11 00. The spaces have been added to show the different words, and are not really in the code. Let's now assume that four letters (two code words) are read. The code  1000 is not a valid code, because 10 is not one of the two code words defined. Similarly, 0001. Even though 00 is a valid word, 01 is not. The only valid way to read two valid words from the example given is by starting at the very beginning, or just after one of the spaces, which have been inserted for clarity only.

[[Pitfall!]]

CATEGORIES: Atari 2600 games, Commodore 64 games, MSX games, SG-1000 games, 1982 video games, Activision video games

Pitfall! is a 1982 platforming video game made by Activision for Atari 2600, Atari 5200, Atari 8-bit, ColecoVision, Commodore 64, Intellivision and the Sega SG-1000. The game was a best seller for the Atari 2600, with over 4 million copies sold.

In this game, the player has to move a character who is known as Harry through a maze-like jungle where he has to attempt to recover 32 treasures in a 20-minute time period. The player has to avoid many hazards including pits, quicksand, rolling logs, fire, rattlesnakes, scorpions, and crocodiles.

[[Alexei Zhamnov]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Russian ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Boston Bruins players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Winnipeg Jets (1979–96) players, Ice hockey centres

Alexei Yuryevich Zhamnov (born October 1, 1970 in Moscow, URS) is a Russian retired professional ice hockey centre. He is currently the head coach for the KHL's Vityaz Chekhov. Zhamnov played a combined 14 seasons in the NHL with four teams, 4 while part of the Winnipeg Jets, 8 while part of the Chicago Blackhawks, 1 while part of the Philadelphia Flyers and 1 while part of the Boston Bruins.

Zhamnov was also the captain of the Chicago Blackhawks from 2002-2004.

[[Jenny McCarthy]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, American activists, American movie actors, American television actors, American television producers, Autism, Models from Chicago, Writers from Chicago, People from Evergreen Park, Illinois

Jennifer Ann McCarthy, known as Jenny McCarthy, is an American model, actress, writer and activist. She was born on November 1, 1972 in Evergreen Park, Illinois. She was raised in West Elsdon, Chicago. 

[[Nellee Hooper]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, English composers, People from Bristol

Nellee Hooper (born 1963, Bristol, England) is a British producer/remixer/composer best known for his work with Björk, No Doubt/Gwen Stefani, Madonna, Garbage, Andrea Corr, U2, Sneaker Pimps, Soul II Soul and Massive Attack. He also started being a motion picture music composer with famed Scottish composer Craig Armstrong and Marius De Vries for the soundtrack for Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet in 1996.

[[Emma Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Actors from New York, American child actors, American movie actors, American musicians, American television actors, Extras, Singers from New York

Emma Rose Roberts (born February 10, 1991) is an American actress, model and singer. She acted in many movies during the 2000s. She is the daughter of actor Eric Roberts and the niece of actresses Lisa Roberts Gillan and Julia Roberts. Currently she is the lead role in the FOX's horror comedy Scream Queens as Chanel Oberlin.

[[The Terror Wheel]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 EPs, Insane Clown Posse EPs

The Terror Wheel is the second EP by the American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on August 5, 1994. The producer of the EP was Mike E. Clark. If you called the number featured in the song "Amy's in the Attic" at 6:06 into the song, it would tell you the name of the next Joker's Card, Riddle Box.

[[Keri Hilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, African American actors, African American musicians, American R&B musicians, Singers from Georgia (U.S. state)

Keri Lynn Hilson (born December 5, 1982) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. She has had many hit singles. Hilson's debut album was released in 2009. Her second studio album was released in 2010. Hilson acted for the first time in the 2012 romantic comedy movie Think Like a Man.

[[A Carnival Christmas]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 EPs, Insane Clown Posse EPs

A Carnival Christmas is the third EP by the American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on December 6, 1994. The producer of the EP was Mike E. Clark. The EP was a Christmas EP.

[[Tunnel of Love (EP)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 albums, Insane Clown Posse EPs

Tunnel of Love is the fourth EP by the American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on June 11, 1996. The producer of the EP was Mike E. Clark. A XXX Version which contained different cover art and a bonus track was also released at the same time.

[[The Calm]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums, Insane Clown Posse EPs

The Calm is the fifth EP by the American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on May 17, 2005. The producer of the EP was Mike E. Clark. The EP peaked at number 32 on the Billboard 200, number 1 on the Top Independent Albums and number 32 on the Top Internet Albums.

[[Freestyle skiing]]

CATEGORIES: Skiing, Winter Olympic sports

commonscatFreestyle skiing is an acrobatic form of skiing which is divided into a number of different disciplines. Freestyle skiing first began to be taken seriously in the 1960s and early 1970s. However, some people thought that this style of skiing was too dangerous and did not want it to be an Olympic sport. The free-form sport had few rules and was not without danger; knee injuries became a common case for professional freestylers.

The International Ski Federation (FIS) recognized freestyle as a sport in 1979 and brought in new regulations regarding certification of athletes and jump techniques in an effort to curb the dangerous elements of the competitions.  The first World Cup series was staged in 1980 and the first FIS Freestyle World Ski Championship took place in 1986 in Tignes, France. 

[[London Livery Company]]

CATEGORIES: Trade, London

The City of London Livery Companies began as trade associations or trade guilds, which controlled who could carry out certain jobs in the City of London.

[[Farrier]]

CATEGORIES: Horses

A farrier is a person who works with iron, or other materials, to make horseshoes and take care of horse's hooves. They check for signs of disease and make sure the feet are well cared for.  

[[My Sister's Keeper]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 books, 21st century American novels, Cancer in fiction, Rhode Island in fiction

My Sister's Keeper is a 2004 novel written by Jodi Picoult. Set in Rhode Island, it tells the story of a 13-year-old girl named Anna Fitzgerald, a "savior sibling", who sues her parents so that they can no longer legally control her medical decisions once she learns she is expected to donate a kidney to her older sister Kate, who is dying from leukemia, cancer of the blood and bone marrow. It is written in first person, from the perspectives of several main characters. In 2008, the book was adapted into a movie.

[[Oracle]]

CATEGORIES: Greek mythology, Divination

An oracle (in ancient Greek times) was a person who was seen as a messenger for the gods. The Oracle of Delphi was the most famous. Oracles would answer questions about the future, and would often speak in riddles. In Ancient Greece oracles lived in temples and people travelled many miles to visit them and seek their advice. The oracles were a part of Greek religion.

[[Ichthyornis]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous birds

Ichthyornis (meaning "fish bird") was a tern-like bird which lived 93-83.5 million years ago in the Upper Cretaceous. It lived in flocks, nested on shorelines, and hunted for fish in the Western Interior Seaway, a huge inland sea in what is now North America. 

[[Designer baby]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic engineering

The term designer baby is used sometimes, but its meaning is not clear or simple. It means something like "influencing the quality of a child which is not yet born". By this is meant not just health care. The idea is to change the nature, usually the genetics, of the child for the better. There are many technical, social, moral and legal issues connected to this idea. Society has scarcely begun to think about these issues. However, it is now certain that some of these ideas can, in principle, be done.

The following is a brief survey of what might be done. It is not a list of what should or will be done. Some elements are already happening in some parts of the world.

[[Heron]]

CATEGORIES: Ciconiiformes

Herons are wading birds in the Ardeidae family. There are 64 recognised species in this family. Some are called egrets or bitterns instead of herons.

In the family, all members of the genera Botaurus and Ixobrychus are called bitterns: they are a monophyletic group within the Ardeidae.

On the other hand, egrets are not a biologically distinct group. They are called egrets because they are mainly white and/or have decorative plumes. Although egrets have the same build as the larger herons, they tend to be smaller.

The classification of the individual heron/egret species is difficult, and there is no clear consensus about the placement of many species into either of the two major genera, Ardea and Egretta.

Although herons look like birds in some other families, such as the storks, ibises and spoonbills, they differ from these in flying with their necks retracted, not outstretched. They are also one of the bird groups that have 'powder down'.

Some members of this group nest colonially in trees; others, notably the bitterns, use reedbeds.

Other examples:

[[Debbie Gibson]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American pop musicians, Singers from New York City, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American musical theatre actors, American television actors

Deborah Ann Gibson (born August 31, 1970 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American singer-songwriter and actress. She was very popular in the late 1980s and early 1990s and had many hit songs.  In 1988 she became the youngest artist to write, produce, and perform a #1 single on the Billboard Hot 100, with her song "Foolish Beat". She remains the youngest female to write, record, and perform a #1 single.

Although never married, Gibson was once engaged to Jonathan Kanterman.

[[Serotonin]]

CATEGORIES: Neurology

Serotonin is a neurotransmitter. Its chemical name is 5-Hydroxytryptamine or 5-HT. It is derived from tryptophan. Serotonin is found in all vertebrates, mainly in the gastrointestinal tract, blood platelets and central nervous system. Its name is derived from its effect on blood pressure: serotonin is a part of the serum which regulates the tonus of blood vessels.

Serotonin does several jobs within the human body. It is believed to regulate mood, intestinal activity and appetite, memory, and sleep. Many antidepressant medications are thought to work by increasing the levels of serotonin in the body. Some non-medical treatments for depression have also been shown to raise serotonin levels.

Serotonin is also found in insect venom, fungi and plants. Its presence in the seeds of many fruits helps speed those seeds through the digestive tract of animals that consume them. In insect venom, it causes pain, and sometimes death, through its effect on smooth muscle contraction.

Serotonin is involved in social rank. A lobster injected with serotonin behaves like an alpha.

[[Ibis]]

CATEGORIES: Ciconiiformes

The ibises (collective plural ibis; classical plurals ibides and ibes) are a group of long-legged wading birds in the family Threskiornithidae.

They all have long down curved bills, and usually feed as a group, probing mud for food items, usually crustaceans. Most species nest in trees, often with spoonbills or herons.

The word ibis comes from Greek and Latin, and probably from the Ancient Egyptian. According to Josephus, Moses employed ibes against serpents during a desert campaign into Ethiopia in his early life. Pliny the Elder also recounted, "The Egyptians invoked ibes against the serpents."

[[Molineux Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England, 1889 establishments in England

Molineux Stadium is a football stadium in Wolverhampton, England. It is the current home stadium of the Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C.. The stadium was built in 1889 and was opened that same year. The total number of people that can be seated is about 31,700, although the view from some seats in the Stan Cullis stand are restricted by the Steve Bull stand roof until it is redeveloped, due to this they are never sold. The stadium has also hosted the England internationals and, more recently, the England under-21 internationals, and the UEFA Cup Final in 1972.

[[Spoonbill]]

CATEGORIES: Ciconiiformes

Spoonbills are a group of large, long-legged wading birds in the family Threskiornithidae, which also includes the Ibises.

All have large, flat, spatulate bills and feed by wading through shallow water, sweeping the partly-opened bill from side to side. The moment any small aquatic creature touches the inside of the bill—an insect, crustacean, or tiny fish—it is snapped shut. Spoonbills generally prefer fresh water to salt but are found in both environments. They need to feed many hours each day.

Spoonbills are monogamous, but, so far as is known, only for one season at a time. Most species nest in trees or reed-beds, often with ibises or herons.

[[The Hawthorns]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England, 1900s establishments in England, 1900 establishments in the United Kingdom

The Hawthorns is a football stadium in West Bromwich, Sandwell, England. It is the current home stadium of the West Bromwich Albion F.C.. The stadium was built in 1900 and opened in that same year. The total number of people who can seat in the stadium is about 26,500. The stadium is also near The Hawthorns station which provides transportation to the stadium. It is the highest ground above sea level in England. The four stands at the ground are called the East Stand, the Birmingham Road, the West Stand (formerly Halfords Lane)  and the Smethwick End.

[[TrES-4b]]

CATEGORIES: Gas giants

TrES-4  is an exoplanet. It orbits around the star GSC 02620-00648. The planet is 4.5 million miles from its sun. Being this close to its sun, the year on TrES-4 about three days long. This makes the temperature on the planet very hot. In fact, the temperature on TrES-4 is about 2,300 degrees Fahrenheit (1,260 degrees Celsius).

TrES-4 is a gas giant that is 70 percent bigger than Jupiter. However, the planet is only as dense as cork. At the time of its discovery, TrES-4b was the largest known planet in the universe.

[[Oxpecker]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes

The oxpeckers are the two species of bird which make up the family Buphagidae. 

Oxpeckers are endemic to the savanna of Sub-Saharan Africa. Their names come from their habit of perching on large mammals (both wild and domesticated) such as cattle or rhinoceroses, and eating ticks, botfly larvae, and other parasites.

According to the more recent studies of phylogeny, the oxpeckers are an ancient line related to  the Mimidae (mockingbirds, thrashers &c.) and starlings, but not particularly close to either.

Considering the known biogeography (distribution) of these groups, the most plausible explanation seems that the oxpecker lineage originated in Eastern or Southeastern Asia like the other two. This would make the two species of Buphagus something like living fossils.

[[Elimination Chamber (2011)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in professional wrestling, Elimination Chamber, Sports in Oakland, California

Elimination Chamber (2011) (also known as No Way Out (2011) in Germany) was the second annual Elimination Chamber professional wrestling pay-per-view event made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on February 20, 2011 at the Oracle Arena in Oakland, California. John Cena, who was the winner of the Raw Elimination Chamber match received a WWE Championship match at WrestleMania XXVII against The Miz. Edge, who was the winner of the SmackDown Elimination Chamber match won the World Heavyweight Champion.

[[Dnipro]]

CATEGORIES: 1776 establishments, Cities in Ukraine, Establishments in Ukraine, 1770s establishments in Europe

Dnipro (Дніпро, Днепр, Dnepr), called Dnipropetrovsk until May 2016 (Дніпропетро́вськ ˌdʲnʲiprɔpɛˈtrɔu̯sʲk; Днепропетро́вск dʲnʲɪprəpʲɪˈtrofsk Dnepropetrovsk) is a city in Ukraine and is the third largest city in Ukraine. About 1 million people live there. It lies southeast of Ukraine's capital city, Kyiv. It was founded in 1776. Dnipro enjoys a borderline semi-arid/Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification BSh/Csa), with relativity mild temperatures and plentiful sunshine year-round.

Dnipro is one of the key places for the nuclear, arms and space industries of the former Soviet Union.

[[Suez]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Egypt

Suez (السويس As Suwais,  Egyptian pronunciation Es Suwais) is a town in Northern Egypt, on the coast of the Gulf of Suez.  Almost 750.000 people live in the city. The city is the southern terminus of the Suez Canal. It has two harbours, and a large seaport.  An oil refinery is in Suez. Highways and railroad tracks connect Suez to the cities of Cairo, Port Said and Ismailia.

[[Mae Young]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Female professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Oklahoma, WWE Hall of Fame, WWE wrestlers

Johnnie Mae Young (March 12, 1923 – January 14, 2014) is an American female professional wrestler and is also a WWE Ambassador. She is probably best known for wrestling for the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) and World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF/E). She helped increase the popularity of women wrestling during World War II and has trained many wrestlers.

She is the only professional wrestler to compete in documented matches in nine different decades, having her first match in 1939 and her last match in 2010.

She was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2008. She was best friends with fellow wrestler The Fabulous Moolah whom she appeared with on WWF/E television with as a comedic duo. 

On December 30th, 2013, she was hospitalized with an undisclosed illness and was placed on life support. On January 9th, 2014, she was taken off life support and was placed under hospice care at home.

[[Ismaïlia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Egypt, 1863 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Africa

Ismailia (الإسماعيلية Al Ismāʿīlīya) is a city in Egypt, on the Suez Canal. Ismailia is the capital of the Governorate with the same name. The city has a population of approximately 750,000. It is approximately halfway between Port Said to the north and Suez to the south. The Canal widens at this point to include Lake Timsah, one of the Bitter Lakes.

Khedive Ismail the Magnificent founded the city in 1863, when the Canal was constructed. The city is named after him. The head office of the Suez Canal Authority is in Ismaïlia at the shore of Lake Timsah. Many of the buildings that were built when the British and French were involved in running the canal are still standing. Some of them are still being used by Canal employees and officials.

[[Sela Ward]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Mississippi, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Sela Ann Ward (b. July 11, 1956) is an American Emmy and Golden Globe Award winning movie and television actress. She was in the NBC television series Sisters. She acted in the CBS television series CSI: NY. 

Ward was born in Meridian, Mississippi

[[Eye of the Storm (EP)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Insane Clown Posse EPs

Eye of the Storm is the sixth EP by the American Horrorcore band, Insane Clown Posse. It was released on August 20, 2007.

[[Cattle egret]]

CATEGORIES: Pelecaniformes

The cattle egret (Bubulcus ibis) is a cosmopolitan species of heron (family Ardeidae) found in the tropics, subtropics and warm temperate zones.

It is the only member of the genus Bubulcus, with two subspecies, the western cattle egret and the eastern cattle egret. It is a stocky white bird adorned with buff plumes in the breeding season. It nests in colonies, usually near bodies of water and often with other wading birds.

Unlike most other herons, it feeds in relatively dry grassy habitats, often with cattle or other large mammals. It catches insect and small vertebrate prey disturbed by these animals. It also captures ticks and flies from cattle.

Originally native to parts of Asia, Africa and Europe, it has undergone a rapid expansion in its distribution and successfully colonised much of the rest of the world. This is because humans now raise domesticated cattle throughout most of the world. Some populations of the Cattle Egret are migratory and others disperse after breeding.

It can be a safety hazard at airfields, and has been implicated in the spread of tick-borne animal diseases.

[[Merginae]]

CATEGORIES: Ducks

The Merginae or seaducks are a subfamily of the Anatidae, the duck, goose and swan family of birds.

As the name suggests, most are marine outside the breeding season. Many species have specialized salt glands to allow them to tolerate salt water, but these have not yet developed in young birds. Some species prefer riverine habitats.

[[Boundary Park]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England, Oldham, Greater Manchester, 1904 establishments in England

Boundary Park is a football stadium in Oldham, England. It is the currentwhen home stadium of the Oldham Athletic A.F.C. and the Oldham Roughyeds. The stadium was built in 1904. It opened August 1, 1904. The total seating capacity of the stadium is about 10,638.

[[Immigration to Canada]]

CATEGORIES: Canada

Immigration to Canada is a way that people from other countries can move to Canada. Some laws about this include the Immigration Act 1976, and the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act 2002.

Canada lets many people move to Canada. Because of this, there are some high percentages of non-Canadians in ethnicity results.

[[Glans]]

CATEGORIES: Reproductive system

The glans (Latin for "acorn") is a vascular structure on the tip of the penis in men or a homologous genital structure of the clitoris in women.

[[Lessepsian migration]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology, Egypt

Lessepsian migration is the name given for the migration of marine species through the Suez Canal, between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean. 

It is named after Ferdinand de Lesseps, who built the Suez Canal. The Suez Canal joined two biospheres that were separate before. Many species migrated from the Red Sea to the Eastern Mediterranean. Only a few species migrated in the other direction, from the Mediterranean to the Red Sea. The migration can be seen most clearly when looking at fish species, even though other animals also migrated.

When the Suez Canal was opened in 1869, it created the first salt-water passage between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean. The Bitter Lakes are two very salty (hypersaline) lakes about mid-way in the canal. At first, this blocked the migration of species from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean. Over the last decades, the salinity of the lakes changed, which made it easier for species to migrate. 

The Red Sea is higher than the Mediterranean, at high tide, water flows from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean. The Red Sea is also poor in nutrients, so species who migrate will find more nutrients. The waters of the Red Sea are saltier than that of the Mediterranean. For these reasons, most species migrate from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean, and only very few migrate in the other direction.

When the Aswan High Dam was built in the 1960s, this blocked the flow of freshwater from the Nile into the Mediterranean. As a result, the salinity levels in the Eastern Mediterranean increase, and make it much more like the Red Sea – this means that migration will become even easier, as conditions are very similar. 

Invasive species coming from the Red Sea and introduced into the Mediterranean by the construction of the canal have become a major component of the Mediterranean ecosystem. They have serious impacts on the Mediterranean ecology, endangering many local and endemic Mediterranean species. To this day, about 300 species native to the Red Sea have been identified in the Mediterranean Sea, and there are probably others still unidentified. 

The Egyptian government announced it plans to deepen and widen the canal. This announcement has raised concerns from marine biologists, who fear that this will worsen the invasion of Red Sea species into the Mediterranean, and make the crossing of the canal easier for additional species.

Today, the term Lessepsian migration is used more broadly for any migration of animals over man-made structures.

[[Stuyvesant Town–Peter Cooper Village]]

CATEGORIES: Manhattan

Stuyvesant Town–Peter Cooper Village is a large, private community where people live. It is on the east side of Manhattan, a borough in New York City. It is one of the most and successful post-World War II private housing communities. Stuyvesant Town is known to its residents as "Stuy Town". It was named after Peter Stuyvesant, the last Director-General of the Dutch colony of New Amsterdam, whose farm occupied the site in the seventeenth century. Peter Cooper Village is named after Peter Cooper, a 19th-century industrialist, inventor and philanthropist. Cooper also founded Cooper Union.

The complex was planned beginning in 1942. It opened its first building in 1947. It replaced several very big gas storage tanks.

The complex has many red brick apartment buildings. They stretch from First Avenue to Avenue C between 14th and 23rd Streets. It covers about 80 of land. Some of this land is also playground land or parkland. Between 14th and 20th Street is Stuyvesant Town. It has 8,757 apartments in 89 residential buildings. Peter Cooper Village is between 20th and 23rd Streets. The complex has a total of 110 residential buildings, 11,250 apartments, and over 25,000 people living in it.

The East River and Avenue C is on the east, the Gramercy Park neighborhood on the west, the East Village and Alphabet City to the south, and Kips Bay to the north. To the west is a historic two-block park. Around the park is Stuyvesant Square, Saint George's Church, and the Beth Israel Medical Center.

[[Keri Russell]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Orange County, California, American movie actors, American television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1976 births, Living people

Keri Lynn Russell (born March 23, 1976 in Fountain Valley, California) is an American actress. She has starred in many movies for both the cinema and television. She starred in the television series Felicity from 1998 to 2002. Russell won a Golden Globe for "Best Actress in a Drama Series" in 1999.

Russell has been in a relationship with Matthew Rhys since 2014. They had their first child together in 2016.

[[1973 Constitution of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan, Constitutions

One of the most pressing tasks for the new government was to draft a new constitution. When martial law was finally lifted, the Assembly was summoned in April 1972 on the basis of the 1970 election result in the former west pakistan region. A committee was set up from a cross-section of politicians from different parties. There were disagreements within the committee to whether the new constitution should bring in parliamentary rule or a presidential system of government. There were also differing views over the question of provincial autonomy. It took the constitutional committee eight months before it submitted it's report on 10th April 1973. 

The draft constitution was passed by the federal Assembly by 135 votes in favour, with three abstentions. It was brought into force on 14th August 1973, and Bhutto was elected prime minister by the National Assembly on 12th August. The Constitution's main features were:

I. Pakistan shall be a Federal Republic with a Parliamentary system of government. The prime minister shall be the head of government, elected from the majority party.

II. The special position of lslam as the state religion shall be emphasized and both the prime minister and president are required to be Muslims.

III. Pakistan shall be declared an lslamic republic by default.

IV. A bill to amend the constitution shall need a two-thirds majority in the lower house and a majority in the upper house.

V. All fundamental  human rights shall be guaranteed but the stipulation was added that it was subject to resonable restrictions  imposed by law'.

VI. The supreme court and High Courts shall  be given the power to enforce fundamental rights.

VII. The president shall act in accordance with the binding advice of the prime minister, and all orders of president shall be counter signed by the prime minister.

VIII. The senate, or upper house, shall be elected mostly from the provincial governments and so, for the first time, the interests of the provinces shall be safeguarded at the centre. The Senate shall not be dissolved even in emergencies.

IX. In case of emergencies, the federal government can pass legislation on anything and can even suspend fundamental freedoms.

X. Urdu shall be the official language of the country, with pakistani language to be retained for the next 15 years.

Xl.The teaching of holy Quran and Islamiat should be compulsory.

XlI. Pakistan shall be a federal lslamic state, so residuary powers shall rest with provinces not the central government.

The 1973 Constitution, therefore, marked a return to a parliamentary form of democracy after the presidential experiment introduced under the 1962 constitution. There were also concessions made to the provinces to alleviate fears that the central government would overule them on every issue. This was important as the one unit scheme had only recently been abolished and because 2 of the 4 provincial governments in the new state of  were non-PPP. The 1973 Constitution, however, had another advantage over its two predecessors: it had been agreed and voted on by a democratically elected Assembly. This gave it greater authority and, even though it was suspended under the next martial law regime, Since independence, Pakistan has devised and changed three written constitutions and the fourth one was drawn up and it was restored on the 30th of December in 1985 and remains in place to date. 

[[Aleutian Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific islands, Islands of Alaska

The Aleutian Islands (əˈluːʃən; possibly from Chukchi aliat, "island") are a chain of more than 300 small volcanic islands. They are in the Northern Pacific Ocean. They are spread out over an area of 6,821 sq mi (17,666 km²) and go out about 1200 west from the Alaska Peninsula toward the Kamchatka Peninsula. They mark a line between the Bering Sea and the Pacific Gulf of Alaska. Crossing longitude 180°, they are the furthest West part of the United States  Nearly all the islands are part of Alaska but  at the extreme western end are the Commander Islands which are in Russia. The islands, with their 57 volcanoes, are in the northern part of the Pacific Ring of Fire. The Alaska Marine Highway passes through the islands.

About 8.200 people live in 11 towns or villages on seven islands, of the US part.  About 600 people live in the Russian part of the islands. 

[[Yarlung Zangbo River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of China, Rivers of Assam

Yarlung River is a watercourse that originates upstream from the South Tibet Valley and the Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon, in Southern Tibet. It then passes through the province of Assam, Republic of India, where it is known as the Dihang.

[[Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of China, Canyons

The Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon (雅鲁藏布大峡谷) or simply the Tsangpo Canyon or Tsangpo Gorge, along the Yarlung Tsangpo River in Tibet, China, is regarded by some as the deepest canyon in the world, and is slightly longer than the Grand Canyon, making it one of the world's largest.

[[Clay Matthews III]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Green Bay Packers players, American football linebackers, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California

William Clay Matthews III (born May 14, 1986 in Northridge, California) is an American football outside linebacker for the Los Angeles Rams of the National Football League (NFL). Matthews was drafted out of the University of Southern California by the Green Bay Packers with the 26th pick in the first round of the 2009 NFL Draft. Matthews is the son of former NFL player Clay Matthews, Jr. and his uncle is Bruce Matthews who also played in the NFL.

[[Lea Thompson]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Actors from Minnesota, American movie actors, American television actors, People from Rochester, Minnesota

Lea Katherine Thompson (born May 31, 1961) is an American actress. She acted in the 1983 movie All the Right Moves and the 1990s sitcom Caroline in the City. She also starred in many made for television movies.  

[[Rallidae]]

CATEGORIES: Gruiformes

The rails, or Rallidae, are a large family of small to medium-sized birds. The rails are related to cranes, and both are in the order Gruiformes.

The family is diverse, and includes the crakes, coots, and gallinules. Many species are associated with wetlands, although the family is found in every terrestrial habitat except dry deserts, polar regions and alpine areas above the snow line. The Rallidae are found on every continent except Antarctica. There are numerous island species. The most common habitats are marshland or dense forest. They like dense vegetation.

There are many rails on islands, and they are often flightless.

[[Tim Masthay]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Green Bay Packers players, American football punters, Sportspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Tim Masthay (born March 16, 1987 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) is an American football punter for the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League (NFL). Masthay was not drafted but started his football career in 2009 with the Indianapolis Colts when he was part of their practice squad. Masthay's father, Dr. Mark Masthay is a chairman of the chemistry department at the University of Dayton and his mother is the Executive Director of TriState Habitat for Humanity in Cincinnati, Ohio.

[[All Pakistan Muslim League]]

CATEGORIES: Muslim League, 2010 establishments in Asia

The All-Pakistan Muslim League, is a political party in Pakistan founded by Pervez Musharraf in Karachi, Pakistan, in 2010, . The party was registered at the Election Commission.

[[All Parties Hurriyat Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Kashmir

The All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC) (formed March 10, 1993) is a political front formed as an alliance of 26 political, social and religious organizations in Kashmir. It was formed achieving the right of self-determination according to United Nations Security Council Resolution 47. "Hurriyat" in Koshur (as well as in Arabic from which the word is loaned, Urdu and Persian)  means "liberty". Tabish Bhat was elected its leader in January 2010.

[[Matt Turk]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, American football punters, Green Bay Packers players, Houston Texans players, Jacksonville Jaguars players, Living people, Los Angeles Rams players, Miami Dolphins players, New York Jets players, Sportspeople from Wisconsin, St. Louis Rams players, Washington Redskins players

Matthew Edward Turk (born June 16, 1968 in Greenfield, Wisconsin) is a former American football punter that played 18 seasons in the National Football League (NFL). Turk was not drafted but started his football career in 1995 with the Washington Redskins.

He played for the Washington Redskins from 1995 to 1999, the Miami Dolphins from 2000 to 2001, the New York Jets in 2002, the Miami Dolphins again from 2003 to 2005, the St. Louis Rams in 2006, the Houston Texans from 2007 to 2010, the Jacksonville Jaguars in 2011 and the Houston Texans again in 2011. 

[[Anthurium]]

CATEGORIES: Araceae

Anthurium is a large plant genus of about one thousand species, belonging to the arum family (Araceae). Anthurium can also be called "Flamingo Flower" or "Boy Flower", both referring to the structure of the spathe and spadix.

The species has neotropical distribution; mostly in wet tropical mountain forest of Central America and South America, but some in semi-arid environments. 

[[Wynonna Judd]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, 1964 births, Living people

Christina Claire Ciminella, aka Wynonna Judd, is an American singer and songwriter. She first rose to fame during the 1980s as part of the duo The Judds with her mother Naomi Judd, who is also a singer. The duo had seven albums via Curb Records. Wynonna has had many solo albums.

Judd was born on May 30, 1964.

[[Blades of Glory]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 comedy movies, 2000s buddy movies, 2000s sports comedy movies, American buddy movies, American sports comedy movies, Buddy comedy movies, English-language movies

Blades of Glory is a 2007 American sports comedy movie that was produced by Ben Stiller, Stuart Cornfeld and John Jacobs and was directed by Josh Gordon and Will Speck. Blades of Glory was given a 69% Fresh rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 64 out of 100 rating on Metacritic. Blades of Glory grossed $33,014,202 on its opening weekend with 3,372 theaters, beating Disney's Meet the Robinsons to be the number 1 film. Voice clips from the movie are featured in the 2011 song, "Niggas in Paris" by Jay-Z and Kanye West.

[[Autobiography of Mark Twain]]

CATEGORIES: Autobiographies, Books by Mark Twain

The Autobiography of Mark Twain or Mark Twain’s Autobiography is a book by Mark Twain, (the pen name of Samuel Langhorne Clemens). It has many stories about his life in it. Twain did not write and publish the book in the usual way. He told the stories and they were written down for him. The book was published in November 2010, one hundred years after his death.

[[Kathleen Turner]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Actors from Missouri, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Democrats (United States), People from Springfield, Missouri

Mary Kathleen Turner (born June 19, 1954) is an American actress. She became famous during the 1980s with Hollywood movies including: Body Heat, Romancing the Stone and Peggy Sue Got Married. Turner has starred in many television programs and theatrical movies. She was born in Springfield, Missouri. She is a Democrat.

[[Jewel (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American guitarists, Musicians from Utah, Singers from Utah, Singers from Alaska, Musicians from Alaska, American singer-songwriters, People from Anchorage, Alaska

July 2020

Jewel Kilcher (born May 23, 1974), known simply as Jewel, is an American singer-songwriter. She has had four Grammy Award nominations. Jewel was born in Payson, Utah, but raised in Anchorage, Alaska.

[[Lynton and Barnstaple Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Devon, Heritage railways in England, 1898 establishments in England, 1935 disestablishments in Europe, 1930s disestablishments in England

The Lynton & Barnstaple Railway (L&B) is a Heritage railway in North Devon, England.

The original line opened in May 1898, but closed in 1935. It was a single track narrow gauge railway just over 19 miles (30 km) long, running through rugged rural countryside in Exmoor National Park

For a few years the line earned a small profit, but for most of its life the L&B lost money. The L&B was taken over by the Southern Railway in 1923, and finally closed in September 1935.

The Lynton & Barnstaple Railway Association was created in 1979. A short section of the line opened again in 2004. This was extended in 2006 and a year later, plans were announced to open nine miles (14 km) of track, linking the station at Woody Bay to both Lynton and Blackmoor Gate, and eventually to a new station at Wistlandpound Reservoir.

[[Woody Bay railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England

Woody Bay was a station on the old Lynton and Barnstaple Railway, a narrow gauge railway line that ran through Exmoor from Barnstaple to Lynton and Lynmouth in North Devon. The station was inland, about 2 km from Woody Bay itself. It opened with the line (as Wooda Bay until the name was changed in 1901) on 7 March 1898, and closed when the line was closed on 29 September 1935. From 1923 until closure, the line was part of the Southern Railway.

Woody Bay station was built in part to serve the expected development of a resort at Woody Bay, a mile or so to the north.  A pier was built in the bay, although not much more building took place, and the pier was destroyed by storms before it properly opened.

The development was stopped when the promotor went bankrupt in 1900, and although a route was surveyed for a branch line to the bay, it was never built.

After being bought by the Lynton and Barnstaple Railway Company in 1995, restoration of the station began, and it opened as a Visitors' Centre in 2003.  An "out and back" service over a few hundred yards of track began in 2004, and with the opening of a temporary station at Killington Lane, about one mile towards Parracombe Halt, a regular "point to point" service started in 2006.

A carriage shed has been built into a cutting beyond the station.  It is a temporary structure erected in 2003, and can be moved when the line expands.

Woody Bay station is at: SS68254641

[[Endgame (chess)]]

CATEGORIES: Chess

The endgame in chess (or end game or ending) is the part of the game when there are few pieces left on the board. Alternatively, endgames begin when the middlegame is over, and kings are relatively safe. 

[[Brent Peterson (ice hockey, born 1972)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Ice hockey people from Alberta, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Living people, People from Calgary, Tampa Bay Lightning players, United States Hockey League players

Brent Peterson (born July 20, 1972 in Calgary, Alberta) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player. Peterson, a left winger, played in 56 games over three seasons for the National Hockey League's (NHL) Tampa Bay Lightning, scoring nine goals and assisting on one. After his three NHL seasons, Peterson spent four seasons in Europe, playing for teams in Switzerland and Germany.

[[Jimmy Roy]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, United States Hockey League players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Jimmy Roy (born September 22, 1975 in Sioux Lookout, Ontario) is a Canadian ice hockey player currently playing for the Iserlohn Roosters of the Deutsche Eishockey Liga.

[[Jean-François Labbé]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Colonial Hockey League players, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Hull Olympiques players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, New York Rangers players, Sherbrooke Faucons players, Trois-Rivières Draveurs players

Jean-François "J.F." Labbé, nicknamed Ti-Mine, (born June 15, 1972) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender.

[[Tatyana Ali]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from New York City, Singers from New York City

[[Damian Marley]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Jamaican singers, Rastafari, Reggae musicians, Pop musicians, Grammy Award winners

Damian "Jr. Gong" Marley (born July 21, 1978 in Kingston, Jamaica) is a Jamaican singer.  Marley has won four Grammy Awards. He is the son of Bob Marley. 

[[Upstate New York]]

CATEGORIES: New York

Upstate New York is the part of the state of New York that is north or west of the New York metropolitan area.

[[Precision Approach Path Indicator]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation

The Precision Approach Path Indicator (PAPI) is a visual system next to the touch-point on a runway. The purpose of the system is to lead a plane in correct approach. The PAPI creates ray of light which gives pilot information about his actual height. 

Principle:

The rules about the parameters are written in standard ANNEX 14 ICAO. The brochure contains more specific information about intensity of ray, location where we can get device etc.

[[Social Futebol Clube]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Vale do Aço metropolitan area, 1944 establishments, 1940s establishments in Brazil

Social Futebol Clube is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[Twiztid]]

CATEGORIES: hip hop bands, Musical groups from Michigan

Twiztid are an American hip-hop/Horrorcore group from Detroit, Michigan. The group consists of two members: Jamie Madrox and Monoxide. 

[[University of California, San Diego]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 establishments in California, Association of American Universities, San Diego, California, University of California

The University of California, San Diego (UCSD or UC San Diego) is a public research university. It is in the La Jolla neighborhood of San Diego, California, United States. UCSD is part of the University of California system. It was founded in 1960 near the Scripps Institution of Oceanography. 

There were 22,048 undergraduate and 5,073 graduate students in Fall 2007. The university awarded 6,802 degrees in 2005/06. The university is organized into six undergraduate colleges and six graduate divisions. It offers 125 undergraduate majors, 52 masters degrees, 51 doctoral programs, and four professional degrees.

In 2012, UCSD was ranked the 15th best university in the world by the Academic Ranking of World Universities.  The 2010 edition of U.S. News & World Report ranked UC San Diego as the 35th best university in the nation. UCSD is consistently ranked high in other college and university rankings. In 2010, the university ranked 1st nationally in The Washington Monthly.

[[University of California]]

CATEGORIES: University of California

The University of California (UC) is a public university system in the state of California. The University of California is a part of the state's three-tier public higher education system, which also includes the California State University system and the California Community Colleges system.

The University of California has a combined student body of more than 220,000 students and over 170,000 faculty and staff. Its first campus, UC Berkeley, was founded in 1868, while its tenth and newest campus, University of California, Merced, opened for classes in fall 2005. 

The University of California's campuses boast large numbers of distinguished faculty in almost every field and is widely regarded as one of the top public university systems in the world. Eight of its undergraduate campuses are ranked among the top 100, six among the top 50, and two among the top 25 U.S. universities by the U.S. News and World Report. Six of its campuses are members of the Association of American Universities, a group of over 60 top U.S. and Canadian research universities. The current president of the University of California is Janet Napolitano.

[[Luther Vandross]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2005 deaths, African American musicians, American R&B singers, American soul musicians, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Singers from New York City

Luther Vandross (April 20, 1951-July 1, 2005) was an American R&B/soul singer-songwriter. He had over 25 million albums and won eight Grammy Awards during his singing career.

Vandross died of a heart attack on July 1, 2005.

[[University of California, Santa Barbara]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Big West Conference, University of California

The University of California, Santa Barbara (also referred to as UCSB and UC Santa Barbara) is a research university in Santa Barbara, California, United States. The third-oldest of the ten major campuses affiliated with the University of California, Santa Barbara offeres 87 undergraduate and 55 graduate degree programs in a wide range of disciplines. The main campus is located on a 1,022-acre (4.1 km2) site in Santa Barbara, California, 100 miles (160 km) northwest of Los Angeles. The University was founded in 1909 and joined the University of California-system in 1944.

UC Santa Barbara is a "very high activity" research university. UCSB houses twelve national research centers.  UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates, one  Fields Medalist, 29 members of the United States National Academy of Sciences, 27 members of the National Academy of Engineering, and 23 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

[[Brown pelican]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of North America, Birds of South America, Pelecaniformes

The brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis) is a large bird that lives along the coasts of the Atlantic, Pacific Ocean, and Gulf of Mexico in North and South America.

Brown pelicans are carnivores (meat-eaters) and hunt during the day (they are diurnal). They eat mostly fish and some amphibians and crustaceans.

[[Lincoln Continental]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s automobiles, 1940s automobiles, 1950s automobiles, 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Lincoln automobiles

The Lincoln Continental was an American luxury car first produced around in 1939. The production ended around 1948, but resumed during 1956. This car was a fully sized vehicle during most of its years. Its production ended around 2002. The replacement vehicle was Lincoln LS V8.

[[Julia Stiles]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American feminists, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City

Julia Stiles (b. March 28, 1981, New York City) is an American actress. She played Nicky Parsons in the Bourne movie series. She is also a stage and television actress. On March 17, 2001, Stiles hosted Saturday Night Live. She is a feminist.

[[Ryu Gwan-sun]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1920 deaths

Ryu GwanSun (December 16, 1902 – September 28, 1920), also known as Yu Gwansun was a Christian Korean freedom fighter who protested against the Japanese occupation of Korea.

[[Dorothy Hamill]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American autobiographers, American figure skaters, American Olympic gold medalists, Dancing with the Stars participants, Sportspeople from Chicago, Sportspeople from Connecticut

Dorothy Hamill (born July 26, 1956) is an American athlete. She won a gold medal in the 1976 Winter Olympics in figure skating.

Hamill was born in Chicago but grew up in Greenwich, Connecticut. She was married to Dean Paul Martin from 1982 until they divorced in 1984. She was married to Kenneth Forsythe from 1987 until 1995. Hamill has been married to John MacColl since 2009. She has a daughter by Forsythe.

[[Peggy Fleming]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Figure skaters from California, People from San Jose, California, American Olympic gold medalists

Peggy Fleming is an American figure skater and ABC Sports television commentator. She was the champion at 1968 Winter Olympics. She was born July 27, 1948 in San Jose, California.

[[Display (zoology)]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology, Ethology

Display is a form of animal behaviour, linked to survival of the species in various ways. 

One function of display is in courtship. In most species the male has a striking feature that is distinguished by colour, shape or size, used to attract a female. In many species the male has another, more cryptic, form out of the mating season.

A related function is armament (horns, teeth) exhibited and used by 'tournament' species. In these species, males fight to gain the 'right' to breed. The display part of the process is a mechanism for younger males to avoid being damaged by prime males. Instinctive behaviour prompts lesser males to leave the field. Peafowl, deer, antelope and elephant seals are good examples.

The other main function is in species which have territorial display behaviour. This may preserve a foraging or hunting territory for its family or group. 

[[Mary Lou Retton]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, American gymnasts, American Olympic bronze medalists, American Olympic gold medalists, American Olympic silver medalists, Living people, Medalists at the 1984 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Virginia

Mary Lou Retton (born January 24, 1968) is an American gymnast. She was born in Fairmont, Virginia. Retton won gold, silver and bronze medals in the 1984 Summer Olympics. She was the first female outside Eastern Europe to win an Olympic all around title.

[[Air mass]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology

An air mass is a volume of air defined by its  temperature and water vapor content. Air masses cover many hundreds or thousands of square miles. Colder air masses are called polar or arctic, while warmer air masses are called tropical.

[[Antelope]]

CATEGORIES: Bovids

Antelope is a term for many even-toed ungulate species. Antelope is not a strict taxonomic term because they are not a clade. Antelope is a 'wastebasket taxon' in the family Bovidae. It includes the old-world species which are not cattle, sheep, buffalo, bison, or goats. 

Antelopes occupy the ecological niche which deer occupy north of the Sahara. Both deer and antelopes are grass-eating mammals which have replaced browsers as the dominant vegetarian animals as forests gave way to grasslands.

Antelope are found mostly in Africa below the Sahara, and parts of Asia. No antelope are native to North America: the pronghorn is a member of the family Antilocapridae, another family. True antelope have horns which are unbranched and never shed, while pronghorns have branching horns, and shed annually. 

There are 91 species of antelope, most of which are native to Africa, in about 30 genera. A group of antelope is called a herd.

Species of forest, woodland, or bush tend to be sedentary, but many of the plains species undertake huge migrations. These migrations enable grass-eating species to follow the rains and therefore their food supply. The gnus and gazelles of East Africa perform some of the most impressive mass migratory circuits of all mammals. 

All bovids have even-toed hooves, horizontal pupils, ruminating guts, and (in at least the males) bony horns.

Many antelope are sexually dimorphic. In most species, both sexes have horns, but those of males tend to be larger. There is a tendency for males to be larger than the females

Horns are not shed and are not made of bone, which distinguishes them from antlers.

Gazelles and springbok are known for their speed and leaping abilities. Even larger antelope, such as elands, and kudus, are capable of jumping 8 feet (2.4 m) or greater, although their running speed is restricted by their greater mass.

[[Ming kipa sherpa]]

Current Wikipedia page does not have her full name, as commonly used.

[[Bredevoort Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles, Buildings and structures in the Netherlands, Aalten

The Castle of Bredevoort was a castle in the city of Bredevoort, Guelders in the Netherlands. 

[[Tim Leveque]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Colonial Hockey League players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, People from Ottawa

Tim Leveque (born June 13, 1968) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. He is most famous for being the Laval Chiefs enforcer that is called up later in the season in the hockey documentary "Les Chiefs".

[[Trent McCleary]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Ottawa Senators players, Swift Current Broncos players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Colonial Hockey League players

Trent Kenneth McCleary (born September 8, 1972) is a Canadian former professional hockey player who played for the Boston Bruins, Ottawa Senators and Montreal Canadiens in the National Hockey League (NHL). His career was ended in 2000 after taking a slapshot to the throat, an injury that required life-saving surgery moments after the incident. He played 192 games, scoring 8 goals and 23 points.

[[Pirate Party Germany]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 establishments in Europe, Political parties in Germany, 2000s establishments in Germany

The Pirate Party Germany (German: Piratenpartei Deutschland; short: PIRATEN, "Pirates") is a political party in Germany based on the model of the Swedish Piratpartiet.

[[Opossum]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials

Opossums are the largest order of marsupials  in the Western Hemisphere, the Didelphimorphia. 

They are often called possums, though that term is more properly applied to Australian fauna of the suborder Phalangeriformes. 

The Virginia opossum was the first animal to be called an opossum: the word comes from the Algonquian language, and means "white beast." It was one of the few South American marsupials to establish itself permanently in North America after the Great American Interchange, and the only one to survive there today.

Opossums can help slow the spread of Lyme disease and Rocky Mountain spotted fever because they eat deer ticks and other ticks that carry the germs for these diseases.  One opossum can eat 5000 ticks each year.  They also eat garden pests, for example slugs, and animals that can carry disease, for example mice and rats.

Marsupials like opossums are born before their jaw bones have grown enough for them to drink their mothers' milk the way other baby mammals do.  Scientists from King's College London found that opossums and other marsupials use tissue from their inner ear to make a temporary jaw so they can feed and grow.

[[Damian Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, African-American baseball players, Cleveland Indians players, Cincinnati Reds players, San Diego Padres players, Detroit Tigers players, Boston Red Sox players, Chicago Cubs players, Kansas City Royals players, Washington Nationals players, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California

Damian Jacques Jackson (born August 16, 1973 in Los Angeles, California) is an American baseball player. He is a second baseman for the Orange County Flyers of Golden Baseball League.

Jackson has formerly played for the Cleveland Indians from 1996-97, Cincinnati Reds from 1997-98, San Diego Padres from 1999-01, Detroit Tigers in 2002, Boston Red Sox in 2003, Chicago Cubs in 2004, Kansas City Royals in 2004, again with the San Diego Padres in 2005 and the Washington Nationals in 2006.

[[Eland]]

CATEGORIES: Even-toed ungulates, Mammals of Africa

The eland is the largest antelope. There are two species, both African. 

The common eland, Taurotragus oryx, is from East Africa and South Africa. The giant eland, Taurotragus derbianus, is found in Sudan, Central African Republic, Cameroon and Senegal  and West Africa.

The two species are rather similar in size: males range in size from 600 and may even reach a ton on rare occasions; females range from 400.

Giant eland are alert and wary, making them difficult to approach and observe. They are gregarious, and migrate in small herds of twenty or so animals. Giant eland live in open forest and savannah where they eat grass, leaves, and branches. Common eland live in large herds. 

Observers have, as usual, found it difficult to measure their speed of running. Some claim they move quickly, running at over 70, and despite their size are exceptional jumpers, easily clearing heights of 1.5. Others claim elands are one of the slowest antelopes, but can even jump a height of 2.5 or more.

When walking, tendon or joints in the eland's foreleg produce a sharp clicking sound, the cause of which is not known. The sound carries some distance and is a good indication of an approaching herd. Naturalists think it is a form of communication in elands.

[[Daryl Hannah]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, American movie actors, American movie producers, Actors from Illinois, American environmentalists, American models, American movie directors, American screenwriters, American television actors, Artists from Chicago, People on the autism spectrum, Saturn Award winners, Vegetarians, American bloggers

Daryl Hannah is an American movie actress and producer. She starred in many Hollywood movies in the 1980s, notably Splash. Hannah was born on December 3, 1960 in Chicago, Illinois. She has autism.

[[Air India Flight 182]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 in Canada, 1985 in Europe, 1980s explosions in Europe, 1980s in India, 1980s murders in Europe, 20th century in the Republic of Ireland, Disasters in Canada, June events, Mass murder in the 1980s, Massacres in Europe, Terrorist incidents in Europe in the 1980s

Air India Flight 182 was a passenger plane which, on June 23, 1985, exploded from a bomb that was placed on the plane. The aircraft was going between Montréal-Mirabel International Airport, Montreal, Quebec, and New Delhi, India. It was an Air India Boeing 747-237B, registration VT-EFO. The bombing was called the largest mass murder in modern Canadian history, and the deadliest act of air terrorism before 9/11.

[[Tachisme]]

CATEGORIES: Art movements

Tachisme is a French art style popular in the 1940s and 1950s. It had large brush strokes and had many drips and blobs of paint straight from the paint tube.

[[Wale (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, American rap musicians, Singers from Washington, D.C.

Wale Victor Folarin (born Olubowale Victor Akintimehin; September 21, 1984 in Washington D.C.) is an American rapper better known by his stage name, Wale. 

In 2010 Wale was nominated for Best New Artist from both the Soul Train Awards and BET Awards but did not win.

[[National Academy of Sciences]]

CATEGORIES: 1863 establishments in the United States, Scientific organizations based in the United States

National Academy of Sciences (NAS) is United States corporation whose members serve as advisers to the nation on science. New members of the organization are elected annually by current members, based on their distinguished and continuing achievements in original research.

The National Academy of Sciences is part of the United States National Academies, which also includes: 

The NAS is running  21-month project which will study how humans might influence weather patterns, assess dangers and investigate possible national security implications of climate geoengineering attempts to mitigate global warming.  The project is funded by the CIA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and NASA.

[[K-os]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Canadian musicians, Canadian rap musicians, Singers from Toronto

Kevin Brereton (born February 20, 1972 in Toronto, Ontario) is a Canadian rapper and producer better known by his stage name, k-os which is an acronym for Knowledge of Self and is spelt with a lowercase "k". 

[[Belinda Carlisle]]

CATEGORIES: American Buddhists, American pop musicians, American rock singers, Singer-songwriters from California, Singers from Los Angeles, California, Writers from Los Angeles, California, 1958 births, Living people

Belinda Carlisle (born August 17, 1958) is an American Grammy Award nominated singer, author and songwriter. She is the lead singer of The Go Gos. Carlisle was born in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California. She is a Buddhist.

[[Hydroplaning (tires)]]

CATEGORIES: Road transport

Hydroplaning or Aquaplaning happens when a layer of water builds between the rubber tires of the vehicle and the road surface and leads to the loss of traction (grip) on the road. Hydroplaning causes the vehicle to stop responding to control inputs such as steering, braking or accelerating. The effects of hydroplaning depends on which wheels have lost traction and the direction that the vehicle is traveling.

[[Sintel]]

CATEGORIES: Animated movies, 2010 movies, English-language movies

Sintel is a short 15-minute movie made with computers using open source software. Blender was the main program used to make the movie. It began production in September 2009 and was released on September 28, 2010. The online release was made available for download on September 30, 2010.

[[United States National Academies]]

CATEGORIES: 1863 establishments in the United States, National academies of sciences

United States National Academies or National Academies comprising 

serve collectively as the scientific national academy for the United States.  The NAS, NAE, and IOM are honorary membership organizations, with a total membership of over 6,000 scientists, engineers, and health professionals.  New members for each organization are elected annually by current members, based on their distinguished and continuing achievements in original research.  The NRC is called the "working arm" of the Academies, which serves to collect, analyze, and share information through studies and reports.

The National Academies produce independent recommendations and policy reports by enlisting top scientists, engineers, health professionals, and other experts (not limited to those in Academies membership) to address important scientific and technical problems. 

The National Academies do not perform original research; rather they provide independent advice. Federal agencies are the primary financial sponsors of the Academies' work; additional studies are funded by state agencies, foundations, other private sponsors, and the National Academies endowment. The external sponsors have no control over the conduct or results of a study, once the statement of task and budget are finalized.

[[Jens Seipenbusch]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, German physicists, People from Wuppertal, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia

Jens Seipenbusch (born 6 August 1968) is a German politician and physicist. He was leader of the Pirate Party of Germany.

Seipenbusch was a founding member of his party.  He studied physics at the University of Münster. He was first elected party leader in May 2007.  In May 2008 he became deputy leader for one year, before he became re-elected leader of the party in July 2009, and once more in May 2010. In May 2011, Sebastian Nerz became leader of the party.

[[Maria Beatrice d'Este]]

CATEGORIES: Maria Beatrice d'Este, Duchess of Massa, 1750 births, 1829 deaths, House of Este, Habsburg Dynasty, Princes and princesses, Archdukes and Archduchesses of Austria, People from Modena

Maria Beatrice d’Este (Maria Beatrice Ricciarda; 7 April 1750 – 14 November 1829) was heiress of the two Duchies of Modena and Reggio. She was married to Archduke Ferdinand of Austria, son of Empress Maria Theresa of Austria in an attempt to give the Austrians more influence in the Italian states. Maria Beatrice was the Duchess of Massa and Carrara in her own right as well as an Archduchess of Austria by marriage. from 1790 until 1797 and from 1816 until her death in 1829. She and her husband formed the "House of Austria-Este".

[[Sharon Stone]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Pennsylvania, American Buddhists, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, 1958 births, Living people, Emmy Award winning actors

Sharon Vonne Stone (born March 10, 1958) is an American actress and movie producer. She received a Golden Globe Award for her part in the 1995 movie Casino. Her role in the movie Basic Instinct was also notable. 

Stone won the title of Miss Crawford County in Meadville.  She was a candidate for Miss Pennsylvania. One of the pageant judges said she should quit school and move to New York City to become a fashion model. In 1977, Stone left Meadville, moving in with an aunt in New Jersey. Within four days of her arrival in New Jersey, she was signed by Ford Modeling Agency in New York.

While living in Europe, she decided to quit modeling and become an actress. Stone was cast for a brief role in Allen's Stardust Memories (1980).  She had many roles in movies in the 1980's.  Being in Total Recall (1990) with Arnold Schwarzenegger helped her career.  To promote the movie, she posed nude for Playboy.

The movie that made her a star Basic Instinct (1992).  She played a person thought to be a serial killer.  In the movie's most notorious scene, her character is being questioned by the police. She crosses and uncrosses her legs, exposing her genitalia, which are not covered by underwear.  After Basic Instinct, she was listed by People magazine as one of the 50 most beautiful people in the world.

In November 1995, Stone received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, located at 6925 Hollywood Blvd.

In 2003, she appeared in three episodes from the eighth season of The Practice. For her performances, she received an Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series.

Stone tried a return to the mainstream with roles in the movies Cold Creek Manor (2003) with Dennis Quaid and Catwoman (2004) with Halle Berry.  Both movies were not well liked by either the public or critics.

[[Kim Delaney]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Kim Delaney (born November 29, 1961) is an American movie and television actress. She played Jenny Gardner in the soap All My Children. She played a detective in the television series NYPD Blue. She also acted in the television series Philly. Delaney was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

[[Aedes aegypti]]

CATEGORIES: Flies

Aedes aegypti, also called yellow fever mosquito, is a mosquito that can spread the dengue fever, chikungunya and yellow fever viruses, and other diseases. 

The mosquito can be recognized by white markings on legs and a marking in the form of a lyre on the thorax. It is a small mosquito, with a body length of about half one centimeter.

[[Aedes]]

CATEGORIES: Flies

Aedes is a genus of mosquito originally found in tropical and subtropical zones, but has spread by human activity to all continents excluding Antarctica. Several of the species transmit important human diseases and one species, Aedes albopictus, is the most invasive mosquito in the world. The name comes from the Greek aēdēs, meaning "unpleasant" or "odious", so called because of the diseases this type of mosquito transmits, including dengue fever and yellow fever. 

[[Scirpophaga innotata]]

CATEGORIES: Moths

The Rice White Stemborer (Scirpophaga innotata) is a species of moth of the Crambidae family. It is found in Indonesia, Pakistan the Philippines and the tropical north of Australia.

[[Eugene Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in the United States, Eugene, Oregon, Buildings and structures in Oregon

The Eugene Airport is a medium sized airport in Eugene, Oregon in the United States. It has ten connections to larger airports in the forty-eight states via four airlines. 

Allegiant flies to Las Vegas, Oakland, Phoenix, and Los Angeles. Delta Connection flies to Salt Lake City. Horizon Airlines flies to Portland and Seattle, and United Express flies to Portland, Denver and San Francisco.

[[Hank Hill]]

CATEGORIES: Television characters

Henry "Hank" Rutherford Hill (born April 15, 1953 in The Bronx, New York) is a fictional character in the television series, King of the Hill. He lives in Arlen, Texas with his wife Peggy and his son Bobby. He was named one of the wisest people on television by The Economist. He suffers from Diminished Gluteal Syndrome (DGS) which is a fictional genetic disorder. He works at Strickland Propane and sells propane and propane accessories. His father's name is Cotton who was a World War II veteran who had his shins "blowed off by a Japanman's machine gun" in combat, and had his feet attached to his knees, he has a Japanese half brother named Junichiro, and his cousin is the bassist and vocalist for ZZ Top, Dusty Hill. He is usually seen hanging out with his friends Dale, Bill and Boomhauer.

[[Caviar]]

CATEGORIES: Seafood dishes

Caviar is a luxury food. Caviar is  salted and un-fertilized sturgeon roe eggs. The world's largest producer and exporter of caviar is Iran. The producer of 90 percent of the world's caviar is the Caspian Sea. 

Caviar is usually put in gold, plastic, wood, ivory containers. It is rarely in silverware or steel because this may interfere with the flavor and color.

[[Jackson, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wyoming, County seats in Wyoming

Jackson is an American city in the state of Wyoming. It is in Teton County. The current mayor of Jackson is Mark Barron. As of 2000, 8,647 people lived there. Many tourists go through Jackson when they visit the nearby Grand Teton National Park, Yellowstone National Park, and the National Elk Refuge.

[[2009 Pacific typhoon season]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Hemisphere tropical cyclone seasons

The 2009 Philippine region typhoon season was the period that tropical cyclones formed in the Western Pacific Ocean. The season ran throughout the year during 2009, with most tropical cyclones forming between May and November.The Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) assigns names to tropical cyclones (including tropical depressions) that enter or form in the Philippine area of responsibility. These names, however, are not in common use outside of the Philippines.

During the season, 39 tropical depressions developed within the Western Pacific, whilst 2 formed outside the region before moving into the Western Pacific.

[[Body of Proof]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 American television series debuts, 2010s American television series, English-language television programs

Body of Proof is an American medical drama television series on  ABC starring Dana Delany and Jeri Ryan.

[[Blue Valentine (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, English-language movies, American independent movies

Blue Valentine is a 2010 movie. It is a romantic drama starring Michelle Williams and Ryan Gosling. The original rating of this movie was NC-17, but the rating was successfully appealed to an R rating. The movie is about a married couple who are shifting back and forth, along with their eventual divorce.

[[Patty Loveless]]

CATEGORIES: American country singers, 1957 births, Living people, Singers from Kentucky

Patty Lee Ramey (or Patty Loveless; born January 4, 1957) is an American country singer and songwriter. She emerged onto the country music scene around 1986. She has also sung Bluegrass and country pop. She was born in Pikeville, Kentucky.

[[Islamic state]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Afghanistan, Politics of Pakistan, Theocracies

An Islamic state  is a state that has adopted Islam as its state religion, and Islamic law as the foundation for political institutions. Current examples of such states are Pakistan, Iran, Afghanistan, Mauritania and the self-proclaimed Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.

[[Niko Tinbergen]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1988 deaths, Dutch academics, Dutch Nobel Prize winners, Dutch scientists, Ethologists, People from The Hague

Nikolaas 'Niko' Tinbergen (15 April 1907 – 21 December 1988) was a Dutch ethologist and ornithologist who shared the 1973 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Karl von Frisch and Konrad Lorenz. Their discoveries were about individual and social behaviour patterns, and how they are triggered.

In the 1960s Niko collaborated on a series of wildlife movies, including The Riddle of the Rook (1972) and Signals for Survival (1969), which won the Italia prize in that year and the American blue ribbon in 1971.

[[SF1 Kraken]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons, Law enforcement equipment

SF1 Kraken is a weapon mainly used by police forces during riots to restore order. It is not lethal (hit causes only injury, not death). The weapon is specially made for usage against civilians without risking casualties (loss of life). The average distance of fire is about 30m, maximum is 100m and depends on type of bullet. SF1 Kraken uses the energy of gases from .357 Magnum blank cartidges (without a bullet) which are made by Libra a.s. in the Czech Republic. It is also able to use several types of 59mm calibre bullets.

[[Oedema]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems, Medical signs

Oedema (U.S. edema) is dropsy. It was usually called dropsy until about the middle of the 20th century. 

It is a medical condition, and a sign or symptom. It is swelling caused when fluid leaks out of the body's capillaries into the tissues. The fluid builds up and gets trapped in the tissues around the leaking blood vessels.  This causes swelling.  If there is enough swelling, oedema can be seen from outside of the skin.

Oedema can happen in any part of the body.  However, it is easiest to see in the arms and legs, including the hands, ankles, and feet.  Oedema in the arms and legs is called peripheral oedema.

Pulmonary oedema is fluid in the lungs.  Pulmonary oedema is dangerous because having fluid in the lungs makes breathing difficult.  If pulmonary oedema gets bad enough, a person can drown in the fluid.

Oedema in the abdomen is called ascites.

[[National Academy of Engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Scientific organizations based in the United States, Engineering, Non-profit organizations of the United States, National academies, 1964 establishments in the United States

United States National Academy of Engineering (NAE), a private, non-profit institution that was founded in 1964. Election to the NAE is considered the highest achievement in engineering-related fields and often comes as a recognition of a lifetime's worth of accomplishments. The NAE is part of United States National Academies advising the federal government on engineering programs aimed at meeting national needs, encourages education and research.

New members of the organization are elected annually by current members composed of senior professionals in business, academia, and government who are among the world’s most accomplished engineers in one or both of the following categories:

The Academy annually awards three prizes that award $500,000 to the winner. In a sense these constitute the "Nobel Prizes of Engineering."

[[Dianne Wiest]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Kansas City, Missouri, Academy Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Dianne Wiest (b. March 28, 1948) is an American actress. Her movies include Edward Scissorhands in 1990. She has won two Emmy Awards and two Academy Awards. She was also in other movies, including Footloose and Parenthood.  Wiest was born in Kansas City, Missouri.

She also made a suprise appearance on an american tv-show called Brooklyn Nine-Nine. She later went on to make multiple episodes of her own failing tv-show called "Get rid of that Wiest Infection". She was also the star in multiple weetabix commercials, dubbing them Wiestabix.

[[Nissan Altima]]

CATEGORIES: Nissan automobiles, Coupes, Sedans, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Nissan Altima is a car made by Nissan Motor Company. It was first made in 1993 and has had four generations.  The car won the 2002 North American Car of the Year and the 2010 Altima received the NHTSA's Highest Front- Impact Crash Safety Rating (five stars). There is a hybrid version of the Altima available which was first made in 2007. The car comes in a 4-door sedan and a 2-door coupe.

[[National Research Council]]

CATEGORIES: Scientific organizations based in the United States, Engineering, Research organizations in the United States, 1916 establishments in the United States

National Research Council (NRC) of USA is the working arm of United States National Academies, carrying out most of the studies done in their names. The National Research Council was organized in 1916 in response to the increased need for scientific and technical services caused by World War I.

The president of National Academy of Sciences is the chair of its Governing Board and Executive Committee; the president of the National Academy of Engineering is vice chair.

Its members are drawn from the councils of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the Institute of Medicine. 

[[Linas Kleiza]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Lithuanian basketball players, Denver Nuggets players, Toronto Raptors players, People from Kaunas

Linas Kleiza (born January 3, 1985 in Kaunas, Lithuania) is a Lithuanian executive, and a former basketball player. 

Kleiza played college basketball with the University of Missouri Tigers. Kleiza was drafted into the NBA by the Portland Trailblazers in 2005, and was traded to the Denver Nuggets. Kleiza played in Denver from 2005 until 2009. In 2010, Kleiza joined the Toronto Raptors. In 2013 Kleiza left Toronto, and went to play for Fenerbahçe Basketball.

He has played for the Lithuanian national basketball team. 

[[Coxiella]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Coxiella refers to a genus of gram-negative bacteria in the family Coxiellaceae. It is named after Harold Herald Rea Cox (1907–1986), an American bacteriologist. Coxiella burnetii is the only member of this genus. It is one of the Gammaproteobacteria.

[[Shewanella]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Shewanella is the only genus included in the Shewanellaceae family of marine bacteria. Shewanella is a marine bacterium capable of modifying (or converting to an altered state) metals so they are much less toxic and can break up in the environment.

[[Mary Chapin Carpenter]]

CATEGORIES: Country musicians, 1958 births, Living people, People from Princeton, New Jersey

Mary Chapin Carpenter is an American and Grammy Awards winning folk and country singer and songwriter. Her first record was released in 1987. She has won five Grammy Awards. She has had many hit songs and albums. Carpenter was born February 21, 1958 in Princeton, New Jersey.

[[Marcia Gay Harden]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from San Diego, California

Marcia Gay Harden (born 14 August 1959) is an American Academy Award winning television, movie and theater actress. She has acted in many television programs and in many movies. She is from La Jolla, San Diego, California.

[[Jack Skille]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, American Hockey League players, American ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Florida Panthers players, Living people, New York Islanders players, People from Madison, Wisconsin, Sportspeople from Wisconsin

Jack Skille (born May 19, 1987 in Madison, Wisconsin) is an American professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Chicago Blackhawks, Florida Panthers, and Columbus Blue Jackets.

Skille was traded to the Florida Panthers, along with Hugh Jessiman and David Pacan for Michael Frolik and the rights to goaltender Alexander Salak on February 9, 2011.

On July 1, 2014, Skille signed one-year, two-way contract with the New York Islanders.

[[Michael Frolík]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Calgary Flames players, Czech ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Florida Panthers players, Living people, Rimouski Océanic players, Stanley Cup champions, Winnipeg Jets players

Michael Frolík (born February 17, 1988 in Kladno, Czechoslovakia) is a professional Czech ice hockey player that currently plays for the Buffalo Sabres of the National Hockey League as a center. He was drafted by the Florida Panthers with the 10th overall pick in the 2006 NHL Draft. He also played for Rabat Kladno of the Czech Extraliga, the Florida Panthers of the NHL from 2008 to 2011 and the Chicago Blackhawks from 2010 to 2013.

Frolík was traded to the Chicago Blackhawks, along with Alexander Salak for Hugh Jessiman and David Pacan on February 9, 2011. On June 24, 2013, He won the Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.

During the 2013 NHL Entry draft, the Blackhawks traded Frolík to the Winnipeg Jets in exchange for the 74th and 134th overall picks in the 2013 NHL Entry draft.

[[International Commission of Jurists]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, Human rights organizations in Europe, 1952 establishments

International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) is a non-governmental organization created at Berlin in 1951 by specialists of law, lawyers or judges for the protection of human rights and rule of law.

The headquarters are in Geneva and has relationships with United Nations, Council of Europe and African Union. This Commission has also played an important role in the creation of the International Criminal Court and the Yogyakarta Principles.

From 2008 to 2010, Mary Robinson was the president of this Commission.

[[Paul Bibeault]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 1970 deaths, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Cancer deaths in Quebec, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Montreal Canadiens players, Sportspeople from Montreal, Toronto Maple Leafs players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Paul-Emile "Babe" Bibeault  (March 16, 1956 - August 2, 1970) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played in National Hockey League for the Chicago Black Hawks, Montreal Canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs and Boston Bruins. Bibeault served briefly in the army, after he was discharged he joined the Toronto Maple Leafs in December, on loan for half of the 1943-44 NHL season. Bibeault was part of the 1944 NHL All-Star Team.

Bibeault is in the NHL record book for being one of five goaltending victims of a player’s five goals in a single playoff game.

Bibeault died on August 2, 1970 at the age of 51 after losing a battle with cancer.December 2014

[[Martina McBride]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Kansas, American country musicians, Christian music singers, Musicians from Kansas, Sopranos, 1966 births, Living people

Martina Mariea Schiff (born July 29, 1966), known professionally as Martina McBride, is an American country music singer and songwriter. McBride has been called the "Celine Dion of Country Music" for her big-voiced ballads and soprano range. She debuted around 1992, having five #1 singles between 1995 and 2001 and another during 2003. She has had a string of major hit singles.

[[Johnny Knoxville]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Actors from Tennessee, American comedians, American movie actors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, American television actors, American television producers, American television writers, People from Knoxville, Tennessee

Philip John Clapp (born March 11, 1973 in Knoxville, Tennessee) is an American actor, comedian, daredevil and screenwriter better known by his stage name, Johnny Knoxville. He is best known for being the co-creator and star of the MTV television series, Jackass.

[[Karl von Frisch]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1982 deaths, Academics, Beekeepers, Scientists from Vienna, Zoologists, Austrian Nobel Prize winners, Ethologists, Austrian biologists

Karl Ritter von Frisch (20 November 1886 – 12 June 1982) was an Austrian ethologist who received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1973, jointly with Niko Tinbergen and Konrad Lorenz. 

His work was on the communication and senses of the European honey bee. He was the first to translate the meaning of the waggle dance. By doing the dance when they come back to the hive, honey bees indicated where they have found nectar, and other details.

His theory was disputed by other scientists and greeted with skepticism at the time. Only recently was it definitively proved to be an accurate theoretical analysis.

[[Tyler Seguin]]

CATEGORIES: Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Dallas Stars players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, 1992 births, Ontario Hockey League players

Tyler Seguin (born January 31, 1992 in Brampton, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey center for the Dallas Stars of the National Hockey League (NHL).

He was selected by the Boston Bruins with the 2nd overall pick in the 2010 NHL Entry Draft. He played 2 seasons in the OHL with the Plymouth Whalers. Seguin has also played in the NHL for the Boston Bruins for 3 seasons. During his time with the Bruins, he won the Stanley Cup on June 15, 2011 when they defeated the Vancouver Canucks in game 7 by a score of 4-0. On July 4, 2013, he was traded by the Bruins along with Rich Peverley, and Ryan Button to the Dallas Stars for Loui Eriksson, along with Reilly Smith, Matt Fraser, and Joe Morrow.

He won a gold medal in the 2009 Ivan Hlinka Memorial Tournament in Slovakia and a gold medal in the 2009 World U-17 Hockey Challenge in British Columbia.

[[Jeff Skinner]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Canadian ice hockey centres, Carolina Hurricanes players, Living people, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Calder Trophy winners, Ontario Hockey League players

Jeffrey Skinner (born May 16, 1992 in Markham, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre for the Carolina Hurricanes of the National Hockey League (NHL). He was picked by the Carolina Hurricanes with the seventh overall pick in the 2010 NHL Entry Draft. He played in the OHL with the Kitchener Rangers. He was currently the youngest hockey player in the NHL during the 2010-11 season.

[[Gustav Stresemann]]

CATEGORIES: 1878 births, 1929 deaths, Anti-Communists, Chancellors of the Weimar Republic, German Nobel Prize winners, Government ministers of the Weimar Republic, Members of the Reichstag (German Empire), Members of the Reichstag (Weimar Republic), Politicians from Berlin

Gustav Stresemann (10 May 1878–3 October 1929) was a German liberal politician. He was Chancellor and Foreign Minister of Germany during the Weimar Republic. He shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 1926.

Stresemann's politics are hard to define. Today, he is generally considered one of the most important leaders of Germany and a strong supporter of democracy in the fragile Weimar Republic. He is noted as one of the first to see European economic integration. His most important achievement was probably reconciliation between Germany and France, for which he and Aristide Briand received the Peace Prize.

[[Amon Amarth (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish heavy metal bands, 2000s music groups, Musical groups established in 1992

Amon Amarth is a melodic death metal band from Tumba, an outer quarter of Stockholm, Sweden. They signed a recording contract with the US-american label Metal Blade Records. The band was founded in 1996.

Their lyrics are mostly about viking battles and viking gods, but they do not want to be called a "Viking Metal band".

Their most recent album, Jomsviking, was released on March 25, 2016 and was #1 on the music charts in Germany and Austria.

[[Haley Joel Osment]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American video game actors, American voice actors, 1988 births, Living people

Haley Joel Osment (born April 10, 1988) is an American actor and voice artist. He was born in Los Angeles, California. He is the brother of Emily Osment. He had many television and movie roles throughout the 1990s. He is best known for starring in movies including Forrest Gump (1994) and The Sixth Sense (1999). 

[[Glasgow International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Scotland, Glasgow, 1966 establishments in the United Kingdom, 20th century establishments in Scotland

Glasgow International Airport (Port-adhair Eadar-nàiseanta Ghlaschu) GLA (used to be called Glasgow Abbotsinch Airport) is an international airport in Scotland. It is 6 west of the Glasgow city centre. The airport is near Paisley and Renfrew in Renfrewshire. In 2011, almost 6.9 million passengers passed through the airport. This was 5.1% more than 2010. This makes Glasgow the second busiest airport in Scotland (Edinburgh Airport is the busiest). It is also the eighth busiest airport in the United Kingdom. Glasgow Airport is the primary airport of Greater Glasgow.

The airport is owned by Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited. Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited owns four other UK airports. ADI Limited owns Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited. The airlines which use the airport the most are British Airways and Loganair (as Flybe). Loganair uses Glasgow as a hub. Other big airlines using Glasgow as a base include BMI Regional, Flybe,  EasyJet, Jet2, Thomas Cook Airlines and Thomson Airways.

Glasgow Airport was first opened in 1966. First, the only flights which took off from there flew to other places in the United Kingdom and Europe. The British Airports Authority (BAA) took control of the airport in 1975. In the 1980s, flights from Glasgow began to go to other places in the world.

On 30 June 2007, Glasgow Airport had a terrorist attack. A Jeep Cherokee filled with propane canisters was driven into the main terminal building. It caused some damage, killed one person (the terrorist) and injured four people.

[[Mikhail Chigorin]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 births, 1908 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Russian chess players

[[Fran Drescher]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Actors from Queens, American autobiographers, American LGBT rights activists, American movie actors, American musical theatre actors, American political activists, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, Jewish activists, Jewish American actors, Jewish American comedians, Jewish American musicians, Jewish American writers, Jewish models, Models from New York City, Musicians from Queens, Screenwriters from New York City, Writers from Queens

Francine Joy "Fran" Drescher (born September 30, 1957 in Queens, New York) is an American television, movie, musical theatre and voice actress, television director and producer, comedian, screenwriter, model, health, LGBT rights and political activist. She is of Jewish descent.

Her acting career began around 1977 when she acted in the movie Saturday Night Fever. She is best known for playing Fran Fine from the sitcom The Nanny. Her other notable movie roles include Jack (1996) and Beautician and the Beast (1997).

Drescher wrote her memoirs and is a Universal Life Church minister.

[[En Vogue]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B bands, Musical groups from Oakland, California, Musical groups established in 1989, 1989 establishments in the United States

En Vouge are an American female R&B and pop quartet. Four members-Cindy Herron, Terry Ellis, Dawn Robinson and Maxine Jones-make up this female group. En Vogue released their first record Born to Sing during 1990. They won many awards in the 1990s and 2000s, including seven MTV Video Music Awards and four Soul Train Awards.

[[Smart Technologies]]

CATEGORIES: Technology companies of Canada

Smart Technologies is a company that was started in Calgary, Alberta, Canada in 1987. It is most famous for its invention of the Smart Board, which is the most popular interactive whiteboard in the world. 

Smart Technologies has received over 15 awards, including the 2009 EdNET Pioneer Award. 

[[Icing (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey words

Icing in ice hockey is a rule the happens when a player shoots the puck across at least two red lines, the other team's goal line being the last, and the puck remains untouched but it is not icing if the player shoots the puck from behind the halfway line of the ice into the goal. If the goal went into the net it would be counted as a goal. There is also automatic or no-touch icing which is used mostly in lower-level professional hockey leagues like the ECHL and Central Hockey League, It was enforced in 1990 after Luděk Čajka, a Czech player rushed to get to the puck in an icing situation, he crashed into the boards, suffered severe spinal injuries, and died a few weeks later. Sometimes the goaltender will raise his hand for icing also.

If icing is waved off by a referee it is either because:

[[Copenhagen interpretation]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

The Copenhagen interpretation is an interpretation of quantum mechanics in physics. It was developed by Werner Heisenberg, Niels Bohr, and Albert Einstein in Copenhagen in 1927. It is based on an idea called Born's law of the wave function by the Nobel Prize laureate Max Born. It is one of the first usable models of quantum mechanics.

[[Cam Fowler]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Ice hockey people from Ontario, American ice hockey players, Anaheim Ducks players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Living people, United States Hockey League players, Ontario Hockey League players, Memorial Cup winners

Cam Fowler (born December 5, 1991 in Windsor, Ontario) is an American-Canadian NHL ice hockey defenceman for the Anaheim Ducks. He was picked by the Anaheim Ducks with the twelfth overall pick in the 2010 NHL Entry Draft. He played in the OHL with the Windsor Spitfires. He holds dual citizenship because his mother is a native of Michigan and his father is a native to Newfoundland.

[[Staphylococcus]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Staphylococcus is a genus of gram-positive bacteria. The name comes from the σταφυλή (staphylē) which means "bunch of grapes" and κόκκος (kókkos) which means "granule". Under a microscope they appear round, because they are cocci. They form in grape-like clusters.

The Staphylococcus genus includes at least forty species. Of these, nine have two subspecies and one has three subspecies. Most are harmless and live normally on the skin and mucous membranes of humans and other organisms. Found worldwide, they are a small component of soil microbial flora.

[[Streptococcus]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Streptococcus is a genus of spherical Gram-positive bacteria belonging to the phylum Firmicutes and the lactic acid bacteria group. They are cocci, meaning that they are shaped like spheres or circles. Cellular division occurs along a single axis in these bacteria, and thus they grow in chains or pairs, hence the name from Greek στρεπτος streptos, meaning easily bent or twisted, like a chain (twisted chain). Contrast this with staphylococci, which divide along multiple axes and generate grape-like clusters of cells. Streptococci are oxidase and catalase-negative, and many are facultative anaerobes.

[[Kimberley Locke]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, American singer-songwriters, American models, American Idol contestants

Kimberley Dawn Locke (born January 3, 1978) is an American singer-songwriter and model. Locke first came to national attention when she was a contestant on American Idol.

Locke was born in Hartsville, Tennessee.

[[BlackBerry]]

CATEGORIES: Mobile phones, Messaging

BlackBerry is a line of mobile phones made by the Canadian company BlackBerry Limited (originally known as Research In Motion, or RIM, NASDAQ:BBRY). It does many different things like a computer but is small enough to fit in someone's hand. It is a mobile phone; it makes calls without wires. It can access the Internet as well. It also has a calendar and camera, and can send text messages. The BlackBerry started out as a pager and later turned into a mobile phone. The BlackBerry has a PIN which is an eight character hexadecimal identification number which is given to every BlackBerry phone. The President of The United States Barack Obama uses and supports the BlackBerry.

[[Penélope Cruz]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Actors from Madrid, Spanish movie actors, Spanish stage actors, Spanish television actors, Spanish voice actors, Best Supporting Actress Academy Award winners, Spanish models, Spanish television personalities

Penélope Cruz Sánchez (k; peˈnelope ˈkɾuθ ˈsantʃeθ; born 28 April 1974 in Madrid, Spain) is a Spanish television and movie actress. She has starred in many movies of many different genres, including Vicky Cristina Barcelona. Cruz got her start when she was picked from 300 other girls in a talent agency audition at age 15. This led to acting jobs in television and in commercials. Her movie debut was in 1992. She has been married to Javier Bardem since 2010. They have two children.

[[Mount Rowan (Victoria)]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Australia, Mountains of Victoria (Australia)

Mount Rowan is a small extinct volcano on the edge of the city of Ballarat, Victoria, Australia. It was also known as Waldies Hill. It is 518 metres above sea level. The lava flows from the volcano are thought to be from 2.1 million to 2.9 million years ago. It is one of the 123 volcanoes in the Ballarat and Daylesford area. These are part of the Western Victorian Volcanic Plains. In 2009, a geologist, Professor Bernie Joyce warned that the volcanoes around Ballarat could become active again.

[[Hakenkreuz]]

literally 'crooked cross' in German, now more popularly known as Swastika.  In Germany, Hakenkruez is used by native speakers than Swastika

[[Laura Branigan]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2004 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York, Deaths from aneurysm, Singers from New York

Laura Branigan (July 3, 1952 – August 26, 2004) was an American singer, songwriter and actress. She was best known for her 1982 platinum hit "Gloria". She also starred on several television shows. Branigan's songs were featured in soundtracks for the movies Flashdance and Ghostbusters.

[[Bangladesh-South Korea relations]]

CATEGORIES: Foreign relations of Bangladesh, Politics of South Korea

Bangladesh–South Korea relations are foreign relations between Bangladesh and South Korea. Bangladesh is the nation which established both relations among two Koreas. North Korea made its official diplomacy with Bangladesh in 1973.

In 1974, South Korea opened its embassy in the capital Dhaka while her counterpart in 1987.

[[Aalten]]

CATEGORIES: Aalten, Settlements in Gelderland

Aalten is a village and municipality in the eastern Netherlands. The former municipalities of Bredevoort (1818) and Dinxperlo (2005) have been merged with Aalten. Aalten village has 12,900 inhabitants, the municipality has 27.593 inhabitants.

[[Calico sheep]]

CATEGORIES: Caprids

Calico sheep is a kind of sheep with more than one color in its coat.  It is a mutation, but not a recognized breed.

[[Peat]]

CATEGORIES: Fuel, Sedimentary rocks

Peat, or turf, is an accumulation of partially decayed vegetation. Peat forms in wetland bogs, moors, mires, and swamps. 

[[Civilization (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Civilization series

Civilization is a series of computer games made by Sid Meier. In it, you make a virtual civilization going from thousands of years ago to the near future. The game is played by doing certain things each turn. You can move units or make them do stuff, build or change cities, and negotiate with other civilizations. These civilizations are controlled by a computer. You win by taking over other civilizations, building a spaceship, or getting the highest score.

At the beginning, you chose which civilization to play. Each one has its own characteristics (something that makes it different from the others). Cities are very important. You need them to build buildings that improve the city, and units. The units can attack other units, build more cities, and improve the land. You can also research technologies. Technologies allow you to do more things. 

There are five main games in the series, called Civilization I-VI (1-6). Some of them have expansion packs. There is also Civilization Revolution, which is like Civilization 1-6, but it works on the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Nintendo DS, and iPhone. The first version, Civilization, was released in 1991, and games have been released ever since. Civilization has existed since 1989

[[Unreliable narrator]]

CATEGORIES: Literary terms

An unreliable narrator in literature, movie, or theatre,  is a narrator (storyteller) who cannot tell a story with a neutral point of view. The term was made in 1961 by Wayne C. Booth in The Rhetoric of Fiction.

[[Narrator]]

CATEGORIES: Literary terms

A narrator is a person who tells a story to an audience. Narrators occur in face-to-face story-telling, and in literary works, movies, and plays. They can be fictional, or they can be real people. When the narrator is also a character within the story, he or she is sometimes known as the viewpoint character. The narrator is one of three parts in any story-telling. The others are the author and the audience; in literature, the latter is the reader. 

The author and the audience both live in the real world. It is the author's function to create the universe, people, and events within the story. It is the audience's function to understand and interpret the story. The narrator only exists within the world of the story and presents it in a way the audience can grasp. In non-fiction the narrator and the author may be the same person, since the real world and the world of the story may be the same.

[[Ace of Base]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s Swedish music groups, 1990s Swedish music groups, 2000s Swedish music groups, 2010s Swedish music groups, Musical groups from Gothenburg, Musical groups established in 1987, Swedish pop music groups

Ace of Base are a Swedish pop-rock group. The beginning of this group was in 1990. There have been changes in the members of Ace of Base many times. They had four studio albums between 1993 and 2002.

[[Minnie Driver]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, English movie actors, English singers, English television actors, 1970 births, Living people

Amelia Fiona J. Driver, aka Minnie Driver (born 31 January 1970), is an English movie and television actress and singer. She was born in Finsbury Park, London. Her notable motion pictures include Good Will Hunting.

[[Salama Moussa]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 births, 1958 deaths, Copts, Egyptian writers

Salama Moussa (1887-1958) (سلامه موسى) was a notable Egyptian journalist and reformer in the 1920s. He was born in Zagazig. His family was Coptic Christian. Moussa was interested in many areas of science and culture. He strongly believed that human intelligence could create progress and a better life. In 1908, he travelled to Europe and studied literature, philosophy, social and natural sciences. He continued studying these subjects throughout his life.

[[Burkholderia gladioli]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Burkholderia gladioli is a species of bacteria that needs oxygen (aerobic) and is shaped like a rod. It causes disease in humans and plants and can live in symbiosis with plants and fungi. It is found in soil, water, the rhizosphere, and in many animals.

[[United Football League]]

CATEGORIES: American football, 2007 establishments in the United States

The United Football League is an American Football league that was founded (created) in 2007. The first season was played in 2009. The Las Vegas Locomotives have won both seasons so far.

[[Classics]]

CATEGORIES: Humanities

Classics or classical studies is a branch of the humanities which studies classical antiquity. It includes many fields of study such as history, philosophy, history, art, languages, literature, and archaeology. In the Western world, it focuses on Mediterranean cultures such as ancient Greece and ancient Rome. A person who works in classical studies is called a classicist. The study of classical literature was traditionally the main focus of the humanities.

[[Chase & Status]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic music

Chase & Status are an electronic production duo from London consisting of Saul "Chase" Milton and Will "Status" Kennard.

[[ESC/P]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

ESC/P is a printer control language developed by Epson. The language was popular with dot-matrix printers. It uses escape codes, a command starts with the escape character. As an example, ESC E will switch on bold, and ESC F will switch it off. There are different versions of the protocol, which was also used by other printer manufacturers. Today, ESC/P is rarely used any more; modern printers use page description languages like Postscript, PCL or PDF.

[[Shirred eggs]]

CATEGORIES: Egg dishes

Shirred eggs (also known as baked eggs, or in œufs en cocotte) are eggs cooked in a manner which results in a firm white but soft or runny yolk. The name comes from the dish in which the eggs are cooked.

[[Printer Command Language]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

The Printer Command Language (often shortened to PCL) is a page description language, developed by Hewlett-Packard. As of 2011, most modern printers understand PCL. Its complexity is between pure ASCII text, such as in ESC-P, and for example Postscript. There are different versions of the language. Common versions:

Except where stated, PCL versions are downwards compatible. A printer that supports PCL6 can also be programmed using PCL3, for example. 

PCL is a very efficient way of coding. For this reason, certain manufacturers build high-volume printers that support different versions of PCL. Such printers can do more than 1000 pages per minute. 

[[Graphics Device Interface]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft Windows software

The Graphics Device Interface is an API of Microsoft Windows used for representing graphical objects and transmitting them to output devices, such as printers and monitors.

GDI is responsible for tasks such as drawing lines and curves, rendering fonts and handling palettes. It is not directly responsible for drawing windows, menus, etc.; that task is reserved for another subsystem built on top of GDI. Other systems have components that are similar to GDI, for example Macintosh's QuickDraw and GNOME/GTK's GDK/Xlib.

Perhaps the most significant capability of GDI over more direct methods of accessing the hardware is its scaling capabilities, and abstraction of target devices. Using GDI, it is very easy to draw on multiple devices, such as a screen and a printer, and expect proper reproduction in each case. This capability is at the center of all What You See Is What You Get applications for Microsoft Windows.

Simple games that do not require fast graphics rendering use GDI. However, GDI cannot animate properly as it has no notion of synchronizing with the framebuffer, and lacks rasterization for 3D. Modern games usually use DirectX or OpenGL instead, which give programmers the capabilities to use features of modern  hardware.

[[Ramekin]]

CATEGORIES: Cookware and bakeware

A ramekin or ramequin is a small glazed ceramic or glass serving bowl used for preparating and serving various food dishes. The word is from French (as ramequin), and before that Middle Dutch and Middle Low German.

[[Maratha, Santalaris and Aloda massacre]]

CATEGORIES: Massacres, Anti-Turkism, Cyprus, August events, 1974, 1970s in Europe

Maratha, Santalaris and Aloda massacre (Turkish: Muratağa, Sandallar ve Atlılar katliamı) was a massacre of totally 126 Turkish Cypriots in the villages of Maratha (Muratağa), Santalaris (Sandallar) and Aloda (Atlılar) in Cyprus. It happened on 14-16 August 1974. The massacre was committed by EOKA-B.

89 (or 84) people were killed in Maratha and Santalaris. Another 37 people were killed in Aloda. Old people and children were also killed. Only three people could escape from the massacre in Aloda. A bulldozer buried people into mass graves. People from Maratha and Santalaris were buried in the same grave.

[[Susan Sullivan]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from New York City

Susan Michaela Sullivan (born November 18, 1942) is an American movie and television actress. She played Lenore in the soap opera Another World. She also starred in the soap Falcon Crest (1981–1989) and the television sitcom Dharma & Greg. Sullivan was born November 18, 1942.

[[Guangdong]]

CATEGORIES: Guangdong, Provinces of China

Guangdong (广东省) is a province on the southern coast of China. The meaning of the name in Chinese is "east of the expanse" or "expanse's east". It has a higher population and GDP than any other province in China. Its capital city is Guangzhou. Guangdong has 49 districts, 30 county-level cities, 42 counties, and three autonomous counties. 

Guangdong has an area of 177,900 km2 (68,700 sq mi) and is the 15th biggest province in China. In 2008, more than 95,440,000 people were living in Guangdong. They speak several different kinds of dialects. More than half of the people speak Yue Chinese, which is also the main dialect in the neighboring Hong Kong, while Min Chinese and Hakka Chinese each has about 20% of the total speakers.

The shortened name for Guangdong is Yue (粤), since Guangxi also shares the first word "Guang" (广), meaning "expanse".

[[List of foods named after people]]

CATEGORIES: Dishes named after people, People with foods named after them, Food-related lists

[[Elly Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Electronic musicians, English singer-songwriters, Singers from London

Eleanor Kate "Elly" Jackson is an English singer and songwriter. She is the lead singer of the electropop duo La Roux. She was born on 12 March 1988 in London. She is the younger daughter of actress Trudie Goodwin.

[[Booker T. & the M.G.'s]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B bands, Musical groups from Tennessee, Musical groups established in 1962, 1962 establishments in the United States, Atlantic Records artists

Booker T. & the M.G.'s are a rhythm and blues (R&B) band that are important in the history of soul music. They started in 1960 when they played instrumental music for singers. They did not sing themselves. They worked at Stax Records, and played music on hundreds of important records by famous singers such as Wilson Pickett, Otis Redding, Bill Withers, Sam & Dave, Carla Thomas and Rufus Thomas and Johnnie Taylor.

They also make their own records. As they do not sing, these are instrumental records - music without singing.  In 1962 they made a record called "Green Onions" which was a single, and this was a success. People liked the sound of their music, and by the mid-1960s, bands in America and in Great Britain were trying to copy their sound.

People liked them so much and felt they were so important they were given an award of being named in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1992.

[[Stax Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels

Stax Records is an American record company, originally based in Memphis, Tennessee. The band Booker T. & the M.G.'s were employed by the company to play music on records by many singers, including Wilson Pickett and Otis Redding.

[[Matt Ellison]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Living people, Philadelphia Flyers players, Red Deer Rebels players

Matthew Ellison (born December 8, 1983 in Duncan, British Columbia) is an Canadian professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays in the Kontinental Hockey League for Torpedo Nizhny Novgorod. He was picked by the Chicago Blackhawks with the one hundred and twenty-eighth overall pick in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft. e played in the NHL for the Chicago Blackhawks before being traded to the Philadelphia Flyers along with a 3rd-round pick in the 2006 NHL Entry Draft for Patrick Sharp and Éric Meloche. He signed a one-year contract on July 4, 2008 to play in Latvia with the Dinamo Riga of the Kontinental Hockey League before signing with HC MVD.

[[Fernando Pisani]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Chicago Blackhawks players, Edmonton Oilers players, Living people, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Sportspeople from Edmonton, American Hockey League players

Fernando Antonio Pisani  (born December 27, 1976) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey right winger. He was picked by the Edmonton Oilers with the 195th overall pick in the 1996 NHL Entry Draft. He formerly played for the Edmonton Oilers from 2002 to 2010, the Chicago Blackhawks in 2011 and also played for the SCL Tigers of the National League A and the Asiago Hockey A.S. of the Serie A during the 2004-05 NHL lockout.

[[Tracy Beaker Returns]]

CATEGORIES: BBC Television programmes, Children's television series, BAFTA Award winning programmes

Tracy Beaker Returns was a British television series for children starring Dani Harmer. It was first broadcast on 8 January 2010, on CBBC and BBC HD. It won the BAFTA award. It was replaced by a new series called The Dumping Ground in 2013.

[[20th century in literature]]

CATEGORIES: Literature

Literature of the 20th century refers to world literature produced during 1900 through the 1990s. The best-selling works of the 20th century are thought to be Quotations from Chairman Mao (1966, 900 million copies), Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997, 120 million copies), And Then There Were None (1939, 115 million copies) and The Lord of the Rings (1954/55, 100 million copies). The Lord of the Rings was also voted "book of the century" in various surveys. Perry Rhodan (1961 to present) boasts as being the best-selling book series, with an estimated total of 1 billion copies sold.

[[Conodont]]

CATEGORIES: Agnatha, Fossils

Conodonts are an extinct class of the phylum Chordata. They are now regarded as vertebrates, though the issue is still a live one.

For many years conodonts were known only from their feeding apparatus, which fossilises well. This is because most of the conodont animal was soft-bodied, so everything but the teeth were not fossilised in normal circumstances.

It was not until early 1980s that the conodont teeth were found with trace fossils of the host organism. It came from the Lower Carboniferous lagerstätte near Edinburgh, Scotland.

[[Love Like This]]

CATEGORIES: Songs by Natasha Bedingfield, 2007 songs

"Love Like This" is an R&B song by singer Natasha Bedingfield featuring Sean Kingston. The song was released in North America on October 2, 2007 as part of Pocketful of Sunshine, the second studio album by Natasha Bedingfield which was released in 2008. The song was commercially successful upon its release in the United States and reached into the Top 20 on many musical charts.

[[Unwritten (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Songs by Natasha Bedingfield, 2004 songs

"Unwritten" is a 2004 single by singer Natasha Bedingfield, although the song was not released in the United States until 2006. The song is from her debut record, also titled Unwritten. This song hit number five on the Billboard Hot 100 and became Bedingfield's first top ten hit single in the United States. This single and "Pocketful of Sunshine" are among Bedingfield's most successful singles.

[[Backlash (2004)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in professional wrestling, Sport in Edmonton, WWE Backlash, 2004 in Canada

Backlash (2004) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on April 18, 2004 at the Rexall Place in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. It was the sixth annual Backlash PPV. It was a Raw-only event and was the first Backlash event that was held outside of the United States.

[[James River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Virginia

James River is a 410 miles long river in the state of Virginia in the United States. It is the 12th longest river in the United States that is only in one state. The river starts at the Allegheny Mountains and goes into the Atlantic Ocean. 

[[Gucci Mane]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia, Writers from Atlanta, Georgia, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia, Musicians from Atlanta, Georgia, Actors from Birmingham, Alabama, Writers from Birmingham, Alabama, Musicians from Birmingham, Alabama, Singers from Birmingham, Alabama, African American musicians, American rap musicians from Georgia

Radric Delantic Davis (born February 12, 1980), known professionally as Gucci Mane, is an American rapper and actor. He is currently signed to 1017 Brick Squad Records.

Gucci Mane has a large tattoo of an ice cream cone tattooed onto his face which he got after he was released from the hospital.

[[Temple Grandin]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, People on the autism spectrum, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts, Scientists from Boston, Massachusetts

Marie Temple Grandin (December 3, 1947) is an American animal scientist.

[[Western Victorian Volcanic Plains]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Victoria, Australia, Regions of Australia

The Western Victorian Volcanic Plains in Victoria, Australia, also known as the Newer Volcanic Province, are the third largest volcanic plains in world. The biggest is the Deccan Plateau in India and the Snake River Plateau in the USA. The Western Victorian Volcanic Plains cover an area of 2.3 million hectares, more than 10% of the state. The basalt plains were formed by volcanoes over the last 6 million years with the most recent eruption being at Mount Napier 7,200 years ago. There are only a few rivers which flow across the plains, these are the Barwon, Hopkins, Leigh, Maribyrnong, Wannon and Werribee Rivers and the Mount Emu Creek. More than 90% of the plains have been cleared for farming.

Over 400 volcano sites have been found on the plains. Near Ballarat the volcanoes are quite close together. The plains have built up over time with many small lava flows. The average depth of the lava is about 60 metres.12 Many of the features are stand out on the flat plains.

The Indigenous Australians must have seen some of the eruptions as they told stories about rocks and fires coming from some mountains.13 Stone tools have been found buried in volcanic ash near Warrnambool.13 Major Thomas Mitchell was the first European to describe the Western Volcanic Plains. He climbed Mount Napier in 1836 and wrote that it looked as if the volcano had been active not that long ago.13 Early settlers liked the plains as they could easily grow crops in the rich, fertile soil. They used the volcanic stones to build dry stone walls around their farms.

The Western Victorian Volcanic Plains have been quiet for thousands of years. There have been no earthquakes, no hot springs or other signs of activity. It is not known why the volcanos stopped, and some scientists believe that the volcanos on the plains are not extinct, but dormant.

[[Harry Mulisch]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2010 deaths, Dutch essayists, Dutch Jews, Dutch novelists, Dutch poets, Jewish writers, People from Haarlem, Writers from North Holland

Harry Kurt Victor Mulisch (July 29, 1927 – October 30, 2010) was writer from the Netherlands. He wrote more than 30 works. His books were translated into more than 20 languages. His most famous book is The Discovery of Heaven.

Mulisch was born in Haarlem and lived in Amsterdam from 1958 until the end of his life.

[[BellSouth]]

CATEGORIES: Telephone companies

BellSouth Telecommunications is a service provider which serves the southern United States. It formed as a result of the 1984 AT&T Bell System breakup. BellSouth operates in nine states: Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Tennessee, Georgia and Louisiana. The Bell System telephone companies before BellSouth were South Central Bell and Southern Bell in these nine states. BellSouth is currently under the ownership of AT&T.

[[Mayfly]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

Mayflies are insects which belong to the Order Ephemeroptera (from the Greek ephemeros = ephemeral, or short-lived; pteron = wing). The name refers to the most distinctive features of the adults. They are in an ancient group of insects, the Palaeoptera, ('Ancient wings') with dragonflies and damselflies.

There are over 3,000 living species of mayfly, in over 400 genera in 42 families.

[[Alejandro (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Lady Gaga songs

"Alejandro" is a single from Lady Gaga's album The Fame Monster. The single is composed as a midtempo (medium speed) and Europop-influenced song with an uplifting melody. Critics portrayed the song as heavily influenced by pop groups such as Ace of Base. They gave this song mostly positive reviews. This was the seventh song by Lady Gaga to hit the top ten on the Billboard Hot 100. The song was released in 2010.  It reached the top five in the US and Canada, while reaching the top ten in the UK.

[[Gary Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2011 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Spain, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Entertainers from Northern Ireland, Guitarists, Musicians from Northern Ireland, Rock musicians, Songwriters

Robert William Gary Moore (4 April 1952 – 6 February 2011) or Gary Moore, was a musician from Belfast, Northern Ireland. He was a blues rock guitarist and singer.

On 6 February 2011, Moore died in his hotel room in Estepona, Spain of a heart attack.

[[Hollandaise sauce]]

CATEGORIES: Mother sauces, French food

Hollandaise sauce is an emulsion of egg yolk and butter.   Lemon juice, salt, and a little white pepper or cayenne pepper are often added as seasoning.  Hollandaise light yellow and opaque, smooth and creamy: it tastes rich and buttery, with a mild tang added by the seasonings, but not so strong as to overpower mildly flavoured foods.  Hollandaise sauce is well known as a key ingredient of Eggs Benedict, and is often paired with vegetables such as steamed asparagus.

Hollandaise is one of the five mother sauces in French haute cuisine.

[[Osage Plains]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Kansas, Geography of Missouri, Geography of Oklahoma, Geography of Texas, Regions of Kansas

The Osage Plains (sometimes known as the Lower Plains, North Central Plains, or the Rolling Plains) are a tallgrass prairie ecosystem. The Osage Plains are in the states of Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, and north-central Texas.

[[Metropolitan area network]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

A Metropolitan area network (often shortened to MAN) is a computer network that connects several other Local area networks (LANs). An example of  where  MANs are  used,  are the networks on a campus of a university. MANs use different technologies than LANs. Today, most MANs are done using fibre optic cabling. Protocol suites used in MANs include Asynchronous Transfer Mode, Switched Multimegabit Data Service, and Distributed-queue dual-bus. MANs can reach distances of up to 100km.

[[Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin]]

CATEGORIES: 1755 births, 1826 deaths, French writers, People with foods named after them, French lawyers, French politicians

Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin (1 April 1755, Belley, Ain – 2 February 1826, Paris) was a French lawyer and politician, and gained fame as an epicure and gastronome: "Grimod and Brillat-Savarin. Between them, two writers effectively founded the whole genre of the gastronomic essay."

[[Jennie Garth]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from Illinois, People from Urbana, Illinois

Jennifer Eve "Jennie" Garth (born April 3, 1972 in Urbana, Illinois) is an American actress. Her first starring role was playing Denise in the television series Growing Pains. She starred as Kelly Taylor in Beverly Hills 90210 and also starred in the CW's television series What I Like about You.

[[Brillat-Savarin cheese]]

CATEGORIES: Dishes named after people, French cheeses

Brillat-Savarin is a soft, white-crusted cow's milk cheese with at least 75% fat in dry matter (roughly 40% overall), named after the 18th century French gourmet Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin. The cheese was created in the 1930s by cheese-maker Henri Androuët.

Brillat-Savarin is produced all year round, mainly in Normandy. It comes in 12–13 cm wheels and approximately 4 cm thick, and is aged for one to two weeks. It is also available as a fresh cheese (non affine) that resembles rich cream cheese.

It is a triple cream Brie that is  creamy and faintly sour. It goes well with medjool dates and also champagne. Because of its creaminess combined with its Brie aroma and slight sharpness, it has been described as "Dairylea for grownups" or "what Dairylea tastes like in heaven".

Pairing with red wines is difficult, as any mushroominess or "mouldy" taste will bring out the tannins of the wine. Brillat-Savarin is also quite salty when ripe, which may disturb the taste of red wine. It does pair well with Pale Ale and Champagne. The carbonation wipes the fattiness from the palate and the malts enhance the creaminess of the cheese.

The French cheese making company Rouzaire also produces an older Brillat Savarin under the name Pierre Robert. The extra aging time concentrates the proteins and salt in the cheese, resulting in deeper earthy flavours and more intense salty taste. Wheels of Pierre Robert are physically shorter (due to loss of moisture), yet creamier than the regular-aged Brillat-Savarin.

[[Poularde Albufera]]

CATEGORIES: French food, Dishes named after people, Chicken as food

Poularde Albufera, (Chicken Albufera) is a chicken dish named in honour of the Duke of Albufera. It sometimes credited to French chef Adolphe Dugléré, who invented several other dishes.  However, as Dugléré was only ten years old when Albufera fell out of favour with the king, and had his French title of nobility taken away, it is  more likely that Poularde Albufera was created by Antonin Carême, who trained Dugléré

It consists of poached chicken with a garnish of vol-au-vents filled with quenelles, cocks' kidneys, mushrooms and truffles in Albufera sauce.

[[Guppy]]

CATEGORIES: Ray-finned fish, Freshwater fish, Aquarium fish

The guppy (Poecilia reticulata), is a species of freshwater aquarium fish. It is one of the most popular aquarium fish species. The guppy is also called the millionfish. It is a small member of the Poeciliidae family (females 4–6 centimeters (1.6–2.4 in) long, males 2.5–3.5 centimeters (1.0–1.4 in) long). Like all other members of the family, it is live-bearing. Guppies are popular aquarium kept fish because of their inexpensive needs and beautiful color ranges

Guppies, like all fish, have gills. The heart of a guppy is very different from that of a mammal, for instance there are two compartments instead of four. They are called the auricle and ventricle. When the fish breaths the ventricle contracts and blood is forced out to the gills which act as lungs. This is where the gas exchange happens. The blood receives oxygen and releases carbon dioxide. The blood that now carries oxygen goes through the dorsal artery, which divides into smaller and smaller vessels and go all over the body to then distribute the oxygen and gets carbon dioxide and waste. Then, the blood is carried to the heart by veins and lymph vessels. Then the cycle repeats over and over.

A guppy's nervous system is highly centralized around its spinal cord and brain. The cerebellum controls the body's movements, and the olfactory bulbs and cerebrum control's it's sense of smell.

[[Albufera sauce]]

CATEGORIES: Dishes named after people, Sauces

Albufera sauce (known in French as Sauce Albuféra) is a minor sauce whose  mother sauce is velouté. It was probably created by Antonin Careme, to accompany Poularde Albufera, which he also created. It was named in honour of the Duke of Albufera. 

Escoffier gives a recipe in Le Guide culinaire which consists of a base of  Suprême Sauce to which is added meat glaze in order to lend the latter an ivory-white tint which characterizes it. It is served chiefly with poultry and  sweetbreads.

[[Jack in the Box]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 establishments in the United States, American fast food restaurants, Companies based in California, San Diego, California, 1950s establishments in California

Jack in the Box is an American fast food restaurant chain. It was founded in 1951 by Robert O. Peterson. Peterson opened his restaurant in Long Beach, California on the Pacific Coast highway. It featured a clown's head on top of the building. Instead of using carhops like other drive-in restaurants, Peterson used a two-way intercom. He also pioneered the drive-through. It allowed a customer to place their order while the car ahead of them was picking up their order. This made service much faster and Jack in the Box became known for fast service.

Jack in the Box has over 2,200 restaurants in 21 states and Guam. At first the menu was simple. Only 15 items were offered including hamburgers, cheeseburgers, french fries and soft drinks. Today the menu is expanded to include items such as onion rings, chicken tacos and shrimp. They also offer ice cream, shakes and hot apple turnovers.

Jack I. Box is a fictional character and the mascot for their advertising.

[[Bihari Muslims]]

CATEGORIES: Bihar, Muslims, Bangladesh, Partition of India

Bihari Muslims are people originating and tracing descent from the Indian State of Bihar, who practice Islam as their religion. Bihari Muslims mainly practice Sunni Islam of the Hanafi creed, though a small Shia minority exists.

[[LeAnn Rimes]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Country musicians, Singers from Mississippi

Margaret LeAnn Rimes Cibrian (born August 28, 1982), known professionally as LeAnn Rimes, is an American country and pop singer. Her first album Blue was released in 1996. She has won many major industry awards. 

[[Ashanti (entertainer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Actors from New York, Grammy Award winners, Living people, Singers from New York

Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas (born October 13, 1980), better known as Ashanti, is an American singer-songwriter, record producer, model and actress. She became famous in the early 2000s. Ashanti released her debut album Ashanti in 2002. It released three singles: "Foolish", "Happy", and "Baby". "Foolish" reached number one on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart. "Happy" and "Baby" reached the top twenty. Ashanti's first album sold 503,000 copies the first week. She then became the first "new female artist" to sell that many records in one week. She outsold artists including Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill. She also became the first female artist to have two singles "Foolish" at number one and "What's Luv?" (with Fat Joe) at number two. Ashanti also became the first artist to have three top ten songs ("Foolish", "What's Luv?" and "Always on Time") on the Hot 100 the same week. She was the first women and second artist, behind The Beatles, to do this.

Her first album also won a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R&B Album. Later that year, her duet with Ja Rule on "Mesmerize" reached number two on the Hot 100. Her next album, Chapter II (2003) debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 chart. It sold 326,000 copies the first week. The album was given three Grammy nominations for Best Contemporary R&B Album, Best Female R&B Vocal Performance, and Best R&B Song. Chapter II was certified platinum by the RIAA. This means that 1 million copies of the album were shipped in the United States. The two singles "Rock wit U (Awww Baby)" and "Rain on Me" reached the top ten in the US. Her holiday album Ashanti's Christmas (2003) reached number 160 on the Billboard 200.

Ashanti's third album, Concrete Rose (2004), debuted at number seven on the Billboard 200 chart. It sold 254,000 copies the first week. The album was certified platinum in a month of its release. The singles "Only U" was a top ten hit in the US, while "Don't Let Them" did not do so well. The single became the worst charting song in Ashanti's career. Her first greatest hits album Collectables by Ashanti (2005) reached number 59 on the Billboard 200 chart. It was a top ten hit on the Hot R&B Albums chart. The only single to be released from that album was "Still on It". It reached number 15 on the Hot Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart. Ashanti's second greatest hits album, Can't Stop, was released in 2006. It only charted in Japan at number 259. Ashanti took a short break from recording music.

Her fourth album, The Declaration, was released in 2008. It reached number six on the Billboard 200 chart. It sold 86,000 copies the first week. The singles "The Way That I Love You" reached the top 40 on the Hot 100. The single "Good Good" reached number 30 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. In 2009, The Vault was released. The album contained 12 songs recorded by Ashanti that were not released. It reached number 110 on the Japan Albums chart. Ashanti's fifth album Braveheart was set to be released on August 28, 2012. The lead single, "The Woman You Love" reached number 59 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart in December 2011. Ashanti has starred in several movies. These include The Muppets' Wizard of Oz (2005) and John Tucker Must Die (2006). As of 2008, she has sold more than 27 million records worldwide.

[[Beerwah]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir, Towns in India

Beerwah (تحصیل بیروہ) is a town in the Budgam District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Budgam]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir, Towns in India

Budgam (تحصیل بدگم) is part of the Budgam District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.  As of 2011, Budgam had a population of 15,338. It is the district headquarter of Budgam.

[[Khansahib Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Khansahib (تحصیل خنصہیب) is part of the Budgam District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Banihal]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Banihal (تحصیل بانہال) is part of the Doda District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Doda]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Doda (تحصیل دودہ) is part of the Doda District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Ranbir Singh Pura]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Ranbir Singh Pora (تحصیل رس پورا) is in the Jammu District region of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Samba Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Samba (تحصیل سامبا) is part of the Jammu District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Hajira]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir

Hajira (تحصیل حجرہ) is part of the Poonch District of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan.

[[Rawalakot]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir

Rawalakot (تحصیل راولاکوٹ) is part of the Poonch District of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan.

[[Haveli Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Haveli (تحصیل حویلی) is part of the Poonch District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Mandi, Himachal Pradesh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Himachal Pradesh

Mandi (ˈ) is a major city in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. It is the capital of the Mandi District. It was formerly called Mandav Nagar, and is also known as Sahor. It is located 153 north of state capital, Shimla. It is in the north-west Himalayas. The average altitude is about 1,044 metres (3,425 ft),

[[Reasi]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Reasi (تحصیل ریاسی) is part of the Poonch District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

The famous Vaishno Devi shrine is located in this disctrict.

[[Surankote Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Surankote (تحصیل سرانکوتے) is part of the Poonch District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Matanuska-Susitna Valley]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Alaska, Valleys of the United States

Matanuska-Susitna Valley (known locally as the Mat-Su or The Valley) is an area in Southcentral Alaska. It is south of the Alaska Range about 25 from Anchorage, Alaska. It includes the valleys of the Matanuska River, the Knik River, and the Susitna River.  The Matanuska Valley has become a suburban community for many people who work in  Anchorage. It is now one of the most crowded areas in Alaska and includes the towns of Palmer, Wasilla,  Big Lake, Houston, Willow and Talkeetna.

There are three mountain ranges in the area. They are the Alaska Range, the Talkeetna Mountains and the Chugach Mountains. There are both working and old gold mines in the mountains.  Like many parts of Alaska, the Matanuska-Susitna Valley was carved by glaciers  which left many lakes.  Both the Matanuska and Susitna Rivers have lots of salmon.

The local government is called the  Matanuska-Susitna Borough. Most of the United States is divided into counties, but Alaska uses "boroughs" instead, and some parts of it are not even in a borough.  A few hundred Alaska Natives were joined by small numbers of "Alaska sourdoughs" between 1900 and 1930 when hundreds of "colonists" were moved there by the United States Federal Government in the early 1930s. In the 1970's lots of newcomers to Alaska came to Anchorage. Later on a lot of them moved to the Matanuska Valley to live an  "Alaskan country" lifestyle. 

The three rivers in the area have large amounts of glacial silt that is good for farming. The valley is one of the few areas in Alaska which supports big farms.

[[Kathua]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Kathua (تحصیل کتھا) is part of the Kathua District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Billawar]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Billawar (تحصیل بللاور) is part of the Kathua District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Bashohli]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Basohli (تحصیل بسوہلی) is part of the Kathua District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Hiranagar]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Hiranagar (تحصیل ہرنگر) is part of the Kathua District of Jammu and Kashmir, India.

[[Karnah]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Karnah (تحصیل کرنہ) is an administrative tehsil of the Kupwara district in Jammu and Kashmir, India. It has 58 villages and is 78 away from the main town of Kupwara.

[[Chugach Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of Alaska

The Chugach Mountains in southcentral Alaska are the farthest north of the mountain ranges that make up the Pacific Coast Ranges of western North America. The range is about 500 km (300 mi) long.  Its highest point is Mount Marcus Baker, at 13176, but most of its summits are not very high. Because of the wet weather on the coast, these mountains get a lot of snow.

There are several parks in and around the mountains, like Chugach State Park the Chugach National Forest, and the Kenai National Wildlife Refuge. They are popular destinations for outdoor activities. The World Extreme Skiing Championship is held yearly in the Chugach near Valdez.

Three highways run through the Chugach Mountains. There is also a tunnel from Portage that lets cars and trains go under the mountains to Whittier.

The name "Chugach" is from the Eskimo tribal name Chugachmiut recorded by the Russians and written by them "Chugatz" and "Tchougatskoi"; in 1898 U.S. Army Captain W. R. Abercrombie spelled the name "Chugatch" and applied it to the mountains.

[[Wrangell Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of Alaska

The Wrangell Mountains are a high mountain range of eastern Alaska in the United States.  Much of the range is in the Wrangell-Saint Elias National Park and Preserve.  The Wrangell Mountains were made by volcanoes. The second and third tallest volcanoes in the United States, Mount Blackburn and Mount Sanford are there.  The range takes its name from Mount Wrangell, which is one of the largest shield volcanoes in the world. It is also the only mountain in the range that is an active volcano.  

The Wrangell Mountains are just to the northwest of the Saint Elias Mountains and northeast of the Chugach Mountains. There are so many mountains there that they block the warm moist air over the Pacific Ocean. Because of this places north of the Wrangell Mountains are some of the coldest areas of North America during the winter.

[[Q fever]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases spread by insects, Diseases caused by bacteria, Animal diseases

Q fever is a disease caused by Coxiella burnetii, bacteria that affect humans and other animals. It is not common but can be found in cattle, sheep, goats, and other household animals, including cats and dogs. People can get infected if they inhale endospores or touch the milk, urine, feces, vaginal mucus, or semen of infected animals. The disease is rarely carried by ticks. A human can be infected by a single bacterium.

[[Alprazolam]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Alprazolam, probably better known by its trade name Xanax, is a short-acting drug. Xanax and other benzodiazepines first entered the market in 1960. Although it may have other illegal or nonclinical uses, Xanax is legally prescribed to treat anxiety disorders, panic disorder, and anxiety caused by depression. It works by decreasing abnormally high levels of excitement in the brain, which helps you feel more relaxed and increases feelings of calmness.

Xanax (and all benzodiazepines) stimulate neurons in the brain that release or have receptors for the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). GABA is the primary inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and neurons for GABA are prevalent throughout the cerebral cortex.

An inhibitory neurotransmitter reduces the firing of other types of neurotransmitters in the brain when it’s released. Thus, Xanax acts as a central nervous system depressant by way of its agonistic effect on GABA neurons in the brain.

Taking Xanax leads to a decrease in the excitability of other neurons in the brain, and this produces a reduction in anxiety and an increased feeling of relaxation.

[[Toronto Stock Exchange]]

CATEGORIES: Stock exchanges, Companies listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange

The Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) is the largest stock exchange in Canada, the third largest in North America and the eighth largest in the world by market capitalisation.

[[Unwritten]]

CATEGORIES: Natasha Bedingfield albums, 2004 albums, Debut albums, pop albums, R&B albums, Soul albums

Unwritten is an album by Natasha Bedingfield. This record was released in the United Kingdom in September 2004 and in the United States on August 2, 2005. It had five singles. One of these was the title track. This album was released in North America again during 2006, with new album artworks and a slightly different track listing.

[[N.B.]]

CATEGORIES: Natasha Bedingfield albums, 2007 albums

N.B. is the second studio album from Natasha Bedingfield. It was released in United Kingdom on 30 April 2007 to mixed reviews by critics. The album was released in Canada and the United States during January 2008 as Pocketful of Sunshine. The US version's title single became a top 5 hit. Another track, "Love Like This", became a top twenty hit. The reviews from United States critics for this record were mixed.

[[Polish Americans]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United States

A Polish American is a citizen of the United States with ancestors from Poland. There have been Polish people living in North America since the earlier 1600s. Many live in the city of Chicago, which has more Polish people than any city in the world other than Warsaw, Poland.

Most Polish immigrants are Catholic or practice Judaism.

[[Hallucinogen]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Hallucinogens are chemical substances which temporarily change the way people see the world. Hallucinogens cause hallucinations. People no longer perceive reality as it is, but they see a reality that is distorted by their emotions. A person who is is under the influence of a hallucionogen is said to be having a trip.  

Hallucinogens have probably been used in the context of a cultic or religious function as long as there were humans.  

There are different kinds of hallucinogens: 

Most hallucinogens are highly addictive. This means that the user will want to take the drug over and over again. It also means that there will be some effect of getting used to the drug. In the long run, more and more of the drug will need to be taken, to get the same effect. 

People that are under the unintended influence of a hallucinogen may need immediate help, as in a medical emergency.  

[[Bad News Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2011 deaths, Canadian rap musicians, People from Montreal, Murder victims

Paul Frappier (May 8, 1977-February 11, 2011) was a Canadian rapper and producer better known by his stage name, Bad News Brown. He was of Haitian descent. Bad News Brown was found in an industrial area in Montreal where he was beaten and then shot.

[[Rick James]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2004 deaths, African American musicians, American sex offenders, Singers from Buffalo, New York, Musicians from Buffalo, New York, Writers from Buffalo, New York

James Ambrose Johnson Jr. (1 February 1948 - 6 August 2004) also known as Rick James, was an American singer, songwriter, recording artist and producer. He was very popular during the late 1970s and 1980s, scoring four number one hits on the US R&B charts. He was born in Buffalo, New York.

[[The Notorious B.I.G.]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 1997 deaths, African American musicians, American rap musicians from New York, Criminals from New York City, Drug dealers, Murdered African-American people, Murdered musicians, Murders by firearm in California, Musicians from Brooklyn, People murdered in California, Singers from New York City, Unsolved murders in the United States

Christopher George Latore Wallace (May 21, 1972 – March 9, 1997), better known by his stage name, The Notorious B.I.G. or Biggie Smalls, was an American rapper. He grew up in Brooklyn. He admitted that he was a crack cocaine dealer.

On March 9, 1997, Wallace was shot and killed after four bullets hit his chest in a drive-by shooting in Los Angeles after leaving a party hosted by Vibe magazine and Qwest Records for the Soul Train Music Awards. His murder is still unsolved.March 2012

He has two children.

He rapped on Michael Jackson's 1995 single "This Time Around".

[[Central Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Central Hockey League, 1992 establishments in the United States

The Central Hockey League (CHL) was a mid-level professional hockey league in the United States. It is owned by Global Entertainment Corporation. It was started in 1992.

[[Missouri Mavericks]]

CATEGORIES: Central Hockey League, 2009 establishments in the United States, 21st-century establishments in Missouri

The Missouri Mavericks is an American minor-league ice hockey team in the Central Hockey League (CHL). They play their home games at the Independence Events Center in Independence, Missouri, which is near Kansas City, Missouri.

[[Yip Man]]

CATEGORIES: Martial artists, 1893 births, 1972 deaths, Chinese sportspeople

Yip Man (18931972), also known as Ip Man, was the first teacher to teach martial arts Wing Chun openly. He taught Hong Kong students, who spread Wing Chun around the world. Later, Ip Man was the teacher of Bruce Lee, Chu Shong-tin (who taught then-Australian Jim Fung) and others.

After Ip Man died, the teacher Duncan Leung taught Wing Chun in Hong Kong from 1945 to 1969.

Nowadays, Wing Chun is taught around the world. Many children do Wing Chun.cn

[[San Fermín]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals in Europe, Pamplona

The festival of San Fermín is held each year in the city of Pamplona (Navarre, Spain). Other names for the festival are Sanfermines or Sanferminak. It starts at noon on 6 July with the setting off of a rocket. It ends at midnight on 14 July with the singing of the Pobre de Mí. A bullfight is also part of the celebrations. The festival honors Saint Fermin, the co-patron of Navarre. San Fermín has become the most famous Spanish festival. More than 1,000,000 people watch this festival.

The Running of the Bulls is held the 6th - 14th of July every year. By midnight on July 6th Pamplona is already swarming with locals and tourists all waiting for the fireworks display that marks the start of the fiesta.

The day begins with the "encierro" or running of the bulls, when only the brave and foolish dash ahead of the bulls that are let loose to run through the narrow streets to the bullring where they will be fought later in the day. The runners are usually clad in the typical white trousers and shirt, with a red scarf tied at their neck, and a red beret on their head.

Before and after the daily bullfights, held each evening at 6 pm, bands of music, "txistularis", regional dancing and processions with big giant heads roam the streets. The Sanfermines festival of the running of the bulls in Pamplona is not the only one celebrated in Navarre, although it is the most well-known.

[[Bellini (cocktail)]]

CATEGORIES: Dishes named after people, Alcoholic drink

A Bellini is a long drink cocktail that originated in Venice. It is a mixture of sparkling wine (traditionally Prosecco) and peach purée often served at celebrations. It is one of Italy's most popular cocktails.

[[Transduction]]

Transduction is a science term. It can mean:

[[Friedensreich Hundertwasser]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2000 deaths, Austrian artists

Friedensreich Hundertwasser (born 15 December 1928, died 19 February 2000) was an Austrian artist. He often called himself Friedensreich Regentag Dunkelbunt Hundertwasser (Land-of-Peace Rainy-Day Dark-Colourful Hundred-Water) . Hundertwasser became known for designing buildings, but he also created stamps, painted, designed posters, and other works. He even designed a new flag for New Zealand, based on a local fern frond, called the Koru.  

[[Edgar Degas]]

CATEGORIES: 1834 births, 1917 deaths, Artists from Paris, Burials at Montmartre Cemetery, Paris, French painters, French Roman Catholics, French sculptors

]]

Edgar Degas (19 July 1834 – 27 September 1917) was a French artist. He is famous for his paintings and sculptures: he was one of those who started Impressionism, although he rejected the term, and preferred to be called a realist.p31

A superb draughtsman, he is identified with the subject of the dance, and over half of his works depict dancers. These display his mastery in the depiction of movement, as do his racecourse subjects and female nudes. His portraits are notable for their psychological complexity and the way they show human isolation.p11

[[Luigi Russolo]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 births, 1947 deaths, Italian painters, Italian musicians

Luigi Russolo (30 April 1883 – 4 February 1947)  was a painter and musician from Italy. He was part of the Futurism movement and built his own musical instruments. His instruments were destroyed in World War II in Paris, because the Germans bombed the city, others have simply disappeared.

[[Bacterial conjugation]]

CATEGORIES: Bacteria, Horizontal gene transfer

Bacterial conjugation is the transfer of genetic material between bacterial cells by direct cell-to-cell contact or by a bridge-like connection between two cells.

Conjugation is a mechanism of horizontal gene transfer, as are transformation and transduction, though these two other mechanisms do not involve cell-to-cell contact.

Bacterial conjugation was discovered by Nobel Prize winners Joshua Lederberg and Edward Tatum. They showed that the bacterium Escherichia coli entered a sexual phase during which it could share genetic information.

Bacterial conjugation is often incorrectly regarded as the equivalent of sexual reproduction, since it involves the exchange of genetic material. During conjugation the donor cell provides a conjugative or mobilizable genetic element that is most often a plasmid or transposon. Most conjugative plasmids have systems ensuring that the recipient cell does not already contain a similar element.

The genetic information transferred is often beneficial to the recipient. Benefits may include antibiotic resistance, xenobiotic tolerance or the ability to use new metabolites. Such beneficial plasmids may be considered bacterial endosymbionts. Other elements, however, may be viewed as bacterial parasites and conjugation as a mechanism evolved by them to allow for their spread.

[[Plasmid]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Bacteria, Genetics

A plasmid is a DNA molecule that is separate from the chromosomal DNA and that can replicate (copy itself) independently.

The term plasmid was first introduced by the American molecular biologist Joshua Lederberg in 1952.

Plasmids are double stranded and, in many cases, circular. Plasmids usually occur naturally in bacteria, but are sometimes found in eukaryotic organisms (e.g., the 2-micrometre-ring in Saccharomyces cerevisiae).

Plasmid size varies from 1 to over 1,000 kilobase pairs (kbp). The number of identical plasmids within a single cell can range from one to thousands. Plasmids are often associated with conjugation, a mechanism of horizontal gene transfer.

Plasmids are transferable genetic elements, or "replicons", capable of independent self copying in a suitable host. Plasmids can be found in all three major domains, Archaea, Bacteria and Eukarya. Similar to viruses, plasmids are not considered a form of "life" as it is currently defined. Unlike viruses, plasmids are "naked" DNA and do not encode genes necessary to encase the genetic material for transfer to a new host.

Plasmid host-to-host transfer requires direct, mechanical transfer by conjugation or changes in host gene expression allowing the intentional uptake of the genetic element by transformation.

Microbial transformation with plasmid DNA is neither parasitic nor symbiotic in nature, since each implies the presence of an independent species living in a commensal or detrimental state with the host organism. Rather, plasmids provide a mechanism for horizontal gene transfer within a population of microbes and may provide a selective advantage under a given environmental state.

Plasmids may carry genes that provide resistance to naturally occurring antibiotics in a competitive environmental niche, or alternatively the proteins produced may act as toxins under similar circumstances. Plasmids also can provide bacteria with an ability to fix elemental nitrogen or to degrade difficult organic compounds. This may provide an advantage under conditions of nutrient deprivation.

[[Horizontal gene transfer]]

CATEGORIES: Horizontal gene transfer, Microbiology

Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) (or Lateral gene transfer) is any process in which an organism gets genetic material from another organism without being the offspring of that organism. 

By contrast, vertical transfer occurs when an organism gets genetic material from its ancestor, e.g., its parent or a species from which it has evolved.

Most thinking in genetics has focused on vertical transfer, but there is a growing awareness that horizontal gene transfer is a significant phenomenon. Amongst single-celled organisms it may be the dominant form of genetic transfer. Artificial horizontal gene transfer is a form of genetic engineering.

[[Transduction (genetics)]]

CATEGORIES: Horizontal gene transfer, Prokaryotes

Transduction is the process by which DNA is transferred from one bacterium to another by a virus. 

Joshua Lederberg and his graduate student Norton Zinder showed in 1952 that bacteriophages could transfer genetic information between bacteria in Salmonella. This process explained how bacteria of different species could gain resistance to the same antibiotic very quickly.  

Transduction also refers to the process whereby foreign DNA is introduced into another cell via a viral vector. This is a common tool used by molecular biologists to introduce a foreign gene into a host cell's genome.

When bacteriophages infect a bacterial cell, their normal mode of reproduction is to harness the replicational, transcriptional, and translation machinery of the host bacterial cell to make numerous complete viral particles, including the viral DNA or RNA and the protein coat. Errors in this process can result in the virus carrying over DNA from one bacterium to another.

[[Ferdinand de Lesseps]]

CATEGORIES: 1805 births, 1894 deaths, People from Versailles, Burials at Père Lachaise Cemetery

Ferdinand Marie, Vicomte (Viscount) de Lesseps, GCSI (19 November 1805 – 7 December 1894) was the French developer of the Suez Canal, which joined the Mediterranean and Red Seas in 1869.  He also tried to build a Panama Canal during the 1880s, but malaria and yellow fever was so bad that he gave up and the Panama Canal Company went bankrupt.  A different canal was later built by the United States and completed in 1914.

[[Transformation (genetics)]]

CATEGORIES: Horizontal gene transfer, Bacteria

In molecular biology, transformation is the genetic alteration of a cell by the direct uptake and expression of DNA from its surroundings.

Transformation occurs naturally in some species of bacteria, and can also be done artificially. Bacteria that are capable of being transformed, whether naturally or artificially, are called competent.

Transformation is one of three processes by which outside genetic material may be brought into bacterial cells. The other two are conjugation (transfer of genetic material between two bacterial cells in direct contact), and transduction (injection of foreign DNA by a bacteriophage into the host).

Transformation may also used to describe the insertion of new genetic material into nonbacterial cells, such as animal and plant cells. Introduction of foreign DNA into eukaryote cells is usually called "transfection".

[[Charles Ranhofer]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 births, 1899 deaths, Deaths from Bright's disease, American chefs, French chefs

Charles Ranhofer (November 7, 1836, Saint-Denis, France — October 9, 1899, New York) was the  chef at the famous Delmonico's Restaurant in New York from 1862 to 1876 and 1879 to 1896.  Ranhofer wrote The Epicurean, (1894), a cookbook of over 1,000 pages, similar in scope to Escoffier's Le Guide Culinaire.

[[Malibu, California]]

CATEGORIES: Malibu, California, 1991 establishments in California

Malibu (ˈ) is a beach city in western Los Angeles County, California, situated about 30 west of Downtown Los Angeles. Known for its Mediterranean climate, a 21 strip of the Malibu coast incorporated in 1991 into the City of Malibu. The area is known for being the home of Hollywood movie stars, people in the entertainment industry, and other affluent residents. Most Malibu residents live within a few hundred yards of Pacific Coast Highway (State Route 1), which traverses the city, with some residents living up to a mile away from the beach up narrow canyons. As of the 2010 census, the city population was 12,645.

[[Joshua Lederberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2008 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American geneticists, American Nobel Prize winners, Columbia University alumni, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, Scientists from New Jersey, People from Montclair, New Jersey, Yale University alumni

Joshua Lederberg (May 23, 1925 – February 2, 2008) was an American geneticist. He was known for his work on bacterial transduction, artificial intelligence, and space exploration. He was just 33 years old when he won the 1958 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for discovering that bacteria can mate and exchange genes. He shared the prize with Edward Tatum and George Beadle who won for their work on the genetics of the fungus Neurospora.

In addition to his contributions to biology, Lederberg did extensive research in artificial intelligence. This included work in the NASA experimental programs seeking life on Mars and the chemistry expert system Dendral.

Lederberg was of Jewish descent.

[[Spirochaete]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Spirochaetes (or Spirochetes) are the phylum Spirochaetae. These are double-membrane bacteria with long, helically coiled (spiral-shaped) cells. 

Spirochaetes are bacteria. They have flagella, which run lengthwise between the cell wall and outer membrane. The flagella cause a twisting motion which moves the spirochaete about. 

Most spirochaetes are free-living and anaerobic, but there are many parasitic species.

[[Avery–MacLeod–McCarty experiment]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Molecular biology, Bacteria, Experiments

The Avery–MacLeod–McCarty experiment was reported in 1944 by Oswald Avery, Colin MacLeod, and Maclyn McCarty, that DNA is the substance that causes bacterial transformation.

This was the culmination of research in the 1930s and early 1940s at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research to purify and characterize the "transforming principle" responsible for the phenomenon first described in Griffith's experiment of 1928. In this early experiment dead Streptococcus pneumoniae of the virulent strain type III-S, when injected along with living but non-virulent type II-R pneumococci, resulted in a deadly infection of type III-S pneumococci.

At that time it was thought protein might be the hereditary material. In their paper in 1944, Avery and his colleagues suggest that DNA, rather than protein was the hereditary material of bacteria, and could be analogous to genes and/or viruses in higher organisms.

This was an epoch-making experiment, but the three men did not get the Nobel Prize. The Nobel laureate Arne Tiselius said that Avery was the most deserving scientist not to receive the Nobel Prize for his work.

[[Alton, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Osborne County, Kansas

Alton is a city in Osborne County, Kansas, United States. There were 103 people living in Alton in the 2010 census. Alton was previously known as "Bull City".

[[Lebanon, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Smith County, Kansas, 1876 establishments in Kansas

Lebanon is a city in Smith County, Kansas, United States, in the north central part of the state. The population was 303 at the 2000 census.

[[Sprint Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications, American technology companies, Overland Park, Kansas, Electronics companies, 1937 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Kansas

Sprint Nextel Corporation (S) was a telecommunications company based in Overland Park, Kansas.  It operated under the name Sprint, and was once the fourth largest wireless telecommunications network in the United States behind Verizon, AT&T and T-Mobile, with 56.3 million customers, behind Verizon Wireless and AT&T Mobility.

On April 1, 2020, T-Mobile and Sprint merged, with T-Mobile now being the whole owner of Sprint, making Sprint an effective subsidiary of T-Mobile until the Sprint brand was officially phased out. Leadership, background, and stock changes happened immediately, with customer side changes happening over time. Sprint was officially discontinued on August 2, 2020. Billing was already showing the T-Mobile brand, and on this date all retail, customer service, and all other company branding was replaced by T-Mobile. New rate plans were also introduced as well for all new and existing customers from both companies, though they will all will remain with their current plan if they choose not to switch to a new T-Mobile plan for at least 3 years.

[[Montgomery County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in Kansas, Montgomery County, Kansas

Montgomery County (county code MG) is a county found in the U.S. state of Kansas. As of the 2010 census, 35,471 people lived there. Its county seat is Independence, and its most populous city is Coffeyville.

[[Rajon Rondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, Boston Celtics players, Los Angeles Lakers players, Sportspeople from Louisville, Kentucky, American basketball players

Rajon Pierre Rondo (born February 22, 1986 in Louisville, Kentucky) is an American basketball player who currently plays for the Los Angeles Lakers of the NBA as a point guard. Rondo won an NBA Championpship with the Boston Celtics in 2008.  Rondo was selected with the 21st overall pick in the first round of the 2006 NBA Draft by the Phoenix Suns. Rondo played college basketball for the University of Kentucky.

[[Bette Midler]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Actors from Hawaii, American comedians, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Singers from Hawaii, Warner Bros. Records artists

Bette Midler (born 1 December 1945) is an American actress, singer and comedian. She starred in movies such as Ruthless People, Beaches and Hocus Pocus. Midler has won many awards in the entertainment industry. She was born in Honolulu, Hawaii.

[[Subway (restaurant)]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 establishments, American fast food restaurants

Subway is a corporation that operates a large chain of fast food restaurants. These restaurants mainly sell Submarine sandwiches, but also pizzas and salads. The name "Subway" comes from the New York City Subway, a public transport system in New York City, and many restaurants are decorated with historic photographs and maps of the subway system.

The first Subway outside of North America opened in Bahrain, in December 1984. Today, there are more than 44,000 Subway locations in 112 countries across the world, making it the world's largest fast food restaurant chain by number of stores. It has more stores than McDonald's, but McDonald's earns more revenue than Subway.

Since 2007, Subway has consistently ranked in Entrepreneur Magazines' top 500 franchise list. It also ranked 2nd on the "Fastest Growing Franchise" lists. In March 2011, Subway was named "the most loved fast food chain in the US" by Amplicate.com.February 2017

[[Brandon Bochenski]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, American Hockey League players, American ice hockey players, Anaheim Ducks players, Boston Bruins players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Living people, Nashville Predators players, Ottawa Senators players, Sportspeople from Minnesota, Tampa Bay Lightning players, United States Hockey League players

Brandon Louis Bochenski (born April 4, 1982) is a Kazakhstani-American former professional ice hockey player. He was picked by the Ottawa Senators with the 223rd overall pick in the 2001 NHL Entry Draft. He played in the NHL for many teams including the Ottawa Senators from 2004-2006, Chicago Blackhawks from 2005-2007, Boston Bruins from 2006-2008, Anaheim Ducks in 2007, Nashville Predators in 2007 and the Tampa Bay Lightning from 2008-2010 before leaving North America to sign a one-year contract with the Kontinental Hockey League's, Barys Astana.

[[Elimination Chamber]]

CATEGORIES: Elimination Chamber

Elimination Chamber is a professional wrestling match held by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). One or two matches have taken place each year at the pay-per-view (PPV) event, also called Elimination Chamber (or No Escape in Germany), since 2010.

[[Dixie Carter]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Deaths from endometrial cancer, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Tennessee, 1939 births, 2010 deaths

Dixie Virginia Carter (May 25, 1939, McLemoresville, Tennessee – April 10, 2010, Houston, Texas), was an American movie, television and stage actress. She was best known for playing Julia Sugarbaker in the television series Designing Women (1986-1993). She competed in Miss Tennessee pageants in 1959.

[[Bouvier des Flandres]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds, Flanders

The Bouvier des Flandres is a breed of dog that originated in Flanders. They are now known to be guard dogs, police dogs and pets. They were originally known for cattle droving, sheep herding, and cart pulling. Their name means "Cow Herder of Flanders" in English.

[[Peter Forsberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Art Ross Trophy winners, Calder Trophy winners, Colorado Avalanche players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Living people, Nashville Predators players, Olympic gold medalists, Philadelphia Flyers players, Quebec Nordiques players, Stanley Cup champions, Swedish ice hockey players, Swedish Hockey League players, Ice hockey centres

Peter Mattias "Foppa" Forsberg (born July 20, 1973 in Örnsköldsvik, Sweden) is a retired Swedish ice hockey center.

Forsberg was known for his on-ice vision and physical play when he was on the ice. Forsberg won the Stanley Cup in 1996 and again in 2001 while part of the Colorado Avalanche. Forsberg played his NHL career while apart of 4 teams and had a career that spanned over 15 NHL seasons. Forsberg also played in the Swedish Elite League for the Modo Hockey. Forsberg announced that he would make a return to the NHL on January 21, 2011 but later retired after only 2 road games.

[[Marie François Sadi Carnot]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1894 deaths, Presidents of France, People from Limoges

Marie François Sadi Carnot (maʁi fʁɑ̃swa sadi kaʁno; 11 August 1837 – 25 June 1894) was a French statesman, the fourth president of the Third French Republic.  He served as the President of France from 1887 until he was murdered by Sante Geronimo Caserio in 1894.

[[Leaf insect]]

CATEGORIES: Phasmids, Mimicry

The family Phylliidae (often misspelt 'Phyllidae') includes the living true leaf insects or walking leaves, which include some of the most remarkable leaf mimics in the entire animal kingdom. They occur from South Asia through Southeast Asia to Australia. There are different views about their taxonomy.

[[Dictyoptera]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

Dictyoptera includes two orders of insects – cockroackes and temites (Blattodea), and mantids (Mantodea).

While all modern Dictyoptera have short ovipositors, the oldest fossils of Dictyoptera have long ovipositors, much like members of the Orthoptera.

The term Dictyoptera is usually considered a superorder, with Isoptera, Blattaria and Mantodea being its three orders. In some classifications, however, Dictyoptera is shifted to order status. 

Regardless, in all classifications the three constituent groups are the same, just treated at different rank. Termites and cockroaches are very closely related, with ecological and molecular data pointing to a relationship with the cockroach genus Cryptocercus.

Based on genetic evidence, the closest living relatives of the Dictyoptera are the phasmids. If the Dictyoptera are a superorder they might be included in it.

[[Frances Fisher]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Frances Fisher (born 11 May 1952) is an England-born American actress. She played Strawberry Alice for 1992's Unforgiven. She also played Ruth DeWitt Bukater in the 1997 movie Titanic. Both movies won the Academy Award for "Best Pictuce". Before those, Fisher starred in the soap opera The Edge of Night (1976-1981).

Fisher was born in Milford on Sea, Hampshire, England.

Fisher supported Senator Bernie Sanders for President in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.

[[Fredonia, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wilson County, Kansas, County seats in Kansas

Fredonia is a city in Wilson County, Kansas, United States. The population was 2,600 at the 2000 census. It is the county seat of Wilson County6.

[[Grylloblattidae]]

CATEGORIES: Insects, Extremophiles

Grylloblattidae is a family of extremophile and wingless insects that live in the cold on top of mountains. 

They are commonly called grylloblattids, but are also sometimes called ice crawlers or icebugs. 

Most are nocturnal and appear to feed on detritus (rubbish). They have long antennae (23–45 segments) and long cerci (appendages on the rear; 5–8 segments), but no wings. 

Their closest living relatives are the recently-discovered Mantophasmatidae.

The family is placed in its own suborder, Grylloblattodea, and sometimes in its own order, Grylloblattaria. It contains 5 genera and 25 species.

[[Parapneuroptera]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

Paraneoptera is a monophyletic superorder of insects. 

It includes four orders, the bark lice, true lice, thrips, and hemipterans, the true bugs. 

The mouthparts of the Paraneoptera reflect diverse feeding habits. Basal groups are microbial surface feeders, whereas more advanced groups feed on plant or animal fluids.

[[Exopterygota]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

The Exopterygota  are a superorder of insects. They are in the subclass Pterygota in the infraclass Neoptera. 

In Exopterygotes the young resemble adults but have externally-developing wings. They undergo a modest change between immature and adult, without going through a pupal stage. The nymphs develop gradually into adults through a process of moulting.

The Exopterygota are a diverse insect superorder, divided into eight orders. They include locusts, thrips, and lice among other types of insects.

They are distinguished from the Endopterygota (or Holometabola) by the way in which their wings develop. Endopterygota (meaning literally "internal winged forms") develop wings inside the body and undergo an elaborate metamorphosis involving a pupal stage. Exopterygota ("external winged forms") develop wings on the outside of their bodies without going through a true pupal stage, though a few have something resembling a pupa.

[[Xiphosura]]

CATEGORIES: Chelicerata, Living fossils

Xiphosura is an order of marine chelicerates. It includes a large number of extinct lines and only four recent species in the family Limulidae, which include the horseshoe crabs. 

The group has hardly changed in millions of years. The modern horseshoe crabs look almost identical to prehistoric genera such as the Jurassic Mesolimulus, and are considered to be living fossils.

Xiphosura are traditionally placed in the class Merostomata. This term was originally made for the eurypterids; now, with the Xiphosura added, it is known to be paraphyletic. 

Although the name Merostomata is still seen in textbooks, without reference to the Eurypterida, some have urged that this usage should be discouraged. The shared features of the two groups traditionally grouped in the Merostomata are now thought to be retentions of primitive conditions (symplesiomorphies).

The Xiphosura is basal to a clade comprising Eurypterida and Arachnida. It is estimated that the Xiphosura diverged from the Arachnida 480 million years ago.

[[Eurypterid]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Chelicerata

The eurypterids, related to arachnids, were the largest known arthropods. They are members of the extinct order Eurypterida. It is a most diverse Chelicerate order.

The largest, such as Jaekelopterus, reached 2½ metres in length, but most species were less than 20 cm (8 inches). They were the largest arthropods of all time. They were predators which thrived in the warm, shallow seas and lakes of the Ordovician to the Permian periods, around 460 to 248 million years ago. Recent research suggsts their eyesight was not very good.

The move from the sea to fresh water probably occurred by the Pennsylvanian period. Eurypterids went extinct during the Permian–Triassic extinction event 251 million years ago, and their fossils have a near global distribution.

The typical eurypterid had a large, flat, semicircular carapace, followed by a jointed section, and finally a tapering, flexible tail, most ending with a long spine at the end (Pterygotus, though, had a large flat tail, possibly with a smaller spine). Behind the head of the eurypterids were twelve body segments. These segments are formed by a dorsal plate, called a tergite, and a ventral plate, called a sternite. The tail, known as the telson, is spiked in most eurypterids.

[[Amblypygi]]

CATEGORIES: Arachnids

Amblypygi is an order of Arachnids also known as whip spiders or tailless whip scorpions. The name 'amblypygid' means "blunt rump", a reference to a lack of the telson (tail). They are harmless to humans.

The Amblypygs are in the subphylum Chelicerata of the phylum Arthropoda. The order has 5 families, 17 genera and about 155 species. They are found in tropical and subtropical regions worldwide. Some species are subterranean; many are nocturnal. During the day, they may hide under logs, bark, stones, or leaves. They prefer a humid environment.

[[Bushel]]

CATEGORIES: Imperial units, Units of volume

A bushel is an imperial unit of dry volume, equal to 4 pecks or 8 gallons. It is most often used in agriculture. A bushel is abbreviated as bsh. or bu. 

Since the volume of a gallon in UK has been defined as the volume of ten pounds of water, the volume of a bushel in SI units is 36.3687 litres.

The United States bushel is slightly smaller than the British bushel because the American gallon is smaller than the British gallon. Its volume has been defined as 2150.42 cubic inches, which makes 35.2391 litres.

[[Adelina Patti]]

CATEGORIES: Italian singers, French opera singers, Italian opera singers, People with foods named after them, 1843 births, 1919 deaths

Adelina Patti (10 February 1843spaced ndash27 September 1919) was a highly acclaimed Italian-French 19th-century opera diva, earning huge fees, sometimes $5000 in gold,  at the height of her career in the music capitals of Europe and America. She first sang in public as a child in 1851, and gave her last performance before an audience in 1914.

[[Lebanon (disambiguation)]]

Lebanon is a Middle Eastern country on the Mediterranean Sea.

Lebanon may also mean:

[[Oculocerebrorenal syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Oculocerebrorenal syndrome (also called Lowe Syndrome) is a rare genetic disorder in humans. It affects the eyes, the brain and the kidneys. It is also known as Oculocerebrorenal syndrome. People with lowe syndrome are born with cataracts, that is the lenses of their eyes are not totally clear. Many people with the syndrome develop kidney problems at an early age. The brain develops differently, the development of the child happens slower. Such children may often have learning difficulties. Epilepsy can also occur.

The disorder is caused by a gene defect on the X-chromosome. As a result, much more boys are affected than girls. The syndrome is named after Dr. Charles Lowe, who first described it in 1952. Its occurrence is about one case in half a million live births.

[[Rubicon]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Italy

The Rubicon is a river that flows into the Adriatic Sea south of Ravenna, Italy. In the time of Julius Caesar, a river with this name was the border between the Roman province Gallia Cisalpina, and Italy, which was not a province at the time. The exact river Caesar referred to is unknown; the river that is known as Rubicone today was selected and named by Benito Mussolini.

[[In Rainbows]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Radiohead albums

In Rainbows is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in October 2007.

[[OK Computer]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums, Radiohead albums

OK Computer is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in 1997. It reached No.1 in the UK Albums Chart. Four singles were released from it. "Paranoid Android" reached No.3 in the UK. "No Surprises" reached No.4. It got good reviews. Pitchfork gave it 10 out of 10.

[[Niklas Bäckström]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Calgary Flames players, Finnish ice hockey goaltenders, Living people, Medalists at the 2006 Winter Olympics, Medalists at the 2010 Winter Olympics, Minnesota Wild players, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Sportspeople from Helsinki, Swedish Hockey League players

Niklas Oskar Bäckström (born February 13, 1978) is a Finnish professional ice hockey goaltender. He plays for the Minnesota Wild of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played in the SM-liiga for HIFK, SaiPa and Kärpät and in the Elitserien for AIK. He won the William M. Jennings Trophy in 2007 along with Manny Fernandez. He also played for Finland at the 2006 Winter Olympics where he won a silver medal and at the 2010 Winter Olympics where he won a bronze medal.

[[Marcin Gortat]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Polish sportspeople, Basketball players, Orlando Magic players, Phoenix Suns players, People from Łódź, Living people

Marcin Janusz Gortat (born February 17, 1984 in Łódź, Poland) is a Polish basketball player who currently plays for the Phoenix Suns as a Power forward and Center. 

He has also played for the Orlando Magic from 2008 to 2010 before being traded to the Phoenix Suns along with Vince Carter, Mickael Pietrus, a 2011 first-round draft pick, and $3 million for Hedo Türkoğlu, Jason Richardson, and Earl Clark.

[[Soulmate (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Songs by Natasha Bedingfield, Pop songs, 2007 songs

"Soulmate" is a 2007 song by the English singer and songwriter Natasha Bedingfield. The song was released during July 2007 in United Kingdom. It was not until late 2008 that this song was released in the United States. It got mixed to negative review from critics within the United Kingdom, though Soulmate did become commercial success. This song gained popularity in the U.S. after being played on an episode of MTV's The Hills.

[[Achterhoek]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Netherlands, Gelderland

Achterhoek (English: back-corner) is a region in the province Gelderland in the Netherlands.

[[Sally Kirkland]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, 1941 births, Living people

Sally Kirkland (born October 31, 1941) is an American movie and television actress. Kirkland was named after her mother. Her mother was a fashion editor for Vogue and LIFE magazines). She had small roles for 1970s movies (The Sting, The Way We Were and A Star is Born). She also starred in many television roles in the soap operas Valley of the Dolls and Days of Our Lives.

Kirkland was born in New York City.

[[Magnus Johansson]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Swedish ice hockey players, Living people, Chicago Blackhawks players, Florida Panthers players

Magnus Johansson (born September 4, 1973 in Linköping, Sweden) is an Swedish ice hockey defenceman for the Linköpings HC of the SHL where he is also the captain. He has also played in the NHL for the Chicago Blackhawks for 1 season and the Florida Panthers for 1 season before being signing a contract with the Atlant Moscow Oblast of the KHL and then retured back to Linköpings HC where he was named the team's captain. 

[[Lorraine Bracco]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City

Lorraine Bracco (born October 2, 1954) is an American actress. She is best known for playing Karen Hill in the 1990 movie Goodfellas and Jennifer Melfi in the HBO series The Sopranos. She has also been in other movies, such as Medicine Man and The Basketball Diaries.

[[Dejima]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Japan, Artificial islands

Dejima was a small fan-shaped artificial island in the bay of Nagasaki. It was built in 1634. The island was made by digging a canal through a small peninsula. It was the only place of direct contact and trade between Japan and the outside world during the Edo period. Dejima was built to keep foreign traders out of Japan as part of "sakoku" self-imposed isolationist policy. It was built at first for Portuguese traders. It then changed to a Chinese and Dutch trading post from 1641 until 1853. It covers an area of 120 m x 75 m (9000 square meters, or 0.9 hectares) and has now become part of the city of Nagasaki. 

"Dejima Dutch Trading Post" is now a Japanese national historic site.

[[Lua]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

Lua is an open source programming language. It was created in 1993 by Roberto Ierusalimschy, Luiz Henrique de Figueiredo, and Waldemar Celes. Lua is used for many different things, especially in video games such as World of Warcraft and SimCity 4. It is also used in the popular virtual world sharing website Roblox under a dialect called Luau. In June 2010, Apple Inc. changed the terms of use for the software development kit of its iOS operating system to allow the use of Lua. This led to Lua being used to make iPhone applications such as Angry Birds. In June 2011, Lua was ranked the tenth most popular programming language by the TIOBE Index.

[[Innate immune system]]

CATEGORIES: Immunology

The innate immune system defends the host from infections.  It includes cells which recognize and respond to pathogens (germs) right away. The innate immune system response is not specific: it responds the same way to all pathogens that it recognises.

Unlike the adaptive immune system, the innate immune system does not give long-lasting immunity against specific infections.

Innate immune systems rapidly defend against infections in all plant and animal life. The innate system is the  evolutionarily older defense strategy. It is the main immune system found in plants, fungi, insects, and in primitive multicellular organisms. The system is not adaptable and does not change over the course of an individual's lifetime.

The vertebrate innate immune system:

[[Adolphe-Marie Hardy]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 births, 1954 deaths, Belgian poets, Belgian writers, People from Liège (province), People with foods named after them

Adolphe-Marie Hardy (23 May 1868 in Dison – 19 June 1954 in Laeken) was a Belgian writer first published in 1888  He rose to be a major figure in French literature.

Hardy was educated at Herve, before starting at the University of Louvain in 1886, studying law.  After getting his doctorate he returned to Dison, where he carried on his literary work as well as working as a lawyer.

Hardy was editor or assistant editor of several literary journals from 1900 onwards, including Rappel de Charleroi,  Dépêche de Liège and the Journal de Bruxelles.

In 1931 Hardy received the Grand Prix de Langue française from the French Academy. He was the first Belgian to win the prize, and he won it for his poem "Le Cortège des mois".

In 1935 he married Madeleine Verhelst. In 1940, they escaped to Issigeac, France. After his wife's death, in 1941, he married Germaine Van Den Boeck. 

In May 1954 he was made a Freeman of the City of Dison, and died at Laeken on June 19 of that year. 

Charles Ranhofer, chef at Delmonico's honoured Hardy early in his publishing career by naming a goose liver pate after him, and Ranhofer's book "The Epicurean", also lists a chicken dish, Cotelettes De Poulet A La Adolphe Hardy.

[[Gnarls Barkley]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Soul bands, Grammy Award winners, Hip hop bands, Musical groups from Atlanta, Georgia, Musical groups established in 2004, 2004 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), Atlantic Records artists

Not to be confused with Charles Barkley.

Gnarls Barkley is a music group with DJ and music producer Danger Mouse and American rapper Cee Lo Green. The group had a hit song in 2006 with Crazy. Rolling Stone later named the song as one of the "Best Songs of the 2000s". Gnarls Barkley has released two albums: St. Elsewhere in 2006, and The Odd Couple in 2008. 

[[All Saints (group)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, British girl groups, English pop music groups, English R&B bands, Musical groups established in 1993, Musical groups from London, Musical quartets, Musical groups disestablished in 2001, 2000s disestablishments in Canada, 2000s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, Musical groups established in 2006, 2006 establishments in Canada, 2006 establishments in England, Musical groups disestablished in 2009, 2009 disestablishments in England, Musical groups established in 2013, 2013 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2010s establishments in Canada

The All Saints are an English-Canadian pop group. They were founded in 1993. The members of All Saints are British Melanie Blatt, Shaznay Lewis and Canadian sisters Natalie and Nicole Appleton. The group were one of the most successful pop groups in the UK in the 1990s with nine Top 10 singles, two platinum albums and two gold albums. The group biggest was the 1997 single Never Ever.

[[Oxygen difluoride]]

CATEGORIES: Fluorine compounds

Oxygen difluoride is the chemical compound with the formula OF2. It has a V-shaped molecular structure like H2O, but has different properties. It is a strong oxidizer.

[[Phosphorus pentafluoride]]

CATEGORIES: Phosphorus compounds

Phosphorus pentafluoride, PF5, is a phosphorus halide. It's a colorless gas at room temperature and pressure. It can be formed when OF2 reacts with phosphorus.

[[Adaptive immune system]]

CATEGORIES: Immunology, Vertebrates

The adaptive immune system is made of specialized cells and processes which kill pathogens or prevent their attack.

The adaptive immune system is switched on by the evolutionarily older innate immune system. This older system is non-specific, whereas the adaptive system is tailored to specific targets.

Whereas the innate immune system is found in all metazoa, the adaptive system is only found in vertebrates. It is thought to have arisen in the first jawed vertebrates.

The adaptive immune response gives the vertebrate immune system the ability to recognize and remember specific pathogens. The system mounts stronger attacks each time a particular pathogen is encountered. It is adaptive immunity because the body's immune system prepares itself for future challenges.

[[Alexander Urbom]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, American Hockey League players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, Swedish Hockey League players, Swedish ice hockey players, Ice hockey defencemen

Alexander Urbom (born December 20, 1990) is a professional Swedish ice hockey defenseman who is currently playing for the Albany Devils. He was drafted by the New Jersey Devils in the third round, 73rd overall, in the 2009 NHL Draft.

[[Daniel Tetrault]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, American Hockey League players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, ECHL players

Daniel Tetrault (born September 4, 1979) is a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman for the Wichita Thunder of the Central Hockey League. He won the Central Hockey League Most Outstanding Defenseman in the 2001-02 CHL season.

[[Silas Marner]]

CATEGORIES: 1861 books, English novels, English-language novels

Silas Marner: The Weaver of Raveloe is a novel by George Eliot. It is her third novel. It was first published in 1861. It tells the story of Silas Marner, a lonely linen weaver.

[[Robbie Neale]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey forwards, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, Sportspeople from Winnipeg, World Hockey Association players

Robbie Neale (born April 17, 1953) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey forward who played in the World Hockey Association.

[[Rapid City Rush]]

CATEGORIES: Central Hockey League, 2008 establishments in the United States, 21st-century establishments in South Dakota

The Rapid City Rush is an American ice hockey team in the Central Hockey League (CHL). It plays its home games at the Rushmore Plaza Civic Center in Rapid City, South Dakota. The team began playing in 2008, and won the Ray Miron President's Cup, which is the championship of the CHL, in 2009.

[[Ministries Trial]]

CATEGORIES: Nuremberg trials

The Ministries Trial (or, officially, The United States of America vs. Ernst von Weizsäcker, et al.) was the eleventh of the twelve trials for war crimes the US authorities held in their occupation zone in Germany in Nuremberg after the end of World War II.

Disagreements between the Allies meant only one trial was held by the International Military Tribunal (IMT). Other trials were held by the Allies in their own zones of occupation. The Americans held twelve trials, in the same rooms at the Palace of Justice as the IMT. These twelve trials are known as the "Subsequent Nuremberg Trials" or, more formally, as the "Trials of War Criminals before the Nuremberg Military Tribunals" (NMT).

This case is also known as the Wilhelmstrasse Trial, because the German Foreign Office was on the Wilhelmstrasse in Berlin. The defendants in this case were officials of various Reich ministries, facing various charges for their jobs in Nazi Germany and responsibility for the numerous atrocities committed both in Germany and in occupied countries during the war.

The judges in this case, heard before Military Tribunal IV, were William C. Christianson (presiding judge) from Minnesota, Robert F. Maguire from Oregon, and Leon W. Powers from Iowa. The Chief of Counsel for the Prosecution was Telford Taylor; the chief prosecutor was Robert Kempner. The indictment was filed on November 15, 1947; the hearings lasted from January 6, 1948 until November 18 that year, and then the judges took a whole five months to compile their 833-page judgment, which they presented on April 11, 1949. The sentences were handed down on April 13, 1949. Of all the twelve trials, this was the one that lasted longest and ended last. Of the 21 defendants arraigned, two were acquitted, the others were found guilty on at least one count of the indictment and received prison sentences ranging from three years including time served to 25 years' imprisonment.

[[Mitläufer]]

CATEGORIES: Nuremberg trials

Mitläufer is a German term (plural: Mitläufer) used in the denazification proceedings in West Germany after World War II to describe people who supported Nazism without directly participating in Nazi atrocities such as genocide.  Mitläufer is usually translated in English as either "fellow-traveler" or "hanger-on". 

[[Freiherr]]

CATEGORIES: Titles, Nobility

Freiherr was a title of nobility used in German speaking countries.  Its equivalent in English is Baron.

Since the end of the German Empire titles of nobility have not been allowed, but are still used, as if they were part of the name.

In Austria the use of titles, even as names, is illegal.

[[Dresdner Bank]]

CATEGORIES: Banks of Germany, Defunct companies of Europe, 1872 establishments, 1870s establishments in Germany

Dresdner Bank AG was one of Germany's largest banking corporations and was based in Frankfurt. It was formed in 1872, and bought by competitor Commerzbank in December 2009.

[[Daily News (New York)]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in New York City, Pulitzer Prize winners

The Daily News of New York City is a daily tabloid newspaper. As of a 2009 study by BurrellesLuce, a media relations measurement service, it is the fifth most-widely distributed daily newspaper in the United States, publishing and selling.  The original New York Daily News was started by Benjamin Wood, but the business fell after his death. Joseph Medill Patterson went onto create a newspaper of the same name in 1919, it was America's first official tabloid journal. The paper has won 10 Pulitzer Prizes. 

[[LoveGame]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Lady Gaga songs

"LoveGame" is a song by American singer-songwriter Lady Gaga. It was released from her 2008 debut album, The Fame. It is the second song on the album.  "LoveGame" was the third single from The Fame to be released in North America. The video for the song was banned by MTV Arabia.

The song reached number five on the Billboard Hot 100 and number two on the Canadian Hot 100.  The song was planned to be the third single released in the UK, but "Paparazzi" was released instead because of “LoveGame”'s music video and controversial lyrics.  "LoveGame" managed to become Gaga's third number-one song on Billboard's Mainstream Top 40/Pop Songs radio chart.

[[Hurricane Gracie]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in South Carolina, 1959 in North America

Hurricane Gracie was a major hurricane in September of 1959. This hurricane moved erratically for five days before making landfall over South Carolina as a strong Category 3 hurricane. Gracie caused $14 million in damage (1959 USD). Twenty-two people died due to this storm.

It is unknown whether or not the name Gracie was retired.

[[Tabloid]]

CATEGORIES: Publications

The term tabloid is used to describe newspapers or magazines with pages smaller than regular journals, although there is no standard for the exact dimensions of a tabloid. It is also used (sometimes inappropriately or as an insult) to describe a newspaper that sensationalizes news stories, often with a focus on personalities and gossip, and much less detailed coverage of topics such as politics and economics than is offered by newspapers regarded as more serious. Tabloids usually include more "celebrity" news than political.

[[Paraná Association of Electrical Engineers]]

CATEGORIES: Curitiba, Non-profit organizations, 1984 establishments, 1980s establishments in Brazil

The Paraná Association of Electrical Engineers (Associação Paranaense de Engenheiros Eletricistas) exists to promote scientific and technological development and to protect the interests of professional electrical engineering, such as: Electrical, Electronics, Telecommunications, Computer, Automation, of the state of Paraná, Brazil. It is a nonprofit organization.

It was founded on August 2, 1984, in Curitiba, capital of Paraná.

[[Sissy Spacek]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Texas, American movie actors, American television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1949 births, Living people

Mary Elizabeth "Sissy" Spacek (born December 25, 1949) is an American actress and singer. She played Carrie White in the 1976 movie Carrie. She also played country singer Loretta Lynn in the 1980 movie Coal Miner's Daughter. Spacek is known mainly as a dramatic actress, but she has acted in comedies. She was born in Quitman, Texas.

[[Durham, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Carolina, County seats in North Carolina, Durham County, North Carolina, 1869 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in North Carolina

Durham is a city in the U.S. state of North Carolina. It has about 230,000 people. Durham has two universities, Duke and NC Central. It is northwest of Raleigh, and northeast of Chapel Hill.  It is the county seat of Durham County.

[[Valerie Plame]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American political writers, American political commentators, Spies, People from Anchorage, Alaska, Politicians from Alaska, Writers from Alaska, Writers from New Mexico, Politicians from New Mexico

Valerie Elise Plame Wilson, known simply as Valerie Plame, is a former officer of the Central Intelligence Agency, politician and the author of two books related to her career. Her identity was revealed to public on July 14, 2003; that ended Plame's career with the CIA, from which she resigned around December 2005.

In May 2019, Plame announced her plans to run for the United States House of Representatives for New Mexico's 3rd congressional district. She lost the primary for the Democratic nomination on June 3, 2020.

[[Paul Menard]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, NASCAR drivers, Sportspeople from Wisconsin, American racecar drivers

Paul Menard (born August 21, 1980 in Eau Claire, Wisconsin) is an American racecar driver. Menard drives the No. 21 Ford Mustang for Wood Brothers Racing in the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series, and runs part-time for Team Penske in the NASCAR Xfinity Series. Menard won the 2006 AT&T 250 (now NorthernTool.com 250) in the Nationwide Series. 

Menard won his first NASCAR Sprint Cup race, the Brickyard 400, on July 31, 2011 at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. Menard is the son of home improvement store magnate John Menard.

[[Ricki Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York, American movie actors, American television talk show hosts, Dancing with the Stars participants, Jewish American actors, 1968 births, Living people

Ricki Pamela Lake (born September 21, 1968) is an American actress, producer, and television host.  She hosted her own talk show, named Ricki Lake from 1993 until 2004. Lake played Tracy Turnblad in the 1988 movie Hairspray. During the 1990s she starred in many movies. These included Serial Mom and Mrs. Winterbourne. She recently hosted another talk show named The Ricki Lake Show which began in 2012.

[[Valerie Bertinelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Wilmington, Delaware

Valerie Anne Bertinelli (born April 23, 1960) is an American actress and television personality. She is known for her roles as Barbara Cooper Royer on the sitcom One Day at a Time (1975–84), Gloria on the religious drama series Touched by an Angel (2001–03) and Melanie Moretti on the sitcom Hot in Cleveland (2010–15). Since 2015, she has hosted the cooking shows Valerie's Home Cooking and Kids Baking Championship on Food Network.

[[Designing Women]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s television series, American sitcoms, English-language television programs

Designing Women was an American television sitcom. It starred Dixie Carter, Annie Potts, Jean Smart and Delta Burke. It was broadcast from September 1986 to May 1993 on CBS. This series was about the working and personal lives of four southern women.

[[Spiritual séance]]

CATEGORIES: Occult

Spiritual séance or, simply, Séance is a meeting at which a group of people often including a medium attempts to contact a ghost and communicate with it.  Participants of such meeting need not be seated while engaged in a séance.

One of the earliest books on the subject is Communitation With the Other Side by George, First Baron Lyttelton, published in England in 1760.

Some notable people who attended séances and believed in all that include the United States President Abraham Lincoln, and his wife Mary Todd Lincoln; the social reformer Robert Owen; the journalist and pacifist William Thomas Stead, and more.

Scientists who have conducted a search for real séances and believed that contact with the dead is a reality include the evolutionary biologist Alfred Russel Wallace, the inventor of telephone Alexander Graham Bell, and the inventor of television technology John Logie Baird, who claimed to have contacted the spirit of the inventor Thomas Edison, and more.

[[Murray-Darling Basin]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Australia, Regions of Australia, Biosphere reserves, Drainage basins

The Murray-Darling Basin is an area in Australia around the Murray and Darling Rivers.   Three million Australians inside and outside the basin are directly dependent on its water. 

About 6 per cent of Australia's total rainwater falls into the Murray-Darling Basin. About 85 per cent of all irrigation in Australia takes place in the basin, which supports an agricultural industry worth more than $9 billion per annum.

The Murray-Darling Basin covers 1061469 or approximately one-seventh (14%) of the total area of Australia. 

Over two million people live in the Basin.

[[Buick Regal]]

CATEGORIES: Buick automobiles, Coupes, Sedans, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, 2020s automobiles

The Buick Regal is a mid-size automobile that is built by General Motors's Buick brand. The Buick Regal has had five generations, the newest one in 2011. The assembly for the car's are in Shanghai, China, Rüsselsheim, Germany and Oshawa, Ontario, Canada. Prior to the fifth generation Buick Regal was strictly front-wheel drive, beginning with the fifth generation all-wheel drive (AWD) became an option. From 1974-2003 certain generations shared the same frame and design with the Buick Century, in 1997 the Regal was released with a new design making it a more upscale version of the Century the only changes were the grille and interior.

[[Bucky Covington]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, American singer-songwriters, Country musicians, Singers from North Carolina

William Joel "Bucky" Covington III (born November 8, 1977 in Rockingham, North Carolina) is an American country music singer and songwriter.

Covington was part of the 5th season of American Idol where he placed eighth.

Covington released his debut album, Bucky Covington, in 2007.

[[Mileage]]

CATEGORIES: Measurement

The term "mileage" refers to distance traveled. It often refers to distance per unit of fuel, such as miles per gallon (mpg) or litres per 100 kilometres (L/100 km). In the U.S., the fuel efficiency of motorized vehicles (such as cars, trucks, or motorcycles) is measured in mpg, as miles per U.S. gallon of gasoline. However, in the UK, the fuel efficiency is often measured in litres of fuel used per 100 kilometres, or in miles per imperial gallon.

[[Patsy Cline]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, Aviation deaths in the United States, Singers from Virginia, 1932 births, 1963 deaths

Patsy Cline (born Virginia Patterson Hensley; September 8, 1932–March 5, 1963) was an American country music singer.

Some of Cline's greatest known hits were "She's Got You," "I Fall to Pieces," "Walkin' After Midnight," "Sweet Dreams," and "Crazy".

In 1973, Cline was named to the Country Music Hall of Fame. But, this was after she had died. She was the first woman to enter the Country Music Hall of Fame.

She died on March 5, 1963 in a plane crash near Camden, Tennessee, and she is buried at Shenandoah Memorial Park in Winchester, Virginia.

[[Daniel Nathans]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 1999 deaths, American biologists, American Nobel Prize winners, Jewish American scientists, Scientists from Wilmington, Delaware

Physiology or MedicineDaniel Nathans (October 30, 1928 - November 16, 1999) was an American biologist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1978. His parents were both Russian Jews who came to the U.S for a better life.

Daniel Nathans parents, Samuel and Sarah Nathans met each other in the U.S and were married in Philadelphia in 1910. Sarah Nathans (Daniel’s mother) came to the U.S from Russia when she was 18 years old. Samuel Nathans (Daniel’s father) came to the U.S when he was a teenager. Daniel was born on October 30, 1928. He was the last of nine children in his family. He attended the University of Delaware in 1950 and earned a Bachelor of Science in Chemistry. He then attended the Washington University in St. Louis and earned a Master's Degree in 1954.

In 1978, he won a Nobel Prize with Werner Arber and Hamilton Smith for finding restriction enzymes. He won a National Medal of Science in 1993. Nathans died on November 16, 1999 at the age of 71.

[[Chris Bosh]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, Miami Heat players, Toronto Raptors players, Sportspeople from Dallas, Texas, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

Christopher Wesson Bosh (born March 24, 1984 in Dallas, Texas) is an American basketball player. He attended college at Georgia Tech where he played basketball. Chris Bosh started his NBA career when he was drafted by the Toronto Raptors in the 2003 NBA Draft with the 4th pick in the 1st round. Bosh would play 7 seasons with the Raptors becoming a star player before doing a sign-and-trade deal with the Miami Heat after the 2009–10 NBA season.

[[Fiat Cinquecento]]

CATEGORIES: Fiat automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1990s automobiles

The Fiat Cinquecento is a car produced by Fiat, introduced in 1991. It was replaced by the Fiat Seicento in 1998.

[[Bowers Coaches]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in England

Bowers Coaches was a bus operator based in Chapel-en-le-Frith, Derbyshire.

It operated local bus services centered around the towns of Buxton, Glossop and New Mills. The company specialised in local bus services and the service area covers the High Peak Borough and some surrounding areas such as the town of Marple in Stockport and Ashbourne in the Derbyshire Dales.

The company became 'defunct' on 1 April 2012 as it combined with Trent Barton to form High Peak. 

[[American Civil Liberties Union]]

CATEGORIES: Non-profit organizations of the United States, Civil rights organizations, 1920 establishments in the United States

The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) is a group of two non-profit organizations that fight for what they believe are important civil liberties issues. It was started in 1920 by Crystal Eastman, Roger Nash Baldwin, and Walter Nelles.

Some issues that are important to the ACLU are the First Amendment to the United States Constitution (which says that people have free speech and freedom of religion, as well as other rights), privacy, the right of people to be treated fairly if they are accused of a crime and arrested, and the right for everybody to be treated the same under the law. 

One way the ACLU tries to reach its goals is by helping people in court whom it believes are not being treated fairly by the law. The ACLU has lawyers that file lawsuits for people it represents. The ACLU also tries to change laws by teaching people about issues and by lobbying the government about what it believes.

[[Louise Henriette de Bourbon]]

CATEGORIES: House of Orléans, 1726 births, 1759 deaths, Dukes and Duchesses of Chartres, Dukes and Duchesses of Orléans, House of Bourbon, Dukes and Duchesses of Montpensier

Louise Henriette de Bourbon (20 June 1726 – 9 February 1759) was Duchess of Orléans and the mother of Philippe Égalité. By birth and marriage she held the prestigious rank of a Princess of the blood.

[[Earth's core]]

CATEGORIES: Structure of the Earth

The Earth's core is the part of Earth in the middle of our planet. It has a solid inner core and a liquid outer core. The temperature of the outer core ranges from 4400 °C in the outer regions to 6100 °C near the inner core.

[[Seminole County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1913 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in Florida

Seminole County, Florida is a county in Florida.

[[Seminole County]]

Seminole County is the name of many counties in the United States:

[[Baker County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 19th-century establishments in Florida, 1861 establishments in the United States

Baker County, Florida is a county in Florida.

[[Bay County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1913 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in Florida

Bay County, Florida is a county in Florida.

[[Bay County]]

Bay County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Baker County]]

Baker County is the name of three counties in the United States:

[[Seminole County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Seminole County, Grorgia is a county in Georgia.

[[Puppet (software)]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Puppet is an open source software configuration management and deployment tool. Puppet is said to change the human workflow, and enable developers and system administrators to work together.

In October 2017, Puppet unveiled a new product of its own, a hybrid infrastructure tool Puppet Discovery.

[[Baker County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1825 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Baker County, Georgia is a county in Georgia.  Its county seat is Newton.

[[Barbara Hershey]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Hollywood, American movie actors, American television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1948 births, Living people

Barbara Lynn Herzstein (b. February 5, 1948), better known as Barbara Hershey, is an American movie and television actress. She has starred in many movies and television series. Her acting career began around 1965, but she did not get famous until the second half of the 1980s. She was born in Hollywood, California.

She won the Golden Globe Award in 1991 for "Best Performance by an Actress in a Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for TV". She was also in Black Swan, The Last Temptation of Christ and Hannah and Her Sisters.

[[Buddh International Circuit]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One, Formula One circuits, Formula One current, 2011 establishments in Asia, 2010s establishments in India

The Buddh International Circuit (or BIC) is a track (circuit) that had opened in 2011, which is used for motor racing. The main event is the Indian Grand Prix, the first to be held in that country.

The track was designed by Hermann Tilke, the FIA's most commonly used Track Designer.

The track was originally known as the Jaypee Group Circuit, after the owners, the Jaypee Group. The track was renamed in April 11, 2011

[[Mike Fisher]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Canadian Christians, Canadian ice hockey centres, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Nashville Predators players, Ottawa Senators players

Michael Andrew Fisher (born June 5, 1980) is a Canadian-American former professional ice hockey centre who played for the Ottawa Senators and Nashville Predators in the National Hockey League (NHL). Fisher also played for the Ottawa Senators and played 10 seasons also becoming the assistant captain for them. 

On July 10, 2010, Fisher married country music singer, Carrie Underwood after proposing to her on December 20, 2009. He is a devout Christian.

In 2016 after the former Nashville Predators captain, Shea Weber, was traded, he was made captain of the team.

[[Mount Buninyong]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Australia, Mountains of Victoria (Australia), Volcanic craters

Mount Buninyong is large extinct volcano 15 kilometres south east of Ballarat, Victoria, Australia. The 745 metre volcano is on the Western Victorian Volcanic Plains.

The scoria cone of the volcano is more than 200 metres higher than the land around it which makes it one of biggest scoria volcanoes in Victoria. It has a deep central crater. The volcano erupted several times, and during one eruption the west side of the volcano was breached. In later eruptions the lava flowed through this gap in the side. It is possible that the breach was actually another crater.

There is a road that goes up to the top of the mountain, and there are a number of communication towers and a bushfire watching tower. There are three walking tracks: the Crater Walk, the Summit Walk and the Southern Walk. It is also one of the last koala habitats in the area, with large manna gums and messmate trees.

The name Buninyong comes from the Australian Aboriginal people known as the Wauthaurung. Their word for the mountain was Bunnin Yowang which meant "big hill like knee".

[[Derrick Rose]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, Chicago Bulls players, Sportspeople from Chicago, New York Knicks players, American basketball players

Derrick Martell Rose Sr. (born October 4, 1988 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American basketball player. He currently plays for the Detroit Pistons. He plays at the position of  point guard. He attended college at University of Memphis where he played basketball with the Memphis Tigers. Rose was drafted out of college by the Chicago Bulls with the 1st overall pick in the 1st round of the 2008 NBA Draft.  Rose was named the 2011 NBA Most Valuable Player.  He is the youngest person to win an NBA MVP.

On October 9, 2012, Rose's girlfriend, Mieka Reese, gave birth to their son, Derrick Rose, Jr.

On June 22, 2016, Rose was traded to the New York Knicks. He signed with the Cleveland Cavaliers in the off season.

[[Visual arts]]

CATEGORIES: Arts

The visual arts are art forms that create works which are primarily visual in nature. The visual arts (also known as the plastic arts) produce objects. They are contrasted with the performing arts.

Examples are ceramics, drawing, painting, sculpture, printmaking and poetry. Also, modern visual arts which use technology: photography, video, filmmaking and architecture. 

These definitions should not be taken too strictly as many artistic disciplines (performing arts, conceptual art, textile arts) involve aspects of the visual arts as well as arts of other types. Movies and performing arts, for example, make use of set and costume design, sometimes by prominent artists.

Also included within the visual arts are the applied arts such as industrial design, graphic design, fashion design, interior design and decorative art.

[[Sammy Sosa]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Baltimore Orioles players, Chicago White Sox players, Chicago Cubs players, Dominican Republic sportspeople, Living people, National League All-Stars, Texas Rangers players

@theofficialsammysosa21  

Samuel Peralta "Sammy" Sosa (born November 12, 1968 in San Pedro de Macorís, Dominican Republic) is a retired Dominican baseball player. Sosa played for the Texas Rangers, Chicago White Sox, Chicago Cubs, Baltimore Orioles and the Texas Rangers during his career. 

Sosa has also run into some controversy for steroids which he denied taking.

He will become eligible for the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2013.

[[Teri Garr]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, 1944 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from Ohio, People with multiple sclerosis‎, People from Lakewood, Ohio

Teri Garr (born December 11, 1944) is an American movie and television actress. Her movie debut was the 1963 movie A Swingin' Affair. Her career breakthrough was in 1974 with the movie Young Frankenstein. Garr has acted in many other movies. She has been acting on TV since the late 1960s. She appeared on Star Trek: The Original Series.  She has multiple sclerosis. Garr was born in Lakewood, Ohio.

In 1983 she was nominated for "Best Supporting Actress" in Tootsie.

[[Jamie Benn]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Dallas Stars players, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Kelowna Rockets players, Living people, Medalists at the 2014 Winter Olympics, People from Victoria, British Columbia

Jamie Benn (born July 18, 1989 in Victoria, British Columbia) is a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger . He currently plays for the Dallas Stars of the National Hockey League (NHL). His older brother Jordie Benn also plays for the Dallas Stars.

Before playing in the NHL, Benn played 2 seasons with the Kelowna Rockets of the Western Hockey League (WHL). He won a gold medal with Canada at the 2009 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships when they defeated Sweden in the Finals. He also scored the game-winning goal in Canada's first game against Norway and the only goal in a 1-0 win against the United States in the semi-final game.

[[Hearing aid]]

CATEGORIES: Medical equipment, Audio technology, Hearing

A hearing aid is a small electrical machine which fits in or behind a person's ear. The purpose of a hearing aid is to make sounds louder so the person can hear spoken words and other sounds.

The two most common types of modern hearing aids are behind the ear aids and in the ear aids.

Before hearing aids were invented, people used "ear trumpets" also called ear horns.

[[Shapiro delay]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Experiments

The Shapiro time delay is a physics experiment. It is one of the four classic solar system observations or experiments which test general relativity.  

Radar signals passing near a massive object take slightly longer to travel to a target and longer to return than it would if the mass of the object were not present.

[[Miller–Urey experiment]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry, Experiments

The Miller–Urey experiment (or Urey–Miller experiment) was an experiment that made organic compounds out of Inorganic compounds by applying a form of energy.

The idea was to simulate hypothetical conditions thought to be present on the early Earth (Hadean or early Archaean). It was a test of  the chemical origins of life. Specifically, the experiment tested Alexander Oparin's and J.B.S. Haldane's hypothesis that conditions on the primitive Earth favored chemical reactions that synthesized organic compounds from inorganic precursors. Considered to be the classic experiment on the origin of life, it was conducted in 1952 and published in 1953 by Stanley Miller and Harold Urey at the University of Chicago.

After Miller's death in 2007, scientists examined sealed vials preserved from the original experiments. They were able to show that there were well over 20 different amino acids produced in Miller's original experiments. That is considerably more than those Miller originally reported, and more than the 20 that naturally occur in life.

[[Tony Amonte]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, American ice hockey players, American Olympic silver medalists, Calgary Flames players, Chicago Blackhawks players, New York Rangers players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Phoenix Coyotes players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts, Living people

Anthony Lewis Amonte (born August 2, 1970) is an American retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played a career total of 1174 regular season games and 99 playoff games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the New York Rangers, Chicago Blackhawks, Phoenix Coyotes, Philadelphia Flyers, and the Calgary Flames. He currently works as the head coach of Thayer Academy Varsity Hockey Team.

[[Kristján Eldjárn]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1982 deaths, Presidents of Iceland

Kristján Eldjárn (December 6, 1916 – September 14, 1982) was the 3rd president of Iceland.  He was president from 1968 to 1980.

He won as the underdog in the 1968 presidential election, winning 65.6% of the vote on a 92.2% voter turnout running against Gunnar Thoroddsen.

His son is Þórarinn Eldjárn who is a popular author in Iceland and his daughter Sigrún Eldjárn is also an author.

[[Henry Lawson]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 births, 1922 deaths, Australian poets, Short story writers, Writers from New South Wales

Henry Lawson (17 June 1867 – 2 September 1922) was an Australian writer and poet. Along with Banjo Paterson, he is remembered as one of the best Australian writers. He wrote about life in the Australian bush.

Lawson was an nationalist and republican, and he wanted Australia to become and independent nation. Lawson wrote many stories and articles for The Bulletin. He used the Australian language in his stories. From the 1890s he suffered from alcoholism and mental illness which meant he did not write as much in his later years. He never had much money, and spent time in Darlinghurst Gaol and psychiatric institutions. After he died in 1922 following a cerebral haemorrhage, Lawson became the first Australian writer to be granted a state funeral.

Hi mother was Louisa Lawson, a poet, publisher and feminist.

[[Nellie Melba]]

CATEGORIES: Australian singers, Disease-related deaths in New South Wales, Opera singers, 1861 births, 1931 deaths

Dame Nellie Melba GBE (born Helen Porter Mitchell; 19 May 1861spaced ndash23 February 1931), was an Australian opera soprano. She became one of the most famous singers of the late Victorian Era and the early 20th century. Melba was the first Australian to become a world famous classical musician.

Melba was born in Richmond, Victoria. Her father was Scottish. She died of septicemia in Sydney.

[[Skeeter Davis]]

CATEGORIES: Country musicians, Singers from Kentucky, 1931 births, 2004 deaths

Mary Frances Penick (December 30, 1931–September 19, 2004) better known by her stage name, Skeeter Davis was an American country music singer.

Her best known song is her 1963 hit, The End of the World.

She released 30 studio albums during her musical career.

She died on September 19, 2004 because of breast cancer which she had been battling for years.

[[Barry Humphries]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Actors from Melbourne, Australian comedians, Australian movie actors, Australian screenwriters, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, Television writers, Writers from Victoria (Australia)

John Barry Humphries GBR (born 17 February 1934) is an Australian actor, artist, author, comedian, and satirist. His is probably best known for making up and playing the characters of Dame Edna Everage, a Melbourne housewife and "gigastar", and Sir Les Patterson, who is an really rude "Australian diplomat". He is also a movie producer and script writer, a star of London's West End musical theatre, an award-winning writer and a landscape painter. He has been on TV, in movie and on stage. He became popular in Australia in the 1950s, then Britain from the 1960s and finally in America in the 1990s. He has been called the most important comedian since Charlie Chaplin.

[[Australian country music]]

CATEGORIES: Country music, Australian music

Australian country music is a part of the music of Australia. It comes from American country music, as well as British and Irish folk music and the work of traditional Australian poets like Banjo Paterson and Henry Lawson. Australian country music often uses guitars, banjos, fiddles and harmonicas and has songs about things like: outback life, stockmen, truckers and outlaws, romance, political protest and the "beauty and the terror" of the Australian bush. Famous musicians include: Slim Dusty, Joy McKean, Olivia Newton-John, John Williamson, Keith Urban, Lee Kernaghan and Kasey Chambers. Others singers influenced by it include Nick Cave and Paul Kelly. Popular songs include Waltzing Matilda (1895), Pub With No Beer (1957), Lights on the Hill (1973),  I Honestly Love You (1974), True Blue (1981), and Not Pretty Enough (2002).

[[Get Closer (Keith Urban album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Keith Urban albums

Get Closer is the sixth studio album by New Zealand-born Australian country music singer Keith Urban. It was released on November 16, 2010. The producers of the album was Dan Huff and Keith Urban. The album peaked at #7 on the Billboard 200 and peaked #2 on the U.S. Billboard Top Country Albums. The song "Put You in a Song" peaked at #2 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Songs.

[[Marie Thérèse of Savoy]]

CATEGORIES: 1756 births, 1805 deaths, People from Turin, House of Bourbon, Princes and Princesses of Savoy

Maria Teresa of Savoy (31 January 1756 – 2 June 1805) was a Princess of Savoy and the wife of Charles Charles, Count of Artois future Charles X of France. In France she was known as  Marie Thérèse de Savoie. 

[[Ensifera]]

CATEGORIES: Orthoptera

Ensifera is a suborder of the order Orthoptera. It includes the insects commonly known as crickets, katydids and bush crickets. "Ensifer" means "sword bearer" in Latin, and refers to the long and blade-like ovipositor of the females. 

[[Tetrigidae]]

CATEGORIES: Orthoptera

Tetrigidae is a family in the order Orthoptera, which also includes crickets, grasshoppers, and katydids. Species within the Tetrigidae are variously called grouse locusts, pygmy locusts, groundhoppers or pygmy grasshoppers. There are roughly 1,600 species in about 250 genera altogether.

[[Born This Way]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Lady Gaga albums, Pop albums, Dance pop albums, Electro albums

the album

Born This Way is the second full length studio album by American singer-songwriter Lady Gaga. The album was released on May 23, 2011. It was released under Streamline, and Kon Live Records. The album was produced by DJ White Shadow and RedOne. The album's lead single "Born This Way" was released on Friday, February 11, 2011, and became Gaga's third US number-one single. 

Born This Way became Gaga's first number-one album on the Billboard 200 after it debuted at the top of the chart, selling over one million copies in the US in its first week.

[[Born This Way (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Lady Gaga songs, LGBT songs

"Born This Way" is a single by American pop singer Lady Gaga. It was released on February 11, 2011. The song premiered on KIIS-FM's American Top 40 with Ryan Seacrest on February 11th. The single  was produced by Mexican music producer Fernando Garibay as well as DJ White Shadow and Gaga herself. The song is the lead single for Gaga's 2nd studio album Born This Way which was released on May 23, 2011. The single's music video was filmed on January 22, 2011.  Gaga performed the song live at the 53rd Annual Grammy Awards on February 13, 2011, two days after the song's release.

[[Bad Romance]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Lady Gaga songs, Dance-pop songs

"Bad Romance" is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga. It was released as the lead single from her third extended play (EP), and second major release The Fame Monster on October 26, 2009.

Gaga has said that the song is about being in love with a best friend.  There are some lines sung in French in the song.

The song reached #1 in many countries including Canada, the UK, Germany, France, Italy, and Spain, while reaching #2 in the US and Australia.  It was certified Diamond in America and has sold over 5.5 million downloads in that country.  "Bad Romance" won Gaga the 2011 Grammy Awards for Best Pop Vocal Performance and for Best Short Form Music Video.

[[Pastor Maldonado]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Venezuelan sportspeople, Formula One drivers, Formula One current

Pastor Rafael Maldonado Motta (born March 9, 1985 in Maracay) is a Venezuelan racing driver. His career so far has been in single-seater Formula racing. He is the 2010 GP2 Champion, and a former champion of Italian Formula Renault. He is currently a driver for the Williams Formula One team. His first F1 race was the 2011 Australian Grand Prix.

[[Chapel Hill, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Carolina, Durham County, North Carolina

Chapel Hill is a town in the U.S. state of North Carolina. It has about 50,000 people. It is in an area called The Triangle, because it is next to Raleigh and Durham.

[[Pedobear]]

CATEGORIES: Internet memes

Pedobear is an internet meme that gained popularity on 4chan. Pedobear is usually posted as a way to mock users requesting or posting sexualized images of children on 4chan.

Pedobear first appeared on 2channel, a popular bulletin board system in Japan and was originally called Kumā (interjection of Kuma which means bear in Japanese) or Safety Bear.

Pedobear has also been featured as iStockphoto wallpaper and was in the background of a cover of the auto magazine Import Tuner.

On July 3, 2009, Michael R. Barrick, a Canadian artist had created two pictures showing Pedobear together with the mascots of 2010 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games. Gazeta Olsztyńska, a Polish newspaper mistakenly used one of the pictures for a February 4, 2010 front page story about the Olympics in Vancouver.

[[Lady A]]

CATEGORIES: Country bands, Musical groups from Tennessee, Musicians from Nashville, Tennessee

Lady A (formerly known as Lady Antebellum ) are a country musical group formed in Nashville, Tennessee. The group consist of Dave Haywood, Hillary Scott and Charles Kelsey. They have had multiple hit songs and won several awards for their singing.

The band changed their name to Lady A in 2020 amid the George Floyd protests to remove any associations the old name might have had with slavery and the Antebellum South.

[[Victoria Principal]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California

Victoria Principal (born January 3, 1950) is an American actress and businessperson. She was born in Japan, where her father was stationed in the U.S. forces.

In 1970, Principal moved to Hollywood. She won her first film role as Marie Elena, a Mexican mistress, in John Huston's The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean (1972) (opposite Paul Newman). She got a Golden Globe nomination as Most Promising Newcomer for this role.

She starred in many movies and TV programs. Her most notable acting was playing Pamela Barnes Ewing in the nighttime television series Dallas. She spent nine years on the long-running series, leaving in 1987.

[[Winton, Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Victoria (Australia)

Winton is a small town nine kilometres north east of Benalla, Victoria. About 2,800 people live in the town and the other small towns in the area. It is home to the Winton Motor Raceway, a three kilometre motor racing track. Winton was first settled in 1853, and the town was surveyed in 1857. The Hume Highway from Melbourne to Sydney passed through the town, but the Hume Freeway bypassed Winton in 1987.

[[Grevillea]]

CATEGORIES: Proteaceae

Grevillea is a genus of about 360 species of evergreen flowering plants in the protea family Proteaceae. It comes from Australia, New Guinea, New Caledonia, and Sulawesi. It was named after Charles Francis Greville. The species are quite different from each other, from low growing shrubs less than 0.5 m tall to trees 35 m tall. Common names include Grevillea, Spider Flower, Silky-oak and Toothbrush.

Grevilleas are closely related to the genus Hakea, the genus gives its name to the subfamily Grevilleoideae. Many species of grevilleas are popular garden plants, especially in Australia but also in other temperate and subtropical climates. Many grevilleas interbreed freely, and some specially picked hybrids have been grown for sale. Among the best known are Grevillea 'Robyn Gordon', a small shrub up to 1.5 metres high and wide which can flower 12 months of the year in subtropical climates.

[[Agnès Sorel]]

CATEGORIES: 1421 births, 1450 deaths, House of Valois, People with foods named after them

Agnès Sorel (1421 – 9 February 1450), was a favourite mistress of King Charles VII of France.  Charles VII was the father of her three daughters.

She was the subject of several contemporary paintings and works of art, including Jean Fouquet's Virgin and Child Surrounded by Angels.

[[Strip Me]]

CATEGORIES: Natasha Bedingfield albums, 2010 albums

Strip Me is the third album by Natasha Bedingfield. It was released exclusively in the United States and Canada on December 7, 2010. The record was not as successful as the previous records Unwritten and Pocketful of Sunshine, although the song, also titled "Strip Me", reached number 23 on the Adult Contemporary format.

[[Death mask]]

CATEGORIES: Death customs

In the 17th century in some European countries, it was common for death masks to be used as part of the effigy of the deceased, displayed at state funerals. During the 18th and 19th centuries they were also used to keep a record the faces of unknown bodies. This is now done with photographs.

Phrenologists and ethnographers used both death masks and life masks (taken from living people) for scientific and pseudoscientific purposes. A death mask is a wax or plaster cast made of a person’s face. Death masks may be mementos of the dead, or used for creation of portraits. It is sometimes possible to tell if paintings have been copied from death masks, because shape of the face is altered by the weight of the plaster during the making of the mould. In some cultures a death mask may be a clay or other item placed on the face of the dead person before burial rites. The best known of these are the masks used by ancient Egyptians as part of the mummification process, such as Tutankhamon’s burial mask. In the 17th century in some European countries, it was common for death masks to be used as part of the effigy of the deceased, displayed at state funerals. During the 18th and 19th centuries they were also used to keep a record the faces of unknown bodies. This is now done with photographs.

[[Al Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1944 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Governors of New York, Politicians from New York City, People with foods named after them, 20th-century American politicians

Alfred Emanuel Smith, Jr. (December 30, 1873 – October 4, 1944), known in private and public life as Al Smith, was an American statesman who was elected the 42nd Governor of New York four times, and was the Democratic US presidential candidate in 1928. He was a leader of the Progressive Movement, and was noted for making a wide range of reforms as governor in the 1920s.  He was also linked to the Tammany Hall machine that controlled Manhattan politics; he was a strong opponent of prohibition.

Smith was the first Catholic to run for President, and attracted many thousands of ethnic voters.  However he was especially unpopular among Southern Baptists and German Lutherans, who feared the pope would dictate his policies. It was a time of national prosperity, and Smith lost in a landslide to Republican Herbert Hoover. Smith tried for the 1932 nomination, but was defeated by his former ally Franklin D. Roosevelt.  Smith entered business in New York City, and became an increasingly vocal opponent of Roosevelt's New Deal.

In 1939 he was appointed a Papal Chamberlain of the Sword and Cape, one of the highest honors the Papacy bestowed on a layman, which today is styled a Gentlemen of His Holiness.

Smith died at the Rockefeller Institute Hospital on October 4, 1944 of a heart attack, at the age of 70, broken-hearted over the death of his wife from cancer five months earlier. He is interred at Calvary Cemetery.

[[Edwardstone]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Edwardstone is a village and civil parish in the Babergh district, in the county of Suffolk, England. In 2011, there were 352 people living in Edwardstone civil parish. The parish contains the villages and hamlets of Mill Green, Priory Green, Round Maple and Sherbourne Street.

[[Groton, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Groton is a village and civil parish in the Babergh district, in the county of Suffolk, England. Groton has a church called St Bartholomew Church. The parish contains the hamlets of Broad Street, Castling's Heath, Gosling Green, Horner's Green and Parliament Heath. In 2001, there were 222 people living in Groton.

[[Booker T. Jones]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American R&B musicians, American songwriters, American soul musicians, Musicians from Memphis, Tennessee, 1944 births, Living people

Booker T. Jones (born November 12, 1944) is an American musician, songwriter, record producer and arranger. He is famous as the leader of the band Booker T. & the M.G.'s. He has also worked in recording studios with some of the highest regarded musicians of the 20th and 21st centuries, and in 2007 was given a Grammy Award for a lifetime of good work.

[[Louis Gabriel Suchet]]

CATEGORIES: 1770 births, 1826 deaths, Marshals of France, People with foods named after them

Louis Gabriel Suchet, 1st Duc d'Albufera (2 March 1770 – 3 January 1826) was a Marshal of France and one of Napoleon's most brilliant generals.

[[Porter Wagoner]]

CATEGORIES: American singer-songwriters, Musicians from Missouri, Singers from Missouri, American guitarists, Country musicians, Grammy Award winners, 1927 births, 2007 deaths

Porter Wayne Wagoner (August 12, 1927 – October 28, 2007) was an American country music singer and songwriter. 

Wagoner made 53 studio albums. He had 80 singles, including three number one singles.

Wagoner was part of Grand Ole Opry. He was nicknamed, Mr. Grand Ole Opry.

Wagoner won three Grammy Awards.

He was elected into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 2002.

On October 28, 2007, Wagoner died of lung cancer in Nashville, Tennessee.

[[Tennessee Ernie Ford]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1991 deaths, Deaths from liver failure, Singers from Tennessee, American television actors, Musicians from Tennessee, American guitarists, Country musicians, Gospel musicians, Grammy Award winners, American television personalities, Actors from Tennessee

Ernest Jennings Ford (February 13, 1919 – October 17, 1991) was an American country music and gospel singer and actor. 

He served in World War II as a bombardier and flew missions over Japan.

He made 57 studio albums and had 83 singles during the course of his musical career.  In 1955 he sang the song Sixteen Tons.  He snapped his fingers on the recording.  The song sold over a million copies.

He won a Grammy Award in 1964 for best album.

He hosted a daytime talk/variety show from 1962 to 1965 known as The Tennessee Ernie Ford Show (later Hello, Peapickers).

He was elected into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1990 and was also elected into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame in 1994.

He died of liver failure on October 17, 1991 in Reston, Virginia.

[[Vevey]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Vaud

Vevey is a town in Switzerland. Vevey is the site of the world headquarters of  Nestlé, founded in 1867. Milk chocolate was invented in Vevey by Daniel Peter in 1857.

[[Sandy Duncan]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Texas, Singers from Texas, 1946 births, Living people

Sandra Kay "Sandy" Duncan (born February 20, 1946) is an American singer, songwriter and actress. She starred in many television programs and movies. She has also been doing stage acting during her career. Sandy starred in the television sitcom The Hogan Family. She was born in Henderson, Texas.

[[Steve Cropper]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, American soul musicians, American R&B musicians, American funk musicians, Musicians from Missouri, American guitarists

Steven Lee Cropper (born October 21, 1941 in Willow Springs, Missouri), also known as Steve "The Colonel" Cropper, is an American guitarist, songwriter and producer. He is best known as the guitarist with Booker T. & the M.G.'s who made instrumental music for singers such as Otis Redding, Sam & Dave, Carla Thomas, Rufus Thomas and Johnnie Taylor. He sometimes also helped make records by these singers. He also became known as a member of the Blues Brothers band. Rolling Stone lists him 36th on their list of the 100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time.

[[Jesse Carmichael]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American rock guitarists, American keyboard players, American punk musicians, Maroon 5, Musicians from Colorado, People from Boulder, Colorado

Jesse Royal Carmichael (born 2 April 1979) is an American musician, guitarist & keyboardist. He is best known as the secondary guitar player and keyboardist for the Grammy Award winning band Maroon 5. In 1994, he joined with Maroon 5 frontman Adam Levine and Mickey Madden, current bassist, and formed Kara's Flowers. He recorded the debut album Songs About Jane with the rest of the band Levine, Madden, James Valentine, and Ryan Dusick.

[[Alexander I of Russia]]

CATEGORIES: 1777 births, 1825 deaths, Emperors and empresses, House of Holstein-Gottorp-Romanov, People from Saint Petersburg, People with foods named after them, Russian royalty

Alexander I of Russia (Александр I Павлович, Aleksandr I Pavlovich) (23 December – 1 December), also known as Alexander the Blessed (Александр Благословенный, Aleksandr Blagoslovennyi) was Emperor of Russia from 23 March 1801 to 1 December 1825 and the first Russian King of Poland from 1815 to 1825. He was also the first Russian Grand Duke of Finland and Lithuania.

He was born in Saint Petersburg to Grand Duke Paul Petrovich, later Emperor Paul I, and Maria Feodorovna, daughter of the Duke of Württemberg. He succeeded to the throne after his father was murdered, and ruled Russia during the Napoleonic Wars.

His sudden death in Taganrog, under allegedly suspicious circumstances, caused the spread of the rumours that Alexander did not die in 1825, but disappeared to live the rest of his life in anonymity.

[[Valerie Harper]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Deaths from brain cancer, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Infectious disease deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from meningitis, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American dancers, American autobiographers, Actors from New York, Comedians from New York, Writers from New York, 1939 births, 2019 deaths

Valerie  Harper (August 22, 1939 – August 30, 2019) was an American movie and television actress. She was best known for playing Rhoda Morgenstern on The Mary Tyler Moore Show and starring in the sitcom Valerie. She also did stage acting. She began her career as a dancer and chorus girl on Broadway in the late 1950s and early 1960s. 

[[Jackie Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American R&B singers, American soul musicians, Deaths from pneumonia, Singers from Detroit, Michigan, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees, 1934 births, 1984 deaths

Jack Leroy "Jackie" Wilson, Jr. (June 9, 1934 – January 21, 1984) was an American singer and performer. He was called "Mr. Excitement".  Wilson helped to change rhythm and blues into soul. He was a master showman, and a dynamic singers. He was a member of the R&B vocal group Billy Ward and His Dominoes.  On his own, beginning in 1957, he recorded over 50 hit singles.  These songs included R&B, pop, soul, doo-wop and easy listening. During a 1975 benefit concert, he collapsed on-stage from a heart attack.  Then he  fell into a coma.  The coma lasted nearly nine years until his death in 1984. By then, he had become one of the most influential artists of his generation.

A two-time Grammy Hall of Fame Inductee, Jackie Wilson was inducted to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1987. In 2004, Rolling Stone magazine ranked Jackie Wilson #68 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time https://www.webcitation.org/65eRnSuAa?url. At the 1984 Grammy Awards Michael Jackson dedicated his Album of the Year Grammy for Thriller to Wilson. After this Tarnapol released the first Wilson album in nearly nine years.

[[Alaska Interior]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Alaska

The Alaska Interior covers most of the U.S. state's territory. It is largely wilderness. Mountains include Mount McKinley (Denali) in the Alaska Range, the Wrangell Mountains, and the Ray Mountains.

The largest city in the interior is Fairbanks, which is Alaska's second-largest city. Other towns include North Pole, Eagle, Tok, Glennallen, Delta Junction, Nenana, Anderson, Healy and Cantwell.

[[Polymorphism]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Classical genetics, Ecology

Polymorphism  in biology is when two or more clearly different phenotypes exist in the same population of a species. The words forms or morphs are sometimes used.

Polymorphism is common in nature. The most common example is sexual dimorphism, which occurs in many organisms. 

Another example is sickle-cell anaemia.

In order to be classified as such, morphs must occupy the same habitat at the same time and belong to a population with random mating.

[[Kid A]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums, Radiohead albums

Kid A is the fourth album by the band Radiohead. It was released in October 2000 on the Parlophone label. It was a success, and was certified platinum in the United Kingdom after only one week. Kid A was the band's first number one in America, and was named as 'The best album of the 2000s' by Rolling Stone magazine.

[[Hail to the Thief]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Radiohead albums

Hail to the Thief is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in June 2003.

[[The King of Limbs]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Radiohead albums

The King of Limbs is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in 2011. No singles were released from the album, but a video was released for "Lotus Flower". The album got good reviews from critics. PopMatters gave it 9/10 and called it "a beautiful record". It was nominated for five Grammy Awards.

[[Amnesiac]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums, Radiohead albums

Amnesiac is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in June 2001. It went straight to No.1 in the UK Albums Chart. Most critics gave it good reviews. Pitchfork gave it 9/10.

[[The Bends]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 albums, Radiohead albums

The Bends is an album by the band Radiohead. It was released in April 1995.

[[Pablo Honey]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 albums, Radiohead albums, Debut albums, Rock albums

Pablo Honey is an album by the English alternative rock band Radiohead. It was released in April 1993. Three singles were released from it. "Creep" was released in 1992 and was not successful. In 1993 it was released again and became popular around the world. The album reached No.22 in the UK charts. In 2009 the album was re-released with an extra CD of demos and live songs.

[[List of SpongeBob SquarePants characters]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants characters, Lists of television characters

Below is a list of characters  from the television show SpongeBob SquarePants.   

[[Grace Under Fire]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s television series, 1990s American sitcoms, ABC network shows, English-language television programs

Grace Under Fire was an American television sitcom which aired on ABC between 1993 and 1998. It was part of a wave of 1980s-1990s television shows built around a comedian. Brett Butler starred as Grace, a divorced single mother with three children. This was the highest rated new show for its first season. It was distributed through the Carsey-Werner Company.

[[Absolution]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

Absolution is the name of a sacrament of the Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Anglican and Lutheran churches. Using absolution, a priest or the church can forgive a sin, after confession. 

[[Petrified wood]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils

Petrified wood (from the Greek root Petro meaning "rock" or "stone"; literally "wood turned into stone") is the name given to a special type of fossilized remains of terrestrial vegetation. It is the result of a tree having turned completely into stone by the process of per mineralization. All the organic materials have been replaced with minerals (most often a silicate, such as quartz), while retaining the original structure of the wood. Unlike other types of fossils which are typically impressions or compressions, petrified wood is a three dimensional representation of the original organic material.

The petrifaction process occurs underground, when wood becomes buried under sediment and is initially preserved due to a lack of oxygen which inhibits aerobic decomposition.

[[Dolores Claiborne (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s crime drama movies, 1995 mystery movies, American crime drama movies, American mystery movies, English-language movies, Incest in movies, Movies about domestic violence, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies based on books, Movies set in Maine

Dolores Claiborne is a 1995 American crime drama movie set in Maine. Kathy Bates plays the title character. Also starring in the movie is Jennifer Jason Leigh, who plays her daughter. Dolores is accused of murdering her employer, an elderly woman. Dolores is also accused of murdering her husband. He was a violent alcoholic sexually abusing her daughter.

This movie is based on Stephen King's novel of the same name.

[[Christian de Duve]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2013 deaths, Belgian academics, Belgian biologists, Belgian chemists, Belgian Nobel Prize winners, Biochemists, Deaths by euthanasia, Drug-related suicides, People from Surrey

Christian René, viscount de Duve (2 October 1917 – 4 May 2013) was a Belgian biochemist. He was born in Thames Ditton, Surrey and grew up in Antwerp, Belgium. 

Duve won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1974. He discovered two cell organelles, lysosomes and peroxisomes. He described them, and was the first to investigate their functions. Duve shared the Nobel prize with Albert Claude and George E. Palade.

De Duve died in Grez-Doiceau, Belgium, on 4 May 2013, when he asked that his life be ended through euthanasia.

[[Corvus (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Corvus is a small constellation in the southern sky. Its name is Latin for raven or crow. It has only 11 stars that can be seen without a telescope. It was one of the 48 constellations listed by Ptolemy. However, he only included 7 stars. Corvus is one of the 88 modern constellations.

[[Eric Kandel]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, American biochemists, American Nobel Prize winners, American physicians, Austrian Jews, Biophysicists, Harvard University alumni, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Jewish Wolf Prize winners, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Neuroscientists, New York University alumni, Scientists from Vienna, Austrian psychiatrists, American psychiatrists, Psychoanalysts, Refugees from Nazism, Scientists from Brooklyn, Austrian Nobel Prize winners, Austrian biologists

Eric Richard Kandel (born 7 November 1929) is an American neuropsychiatrist of Jewish descent. He was a professor of biochemistry and biophysics.

He won the Wolf Prize in Medicine in 1999, and the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2000 for describing the physiological basis of memory storage in neurons. Kandel shared the Nobel Prize with Arvid Carlsson and Paul Greengard.

Kandel was born in Vienna. He migrated to Brooklyn, New York City in 1939, the year after the Anschluss when Austria was made part of Nazi Germany. In 1956, he married sociologist Denise Kandel. They have two children.

[[D. J. King]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Lethbridge Hurricanes players, Living people, St. Louis Blues players, Washington Capitals players, ECHL players, Memorial Cup winners

Dwayne "D.J." King (born June 27, 1984) is a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He currently plays for the Ontario Reign of the ECHL. He previously played 118 games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the St. Louis Blues and the Washington Capitals.

Before playing in the NHL, King played 4 seasons in the Western Hockey League; 3 seasons with the Lethbridge Hurricanes and 1 season with the Kelowna Rockets. He was drafted by the St. Louis Blues with the 190th overall pick in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft.

King is of Métis heritage. He has a younger brother named Dwight, that plays for the Los Angeles Kings.

[[Nuclear fallout]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear accidents, Nuclear weapons

Fallout is the left over radiation hazard from a nuclear explosion. The name is because radioactive material "falls out" of the atmosphere into which it is spread during the explosion. These materials continue to undergo radioactive decay for minutes, days or centuries. "Fallout" commonly refers to the radioactive dust created when a nuclear weapon explodes. All nuclear explosions make fission products, which are the broken, radioactive atoms from a fission reaction. Neutrons from the explosion also make some nearby materials radioactive. 

There was also radioactive fallout after a part of the nuclear power station at Chernobyl exploded. The fallout caused serious contamination over an area including Ukraine, Belarus, Russia, Scandinavia and some parts of Europe. All people living in an area of 30 kilometres radius around the power plant were forced to move because of the fallout with villages and towns being abandoned.

[[Drillbit Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, 2008 comedy movies

Drillbit Taylor is a 2008 comedy movie that was produced by Judd Apatow and Susan Arnold and directed by Steven Brill. The movie was the last movie written by John Hughes before he died on August 6, 2009. It was released on February 8, 2008.

[[Canary]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes

The canary (Serinus canaria), also called the island canary, Atlantic canary or common canary, is a small passerine bird. It belongs to the genus Serinus in the finch family. It is native to the Canary Islands, the Azores, and Madeira. Wild birds are mostly yellow-green, with brownish streaking on the back. The species is common in captivity. Different colour varieties have been bred. Canaries are domestic birds. They are popular pets. 

[[Cars 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 comedy movies, 2011 animated movies, American comedy movies, Cars (franchise), Pixar movies, Movies composed by Michael Giacchino, Movies set in London, Movies set in Japan, Movies directed by John Lasseter

Cars 2 is a 2011 movie made by Pixar. It was directed by John Lasseter and produced by Denise Ream. It is a sequel to the 2006 comedy movie Cars and it was released on June 24, 2011. The teaser trailer for Cars 2 appeared on the DVD and Blu-ray versions of Toy Story 3 and the full length trailer was shown before the movie Tangled. In the Cars trilogy, this movie was followed by Cars 3, which was released in June 16, 2017.

[[Françoise Barré-Sinoussi]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, French academics, French biologists, French Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Paris, Virologists

Françoise Barré-Sinoussi (fʁɑ̃swaz baʁesinusi) was born 30 July 1947 in Paris, France. She studied biochemistry at the University of Paris. Later, she graduated from the Pasteur Institute with a Ph.D in virology. She is a French virologist. She won the Physiology or Medicine, Nobel Prize in 2008 after she discovered the pathogen of AIDS. AIDS had been discovered before the discovery of the pathogen. AIDS is a more developed version of HIV. She discovered HIV with Luc Montagnier. AIDs was a dangerous disease and because she discovered it, the population of people with AIDS decreased.  She shared the Noble prize with  Luc Montagnier (a French virologist) and Harald zur Hausen (A german virologist) They both helped her discover the pathogen of AIDS. She also contributed to the development of a blood screening for AIDS which helped many people discover that they had AIDS. She is currently 70 years old.

[[Parliamentary opposition]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Parliamentary opposition is a political position. It is a type of opposition to the government. It is usually used in countries that use the Westminster system of parliament. Parties that have second-most seats usually make up the opposition. They are called the "Official Opposition" sometimes. Examples of countries with an Official Opposition are Canada, Australia, and the United Kingdom.

[[Flowering plant sexuality]]

CATEGORIES: Flowers, Biological reproduction

Flowering plant sexuality describes some of the technical terms for common arrangements of flowers.

[[Mean Streets]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 drama movies, 1970s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, English-language movies, American gangster movies, Mafia, Movies directed by Martin Scorsese, Movies set in New York City, United States National Film Registry movies, Warner Bros. movies

Mean Streets is a 1973 American crime drama movie directed by Martin Scorsese. It is set in New York City and stars Harvey Keitel and Robert De Niro. This movie was released by Warner Bros. on October 2, 1973. It received mostly positive reviews from movie critics.

[[Aaron Sherritt]]

CATEGORIES: 1855 births, 1880 deaths, Ned Kelly, People from Victoria (Australia), Murder victims

Aaron Sherritt (1855 - 26 June 1880) was a close friend of Joe Byrne and later Ned Kelly. His murder in 1880 was the first of the actions that led to the Kelly Gang's final shoot out with the police at Glenrowan.

Sherritt lived about three miles from Byrne, in the Woolshed Valley, near Beechworth, Victoria.134 He went to school with Byrne, and in 1876 were sent to prison for stealing meat.101 Soon after being let out of prison, Sherritt and Byrne were sent back again. They had fought with Chinese man who had tried to stop them from swimming in his dam.81 In 1878 Byrne was said to be engaged to Sherritt's sister. He had a reputation for being tough; at times he would sleep out in the open at night.134 

After the Kelly Gang robbed the bank at Jerilderie, New South Wales, they disappeared for 18 months. In January 1879, Sherritt went to the police station at Benalla and gave them information about where the Kelly Gang was hiding, and what they were going to do next.109 He was paid £2 for the information. Sherritt helped the police find a cave from where they could watch Byrne's mother's house.129 He was interested in Byrne's sister, Kate. The police told Sherritt that they would not kill Byrne.129 When the police in the cave were found out, Sherritt then tried to get close to Ned Kelly's younger sister, Kate Kelly.130 He showed the police a place from where they could watch the Kelly house, but this was soon discovered.130 Sherritt sold Kate Kelly a horse he had stolen from Kate Byrne.130 When Ned Kelly's older sister, Maggie Skillion, found out she reported it to the police. It went to court, but the case against Sherritt was dropped because the police said that the Byrnes and the Kellys were criminals and not to be trusted.130 Byrne's mother said she thought the whole thing was a trick by the police to get the Kelly Gang to come out of hiding.130

Late at night on 26 June 1880, Joe Byrne and Dan Kelly went to Sherritt's house at Sebastopol. Sherritt and his family were being guarded by four policemen who were living at the house. When Sherritt opened the door, he was shot dead by Joe Byrne. The police did not come out of the house and remained there until the next day. Byrne and Kelly left Sebastopol and rode across country to Glenrowan. They knew the police would send a large group by train to Beechworth to try and capture them. Ned Kelly and Steve Hart had gone to Glenrowan earlier and had pulled up the train tracks. They had planned on the police sending the train to Beechworth during the night. The plan failed when the police at Sherritt's house did not report the murder until midday.

[[Parliament of Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Victoria, Australia, Parliaments, Legislatures of country subdivisions

The Parliament of Victoria is a bicameral legislature that makes the laws for the state of Victoria, Australia. Its two houses are a lower house the Legislative Assembly, and an upper house, the Legislative Council. The Legislative Assembly has 88 members, and the Legislative Council has 40 members. The political party with the most members in the lower house forms the government, and is led by the Premier of Victoria. In 2014, the Labor Party won the November election, and its leader, Daniel Andrews, became the Premier. The third part of the Parliament is the Crown, Queen Elizabeth II. She is represented in Victoria by the Governor of Victoria. The current governor is Professor David de Kretser, A.C.

The parliament meets at Parliament House in Spring Street, Melbourne. This building was also the home of the Parliament of Australia from 1901 to 1927.

[[Rita Levi-Montalcini]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 2012 deaths, Female scientists, Italian biologists, Italian centenarians, Italian Jews, Italian Nobel Prize winners, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Jewish scientists, Neurologists, People from Turin

Rita Levi-Montalcini (22 April 1909 - 30 December 2012) was an Italian neurologist.  She won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1986 for her discovery of Nerve Growth Factor (NGF). She shared the Nobel Prize with Stanley Cohen with whom she made the discovery.

She was the first Nobel Prize winner to have reached 103 years of age.

Levi-Montalcini was the third of four children. Her parents were Adamo Levi and Adele Montalcini. She was born on April 22, 1909, in Turin, Italy. Her father wanted her to attend a high school which prepared girls for marriage, but Levi-Montalcini did not want to have children. Although she wanted to go to a university, her parents did not support that idea. Three years later, her governess (nanny) got cancer. This inspired her decision to become a doctor.

She applied for the Turin School of Medicine in 1930. She was accepted, and she studied the nervous system, which is the system of the human brain, spinal cord, and nerves. She graduated from school in 1936 and became a research assistant. In 1942, Levi-Montalcini experimented on chicken embryos to study how cells were made.

A neuron bryologist (a person who studies the nervous system in embryos) named Viktor Hamburger contacted her in 1946, inviting her to fill a visiting research position at Washington University.

Levi-Montalcini was famous for her research on cell growth. Her first experiments were done in a small laboratory in her house. This was because she was Jewish when Italy was ruled by a dictator called Mussolini (1883-1945). Mussolini would not allow Jews to have a serious job. Since Levi-Montalcini was in great danger from Germans, she fled to Florence and was in hiding until the Germans left. Levi-Montalcini was allowed to experiment in better laboratories after World War II. From 1944 to 1945 Levi-Montalcini cared for war refugees after becoming medicine doctor.

In the 1950s, she found a protein in the human nervous system, that she later named the  NGF. She worked with Biochemist Stanley Cohen at Washington University, who was able to find the chemical structure of NGF and produce NGF antibodies. Levi-Montalcini's and Cohen's work was noticed in 1986 when they were awarded the Nobel Prize for physiology or medicine. Levi-Montalcini was the fourth woman to win the Nobel Prize.

[[The Big Chill (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, English-language movies, South Carolina, Suicide in fiction, Movies directed by Lawrence Kasdan

The Big Chill is a 1983 American comedy-drama movie. It is about baby boomer friends reuniting after 15 years due to a friend's suicide. This movie stars Tom Berenger, Glenn Close and Mary Kay Place. It was filmed in Beaufort, South Carolina and set in South Carolina.

[[Nate Marquardt]]

CATEGORIES: Sportspeople from Wyoming, Freemont County, Wyoming, American mixed martial artists, 1979 births, Living people

Nathan Joel Marquardt (born April 20, 1979 in Lander, Wyoming) is an American mixed martial artist. He currently fights for the UFC in the middleweight division and fights out of Denver, Colorado. Marquardt holds a second black belt in both Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu and Jujutsu. His current record is 32 wins, 10 losses and 2 draws.

[[The Painted Veil (2006 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 drama movies, 2006 romance movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, Adultery in movies, American romantic drama movies, Chinese movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in Venice, Movies set in London, Movies set in the 1920s, Shanghai

The Painted Veil is a 2006 romantic drama movie that was directed by John Curran. It was based on the 1925 novel with the same name. This is the third movie version of the novel the first in 1934 and the second in 1957 called The Seventh Sin. This movie won a Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score in 2006.

[[Victoria Police]]

CATEGORIES: Victoria, Australia, Law enforcement agencies, Law enforcement in Australia, Government agencies of Australia, 1850s establishments in Australia

Victoria Police provides police services to the people of Victoria, Australia. It employs more than 13,800 people and has 339 police stations.

Victoria Police started in the 1850s. One of their early jobs was to collect licence fees from miners searching for gold. In 1854 the miners at Ballarat refused to pay the fee and built a defensive fort, known as the Eureka Stockade. A military force of the British Army and 94 policemen attacked the stockade. About 30 miners and four soldiers were killed.

[[T. J. Oshie]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, American ice hockey players, Sportspeople from Washington, St. Louis Blues players, Washington Capitals players, United States Hockey League players, Ice hockey centres

Timothy Leif "T. J." Oshie, Jr. (born December 23, 1986 in Mount Vernon, Washington) is a American professional ice hockey center and right winger that currently plays for the Washington Capitals of the National Hockey League (NHL). He was drafted by the St. Louis Blues with the 24th overall pick in the 2005 NHL Draft.

He played ice hockey in college at University of North Dakota with the Fighting Sioux.

[[Royal Commission]]

CATEGORIES: Government

In states that are Commonwealth Realms a Royal Commission is a major government public inquiry into an important issue.  They have been held in the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Kenya and Saudi Arabia.  In Hong Kong, Ireland and South Africa, they are called a Commission of Enquiry or Commission of Inquiry.

A Royal Commissioner has a lot of power, more than those of a judge but these are limited to the "Terms of Reference" of the Commission. The Commission is created by the Head of State (the Sovereign, or his/her representative in the form of a Governor-General or Governor) on the advice of the Government. In practice–unlike other forms of inquiry–once a Commission has started the government cannot stop it. Because of this governments are usually very careful about framing the Terms of Reference and generally include in them a date by which the commission must finish.

Royal Commissions are called to look into very important matters and usually controversy. For example, these can be about government structure, the treatment of minorities, or the events that had received concern from the public or economic questions.

Many Royal Commissions last many years and, often, a different government is left to respond to the findings. In Australia–and particularly New South Wales–Royal Commissions have been investigations into police and government corruption and organised crime. They have used the powers of the Royal Commissioner to force  powerful, but corrupt, public officials to tell the truth.

Royal Commissions are usually run by one or more notable figures. Because of their legal powers the Commissioners are often retired senior judges.

Royal Commissions usually research issues, consult with experts both within and outside of government and the public as well. They can call witnesses under oath, offer indemnities, seize documents and other evidence (sometimes including those normally protected, such as classified information), holding hearings in camera, and can force all government officials to help the Commission. 

The results of Royal Commissions are published in, often, massive reports of findings containing policy recommendations. They often have long and complex names, for example, the "Royal commission into whether there has been corrupt or criminal conduct by any Western Australian Police Officer". Because of this they are commonly known by the name of the main Commissioner.  These reports are often quite important, with the government making some or all recommendations into law. The work of some Commissions have been almost completely ignored by the government. In other cases, where the Commissioner has not kept to the terms of reference, the commission has been stopped by a superior court.

[[Delmonico's]]

CATEGORIES: American restaurants, 1827 establishments in the United States, Companies based in New York City, 1820s establishments in New York (state)

Delmonico's is the name of series of restaurants in New York City.  The original and most famous was operated by the Delmonico family during the 19th and early 20th centuries, but the last family-owned restaurant closed due to a Prohibition-era slowdown in 1923. Since that time restaurants using the Delmonico's name have reopened elsewhere in Manhattan under different owners.

The original Delmonico's began in a rented pastry shop at 23 William Street in 1827, appearing listed as a restaurant in 1830. They moved several times before settling at 2 South William Street for eighty years, it is credited with being the first restaurant in America to allow patrons to order from a menu à la carte, as opposed to table d’hôte. It is also claimed to be the first to employ a separate wine list.

At the peak of "Delmonico's" fame the family operated four restaurants under the name at the same time, and a total of ten during their ownership.

Six years after they closed the doors of their last restaurateur Oscar Tucci opened a Delmonico's at 2 South William Street, which stayed in business until 1977. Other Delmonicos have operated in the space from 1981–1992 and from 1998 to present.

[[Frank Heller]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish novelists, 1886 births, 1947 deaths

Frank Heller was the pen name of a Swedish writer. His real name was Gunnar Serner. He lived from July 20, 1886 - October 14, 1947. He wrote a series of light novels. His books were about suspicious international business. Heller created the character Philip Collin in most popular books. Collin who was a detective and a thief. Collin also used the name Professor Pelotard.

[[Consommé]]

CATEGORIES: Soups

In cooking, a consommé is a type of clear soup made from richly flavoured stock or bouillon.  "Double" consommé is clarified  often through a fining process involving egg protein. It usually requires an advanced knowledge of cooking and past experience to create a high quality consommé. Consommé has maintained its place as one of the most highly regarded and appreciated soups in the world.

gelatin desserts.

[[Generation gap]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology

The term generation gap refers to the fact that a younger generation and their parents are thinking differently. The term was made popular in the 1960s.

[[Shawinigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Quebec

Shawinigan is a city on the Saint-Maurice River in Quebec, Canada. In 2011, 50060 people lived there.

Michel Angers was elected as mayor in the 2009 municipal election.

The name of the city has also been spelled different over periods of time: Chaouinigane, Oshaouinigane, Assaouinigane, Achawénégan, Chawinigame, Shawenigane, Chaouénigane and could either mean "portage", "portage of beeches", "angular portage" or "summit" or "crest".

[[Caroline Rhea]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Actors from Montreal, Canadian stand-up comedians, Canadian television actors, Comedians from Quebec, Television talk show hosts

Caroline Gilchrist Rhea is a Canadian actress and stand-up comedian. She was the original host for the NBC reality show The Biggest Loser until Alison Sweeney took her place. Rhea also starred as Hilda Spellman for the situation comedy Sabrina, the Teenage Witch and replaced Rosie O'Donnell as the hostess for her syndicated talk show (which was renamed the Caroline Rhea Show). She was born April 13, 1964 in Montreal, Quebec.

[[Nova]]

CATEGORIES: Types of stars

A nova (plural novae or novas) is a huge nuclear explosion on a white dwarf star. It causes a sudden brightening of the star.

Novae are not to be confused with other brightening phenomena such as supernovae. Novae occur on the surface of a white dwarf in a binary system. If the two stars of the system are close enough, material is pulled from the companion star's surface onto the white dwarf. This collection of hydrogen onto the surface of the star starts a runaway fusion reaction.

In spite of their violence, the amount of material ejected in novae is usually only about 1⁄10,000 of a solar mass, quite small relative to the mass of the white dwarf. Only five percent of the accreted mass is fused during the power outburst.  This is enough energy to make nova ejecta to go outward as fast as several thousand kilometers per second—higher for some novae than others.  The star also brightens, from a few times solar to 50,000–100,000 times solar.  In 2010 scientists using NASA's Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope were surprised to discover, for the first time, that a nova can also emit gamma-rays (>100 MeV).

A white dwarf can potentially generate multiple novae over time as additional hydrogen continues to accrete onto its surface from its companion star. An example is RS Ophiuchi, which is known to have flared six times (in 1898, 1933, 1958, 1967, 1985, and 2006). Eventually, the white dwarf could explode as a type Ia supernova if it approaches the Chandrasekhar limit.

Occasionally a nova is bright enough and close enough to be seen by the unaided eye. The brightest recent example was Nova Cygni 1975. This nova appeared on 29 August 1975, in the constellation Cygnus about five degrees north of Deneb and reached magnitude 2.0 (nearly as bright as Deneb). The most recent were V1280 Scorpii, which reached magnitude 3.7 on 17 February 2007, and Nova Delphini 2013. Nova Centauri 2013 was discovered 2 December 2013 and is so far the brightest nova of this millennium reaching magnitude 3.3.

Astronomers estimate that the Milky Way experiences roughly 30 to 60 novae per year, with a likely rate of about 40.  The number of novae discovered in the Milky Way each year is much lower, about 10. Roughly 25 novae brighter than about magnitude 20 are discovered in the Andromeda Galaxy each year and smaller numbers are seen in other nearby galaxies.

[[It Was a Good Day]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 songs

"It Was a Good Day" is a 1993 single by American rapper Ice Cube. It was released from the album The Predator. "It Was a Good Day" peaked at number seven on the Billboard Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs and number fifteen on the Billboard Hot 100. The song also peaked at number twenty-seven on the UK Singles Chart.

[[Warming center]]

CATEGORIES: Social sciences, Economics, Emergency services, Homelessness

A warming center is a place where people can go to stay warm and dry when it is rainy or wet outside. They are like homeless shelters, except that they are only open when the weather is bad. 

Their main goal is to make sure that nobody is left out in the cold. Many people die from being wet and cold, every year.

[[Bobby Hull]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Art Ross Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hartford Whalers players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Stanley Cup champions, Winnipeg Jets (1979–96) players, World Hockey Association players

Robert Marvin "Bobby" Hull, OC (born January 3, 1939 in Pointe Anne, Ontario) is a Canadian retired ice hockey left winger.

Hull is highly regarded as one of the greatest ice hockey players of all time and perhaps the greatest left winger to ever play the game of hockey. Hull was known for his blonde hair, blinding skating speed, and having the fastest shot in the game which also earned him the nickname, "the Golden Jet".

Hull played 17 seasons in the NHL with 3 teams, the Chicago Black Hawks for 15 seasons, the Winnipeg Jets for 1 season and the Hartford Whalers for 1 season.

Hull was inducted in the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1983.

[[Scarp (landform)]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

Scarp is a term in geology and geography with several similar meanings.

[[Georg von Békésy]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1972 deaths, Autobiographers, People from Budapest, Hungarian Nobel Prize winners

Georg von Békésy (3 June 1899 – 13 June 1972) was an Hungarian biophysicist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1961 for his findings on the function of the cochlea in the mammalian inner ear. He was born in Budapest, Hungary and died in Honolulu, Hawaii, United States.

[[Frostbite]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems

Frostbite is the localized medical condition where very cold temperatures damage skin and other tissue. It is most likely to happen in body parts farthest from the heart and in body parts with large exposed areas with many blood circulations. It most often occurs in toes.

Also, if the affected parts are not amputated, the person is likely to suffer from a disease called gangrene. 

[[Gustave Eiffel]]

CATEGORIES: 1832 births, 1923 deaths, French engineers, People from Dijon

Alexandre Gustave Eiffel (December 15, 1832 – December 27, 1923; efɛl, ˈaɪfəl) was a French structural engineer and architect. He is known for designing the Eiffel Tower. He also designed the armature (supporting framework) for the Statue of Liberty, New York Harbor, United States.

[[Bullshit]]

CATEGORIES: English profanity

Bullshit (also bullcrap, bullplop,  bullbutter, bovine stool) is a common English language expletive. It can be used also as an interjection or as many other parts of speech.  Usually, it is a noun, verb or interjection that describes a lie.  It shows that someone is trying to deceive, e.g. "Stop bullshitting me" ("Don't try to deceive me.   I know what you are saying is a lie."). 

[[Black-eyed pea]]

CATEGORIES: Fabaceae

The black-eyed pea, also called black-eyed bean, a subspecies of the cowpea, is a medium-sized edible bean. Humans first grew the pea probably in West Africa, but it is now grown all over the world.

In Nigeria, and the Caribbean, a traditional dish called akara is made of mashed black-eyed peas and salt, onions and peppers are added.

[[Circuit of the Americas]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One circuits, Sports in Texas, Austin, Texas

The Circuit of the Americas is a motor racing circuit in Austin, Texas. Hermann Tilke designed the circuit in the middle of 2010. Construction was started in early 2011. It is planned to open in 2012. The circuit will run counter-clockwise.

The circuit will host the 2012 United States Grand Prix. Starting in 2013, it will host MotoGP races for 10 years. It will also host a round of V8 Supercars, an Australia-based touring car racing series, starting in 2013.

[[2012 Formula One World Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One seasons, 2012 in sports

The 2012 Formula One season was the 63rd season of the Formula One World Championship. The season had 20 races, starting in Australia on 18 March and ended in Brazil on 25 November. The 2012 season saw the return of the United States Grand Prix, which was held at the Circuit of the Americas, in Austin, Texas. After being cancelled in 2011 due to civil protests, the Bahrain Grand Prix also returned to the calendar.

The start of the season was unpredictable, with seven different drivers winning the first seven races of the championship; a record for the series. It was not until the European Grand Prix in June that a driver, Ferrari's Fernando Alonso, won his second race of the year. Alonso was the championship leader for the next seven races, taking his third win in Germany and finishing on the podium in the United Kingdom, Italy and Singapore. However, first-lap retirements in Belgium and Japan allowed others to catch up, and defending World Champion Sebastian Vettel—like Alonso, a two-time winner—took the lead in the sixteenth race of the season. Vettel, too, had problems during the season; contact with a backmarker left him to finish outside the points in Malaysia, while alternator failures at the European and Italian Grands Prix cost him valuable points and exclusion from qualifying in Abu Dhabi led him to start from the pit lane. Vettel entered the final race of the season with a thirteen-point lead over Alonso. Alonso needed a podium finish to stand any chance of becoming World Drivers' Champion, but in a race that finished under the safety car, Vettel finished in sixth place, scoring enough points to win his third consecutive championship, becoming the third driver to do so. In the World Constructors' Championship, Red Bull Racing secured their third consecutive title when Sebastian Vettel finished second at the United States Grand Prix.

In addition to seeing seven different winners at the first seven races, the season also had the most races ever in a season with twenty, beating the last record of nineteen, which was first set in 2005. Six current or former World Drivers' Champions—Sebastian Vettel, Fernando Alonso, Jenson Button, Lewis Hamilton, Kimi Räikkönen, and Michael Schumacher—started the season, breaking the record of five established in 1970.

[[Great horned owl]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of North America, Strigiformes

The Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) is the largest owl in North America. It is sometimes called the hoot owl. 

This widespread bird of prey lives in mountains, grasslands, conifer forests, deserts, chapparals, and many other habitats in North and South America. Its call is a far-carrying hoot.

[[Capital Region International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in the United States, Lansing, Michigan, Transport in Michigan, Buildings and structures in Michigan, 1928 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Michigan

Capital Region International Airport LAN, is a public airport in DeWitt Township, Clinton County, Michigan.  The airport is northwest of Lansing, Michigan.  The airport has three runways and is 2160 acres (874.12 ha) in size.  The airport is owned and operated by the Capital Region Airport Authority.

[[Daniel Bedingfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brit Award winners, British Christians, British pop musicians, British singer-songwriters, Musicians from London, New Zealand singers

Daniel Bedingfield (born 3 December 1979) is a New Zealand-born British singer-songwriter. He was raised in South London. His song Gotta Get Thru This became #1 in United Kingdom's Top 40 in December 2001. His album, also titled Gotta Get Thru This went to number 2 on the UK albums chart.  His sisters are singers Natasha Bedingfield and Nikola Rachelle. Bedingfield was a judge on the first season of The X Factor NZ in 2013.

In 2004, Bedingfield won a BRIT Award for Best British Male Artist.

Bedingfield is a Christian.

[[Belén Esteban]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Spanish entertainers

Belén Esteban Menéndez is a Spanish television personality.  She presents the television show Sálvame with Jorge Javier Vazquez.

[[Holy Week]]

CATEGORIES: Christian holidays

Holy Week (Latin: Hebdomas Sancta or Hebdomas Maior, "Greater Week"; Greek: Μεγάλη Ἑβδομάς, Megale Hebdomas) is the commemoration of the last week of Jesus Christ's ministry on earth.  Holy Week is the last week of Lent.  It begins with Palm Sunday and leads up to Easter Sunday.

[[Amanda Seyfried]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Actors from Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American television actors, Models from Pennsylvania, People from Allentown, Pennsylvania, Singers from Pennsylvania

Amanda Michelle Seyfried (born December 3, 1985, Allentown, Pennsylvania) is an American actress, singer-songwriter and former child model. At 11, she became a child model, and at 15 she became a television actress. She starred in As the World Turns and All My Children. In 2004, Seyfried started her film career, acting in Mean Girls. She also appeared in a number of other movies: Nine Lives (2005), Alpha Dog (2006), Mamma Mia! (2008), Jennifer's Body, Chloe, Dear John, Veronica Mars and Letters to Juliet. In 2006, she had a lead role on HBO's television series Big Love.

[[Mario Casas]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish actors, Galician people, 1986 births, Living people

Mario Casas Sierra (born 12 July, 1986, A Coruña) is a Spanish actor. He has starred in Los hombres de Paco (2007–2010), Fuga de cerebros (2009), and Tres metros sobre el cielo (2010)

[[Sinodelphys]]

CATEGORIES: Metatheria, Fossils, Mammals of Asia

italictitle

Sinodelphys  is an extinct mammal from the Lower Cretaceous. It is a member of the infraclass Metatheria, the group which contains modern marsupials.

To date, it is the oldest metatherian fossil known, estimated to be 125 million years old. This makes it almost contemporary to the earliest placental fossils, which have been found in the same area.

It was discovered and described in 2003 in rocks of the Yixian Formation in Liaoning Province, China, by a team of scientists.  

Sinodelphys szalayi grew only 15 cm (5.9 in) long and possibly weighed about 30 g (1.05 oz). 

Its fossilized skeleton is surrounded by impressions of fur and soft tissue. Rapid burial followed volcanic events, and the fine sediment preserved details. 

From its foot structure it is thought that Sinodelphys was a tree-dweller, like its non-marsupial contemporary Eomaia and modern opossums such as Didelphis. Sinodelphys probably hunted worms and insects. 

Most Mesozoic metatherians have been found in North America and Asia. Most lived during the Upper Cretaceous between 90-65 million years ago.

[[The Art of Getting By]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 drama movies, 2011 romance movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies

The Art of Getting By is a 2011 American romantic drama movie that was produced by Darren Goldberg, Gia Walsh, Kara Baker and P. Jennifer Dana and was directed by Gavin Wiesen. Homework (its original name) was first shown at the Sundance Film Festival on January 23, 2011, and was released in theaters in North America on June 17, 2011. The movie premiered under the title Homework at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival and was released as The Art of Getting By.

[[Peppermint]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae

The Peppermint is a hybrid plant of the mint family. It is originally from Europe, but grown and sold all over the world. It is a hybrid of watermint and spearmint. Carolus Linnaeus first described the plant in 1753, from samples that had been collected in England. He treated it as a species,  but modern biology mostly treats it as a hybrid.

The peppermint is found in some medications, in particular Skumin’s mixture.

[[Emotional intelligence]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Emotional intelligence (EI) is the ability to know, understand, and manage emotions. People with high EI know their own emotions and the emotions of other people, and they are able to use emotions to think and live better. This thought model claims that high EI helps people to be successful in life.There are several different models that disagree about the exact definition of the term. Even though there does not seem to be an exact definition, the model itself can be applied in various ways, across different domains.

Nowadays, there are 3 main models of EI:

EI is often measured as an Emotional Intelligence Quotient (EQ).

[[Bulletproof (La Roux song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Synth-pop

Bulletproof is a 2009 song by the English electropop duo La Roux off their self-titled album. It was released in the United Kingdom in June 2009 and was highly received by the critics. This song debuted at #1 on the UK Singles Chart. It was a sleeper hit in the United States, peaking at number eight.

[[Truffle]]

CATEGORIES: Edible fungi

A truffle is the fruiting body of an underground mushroom. Its spores are dispersed by fungivores (animals that eat fungi). Almost all truffles are found in close association with trees (see mycorrhiza).

Truffles are used as a food additive in cooking. The truffles improve the flavour. There are hundreds of species of truffles that can be used, but the fruiting body of some (mostly in the genus Tuber) are highly prized. The 18th-century French gastronome Brillat-Savarin called these truffles "the diamond of the kitchen". Edible truffles are are expensive because they are held in high esteem in haute cuisine. They are used in the cuisine of many countries in Europe and worldwide.

[[Sweetbread]]

CATEGORIES: Glands, Offal

Sweetbreads or ris are culinary names for the thymus or the pancreas glands especially of the calf (ris de veau) and lamb (ris d'agneau) (although beef and pork sweetbreads are also eaten).

Various other glands used as food have also been called 'sweetbreads', including the parotid gland, the sublingual glands, and testicles (cf. Rocky Mountain oyster). The "heart" sweetbreads are more spherical in shape, and surrounded symmetrically by the "throat" sweetbreads, which are more cylindrical in shape.

One common preparation of sweetbreads involves soaking in salt water, then poaching in milk, after which the outer membrane is removed.  Once dried and chilled, they are often breaded and fried.  They are also used for stuffing or in pâtés. They are grilled in many Latin American cuisines, such as in the Argentine asado, and served in bread in Turkish cuisine.

The word "sweetbread" is first known in the 16th century, but the logic behind the name is unclear. "Sweet" is perhaps used since the thymus is sweet and rich tasting, as opposed to savoury tasting muscle flesh. "Bread" may come from brede 'roasted meat'.

[[Culinary name]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking

Culinary name is the name of an ingredient when used in the kitchen for preparing food.  Sometimes the kitchen name is used because it sounds more attractive than the real name, or because a cheaper ingredient can be linked with a more expensive one.  The culinary name may also refer to a way of cooking or to a region, or using a particular ingredient

[[Ken Salazar]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of the Interior, US Democratic Party politicians, United States senators from Colorado, Ambassadors of the United States to Mexico, American lawyers

Kenneth Lee Salazar (born March 2, 1955) is an American politician. He is the United States Ambassador to Mexico since September 14, 2021.

Salazar was a member of the United States Senate from Colorado from 2005 until being appointed as the United States Secretary of the Interior in 2008 by President Barack Obama. Salazar officially became secretary in 2009. He resigned as secretary in 2013. Salazar is a Democrat.

Before being elected to the U.S. Senate, Salazar was the Colorado Attorney General from 1999 until 2005.

In May 2021, President Joe Biden nominated Salazar as the Ambassador to Mexico. His nomination was confirmed by the United States Senate on August 11, 2021.

Salazar was born in Alamosa, Colorado. He studied at Colorado College and at the University of Michigan. 

[[Jean Casimir-Perier]]

CATEGORIES: 1847 births, 1907 deaths, French Roman Catholics, People with foods named after them, Politicians from Paris, Presidents of France

Jean Paul Pierre Casimir-Perier (ʒɑ̃ kazimiʁ pɛʁje; 8 November 1847 – 11 March 1907) was a French politician, fifth president of the French Third Republic.

He was born in Paris, the son of Auguste Casimir-Perier and the grandson of Casimir Pierre Perier, premier of Louis Philippe. He entered public life as secretary to his father, who was minister of the interior under the presidency of Thiers.

On 17 August 1883 he became under-secretary of state for war, a post he retained until 7 January 1885. From 1890 to 1892 he was vice-president of the chamber, then in 1893 president. On 3 December he became prime-minister and foreign minister, but heresigned in May 1894, and was re-elected president of the chamber.

On 24 June 1894, after the assassination of President Carnot, he was elected president of the republic by 451 votes against 195 for Henri Brisson and 97 for Charles Dupuy.  He was president for only six months. The day after Dupuy resigned, on 14 January 1895, Casimir-Perier resigned, saying he was ignored by the ministers, who did not consult him before taking decisions, and did not keep him informed upon political events, especially in foreign affairs.

From that time he completely abandoned politics, and devoted himself to business - especially mining. At the trial of Alfred Dreyfus at Rennes, Casimir-Perier's evidence, as opposed to that of General Mercier, was of great value to the cause of Dreyfus.

[[Hilda Solis]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Labor, US Democratic Party politicians, Politicians from California, People from Los Angeles, California, 21st-century American politicians

Hilda Solis (born October 20, 1957) is an American politician. She is currently a member of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors for District 1. Before being elected to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors for District 1, she was the United States Secretary of Labor from 2009 to 2013. Solis was a member of the United States House of Representatives from California's 32nd congressional district before being elected as the Secretary of Labor. Prior to being a U.S. Representative, she was a California State Senator and a member of the California State Assembly. She was the first Hispanic woman to serve in the California State Senate. Solis is a Democrat. She was elected to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors for District 1 on June 3, 2014. She was sworn in on December 1, 2014.

[[Louis de Béchamel]]

CATEGORIES: 1630 births, 1703 deaths, People with foods named after them

Louis de Béchamel, marquis de Nointel (1630–1703) was a French financier and patron of the arts.

[[Kathleen Sebelius]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, US Democratic Party politicians, United States Secretaries of Health and Human Services, Governors of Kansas, Kansas Democrats

Kathleen Sebelius (born May 15, 1948) is an American politician. She was the  United States Secretary of Health and Human Services from 2009 to 2014. Before becoming the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Sebelius was a governor from Kansas. Time Magazine listed Sebelius as one of America's five best governors in 2005. Sebelius is a Democrat. She resigned on April 10, 2014.

[[Lojze Grozde]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1943 deaths, Poets, Roman Catholic martyrs, Murder victims, Slovenian people, Beatified people

Lojze Grozde was a Slovenian student who was killed by partisans during World War II.  His death is recognised as martyrdom by the Catholic Church.  He was beatified on June 13, 2010.

[[Szilárd Bogdánffy]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1953 deaths, Beatified people, Romanian people, Roman Catholic martyrs

Szilárd Ignác Bogdánffy was a Roman Catholic auxiliary bishop of Satu Mare and Oradea of the Latins. On October 30, 2010 he was proclaimed blessed in a ceremony  held in St. Mary's Basilica, Oradea, Romania, being recognized as a martyr of the Communist period.

[[Trevor Bayne]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR drivers, 1991 births, Living people, Daytona 500 winners, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Tennessee, People from Knoxville, Tennessee

Trevor Bayne (born February 19, 1991) is an American race car driver. Until 2019, Bayne drove the No. 6 Ford Fusion for Roush Fenway Racing.  On February 20, 2011 Trevor Bayne won the 2011 Daytona 500. Bayne is the youngest driver to win the Daytona 500.

[[Ambrosia (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American pop music groups, American rock bands, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California, 1970 establishments in the United States, Musical groups established in 1970, 1970s establishments in California, Musical groups disestablished in 1982, 1982 disestablishments in the United States, 1980s disestablishments in California, Musical groups established in 1989, 1989 establishments in California, 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups

Ambrosia are a pop rock music group. It formed in the Los Angeles area around 1970. They had many radio hits in the 1970s, although much of the material is progressive in nature. The founding members of Ambrosia grew up in southern California.

[[Miguel Olivo]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Dominican Republic sportspeople, Seattle Mariners players, Colorado Rockies players, Kansas City Royals players, Florida Marlins players, San Diego Padres players, Chicago White Sox players

Miguel Olivo (born July 15, 1978) is a Major League Baseball player from Villa Vasquez, Dominican Republic. Olivo plays as a catcher for the Seattle Mariners. In 1996, Olivo was signed as a free agent by the Oakland Athletics. In December, 2000, he was traded to the Chicago White Sox for Chad Bradford. Olivo made his Major League Baseball debut on September 15, 2002, for the Chicago White Sox. On December 9, 2010, Olivo signed a two year, seven million dollar deal with the Seattle Mariners.

[[Vulnerability index]]

CATEGORIES: Homelessness, Sociology

The vulnerability index is a tool for finding out who among the street homeless population needs health care and housing the most. It is being used in more and more cities in the USA. Volunteeers conduct a survey of people living in homeless shelters, warming centers and people who do not have any housing at all.

The  vulnerability index is from the work of Dr. Jim O'Connell of Boston's Healthcare for the Homeless. He was concerned about the causes of death of unsheltered homeless individuals living on the street. A national drive is underway by Common Ground to  work with the HUD homeless count. Since communities are doing the count, he believes that is a good time to do the vulnerability index too. Its' people say that using it will help getting needy individuals off the street.

The vulnerability index has been tried out in a lot of other places not just the East Coast. These include Charlotte, North Carolina, Albuquerque, New Mexico and Santa Monica, California.

[[Common Ground]]

CATEGORIES: Charities

Common Ground is a nonprofit social services organization. It provides housing for the homeless and others. Their philosophy holds that housing costs less than homeless shelters. It also costs many times less than jail cells or hospital rooms, They also believe that people with psychiatric and other problems can better manage them once they have a place to live. It was started in 1990 by Rosanne Haggerty. Since then the organization has created more than 2,000 units of housing for the homeless. "This is about creating a small town, rather than just a building," according to Haggerty. "It’s about a real mixed society, working with many different people."

Haggerty’s work was recognized in 2001. She was selected as a prize winner and received and award called a MacArthur Fellowship award. The MacArthur Foundation praised her work in saving historic buildings, and fixing them up. She used creative financing which means new ways to deal with banks and other organizations that provide money for housing. 

[[Chinese mountain cat]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Asia, Cats

The Chinese Mountain cat (Felis bieti), also known as the Chinese Desert cat, is a small wild cat of western China. It is a little-known member of the genus Felis, the common cats.

Some authorities regard the chutchta and vellerosa subspecies of the Wildcat as Chinese Mountain cat subspecies.

[[Mason Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, WWE wrestlers, Professional wrestlers, Welsh sportspeople

Barri Griffiths (born January 13, 1982 in Tremadog, Wales) better known by his ring name Mason Ryan, is a Welsh professional wrestler currently signed to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and to the Raw brand where he used to be part of the stable, The Nexus. He also wrestled for Florida Championship Wrestling where was a one time FCW Florida Heavyweight Championship. Griffiths is a former Gladiator where he was known by the name, Goliath. He has also wrestled in several wrestling tournaments throughout his home country Wales before joining the WWE.

[[Expansion pack]]

CATEGORIES: Video games

An expansion pack is an addition (extra part) of a video game, that adds to it. Expansion packs can add characters, worlds, weapons, or scenarios. They can be for all types of video games.

Most expansion packs need the main version of the game to play, although there are a few exceptions which can be purchased stand-alone, such as The Ultimate Doom.

Expansion packs are usually cheaper than the main game, or may even be free.

The term "Expansion Pack" was also used by Nintendo for a hardware add-on that plugged into the Nintendo 64 and was required for some games. It increased the RAM from 4 MB to 8 MB.

[[Florence Henderson]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Television talk show hosts, Actors from Indiana, Singers from Indiana, Deaths from heart failure, 1934 births, 2016 deaths

Florence Agnes Henderson (February 14, 1934 – November 24, 2016) was an American actress and singer. She starred as Carol Brady in The Brady Bunch between 1969 and 1974. She was hosting her own talk show, The Florence Henderson Show, on television.

Henderson died suddenly of heart failure at a hospital in Los Angeles, California on November 24, 2016, aged 82.

[[The Subtle Knife]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 books, Children's books, Fantasy books

The Subtle Knife is the second book of the His Dark Materials trilogy  written by Philip Pullman and first published in 1997.

In the first world that Lyra enters, Lyra meets a boy of 12 years named Will Parry who comes from Oxford of the reader's universe and is escaping from the authorities. Defending his sick mother he has accidentally killed a man.They travel through a silent world to resolve many mysteries. They begin to realize that there is something special about that world.

[[Minerva McGonagall]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1997, Harry Potter characters

Minerva McGonagall is a fictional character in the Harry Potter books written by J. K. Rowling. This character is a teacher at the school Hogwarts, and a good character in the series. She helps Harry Potter, the main character, many times in the series. She teaches "transfiguration", a type of magic where you change objects or animals into other objects and animals. At the end of the books, McGonagall becomes the school principal. Her honorary title is Hogwarts Headmistress.

When McGonagall was young she went to Hogwarts. She was in Gryffindor, a house for brave and bold students. When she got older she decided to train herself to be an "animagus", a wizard who can change themselves into an animal without a wand. She can change into a cat. Later, she became a member of the Order Of the Phoenix, an organization trained to fight evil wizards. In a quidditch match, she was hurt by a Slytherin player.

McGonagall is played by Maggie Smith in the movies.

[[Knots Landing]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s American television series, 1980s American television series, 1990s American television series, Los Angeles, Soap operas, CBS network shows, Television spin-offs, 1979 American television series debuts, 1993 television series endings, 1993 disestablishments in the United States, English-language television programs

Knots Landing was an American soap opera which began December 27, 1979 and ended May 13, 1993. It was a spin-off of Dallas. The show aired on CBS throughout its run. It was set around a fictional coastal suburb of Los Angeles and focuses on four married couples living in a cul-de-sac. By the time of the show's end, it had become one of the longest running primetime drama shows on television in the US.

[[Okra]]

CATEGORIES: Medicinal plants, National symbols of Pakistan

Okra (Abelmoschus esculentus) are known in many English-speaking countries as lady's fingers or gumbo) is a flowering plant in the mallow family, related to cotton and hibiscus. It is valued for its edible green seed pods. It is cultivated for the pods, which are harvested in the immature stage and used in salads, soups and dishes.  It is the national vegetable of Pakistan.

[[Daniel (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames, Given names

Daniel is a Hebrew given name for males and a surname. It means, "GOD IS MY JUDGE".

There are many nicknames for "Daniel": Dan, Danny, Dani (English) and Danya (Russia). For females, nicknames include Danielle, Daniela, Dani, and Danitza. "Daniel" as a surname developed into Daniels, meaning "son of Daniel".

[[Ruthless People]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 comedy movies, 1986 crime movies, 1980s black comedy movies, 1980s criminal comedy movies, American criminal comedy movies, English-language movies

Ruthless People is a 1986 American black comedy crime movie which stars Danny DeVito, Helen Slater, Bette Midler and Judge Reinhold. Also starring in the movie is Bill Pullman in his movie debut. David Zucker, Jerry Zucker and Jim Abrahams are the directors of this movie. It was distributed via Touchstone Pictures.

[[Alexandertorte]]

CATEGORIES: Dishes named after people

Alexandertorte, also known as Alexander Torte or Aleksander Torte, is a dessert of pastry strips filled with raspberry preserves.

Its origin is not really known.  Although Alexander I employed Carême, this dessert is not claimed by Carême. It was possibly first made in Finland, by Swiss pastry chefs in Helsinki in 1818, when Alexander was due to visit.  It is also said to be a Latvian dish.

[[2011 Christchurch earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s in New Zealand, 2011 earthquakes, Earthquakes in New Zealand, February 2011 events

The 2011 Christchurch earthquake was a 6.3 magnitude earthquake which struck the South Island of New Zealand at 12:51 pm on 22 February 2011 NZT. (This is 23:51 21 February UTC). It was about 5 km underground. It struck the Canterbury region of the island and caused a lot of damage and many deaths in Christchurch, New Zealand's second largest city.

It was the largest aftershock of the 4 September 2010 Canterbury earthquake, although it is being regarded as a separate earthquake. It was smaller than the September earthquake, but it was more damaging because it was closer to Christchurch and nearer to the surface of the earth. It also happened at lunchtime on a Tuesday compared to before dawn on a Saturday, which meant that more people were outside and in danger of being injured by falling buildings. Buildings were also already weakened from the previous quakes. The intensity felt in Christchurch was MM VIII.

Prime Minister John Key said that the 22nd of February "may well be New Zealand's darkest day".

At least 166 people have been confirmed dead with the final death toll expected to be over 200.

At the end of the first day 65 people were known to have died, and the number is expected to rise. Over 100 people may be trapped in one building alone. The New Zealand Fire Service says many people were injured and trapped in buildings. At 5pm local time Radio New Zealand reported that 80% of the city was without electricity.  Water and wastewater services are not working in many parts of the city. People are being asked to use as little water as possible and to collect rainwater. It is expected that the State of Emergency Level 3, the highest possible in a regional disaster, will last at least five days. Medical staff from the army are being used.

The Sydney Morning Herald reported that two buses and a number of cars were crushed by falling buildings.

[[Adolphe Dugléré]]

CATEGORIES: French chefs, People with foods named after them, 1805 births, 1884 deaths, People from Bordeaux

Adolphe Dugléré (born Bordeaux, June 3, 1805 - died Paris April 4, 1884) was a French chef and a pupil of Carême.

[[Sean Avery]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Canadian models, Dallas Stars players, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, New York Rangers players, Ontario Hockey League players

Sean Christopher Avery (born April 10, 1980 in Pickering, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey left winger. He played 12 years in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played with the Detroit Red Wings, Los Angeles Kings, New York Rangers, and Dallas Stars. Avery was known for his agitating playing style, as well as his controversial behavior both on and off the ice.

He has also worked as an intern for Vogue, a male model and a restaurateur.

Avery has been featured on MTV Cribs, Punk'd and TRL and has also opened a sports bar called, Warren 77 in Manhattan.

[[Cul-de-sac]]

CATEGORIES: Real estate, Roads

A cul-de-sac (literally "bottom of bag") is a word that came from the French language and means a small street without a way through at the far end. It is also used in Catalan and Occitan, its meaning being equivalent to a dead end, close, or no through road (United Kingdom, Australian and Canadian English). While culs-de-sac were built in history for other reasons, its modern use is to calm down the traffic.

[[Daniel Boone]]

CATEGORIES: 1734 births, 1820 deaths, American explorers, American frontiersmen and women, People from Pennsylvania, People from Kentucky, People from Missouri

Daniel Boone(1734 – 1820) was an American explorer and frontiersman. He is probably most famous for exploring Kentucky when it was not part of the U.S. In 1769 he made the Wilderness Road, a trail through the Appalachian Mountains from North Carolina and Tennessee and through Kentucky. He spent the last 20 years of his life in Missouri.

[[International Labour Organization]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations, Human rights organizations, Geneva, Civil rights organizations, 1919 establishments in Europe

The International Labour Organization (ILO) is an international organization created in Geneva in 1919 for better for working conditions and standard of living. In 1946, this organization has become a special organization of the United Nations and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1969.

Juan Somavía was the ILO's director-general from 1999 until October 2012, when Guy Ryder was elected as his replacement. This governing body is composed of 28 government representatives, 14 workers' representatives, and 14 employers' representatives.

[[James Graham Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1881 births, 1969 deaths, People with foods named after them, Businesspeople from Kentucky, Businesspeople from Indiana, American philanthropists

James Graham Brown (August 18, 1881 — March 20, 1969) was an American businessman and philanthropist. He was a hotel owner in Louisville, Kentucky. It was his hotel, the Brown Hotel, which first served the hot sandwich.

The name Hot Brown meaning a type of hot sandwich comes either from Brown himself, or his hotel.

[[Social justice]]

CATEGORIES: Civil rights

Social justice is an idea of justice that is based on equality in society. The idea of social justice goes against any kind of discrimination or abuse based on social class, social status or any other reasons.

This idea is discussed by modern philosophers such as John Rawls. It is a fundamental idea for International Labour Organization for universal and lasting peace; And Vienna Declaration also affirm social justice as a subject and a purpose of education for human rights.

[[Baker County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties, 1862 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Oregon

Baker County, Oregon is a county in Oregon.

[[Bradford County]]

Bradford County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Bradford County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1858 establishments in Florida

Bradford County is a county in Florida.

[[Bradford County, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Pennsylvania counties, 1810 establishments in the United States, 1810s establishments in Pennsylvania

Bradford County is a county in Pennsylvania.

[[Calhoun County]]

Calhoun County is the name of many counties in the United States, mostly named after Senator John C. Calhoun:

[[Calhoun County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1838 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Florida Territory

Calhoun County is a county in Florida. It is named after John C. Calhoun. He lived in South Carolina and was a member of the United States Senate. He later became the President of the United States.

[[2011 Daytona 500]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR, 2011 in Florida, February 2011 events

The 2011 Daytona 500 took place on February 20th 2011 at the Daytona International Speedway. It was the first race of the 2011 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series. Dale Earnhardt, Jr. won the pole in qualifying, however he did not start in 1st place because he crashed his car during practice. The race was won by Trevor Bayne. At 20 years old, he is the youngest driver to win the race.

[[Melrose Place (1992 TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: Soap operas, Fox television series, English-language television programs

Melrose Place was an American primetime soap opera which began July 8th, 1992 and ended May 24, 1999. The show lasted seven seasons on Fox. Starring in the show were Daphne Zuniga, Marcia Cross, Courtney Thorne Smith, Josie Bissett, Heather Locklear, and many others. Aaron Spelling was the executive producer for Melrose Place throughout its seven year run. Many cast changes happened during this time period.

[[Speciation]]

CATEGORIES: Evolution

Speciation is about how species form. It is a major part of evolutionary biology.

Darwin thought most species came directly from pre-existing species. This is called anagenesis: species by changing, or 'phyletic evolution'. For much of the 20th century, scientists thought most species came when earlier species split. This is called cladogenesis.

The general view was that most species splitting is caused or helped on its way by isolating mechanisms.

No doubt the physical separation of species which once lived together is a main factor. It is illustrated by so many examples, some of which are discussed below.

However, work in the last 20 years has shown some other causes. Analysing the DNA sequence of living things has shown that there is often some hybridisation between related species. That means genes have been transferred by these crosses. In turn, that means reproductive isolation is not the only definition of a species, and speciation does not always need allopatry (species to be reproductively separated). The sections below illustrate the idea that physical separation was of prime importance in the formation of new species.

[[Calhoun County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1832 establishments in Alabama

Calhoun County is a county in the U.S. state of Alabama.  As of 2010 the population was 118,572. It is included in the Anniston-Oxford Metropolitan Statistical Area. Its county seat is Anniston.

[[Dallas (1978 TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 television series debuts, 1991 television series endings, 1970s American television series, 1970s drama television series, 1980s American drama television series, 1980s soap operas, 1990s American drama television series, 1990s soap operas, American soap operas, CBS network shows, Television series set in Texas, English-language television programs

Dallas is an American soap opera. It is about the Ewings, a family from Texas involved in oil and cattle ranching. The show began as a television miniseries during April 1978. It was broadcasted until May 3, 1991 on CBS. The cast included Charlene Tilton, Victoria Principal, Priscilla Presley, Patrick Duffy, and Larry Hagman as J.R. Ewing. The series lasted for fourteen seasons.

The show was revived on TNT in June 2012.

[[Calhoun County, Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Arkansas counties, 1850 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Arkansas

Calhoun County is a county in Arkansas.

[[Calhoun County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1854 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Calhoun County is a county in Georgia.  Its county seat is Morgan.

[[Calhoun County, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Illinois counties, 1825 establishments in Illinois

Calhoun County is a county in Illinois.

[[Elasmobranchii]]

CATEGORIES: Cartilaginous fish

Elasmobranchii  is a subclass of the Chondrichthyes or cartilaginous fish. It includes the modern sharks and the rays and skates.

[[Earl Wilbur Sutherland Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1974 deaths, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, Scientists from Kansas, American biochemists, American Nobel Prize winners

Physiology or MedicineEarl Wilbur Sutherland, Jr. (November 19, 1915 – March 9, 1974) was an American pharmacologist and biochemist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1971 for his discoveries concerning the mechanisms of the action of hormones. He was born in Burlingame, Kansas  in 1915 and died in Miami, Florida, United States in 1974.

[[Persian Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias

Persian Wikipedia is a member of Wikimedia Foundation. It started work in December 2003. founder of Persian version is Roozbeh Pour-Nader.

It is the 18th largest edition by article count.  Persian Wikipedia has currently more than 500,000 articles.

[[Edward B. Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2004 deaths, American academics, American geneticists, American Nobel Prize winners, American zoologists, Scientists from Pennsylvania, Wolf Prize winners, People from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania

Edward B. Lewis (May 20, 1918 – July 21, 2004) was an American geneticist. He shared the 1995 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.

Lewis was born in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania He received a BA in Biostatistics from the University of Minnesota in 1939.

In 1942 Lewis received a PhD from California Institute of Technology (Caltech), working on Drosophila melanogaster under the guidance of Alfred Sturtevant.

After serving as a meteorologist in the U.S. Air Force in World War II, Lewis joined the Caltech faculty in 1946 as an instructor. In 1956 he was appointed Professor of Biology, and in 1966 the Thomas Hunt Morgan Professor of Biology.

His Nobel Prize winning studies with Drosophila founded the field of developmental genetics and laid the groundwork for our current understanding of the universal, evolutionarily conserved strategies controlling animal development.

His key publications in the fields of genetics, developmental biology, radiation and cancer are available in a book.

[[Christine Baranski]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Buffalo, New York

Christine Jane Baranski (b. 2 May 1952) is an American Actress, Singer and Producer. On stage, she played Mrs. Lovett in Sweeney Todd and the title character in Mame. She has also acted in multiple movies. Baranski was born in Buffalo, New York.

[[Angela Burdett-Coutts]]

CATEGORIES: 1814 births, 1906 deaths, Deaths from bronchitis, People buried in Westminster Abbey, People with foods named after them, British philanthropists

Angela Georgina Burdett-Coutts, 1st Baroness Burdett-Coutts (21 April 1814 – 30 December 1906), born Angela Georgina Burdett, was a noted nineteenth century philanthropist.  She was the daughter of Sir Francis Burdett, 5th Baronet and Sophia Coutts, daughter of Thomas Coutts the banker. In 1837 she became the wealthiest woman in England when she inherited her grandfather's fortune of nearly three million pounds sterling.  At the same time she got a Royal Licence (permission from the monarch) to join her father's and grandfather's surnames and become Angela Burdett-Coutts.

Lady Burdett-Coutts did not mary until she was 67. She married her 29-year-old secretary, the American born William Lehman Ashmead Bartlett, who later became MP for Westminster on 12 February, 1881. Her new husband changed his surname to Burdett-Coutts. Lady Burdett-Coutts had no children.

[[General Secretary]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

General Secretary is a title most often used in political parties, and is usually the leader of the party. The General Secretary (sometimes called First Secretary or Secretary-General) is usually the leader of the Secretariat and the Politburo.

[[Sid Caesar]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from New York, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Comedians from New York, People from Yonkers, New York, Deaths from natural causes, Emmy Award winning actors, Jewish American actors, Musicians from New York

Sid Caesar (Isaac Sidney Caesar; September 8, 1922 – February 12, 2014) was an American comedian and actor. Caesar stared in Your Show of Shows from 1950 until 1954 and in Grease as Coach Calhoun. Before becoming a comedian, Caesar was a musician. He won two Emmy Awards during his career.

Caesar was born on September 8, 1922 in Yonkers, New York. He was of Polish-Russian-Jewish descent. Caesar was married to Florence Levy from 1943 until her death in 2010. They had three children.

Caesar died on the morning of February 12, 2014 in Beverly Hills, California from natural causes, aged 91.  

[[Swallow]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri

The swallows and martins are a group of passerine birds in the family Hirundinidae. These birds are adapted to aerial feeding. "Swallow" is used colloquially in Europe as a synonym for the barn swallow.

Within the swallow, the name "martin" tends to be used for the squarer-tailed species, and the name "swallow" for the more fork-tailed species. However, there is no scientific distinction between these two groups. The family contains around 83 species in 19 genera.

[[Patti Page]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American country musicians, American pop musicians, Singers from Oklahoma

Clara Ann Fowler, better known as Patti Page, (November 8, 1927 - January 1, 2013) was an American singer. She is one of the best known female singers of traditional pop. She was the best selling female artist in the 1950s. She will win an honorary Grammy Award in 2013.

Page was born in Claremore, Oklahoma. Page died on January 1, 2013 in Encinitas, California from natural causes, aged 85.

[[All My Children]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in the United States, 2013 American television series endings, 1970s American television series, 1980s American drama television series, 1990s American drama television series, 2000s American drama television series, 2010s American drama television series, ABC network shows, American soap operas, Fiction about suburbia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1970s television series debuts, English-language television programs

All My Children was an American soap opera set in a fictional suburb of Philadelphia. Susan Lucci plays Erica Kane. Other famous people have starred, including Sarah Michelle Gellar. The show aired on ABC for 43 years since its beginning until September 23, 2011 when cancellation was announced on April 2011. It was canceled on April 14, 2011 along with One Life to Live due to low ratings and production costs. Another series was shown in 2013.

[[Oregon State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Oregon, Pac-12 Conference, 1868 establishments in the United States

Oregon State University is a four-year university in Corvallis, Oregon in the United States. It is the largest university in Oregon, and as of February 2011, has over 23,000 students. The university has classes for both graduate and undergraduate students, and also offers classes online.

Oregon State's athletic teams are known as the Beavers. Its baseball team won the College World Series in 2006 and 2007.

[[Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 births, 1981 deaths, Bailiffs Grand Cross of the Order of St John, Governors General of Canada, House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, House of Windsor, Knights and Dames Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire, Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order, People with foods named after them, Royalty from Berkshire, South Africa

Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone GCVO GBE GStJ (Alice Mary Victoria Augusta Pauline; née Princess Alice of Albany; 25 February 1883 – 3 January 1981) was a member of the British Royal Family. 

Alice was the longest-lived Princess of the British Royal Family and the last surviving grandchild of Queen Victoria. She was by birth a Princess of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha and a "Duchess in Saxony", as well as a Princess of Teck by marriage. 

On 1917 she was ordered to give up all German titles by George V. Alice was godmother to Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands, the granddaughter of her first cousin, Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands. Princess Alice was the last grandchild of Queen Victoria to die, in January 1981, almost 115 years after the death of Prince Sigismund of Prussia, the first grandchild of Queen Victoria to die. He died in June 1866.

[[André Theuriet]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 births, 1907 deaths, Members of the Académie française, French poets, People with foods named after them

Claude Adhémar André Theuriet (8 October 1833, Marly-le-Roi - 23 April 1907) French poet and novelist, was born at Marly-le-Roi (Seine et Oise).

Theuriet studied law in Paris and became a civil servant.  He retired as a civil servant in 1886, almost 20 years after his first published book was issued.  The was the Chemin des bois, a collection of poems, many of which had already appeared in the Revue des Deux Mondes.

Theuriet received in 1890 the prix Vitet from the French Academy, and was made a member of the Academy in 1896.

[[Oliver Smithies]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, American geneticists, American Nobel Prize winners, British Nobel Prize winners, English geneticists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, People from Yorkshire

Oliver Smithies (23 June 1925 – 10 January 2017) was a British-American geneticist and Nobel laureate,

He invented gel electrophoresis in 1955, which is now one of the basic techniques of biochemistry and molecular biology.

Much later, he worked on the technique of homologous recombination of transgenic DNA with genomic DNA. This is the most reliable method of altering animal genomes at present, and the technique behind gene targeting and knockout mice.

Martin Evans and Mario Capecchi were also working on this idea, and they were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 2007.

[[Danica McKellar]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from San Diego, California, American mathematicians, Scientists from San Diego, California, American child actors, American television writers, American writers, American movie actors, Movie directors from California, Screenwriters from California

Danica Mae McKellar (born January 3, 1975) is an American actress and mathematician. She is best known for playing Winnie Cooper in The Wonder Years. She also starred in several television movies.

She is also a New York Times bestselling author. She wrote four popular non-fiction books: Math Doesn't Suck, Kiss My Math, Hot X: Algebra Exposed and Girls Get Curves: Geometry Takes Shape. The books are meant to encourage middle-school and high-school girls to have confidence and succeed in mathematics.

[[Sleepwalking]]

CATEGORIES: Sleep disorders, Psychology

Sleepwalking, or somnambulism, is a disorder belonging to the parasomnia family of sleeping problems.

People with this disorder leave bed, without waking up, and walk around. In certain cases, people do things they also do in everyday life. According to research done, sleepwalking seems to be a problem related to the mechanism of waking up.

[[Inclusive education]]

CATEGORIES: Education, Disability

Inclusive education is an idea in the field of education. It means that persons with disabilities or persons who need special care can learn in schools together with people who do not have special needs. This idea comes from the idea of social justice, The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also says that access to education is a human right.

[[2011 Australian Open]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in Australia, 2011 in tennis, Hard court tennis tournaments, January 2011 events, History of Melbourne, Tennis tournaments in Australia

The 2011 Australian Open was a tennis tournament featuring six different competitions. It was part of the 2011 ATP World Tour, the 2011 WTA Tour, ITF Junior Tour and the NEC Tour. The tournament took place at Melbourne Park in Melbourne, Australia, from 17 January to 30 January. The event was the 99th edition of the Australian Open. It was also the first Grand Slam event of 2011. The tournament was played on hard courts. It was organised by the International Tennis Federation and Tennis Australia.

Novak Djokovic won the Australian Open for the second time. Kim Clijsters won her first Australian Open title. In the men's doubles the Bryan Brothers won their fifth Australian Open. Gisela Dulko and Flavia Pennetta won their first Grand Slam title in the women's doubles. Daniel Nestor claimed his second mixed doubles Grand Slam alongside Katarina Srebotnik who won her fourth mixed title.

In the junior tournaments both the singles and doubles titles in the boys and girls events were won by Jiří Veselý and An-Sophie Mestach. Vesely won the doubles alongside Filip Horanský. Mestach won her doubles crown with Demi Schuurs. Vesely and Mestach won their first Grand Slam titles. They became the first players to achieve the junior double together since Kristian Pless and Virginie Razzano. They achieved this at the 1999 Australian Open.

Shingo Kunieda and Esther Vergeer both won the singles and doubles in the men's and women's wheelchair tennis events. Kunieda won his fourth Australian Open in a row, his fifth overall. In the doubles Kuneda was partnered to the title by Maikel Scheffers. Vergeer's singles win was her eighth Australian Open crown. It was also her 17th Grand Slam title overall. The final also marked the fourth time that she has not lost a game during a Grand Slam final. The win in the final was Vergeer's 404th match win in a row. Vergeer was partnered by Sharon Walraven in the doubles. In the mixed events David Wagner won the singles. Andrew Lapthorne and Peter Norfolk won the doubles competition.

[[Reasonable accommodation]]

CATEGORIES: Disability, Human rights

Reasonable accommodation is a necessary aid or support for persons with disabilities or other persons in weak situations, such as minority groups, but not to make an unreasonable burden on the society. This idea is born in American and Canadian lawsuits to abolish discrimination on the job and is also used by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Article 2.

[[List of cities in Iran]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Lists of cities in Asia, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Iran.

[[International Tennis Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis organisations, 1913 establishments

The International Tennis Federation is the group that was created to govern world tennis. This means they decide on rules and make sure they are done. 

[[Mashhad]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Razavi Khorasan Province

Mashhad (مشهد) is a city in the Razavi Khorasan Province in Iran. Masshad is the second largest city in Iran. It is close to Iran's border with Afghanistan and Turkmenistan.

Mashhad is primarily known as the resting place of Imam Reza and also the great Persian poet, Ferdowsi.

[[Calhoun County, Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: Iowa counties, 1850s establishments in Iowa, 1855 establishments in the United States

Calhoun County is a county in Iowa.  Its county seat is Rockwell City.

[[Calhoun County, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Michigan counties, 1833 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Michigan Territory

Calhoun County is a county in the U.S. state of Michigan.

[[True Jackson, VP]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 American television series debuts, Children's television series, American sitcoms, 2011 American television series endings, English-language television programs

True Jackson, VP is a 2008 television series sitcom. The series stars Keke Palmer, Ashley Argota, Matt Shively, Greg Proops, Danielle Bisutti, Robbie Amell, Ron Butler, and Koplemen. The series ran from November 8, 2008 and is set to end in 2011 with 5 episodes left to air. It was created by Andy Gordon.

[[Calhoun County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Mississippi counties, 1852 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Mississippi

Calhoun County is a county in Mississippi.

[[Lark]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri, Birds of Australia

Larks are passerine birds of the family Alaudidae. All species occur in the Old World, and in northern and eastern Australia. Only one, the Shore lark, has spread to North America, where it is called the Horned lark. Habitats vary widely, but many species live in dry regions.

[[Ritchie Valens]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 1959 deaths, American guitarists, American rock musicians, Singer-songwriters from California, Aviation deaths in the United States, Singers from Los Angeles, California

Richard Steven Valenzuela, better known as Ritchie Valens (May 13, 1941 - February 3, 1959) was an American singer-songwriter and musician who died with Buddy Holly, and "Big Bopper" Richardson in a plane crash in Iowa on 3 February 1959, in an event that would become known as The Day the Music Died. He was 17 years old.

He was born to Mexican parents.

Valens most notable work include recordings of “La Bamba” a Mexican folk song which became a hit in the U.S. “Donna” a song dedicated to his girlfriend and “Come on let’s go”

[[Calhoun County, South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: South Carolina counties, 1908 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in South Carolina

Calhoun County is a county in South Carolina.

[[Wooden horse]]

CATEGORIES: BDSM, Torture

The wooden horse or Spanish donkey is a torture device where the victim is made to straddle a triangular "horse" and place their full body weight on their genitals, which rested on the point of the angle which causes pain in the lower regions. Sometimes cannonballs or something similar would be tied to the victim's feet. There is also a less intense variation was probably developed for BDSM play.

[[Calhoun County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties, 1846 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Texas

Calhoun County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas.

[[Calhoun County, West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: West Virginia counties, 1856 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in West Virginia

Calhoun County is a county in the U.S. state of West Virginia.

[[Kenny vs. Spenny]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s television series, 2003 television series debuts, 2010 television series endings, Canadian television series, Comedy television series, 2003 establishments in Canada, 2010 disestablishments in North America, 2010s disestablishments in Canada

Kenny vs. Spenny was a Canadian reality-comedy television series created by Kenny Hotz. It starred Kenny Hotz and Spencer Rice.

In Canada reruns are still shown on the Showcase. The series had six seasons and ran from August 26, 2003 to December 23, 2010. Matt Stone and Trey Parker, creators of South Park, were executive producers for 10 episodes in the fourth season of the show. The series was about two friends who competed in numerous competitions. The loser of the competition would have to do a humiliation that the winner picked out. The show ended with an hour-long Christmas special that aired on December 23, 2010 on Showcase.

The show spawned many many replicas including Frank vs Girard in French Canadian on VRAK.TV, Ed vs. Spencer in the United Kingdom, Juan vs. Roman in Latin America, Elton vs. Simon in Germany, Katja vs. Bridget and Dennis vs. Valerio in the Netherlands, and Sid vs. Varun in India.

TV.com rated the series a 8.4. It was ranked as at #8 among the top 10 Canadian television shows of the 21st century.

[[Kaw people]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas, Native American people

The Kaw people (also known as the Kanza) are a Native American people living in the central part of the Midwestern United States. The Kaw people have also been known as the "People of the South wind", "People of water", Kansa, Kaza, Kosa, and Kasa. The US state of Kansas was named after the Kaw people. Kansas' capital city, Topeka, was named after a Kaw word meaning "a good place to dig potatoes". The Kaw are closely related to the Osage Nation.

[[Siouan languages]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of North America

The Siouan languages (also known as Siouan proper or Western Siouan) are a group of Native American languages. The Siouan languages are spoken in central North America.

[[1000 Ways to Die]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 American television series debuts, American comedy television series, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, Black comedy, English-language television programs

1000 Ways to Die is an American docufiction black comedy series which was first shown on the television channel Spike on May 14, 2008. It shows unusual deaths and uses black humor.

[[Crisis]]

CATEGORIES: Security, Events

A crisis is a situation which is difficult, unexpected, or an emergency. It is often an important "turning point", where a decision must be taken, affecting many people. Very often, this decision must be taken in relatively little time. The word is related to the Greek κρίσις (krisis). Examples include the sudden threat of war, or the occurrence of a natural disaster.

According to Steven Fink, a crisis manager, crises may: 

Crises occur in different fields. People may develop post-traumatic stress disorder, because they cannot deal with a crisis situation. Many countries and associations offer help lines, which can help people deal with a crisis situation. 

[[Dust storm]]

CATEGORIES: Winds

thumb|right|250px|A Dust Bowl dust stormMay 2020

A dust storm, or sandstorm, is a storm of small particles of sand and dirt. Dust storms happen when a strong wind front blows loose sand and dust from a dry surface. Particles are picked up and suspended in the air, causing soil erosion where they were. The wind drops them in another place where they can form loess, a kind of silt.

[[Jabiru]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of South America, Ciconiiformes

The Jabiru (Jabiru mycteria) is a large stork found in the Americas from Mexico to Argentina, except west of the Andes. It is most common in the Pantanal region of Brazil and the Eastern Chaco region of Paraguay. It is the only member of the genus Jabiru. The name comes from the Tupi-Guaraní language and means "swollen neck".

[[Big Dipper (disambiguation)]]

Big Dipper is the American name for the seven brightest stars of Ursa Major. It is called the Plough in Britain.

Big Dipper also may refer to:

As a nickname in sport, Big Dipper may also refer to:

In music:

[[Greensboro, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Greensboro, North Carolina, County seats in North Carolina

Greensboro is a city in the U.S. state of North Carolina. It has about 260,000 people and is growing. Greensboro is near Winston Salem and High Point in an area called The Triad. It is in Guilford County.

[[Ophiuchus (disambiguation)]]

Ophiuchus is the name of a constellation Ophiuchus, a person holding a snake.

Ophiuchus also may mean:

[[Christie Brinkley]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Michigan, American activists, American movie actors, Models from Los Angeles, California, Models from Michigan, 1954 births, Living people

Christie Brinkley (born February 2, 1954) is an American model, actress, writer and designer. She was born Christie Lee Hudson in Monroe, Michigan. She moved to Los Angeles, California and changed her surname to that of her stepfather, writer Don Brinkley (1921–2012). She has appeared on magazine covers many times and has a long contract with CoverGirl (the longest of any model in history). All her four marriages ended in divorce. Her second marriage was to singer Billy Joel and lasted from 1985–1994. Their daughter Alexa Ray Joel (born 1985) is her eldest child and is a musician. Brinkley also has a son by her third husband and a daughter by her fourth.

[[Mike Bibby]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, American basketball players, Atlanta Hawks players, Living people, Miami Heat players, New York Knicks players, Sacramento Kings players, Sportspeople from New Jersey, Vancouver Grizzlies players, Washington Wizards players

Michael "Mike" Bibby (born May 13, 1978 in Cherry Hill, New Jersey) is a retired American basketball player who played with the Sacramento Kings of the NBA for most of his career. He attended college at University of Arizona where he played basketball with the Wildcats. Mike Bibby started his NBA career when he was drafted by the Vancouver Grizzlies in the 1998 NBA Draft with the 2nd pick in the 1st round. Bibby played 3 seasons with the Vancouver Grizzlies, 7 seasons with the Sacramento Kings, 3 seasons with the Atlanta Hawks and two games with the Washington Wizards before having his contract bought out by the Wizards on February 28, 2011. 

[[Vancouver Grizzlies]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments in Canada, 2001 disestablishments in Canada, Defunct sports teams, Sport in Vancouver

The Vancouver Grizzlies were a Canadian professional basketball team that played in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. They played in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The team started playing in 1995. They started with the Toronto Raptors, as part of the NBA's expansion into Canada. They relocated to Memphis, Tennessee in 2001 and became the Memphis Grizzlies. The Grizzlies played their home games at the General Motors Place (Now Rogers Arena). The Grizzlies were originally going to be called the Vancouver Mounties but were forced to find a new name because the RCMP objected it.

The team had struggled in their early years and they finished last in their division in five of their six seasons. Over their six seasons, they had an overall record of 101 wins and 359 loses and were never able to make it to the playoffs.

After the 1998–99 lockout, the team suffered low attendance and a weak Canadian dollar was making the owner Orca Bay Sports and Entertainment lose money on the franchise. After they failed to sell the team to Bill Laurie, it was instead sold to Michael Heisley. At the time, Heisley said that he was going to keep the team in Vancouver, but he then immediately started looking for a suitable relocation city in the US. He would eventually move the team to Memphis, Tennessee for the 2001-02 season.

[[Rango (2011 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 comedy movies, 2011 animated movies, 2010s action comedy movies, American animated movies, American action comedy movies, Computer-animated movies, English-language movies, Academy Award winning movies, Movies composed by Hans Zimmer, Movies that won the Best Animated Feature Academy Award, Movies set in deserts

Rango is a 2011 American computer-animated action comedy movie that was produced by Gore Verbinski, Graham King and John B. Carls and was directed by Gore Verbinski. Rango was released on March 4, 2011 in North America. Rango was positively received from audience. It won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature.

[[Abigail Breslin]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, 1996 births, Living people

Abigail Kathleen Breslin (born April 14, 1996) is an American actress. Breslin was born in New York City, New York. She first appeared in the 2002 science fiction movie, Signs. Breslin had her breakthrough role in the 2006 comedy-drama Little Miss Sunshine where she played Olive Hoover. At age 10, she was one of the youngest people to be nominated for an Academy Award.

[[Cricket World Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket World Cup, 1975 establishments

The ICC Cricket World Cup is an international cricket competition. It is played in the One Day International (ODI) cricket format. The event is organised by the sport's governing body, the International Cricket Council (ICC). Cricket World Cup is the third largest sporting event in the world, behind soccer's World Cup and the Summer Olympic Games. The first Cricket World Cup contest was organised in England in 1975. A separate Women's Cricket World Cup has been held every four years since 1973.

The finals of the Cricket World Cup are contested by all ten Test-playing nations. They are joined by other nations who qualify through the Cup Qualifying competition. Australia has been the most successful team winning the title five times (in 1987, 1999, 2003 and 2007,2015). West Indies (in 1975 and 1979) and India (in 1983 and 2011) have won the title 2 times each. And Pakistan (in 1992) and Sri Lanka (in 1996) have won the title one time each.

[[Dicastillo]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Navarre

Dicastillo is a village in Navarre. There are 691 people in Dicastillo. Festivals are held on August. These festivals are celebrated on San Blas, 3rd of February, or on the Asparagu's day, which is in spring. There is a music band called Banda Bizkarra, formed by 30 musicians.

[[Desiccation]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology, Ecology

Desiccation is the state of extreme dryness, or the process of extreme drying. 

A desiccant is a hygroscopic (water-attracting) substance that causes desiccation in a moderately sealed container.

[[R. Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American R&B singers, American rap musicians from Illinois, American singer-songwriters, American soul musicians, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Chicago, People from Olympia Fields, Illinois, Singers from Chicago, Writers from Chicago, People acquitted of sex crimes, 1967 births, Living people

Robert Sylvester Kelly (born January 8, 1967 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American singer better known by his stage name, R. Kelly. He produced Aaliyah's 1994 debut album Age Ain't Nothing But a Number.  In 1996, Kelly was nominated for a Grammy Award for writing Michael Jackson's song "You Are Not Alone".

He is also known for the hit songs, "Ignition", "I Believe I Can Fly" and the "Trapped in the Closet" series of songs. He sold more albums than any other male R&B musician in the 1990s.

Kelly has been nominated for 24 Grammy Awards. He has won three.

Kelly has released twelve studio albums and three collaboration albums.

In 2019, Kelly was arrested and awaiting trial of sexual abuse and child pornography of younger girls.

[[Space Jam]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 movies, 1990s comedy movies, Alternate history movies, Basketball movies, Space Jam, Grammy Award winners, English-language movies, Movies featuring Sylvester (Looney Tunes), Movies featuring the Tasmanian Devil (Looney Tunes), Movies set in New York City, Warner Bros. movies

Space Jam is a 1996 American live-action/animated sports comedy movie directed by Joe Pytka, produced by Ivan Reitman, Joe Medjuck, and Daniel Goldberg, and stars former basketball star Michael Jordan and the Looney Tunes. The movie won a Grammy Award in 1997 for Best Song Written Specifically for Motion Picture or for Television for R. Kelly's "I Believe I Can Fly". The stand-alone sequel Space Jam: A New Legacy,  starring current NBA star LeBron James, was theatrically released on July 16, 2021.

[[DeMarcus Cousins]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, African-American basketball players, American Olympians, American Olympic gold medalists, Competitors at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Golden State Warriors players, Living people, Medalists at the 2016 Summer Olympics, New Orleans Pelicans players, People from Mobile, Alabama, Sacramento Kings players, Sportspeople from Alabama, American basketball players

DeMarcus Cousins (born August 13, 1990 in Mobile, Alabama) is a professional basketball player. He plays for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). His position is center. The Kings chose Cousins with the fifth pick in the first round of the 2010 NBA Draft. Cousins played basketball at the University of Kentucky with the Wildcats.

[[Fettuccine Alfredo]]

CATEGORIES: Dishes named after people, Pasta

Fettuccine Alfredo is a pasta dish made from fettuccine pasta tossed with Parmesan cheese and butter.

This is an old and simple recipe, in Italy it is simply called Fettuccine al burro (Pasta with butter).  The Italian restaurateur Alfredo Di Lelio doubled the amount of butter used.  Alfredo invented his recipe in 1908 in the “trattoria” run by his mother Angelina in Rome, Piazza Rosa. This made it easier for his pregnant wife Ines to eat.  He then in 1914 started selling his variation at his restaurant Alfredo" in via della scrofa in Rome. 

Alfredo Di Lelio's family since 1950 continue to serve the fettuccine Alfredo in the restaurant "Il Vero Alfredo" in Piazza Augusto Imperatore in Rome.

Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks ate in 1927 at Alfredo alla Scrofa on their honeymoon, and this helped make the restaurant, and Fettuccine alfredo, popular with tourists.

[[Knockout mouse]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic engineering

A knockout mouse is a genetically engineered mouse in which one or more genes have been turned off by a gene knockout. 

Knockout mice are important animal models for studying the role of genes which have been sequenced but whose functions are not yet known. By causing a specific gene to be inactive in the mouse, and observing any differences from normal behaviour or condition, researchers can infer its probable function.

Mice are currently the most closely related laboratory animal species to humans for which the knockout technique can easily be applied. They are widely used in knockout experiments, especially those genetic questions which relate to human physiology. 

Gene knockout in rats is much harder and has only been possible since 2003.

The first knockout mouse was created by Mario R. Capecchi, Martin Evans and Oliver Smithies in 1989, for which they were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 2007.  

A detailed explanation of how knockout (KO) mice are produced is at the website of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2007.

Aspects of the technology for generating knockout mice, and the mice themselves have been patented in many countries by private companies.

[[Eleocharis dulcis]]

CATEGORIES: Poales

The Chinese water chestnut (or simply water chestnut) is a plant. The corms of the plant are the water chestnuts and is a crispy white flesh and can be eaten raw, slightly boiled, grilled, pickled, or tinned. This plant comes from China. They are grown in flooded paddy fields.

[[Gene knockout]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic engineering, Molecular biology

A gene knockout is a genetic technique in which one of an organism's genes is switched off or replaced by one which does not work. 

The organisms, such as knockout mice, are used to learn about a gene that has been sequenced, but whose function is unknown or incompletely known. Researchers draw inferences from the difference between the knockout organism and normal individuals. Knockout is often abbreviated as KO.

Gene knock-in is the opposite term. There a gene is switched on, or a working gene inserted.

[[Stewart-Haas Racing]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR

Stewart Haas Racing is a NASCAR racing team based in Kannapolis, North Carolina. The team is co-owned by Tony Stewart and Gene Haas. There are currently four Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series drivers on the team: Kevin Harvick, Aric Almirola, Clint Bowyer, and Kurt Busch. Two Xfinity Series drivers drive for the team: Harvick and Chase Briscoe.

[[Temple Square]]

CATEGORIES: Mormonism, Buildings and structures in Utah, Salt Lake City, Town squares, National Historic Landmarks of the United States

Temple Square is a National Historic Landmark and religious center in Salt Lake City, Utah, and is owned by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church).  Temple Square contains the Salt Lake Temple, Salt Lake Tabernacle, Salt Lake Assembly Hall, the Seagull Monument and two visitors' centers.  With 3 million to 5 million visitors a year, Temple Square is the most popular tourist attraction in Utah.

[[DNA construct]]

CATEGORIES: DNA, Genetic engineering

A DNA construct is an artificially constructed segment of nucleic acid which is going to be 'transplanted' into a target tissue or cell.  

It often contains a DNA insert, which contains the gene sequence encoding a protein of interest. The DNA insert has been subcloned into a molecular biology vector. 

A DNA construct may express wildtype protein, or prevent the expression of certain genes by expressing competitors or inhibitors. It may express mutant proteins, such as deletion mutations or missense mutations. A DNA construct is often used in molecular biology to analyze macromolecules such as proteins or RNA in more detail.

[[This Hour Has 22 Minutes]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television series, 1993 television series debuts, Comedy television series, 1993 establishments in Canada, English-language television programs

This Hour Has 22 Minutes is a Canadian comedy television series created by Mary Walsh, Cathy Jones, Michael Donovan, Jack Kellum, Gerald Lunz and George Anthony. In Canada reruns are shown on The Comedy Network and new episodes are shown on Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.

On a 2004-05 episode, Carolyn Parrish was shown stomping on a George W. Bush doll and performing voodoo on its head which ultimately lead to her dismissal from the Liberal caucus.

[[Arnold Bennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 births, 1931 deaths, English writers, People with foods named after them

Enoch Arnold Bennett (27 May 1867 – 27 March 1931) was an English novelist.

He started as a journalist, and during World War I was in charge of propaganda in France.

Bennett was born in Hanley in the Potteries district of Staffordshire, and his best known books were about life in this area.  He changed the names of the five towns in the district, but their names are easy to recognise.

[[George Wald]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1997 deaths, scientists from New York City, American biologists, American Nobel Prize winners

George Wald (November 18, 1906 – April 12, 1997) was an American scientist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1967 for his discoveries in vision. He was born on November 18, 1906 in New York City and died on April 12, 1997 in Cambridge, Massachusettes, United States.

[[Passions (soap opera)]]

CATEGORIES: Soap operas, NBC network shows, American drama television series, English-language television programs

Passions was a television soap opera which aired starting July 5, 1999 until September 7, 2007 on NBC and on DirecTV from September 17, 2007 to August 7, 2008. This show focused toward the romantic and paranormal issues of Harmony, a fictional New England town. The storylines centered around multi racial families (the white Cranes and Bennetts, the black Russells, the Hispanic Lopez-Fitzgeralds). It also focused on Tabitha Lenox, a town witch.

[[Gene targeting]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic engineering, Developmental biology

Gene targeting is a genetic technique for replacing an existing gene with a mutated (changed) one. It can be done in lab mice or some other model organism.

The method can be used to delete a gene, remove control sections, add a gene, and introduce point mutations. 

Gene targeting can be permanent or conditional. Conditions, for example, can be a specific time during development in the life of the organism or limited to a specific tissue.

To date, this method has been applied to a number of species including Drosophila melanogaster, tobacco, corn, human cells. mice, and rats.

[[Pipit]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes

The pipits are a cosmopolitan genus Anthus, of small passerine birds with medium to long tails. Along with the wagtails and longclaws, the pipits make up the family Motacillidae. The genus is widespread, occurring across most of the world, except the driest deserts, rainforests and the mainland of Antarctica.

They are slender, often drab, ground-feeding insectivores of open country. Like their relatives in the family, the pipits are monogamous and territorial. Pipits are ground nesters, laying up to six speckled eggs.

[[Potter Park Zoo]]

CATEGORIES: Zoos in the United States, Lansing, Michigan, 1915 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Michigan

The Potter Park Zoo is a zoo in Lansing, Michigan.  Potter Park Zoo is the oldest public zoo in Michigan.  The zoo is 102 in size.  The zoo has more than 160 species of animals.  The zoo is owned by the City of Lansing, and operated by Ingham County.  The zoo is a member of the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA).

[[Anonymous work]]

CATEGORIES: Literature, Intellectual property law

Anonymous works are works, such as art or literature, made by someone who is anonymous. Some authors or artists choose to keep their identity a secret; others cannot reveal their names for legal reasons. In 2007, The Washington Post published an article by an anonymous author describing the use of national security letters by the FBI. In this case, the author, who would have preferred to be named, could not reveal his or her identity because it was against the law. 

Some anonymous works are not created by people who choose to be anonymous, but their creators are unknown (not by choice). With some very old or ancient works, the creator's name may simply be lost over the course of history, or historians are not sure. In such cases the author is often referred to as Anonymus, the Latin form of "anonymous". In the United States it is legally defined as "a work on the copies or phonorecords of which no natural person is identified as author." 

[[2011 Tucson shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in the United States, 2010s in Arizona, 2010s murders in the United States, January 2011 events, Mass murder in the 2010s, Mass murder in the United States, 2010s mass shootings in the United States, Murder in 2011, Murders by firearm in the United States, Tucson, Arizona

The 2011 Tucson shooting was a mass murder in Tucson, Arizona. 

The mass shooting happened on January 8, 2011. Nineteen people were shot. Six of the nineteen people died. Another person was injured.  

U.S. Representative Gabrielle Giffords was holding a public meeting in the parking lot of a Safeway store.  

Giffords was shot through the head from a very short distance. Her condition was said to be very bad just after the shooting. The six killed included John Roll, a chief judge for the District of Arizona. 

22 year old schizophrenic Jared Lee Loughner was arrested at the scene with five charges filed against him. Loughner pleaded guilty to 19 crimes. He never gave a reason for the shooting. In November 2012, Loughner was sentenced to life in prison.

[[Nintendogs + Cats]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 video games

Nintendogs + Cats is a video game sequel of Nintendogs. It was released in North America on March 26, 2011. This game has a total of 3 versions. It is made for the Nintendo 3DS.

On April 26, 2011, just one month after this game was released in North America, Nintendogs + Cats have sold 1.7 million copies of the game.

[[Trey Songz]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Singers from New Jersey, People from Teaneck, New Jersey, American R&B singers, African American musicians, Singers from Virginia

Tremaine Aldon Neverson (born November 28, 1984 ), better known by his stage name Trey Songz. 

Songz was born in Petersburg, Virginia, and raised in a military family,  He did not intend having a musical career as a child due to his shyness, saying "Singing wasn't a reality for me, until other people started noticing I sounded good." He recognized his vocal abilities at the age of 14 in 1998 (jobs). 

A

Some refer to him as 'The Prince of R&B'. His 2010 album, Passion, Pain and Pleasure, entered the Billboard magazine charts at Number 2 in September 2010. the song "Bottoms Up" from the album got into the Top Ten songs. 

[[Mad About You]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 American television series debuts, 1999 American television series endings, 1990s romance television series, 1990s American sitcoms, Golden Globe Award winning programs, Romantic comedy television series, Television series about marriage, Television series set in New York City, English-language television programs

Mad About You is an American situation comedy. It began on NBC on September 23, 1992. It ended on May 24, 1999. It stars Paul Reiser and Helen Hunt. They play a married couple living in New York City. Near the end of the sitcom's run, the couple have a baby, Mabel.

[[Go Ask Alice]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 books

Go Ask Alice is a controversial book from 1971. The book is said to be the actual diary of an anonymous teenage girl who became addicted to drugs. The diarist's name is never given in the book. The title is from the lyrics to the Jefferson Airplane song "White Rabbit". Grace Slick wrote the song based on drug references in the classic novel Alice's Adventures In Wonderland by Lewis Carroll.

The story caused a sensation when published and remains in print as of 2011. Revelations about the book's origin have caused much doubt as to its authenticity and factual accounts, and the publishers have listed it as a work of fiction since at least the mid-late 1980s. Although it is still published under the byline "Anonymous", press interviews and copyright records suggest that it is largely or wholly the work of its purported editor, Beatrice Sparks. Some of the days and dates referenced in the book put the timeline from 1968 until 1970.

The teenage girl is insecure and wants more friends. She does this by taking drugs. Because of this she gets all kind of problems and is not a 'real' child anymore.

[[National Climatic Data Center]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina, Climate change, Scientific organizations based in the United States, 1951 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in North Carolina

The United States National Climatic Data Center (NCDC) in Asheville, North Carolina is the world's largest active archive of weather data.  The center became established in late 1951, and moved into a new facility  in early 1952. The center collects data on climate change, science, and transportation.

[[Model organism]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Genetics, Model organisms, Experiments

A model organism is a non-human species that is studied over many years, building up a lot of knowledge about it in order to understand fundamental biological phenomena. The hope is that discoveries made in the model will give insight into how other organisms work.

In particular, model organisms are widely used in animal testing to explore potential causes and treatments for human disease when experimenting on humans would be impossible or less ethical.

This strategy is made possible by the similarities of all living organisms. They are similar because of their common descent and the conservation of metabolic and developmental pathways and genes  over the course of evolution.

[[John McGraw]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1934 deaths, American Roman Catholics, Baltimore Orioles players, New York Giants (NL) players, National Baseball Hall of Fame members, St. Louis Cardinals players

John Joseph McGraw (April 7, 1873– February 25, 1934) was a Major League baseball player/manager from 1894-1932. He was a player for the Baltimore Orioles and the New York Giants from 1894 until 1906. McGraw died one year after he stopped managing for the Giants.

[[History of the Cricket World Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket World Cup

[[HuffPost]]

CATEGORIES: HuffPost, American websites, 2005 establishments in New York (state)

HuffPost (used to be called The Huffington Post) is an American news website and political blog. It was founded in 2005 by Andrew Breitbart, Arianna Huffington, Kenneth Lerer, and Jonah Peretti. The website prints news stories and columns (called blogs) by celebrities, politicians, academics, and other well known people who have been invited to write for them.

HuffPost has around 25 million visitors each month and is the most well known political blog in the world. Der Spiegel calls The Huffington Post the most important source of information for millions of Americans.

On February 7, 2011, AOL announced it would acquire The Huffington Post for US$315 million.

[[Denim]]

CATEGORIES: Woven fabrics

Denim is a very strong kind of cloth. Denim has been used in the United States since the late 18th century.  The word comes from the name of a cloth called serge.  Serge was first made in the French town of Nîmes (de Nîmes)), by the André family.  First called serge de Nîmes, the name was soon shortened to denim.

Denims are highly popular throughout India.  Before in celebrations, formal wear was obvious.  These days in many functions and even in workplaces, there is no shortage of people donning denims.  International brand skinny jeans available in Asia and the market sees introduction of new styles.

Denim was usually colored blue with indigo dye to make blue "jeans," though "jean" meant a different, lighter cotton textile. 

[[Autódromo Hermanos Rodríguez]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One circuits, 1962 establishments in North America, 1960s establishments in Mexico

The Autódromo Hermanos Rodríguez is a Mexican Formula One circuit near Mexico City. It was named after racing driver Ricardo Rodríguez (the brother of Pedro Rodríguez, a Formula One driver). It was finished in 1962 and held its first Formula One race there in the same year, though it did not count for the championship. A year later, the Mexican Grand Prix started, and continued from 1963 to 1970, where F1 did not return until 1986, and left once again 1992. The track still hosts various events, and even hosted the Nationwide Series from 2005 to 2008, before leaving once again.

[[Andromeda]]

Andromeda may refer to:

In arts and literature:

In comics:

[[Andromeda (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy, Local galaxies

Andromeda is a constellation in the northern sky. It is named after the princess Andromeda in Greek mythology. It is sometimes called "Princess of Ethiopia" or "the Chained Woman" in English. It has also been called Persea ("Perseus's wife") or Cepheis ("Cepheus's daughter").  The astronomer named Ptolemy listed Andromeda when he made a list of 48 constellations.  It is also one of the 88 constellations made by the International Astronomical Union.

The Andromeda Galaxy is inside Andromeda.  It is the closest spiral galaxy to Earth, at about 2.2 million light-years from Earth (estimates range up to 2.5 million light-years).  The brightest star in Andromeda is called Alpha Andromedae, which is a binary star.

[[K.d. lang]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Canadian guitarists, Canadian LGBT people, Canadian pop musicians, Canadian singer-songwriters, Country musicians, Canadian activists, Entertainers from Edmonton, Lesbians, LGBT rights activists, LGBT singers, LGBT songwriters, Canadian pop singers, Country singers, Warner Bros. Records artists

Kathryn Dawn Lang, better known as k.d. lang (born November 2, 1961), is a Canadian country and pop singer-songwriter and guitarist. Her best known hit is "Constant Craving". She has contributed songs to many movie soundtracks.

Lang was born in Edmonton, Alberta. She is openly lesbian and is an activist for LGBT rights.

[[List of Premiers of the Soviet Union]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of heads of state, Heads of government of the Soviet Union

The Premier of the Soviet Union was the head of government.  Most western countries use the term "Prime Minister".  In the former Soviet Union the job had many names:

[[Loretta Lynn]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Country musicians, Singers from Kentucky

Loretta Lynn (born April 14, 1932 known as The First Known Lady of Country Music) is an American country music singer and songwriter born in Kentucky. She became a part of the country music scene in Nashville during the 1960s; in 1967 she charted her first of 16 number 1 songs overall. Certain country music radio stations would not play her songs, however, due to subject matter. Despite that, she had become the "First Known Lady of Country Music" and continues being one of the most successful vocalists of all time.

[[Microbial mat]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology, Microbiology

A microbial mat is a multi-layered sheet of microorganisms, mainly bacteria and archaea. They were first described by Paracelsus (~1519),p1 but their full significance was not realised until the last quarter of the 20th century.

Microbial mats grow mostly on submerged or moist surfaces but a few survive in deserts. They colonize environments ranging in temperature from –40 °C to +120 °C. A few are endosymbionts of animals.

Although usually only a few centimetres thick, microbial mats create a wide range of internal chemical environments. They consist of layers of microorganisms that can feed on or tolerate the chemicals at their level. In moist conditions mats are held together by slimy substances (polysaccharides) secreted by the microorganisms.118; 1671-7 Some of the micro-organisms form tangled webs of filaments which make the mat tougher. The best known physical forms are flat mats and stubby pillars called stromatolites, but there are also spherical forms.

Microbial mats are the earliest form of life on Earth for which there is good fossil evidence, from 3500 million years ago, and were for a long period the most important members of the planet's ecosystems.

Originally they may have depended on hydrothermal vents for energy and chemical "food". The development of photosynthesis gradually liberated them from the 'hydrothermal ghetto' by proving a more widely-available energy source, sunlight, although initially the photosynthesizing mats still depended on the diffusion of chemicals emitted by hydrothermal vents. The final and most significant stage of this liberation was the development of oxygen-producing photosynthesis, since the main chemical inputs for this are carbon dioxide and water.

As a result microbial mats began to produce the atmosphere we know today, in which free oxygen is a vital component. At around the same time they may also have been the birthplace of the more complex eukaryote type of cell, of which all multicellular organisms are composed. Microbial mats were abundant on the shallow seabed until the Cambrian substrate revolution, when animals living in shallow seas increased their burrowing capabilities and thus broke up the surfaces of mats and let oxygenated water into the deeper layers, poisoning the oxygen-intolerant micro-organisms that lived there. Although this revolution drove mats off soft floors of shallow seas, they still flourish in many environments where burrowing is limited or impossible, including rocky seabeds and shores, hyper-saline and brackish lagoons, and are found on the floors of the deep oceans.

Because of microbial mats' ability to use almost anything as nutrients, there is considerable interest in industrial uses of mats, especially for water treatment and for cleaning up pollution.

[[Fiji Hindi]]

CATEGORIES: Hindi, Urdu dialects, Urdu language, Fiji

Fiji Hindi or Fiji Urdu is an Indo-Aryan language which is the mother tongue of 313,000 people of Indian and Pakistani origin in Fiji.

This language is very different from the standard Hindi spoken in India and the relationship between the two languages are similar to those between Dutch and Afrikaans. The language is composed of the Eastern Hindi dialects (Bhojpuri and Awadhi) with numerous English and Fijian words. It is spoken with a Pacific twang. 

In recent times, due to the political upheaval  in Fiji, large numbers of Fiji Indians have migrated to Australia, New Zealand, United States and Canada, taking the Fiji Hindi language with them. 

[[Electronic money]]

CATEGORIES: Money

Electronic money is money stored electronically, and spent by using a technical device, such as a smart card.  If it is stored on a card, its use may be secured by a PIN code.  In Japan, electronic money is commonly used to pay for train tickets.  JR East’s prepaid train ticket (Suica) and JR West’s IC Operating card (ICOCA).  Suica and ICOCA are plastic cards with a built-in IC chip.  Suica was originally introduced in 2001.

In addition, many types of electronic money are used in other train stations in Japan. For example, Kitaca is electronic money in the Hokkaido area, Sugoca is used in the Kyusyu area, etc. Most electronic money is also used to pay for goods at convenience stores in Japan.

In 2004, NTT DoCoMo launched a mobile phone that uses smart card chip to realize electronic

money capability. Recently, many people have been using these kinds of electronic money cards in Japan.

Note, that electronic money is always backed by real money. For this reason, cryptocurrencies cannot be used as electronic money.

[[Sori Yanagi]]

CATEGORIES: People from Tokyo, Designers, 1915 births, 2011 deaths

Sori Yanagi  is one of the most famous product designers in Japan. He played a role in Japanese modern design developed from after World War 2 to the high-growth period in the Japanese economy. He is both a representative of the wholly Japanese modern designer and a full-blown modernist who merged simplicity and practicality with elements of traditional Japanese crafts.

He was born in 1915 in Tokyo, Japan, as the son of Soetsu Yanagi, who founded the "mingei" movement which celebrated Japanese folk crafts and the beauty of everyday objects. Soetsu helped establish the Nihon Mingeikon, the Folk Crafts Museum of Japan. Sori entered Tokyo Art School in 1934, where he studied both art and architecture. He was influenced by Le Corbusier as well as by Charlotte Perriand when she worked in Japan in the early 1940s. So, his interests moved from painting to buildings to design and objects.

After World War II, he designed many products: furniture, three-wheeled vehicles, Olympic cauldrons, pedestrian overpasses, etc. One of the most famous pieces of furniture is his Butterfly Stool. Announced in 1956, its' 2-piece form has been compared to a butterfly's open wings. Alternately, the shape can be seen as the gateway of a Shinto shrine or even an antique samurai helmet. In effect, it is a form that is both modern and timeless, that has won critical acclaim and prizes, and is included in major collections such as the Museum of Modern Art New York and the Ruble Museum.

Most of Yanagi's designs are very simple and beautiful. His products illustrate his thinking: true beauty is not made, it is born naturally. When he created a new product, he made the first versions over and over by hand, seeking new forms that took shape from both new and old ideas..

Sori Yanagi died at the age of 96 in 2011 . 

[[Yukata]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese clothing

The yukata is a kind of kimono. Yukata are very casual kimono, and are worn in the summer.

Normal kimono can be difficult to wear because they have many different parts. These can include a long, stiff obi (belt), a kimono worn underneath the outer kimono, called a juban, and padding to make the shape of the kimono nicer. Many Japanese people cannot put normal kimono on by themselves, as they are so different to everyday clothing.

However, yukata are a type of kimono that is easy to wear. They are made of cotton, and do not have to be worn with a juban. They are worn with thin, short obi, called hanhaba obi, which are easy to tie without someone else's help.

Yukata are worn in the summer, and are very popular to wear to festivals. They are cheap, keep the body cool, and are easy to wash and dry, unlike regular silk kimono. 

Yukata used to be decorated only with designs in blue and white colours. However, many modern yukata have bright and colourful designs, making them fun and fashionable to wear. Many young women wear yukata and geta (Japanese clogs) at summer festivals, fireworks displays, and Bon festival dances.

Recently, yukata have been adopted as summer uniforms in some of the restaurants and theme parks in Japan. The sumo wrestler wears a yukata in his daily life, every single day. In addition, a type of yukata called nemaki are used as night clothes for guests at many Japanese hotels and inns. Unlike yukata, and regular kimono, nemaki are not made differently for men and women.

[[Tonkatsu]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food, Meat dishes

Tonkatsu (豚カツ, とんかつ or トンカツ) is a Japanese dish of fried pork meat. 

Either pork fillet or pork loin, is sliced. It is then coated in flour, dipped into beaten eggs,  and rolled in breadcrumbs. It is then fried in hot oil. People often use a Japanese Worcester sauce, but some use a vinegar-soy-sauce called ponzu when they eat it. Tonkatsu originated as a cutlet, but it is also used as a sandwich filling or in combination with curry. 

Tonkatsu originated in Japan in the 19th century. Now it is known as a Japanese food by most of the world. It is usually prepared for special occasions, for example a wedding. It is always served with a type of alcoholic drink.

[[Wilderness Road]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United States, Appalachian Mountains

The Wilderness Road was a trail made by Daniel Boone through the Appalachian Mountains and through Kentucky. This road was used for more than 50 years for settlers to travel from the East into Kentucky.

[[Iroquois]]

CATEGORIES: Native American

The Iroquois (ˈɪrəkwɔɪ), also known as the Haudenosaunee or the "People of the Longhouse", are a group of tribes of indigenous people of North America. After the people who spoke Iroquoian came together as different tribes, which were mostly in what is now central and upstate New York, in the 16th century or earlier they came together in an group known today as the Iroquois League, or the "League of Peace and Power". The first Iroquois League was often known as the Five Nations, as it was made up of the Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga and Seneca. After the Tuscarora nation joined the League in 1722, the Iroquois became known as the Six Nations. To this day, fifty sachems who represent different clans of the Iroquois meet at the Grand Council near Syracuse, New York.

When Europeans first arrived in North America, the Iroquois lived in what is now the northeastern United States, mostly in what is today upstate New York, west of the Hudson River and through the Finger Lakes region. Today, the Iroquois live mostly in New York and Canada.

The Iroquois League has also been called the Iroquois Confederacy.  Some modern scholars now think the League and the Confederacy are different. According to this belief, the term "Iroquois League" stands for the ceremonies and culture found in the Grand Council, while the term "Iroquois Confederacy" stands for what was the spread out political and diplomatic group that was made after Europeans began colonizing America. The League still exists.  The Confederacy broke up after the defeat of the British and allied Iroquois nations in the American Revolutionary War.

[[Banach–Tarski paradox]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

January 2021

The Banach–Tarski paradox is a theorem in mathematics that says that any solid shape can be reassembled into any other solid shape. It was made by mathematicians Stefan Banach and Alfred Tarski. For example, a sphere can be split up into a limited number of parts which can then be put back together again to make two identical copies of the original sphere. The Banach–Tarski paradox can also be used to turn a small sphere into a huge sphere. It is important when thinking about this to realize that the parts that the solid shape is being split into are not solid shapes themselves; they are infinite sets of points spread around the solid shape. For the Banach–Tarski paradox to work, you need to use the axiom of choice.

The reason this is called a paradox is because no stretching or bending of the parts takes place and no new material is added, yet by the end the volume can be doubled. This goes against our geometric intuition. However, it is mathematically possible and it turns out that in this case our intuition is not correct.

[[Bill Irwin (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Minnesota, People from Duluth, Minnesota

Barney William Irwin (born September 17, 1954 in Duluth, Minnesota) is an American professional wrestler who is known for the ring names, Wild Bill Irwin and The Goon and for wrestling for WWF and WCW. Irwin recently appeared on the 15th-anniversary of WWE Raw special on December 10, 2007, where he wrestled and participated in the 15th Anniversary Battle Royal.

[[Annette Bening]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Actors from Kansas, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Annette Bening (born May 29, 1958) is an American movie actress. She was born in Topeka, Kansas. She has been nominated four times for an Academy Award.

[[Dodge Nitro]]

CATEGORIES: Dodge automobiles, Sport utility vehicles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Dodge Nitro was a compact SUV that is built by Chrysler's Dodge brand. The Nitro has had 2 generations with the second one being built in 2011. The Nitro has been built since 2006 and made its debut in February of 2005 at the Chicago Auto Show. The Nitro was designed by Dennis Myles. The Nitro was discontinued in 2012.

[[Dodge Journey]]

CATEGORIES: Dodge automobiles, Sport utility vehicles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Dodge Journey is a mid-size crossover SUV that is built by Chrysler's Dodge brand. The Journey has had one generation during its time. The vehicle has replaced the Dodge Caravan. The Journey has been built since 2008 and made its debut in 2007 at the Frankfurt Motor Show. The Journey was designed by Ryan Nagode. The Journey can seat five or seven people depending on the wheelbase length.

[[Nissan Cube]]

CATEGORIES: Nissan automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Nissan Cube is a Mini MPV that is built by the Nissan Motor Company. The first Cube arrived in 1998. It entered its second generation in 2002. The third generation launched in 2008 and ended production without a replacement in December 2019. The assembly for the Nissan Cube is in Oppama, Japan. They are sold in Japan and North America and in Europe only for 2010.

[[Nissan Juke]]

CATEGORIES: Nissan automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Nissan Juke is a Mini SUV that is built by the Nissan Motor Company. The Juke has had 1 generation during its time. The assembly for the Nissan Juke is in Oppama, Japan and Sunderland, United Kingdom. The Juke made its debut at the 2010 Geneva Motor Show in March, and made its North America debut at the 2010 New York International Auto Show.

[[Jacques Monod]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1976 deaths, French biochemists, French academics, French atheists, French biologists, French Nobel Prize winners, French people of World War II, Geneticists, Legion of Honour, Scientists from Paris

Jacques Lucien Monod (9 February 1910 in Paris - 31 May 1976 in Paris) was a French biologist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1965 for his discoveries about the genetic control of enzyme and virus synthesis which he shared with François Jacob and Andre Lwoff.

Monod's best-known work explains how llife is the product of a combination of chance and necessity. It has been described as a "manifesto of materialist biology in the most reductivist sense", because Monod says that systems in nature can be explained without introducing any end-goal or purpose. He then argues that certain beliefs and ethics followed from his outlook on biology: atheism, rationalism, anti-Marxism.

During World War II he was a member of the French Resistance.

Il received the Legion of Honour.

[[Paul Hermann Müller]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1965 deaths, Swiss chemists

Paul Hermann Müller (January 12, 1899 – October 12, 1965) was an Swiss chemist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1948 for his discovery of insecticidal qualities and use of DDT in the control of vector diseases. He was born on January 12, 1899 in Olten, Switzerland and died on October 12, 1965 in Basel, Switzerland.

[[Max Theiler]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1972 deaths, American biologists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, South African Nobel Prize winners, South African scientists, Virologists, White South African people

Max Theiler (January 30, 1899 – August 11, 1972) was an South African-American virologist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1951 for developing a vaccine against yellow fever. He was born on January 30, 1899 in Pretoria, South African Republic and died on August 11, 1972 in New Haven, Connecticut.

[[Jack Szostak]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Scientists from London, American biologists, American Nobel Prize winners, British Nobel Prize winners

Jack William Szostak (London, November 9, 1952) is an Anglo-American biologist who was raised in Canada. Szostak is Professor of Genetics at Harvard Medical School. He shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2009 for the discovery of how chromosomes are protected by telomeres. His co-winners were Elizabeth Blackburn and Carol Greider. Szostak is also credited with the construction of the world's first yeast artificial chromosome.

His lab has moved on to working on RNA. "By the year 2000, I started to pay more attention to fundamental questions related to the origin of life" (RNA world hypothesis). "Here the big question is whether RNA was in fact the first genetic polymer, or whether RNA was preceded by some simpler, easier to make or more robust genetic material". Recent work suggests that the RNA hypothessis is still alive.

[[Hoopoe]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Africa, Birds of Europe, Birds of Asia, Coraciiformes

The hoopoe (Upupa epops), is a colourful bird that is found across Afro-Eurasia, notable for its distinctive 'crown' of feathers.

It is the only living species in the family Upupidae. One insular species, the giant hoopoe of Saint Helena, is recently extinct, and the Madagascar subspecies of the hoopoe is sometimes elevated to a full species. The English name is derived from Latin upupa, which imitates the cry of the bird.

[[Harald zur Hausen]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, German academics, German biologists, German Nobel Prize winners, People from Gelsenkirchen, Virologists

Harald zur Hausen (born 11 March 1936 in Gelsenkirchen) is a German virologist and professor emeritus. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2008 for his discoveries on the role of papilloma viruses which he shared with Luc Montagnier and Françoise Barré-Sinoussi. 

[[José Bautista]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Baltimore Orioles players, Kansas City Royals players, Pittsburgh Pirates players, Tampa Bay Devil Rays players, Toronto Blue Jays players, Dominican Republic sportspeople

José Antonio Bautista (born October 19, 1980 in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic) is a Dominican Major League Baseball player. He has played for the Baltimore Orioles in 2004, the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in 2004, Kansas City Royals in 2004, the Pittsburgh Pirates from 2004 to 2008 and the Toronto Blue Jays since 2008. Bautista plays as both an outfielder and third baseman. Most often, he plays right field. He is also one of 26 players in the 50 home run club. In both the 2010 and 2011 seasons, he hit more home runs than any other player. He hit 54 home runs in 2010 and 43 home runs in 2011.

[[Reproductive isolation]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology

Reproductive isolation refers to the situation where different species may live in the same area, but properties of individuals prevent them from interbreeding.  

The things which stop species or groups of organisms reproducing sexually are called isolating mechanisms.

Members of one species do not, in general, mate with members of another species, though there are many exceptions and variations to this. And, if such mating does take place, the offspring may not develop, or may not be fertile. 

If species arise by the splitting of ancestral species, it might be asked what stops the new species continuing to reproduce together. If they did, they would again become one species.

[[Lancia Lybra]]

CATEGORIES: Lancia automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Lancia Lybra is a car produced by Lancia. It replaced the Lancia Dedra in 1999 and was discontinued in 2005. It was replaced by the new Delta in 2008.

[[Alcides Escobar]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Venezuelan baseball players, Kansas City Royals players, Milwaukee Brewers players

Alicedes Escobar (born December 16, 1986 in La Sabana, Venezuela) is a Venezuelan baseball player. He currently plays as an infielder for the Kansas City Royals of Major League Baseball (MLB).

Escobar formerly played for the Milwaukee Brewers from 2008-2010 before being traded along with Lorenzo Cain, Jeremy Jeffress, Jake Odorizzi for Zack Greinke and Yuniesky Betancourt.

[[Kosuke Fukudome]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Japanese baseball players, Chicago Cubs players, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, National League All-Stars, People from Kagoshima Prefecture

Kosuke Fukudome is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a baseball player in Japan and in the American Major Leagues.

[[Wyandotte Constitution]]

CATEGORIES: 1859 in the United States, Kansas, Constitutions, 1850s in Kansas

The Wyandotte Constitution is the constitution of the U.S state of Kansas. The constitution said that Kansas would be a state without slavery. However, the constitution did not give black people, women or Native Americans the right to vote. The Wyandotte Constitution was passed by a vote of 10,421 to 5,530 on October 4, 1859.

[[Ann Jillian]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American musical theatre actors, Actors from Massachusetts, 1950 births, Living people

Ann Jillian (born January 29, 1950) is an American actress. She has been acting since the age of 10. She has starred in many situation comedies, television series and movies. She was born in 1950 though some sources wrongly say she was born in 1951.

[[Místico]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Mexican professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Mexico City

Luis Ignacio Urive Alvirde (born December 22, 1982) is a Mexican Luchador enmascarado. He currently works for Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA) and World Wrestling League (WWL). Urive is best known for his time working with Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) where he competed under the ring name Místico. During his time in CMLL, he was the biggest técnico (face) and was the biggest box office draw in all of Mexico.

Urive also worked for the WWE where he competed under the ring name Sin Cara (Spanish for "Without Face" or "Faceless"). During his time in the WWE, Urive had a hard time getting used to the WWE style of wrestling and would get injured a lot. He was released from his WWE contract on March 27, 2014. After his release, he continued to use the Sin Cara name in Mexican independent promotions before adopting the ring name Myzteziz after signing with AAA in February 2014.

In 2007, Pro fteenWrestling Illustrated ranked Místico #3 of the PWI 500.

[[Era (musical project)]]

CATEGORIES: French musical groups, New Age music

Era (stylized as eRa) is a French New Age music project. The project was started by French composer Eric Lévi and has 12 members including himself. The project has sold over 12 million albums. The lyrics for their songs are written in Pseudo-Latin and English. They play in the Ambient, Chillout and New Age genres. Their song "Enae Volare Mezzo" was the theme song of mixed martial artist, Fedor Emelianenko as well as his brother Aleksander Emelianenko. Their song "Ameno" was also used as the entrance theme song by the Mexican wrestler Mistico.

[[Sandwich Islands]]

CATEGORIES: History of Hawaii

The Sandwich Islands is Captain James Cook's name for the Hawaiian Islands in 1778.  He chose the name of his patron, the 4th Earl of Sandwich.

The name Hawaii is the Polynesian name of the islands. The first known inhabitants of Hawaii were from Polynesia in the first 1,000 years AD.

[[Jessica Tandy]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1994 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from London, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, British radio actors, Cancer deaths in Connecticut, Deaths from ovarian cancer, Emmy Award winners, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Tony Award winning actors

Jessica Tandy (June 7, 1909 – September 11, 1994) was an English-American actress. She was born in Hackney, London. She starred in many movies during her career, including Cocoon (1985), Driving Miss Daisy (1989), and Fried Green Tomatoes (1991). She won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in Driving Miss Daisy.

Tandy died of ovarian cancer in Easton, Connecticut.

[[Thank Me Later]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Debut albums, Drake albums, Hip hop albums, Pop albums, R&B albums

Thank Me Later is the debut studio album by Canadian rapper Drake. Thank Me Later was released on June 15, 2010. The album appeared at #1 on the US Billboard 200 chart. It sold 447,000 copies in the United States in its first week. It received mostly positive reviews from music critics.

[[Council of Ministers (Soviet Union)]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the Soviet Union, 1946 establishments in the Soviet Union, 1991 disestablishments in the Soviet Union

The Council of Ministers of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) (Совет Министров СССР), (sometimes shortened to Sovmin  or Soviet of Ministers) was legally the Soviet government.  It was the highest executive and administrative body of the Soviet Union. 

The council could issue declarations and instructions based the laws of the USSR, and all territories and republics within the Union had to follow them. However, the most important state issues were made bye joint declarations with the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), which was de facto more powerful than the Council of Ministers.

It was replaced in 1991 by the Cabinet of Ministers of the USSR, which was dissolved only months later when the Soviet Union ceased to exist.

[[Stockard Channing]]

CATEGORIES: Drama Desk Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, 1944 births, Living people, American movie actors, Actors from New York City, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television actors

Stockard Channing (born Susan Williams Antonia Stockard; February 13, 1944) is an American actress. She played Betty in Grease and First Lady Abbey Bartlet in the show The West Wing on NBC. She has also starred in many movies during her acting career. Channing was born February 13, 1944.

Channing won multiple Emmy Awards, a Tony Award and a Drama Desk Award.

[[Volans]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

The constellation Volans is a group of stars in the southern sky. It is in the shape of a flying fish. The name Volans is a shortened from of its original, Piscis Volans. Volans was one of twelve constellations created by Petrus Plancius. He made these constellations from observations by Pieter Dirkszoon Keyser and Frederick de Houtman. Volans first appeared on a 35-cm diameter celestial globe published in 1597 (or 1598) in Amsterdam by Plancius with Jodocus Hondius. The first image of this constellation in a celestial atlas was in Johann Bayer's Uranometria of 1603.

[[Volans (disambiguation)]]

The word volans could mean:

[[Georgy Malenkov]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of government of the Soviet Union, 1902 births, 1988 deaths, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Georgy Maximilianovich Malenkov (Гео́ргий Максимилиа́нович Маленко́в, Georgij Maksimilianovič Malenkov, 8 January 1902 – 14 January 1988) was a Macedonian-Russian politician in the Soviet Union and the Premier of the Soviet Union after the death of Joseph Stalin in March, 1953 until February, 1955.  Malenkov served as the Premier (official head of government) of the country while Nikita Krushchev was the First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. 

He formed a team with Nikolai Bulganin, Vyacheslav Molotov, and Lazar Kaganovich, and together they tried to throw Khrushchev out of power.  Krushchev eventually won the battle for power, and in 1957 Malenkov was forced to leave his position in the Party Politburo.  In 1961, he was kicked out of the Party and forced to move to Kazakhstan.

Along with Krushchev, Malenkov was one of a few important members of Stalin's group of partners (called the "inner circle") who died a natural death, and was not executed.

Together with Lavrentiy Beria & Krushchev, Malenkov began the process of destalinization, completing the process in 1961. 

[[Lavrenty Beria]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1953 deaths, Soviet people, People executed by firearm, Directors of intelligence agencies

Lavrenty Pavlovich Beria (29 March 1899– 23 December 1953) was the leader of the secret police of the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin's regime. In 1953, Nikita Krushchev plotted to have Beria executed.

Beria was a Soviet politician, Marshal of the Soviet Union and state security administrator, chief of the Soviet security and secret police apparatus (NKVD) under Joseph Stalin during World War II, and First Deputy Premier in the postwar years (1946–53).

He administered vast sections of the Soviet state. He served as de facto Marshal of the Soviet Union in command of the NKVD field units responsible for anti-partisan operations on the Eastern Front during World War II. His troops also were a barrier against thousands of "turncoats, deserters, cowards and suspected malingerers". Beria administered the vast expansion of the Gulag labor camps. He was responsible for overseeing the secret defense institutions known as sharashkas, critical to the war effort. 

Beria also played the decisive role in coordinating the Soviet partisans, who developed an impressive intelligence and sabotage network behind German lines. He attended the Yalta Conference with Stalin, who introduced him to U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt as "our Himmler". After the war, he organized the communist takeover of the countries of Central Europe and Eastern Europe. 

Beria's uncompromising ruthlessness in his duties and skill at producing results led to his overseeing the Soviet atomic bomb project. Stalin gave it absolute priority and the project was completed in under five years. To achieve this, Beria's NKVD organised Soviet espionage against the West.

Beria was promoted to First Deputy Premier, where he carried out a brief campaign of liberalization. He was briefly a part of the ruling "troika" with Georgy Malenkov and Vyacheslav Molotov. Beria's overconfidence in his position after Stalin's death led him to misjudge other Politburo members. 

There was a coup d'état led by Nikita Khrushchev with the military forces of Marshal Georgy Zhukov. Beria was arrested on charges of treason during a meeting in which the full Politburo condemned him. This was all planned by Krushchov. The NKVD was powerless because Zhukov's troops were there. After interrogation, Beria was taken to the basement of the Lubyanka and shot, as were six of his associates.

[[Secret police]]

CATEGORIES: Secrecy, Police, Intelligence agencies

A secret police force is an agency most often used in dictatorships. It is used to scare people living under a dictatorship into agreeing with the dictator's policies. Not all dictatorships, however, use a secret police force. Fidel Castro's Cuba and Mao Zedong's China were able to maintain a dictatorship without using secret police.cn

[[National Fascist Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Italy, Nationalist organizations in Europe, Fascism

National Fascist Party was the ruling party of the Kingdom of Italy from 1922–1943. Benito Mussolini founded the party in 1919 and served as its Chairman (Italian:Presidente del Partito Nazionale Fascista) from 1919–1943. The Party came to power after Mussolini led thousands of Blackshirts on a march in Rome and forced King Victor Emmanuel III to appoint him Prime Minister. As Prime Minister (the real head of government), Mussolini banned all other political parties and established a one-party police state, which lasted until he was thrown out of power by his own citizens and ordered to be arrested by the King in 1943. After Mussolini's arrest, the National Fascist Party was destroyed.

[[Debbie Reynolds]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from El Paso, Texas, American movie actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Singers from Texas

Mary Frances Reynolds, better known as Debbie Reynolds (April 1, 1932 – December 28, 2016), was an American actress and singer. Reynolds was born in El Paso, Texas. She starred in many television programs and movies. She also had many songs and albums during her career. 

On December 28, 2016, Reynolds died at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California from a cerebral hemorrhage with hypertension being a factor, aged 84. This was one day after her daughter Carrie Fisher died.

[[Gerald Wallace]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American basketball players, Boston Celtics players, Charlotte Bobcats players, New Jersey Nets players, Portland Trail Blazers players, Sacramento Kings players, Sportspeople from Alabama

Gerald Jermaine Wallace (born July 23, 1982) is an American professional basketball player for the Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He plays the position of small forward. He has been nicknamed "Crash" for his aggressive style of play, and is known as one of the better defensive players in the league.

[[Thelma & Louise]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 crime movies, 1991 drama movies, 1990s adventure movies, 1990s buddy movies, 1990s crime drama movies, 1990s road movies, Academy Award winning movies, American adventure movies, American buddy movies, American crime drama movies, American road movies, Buddy drama movies, Chase movies, English-language movies, Female buddy movies, Feminist movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies about murderers, Movies directed by Ridley Scott, Movies set in Arizona, Movies set in Oklahoma, Suicide in movies

Thelma & Louise is a 1991 American adventure crime road movie starring Geena Davis as Thelma and Susan Sarandon as Louise. Also starring in the movie are Michael Madsen, Harvey Keitel and Brad Pitt. It was among the highest-grossing movies of 1991.

[[Faye Dunaway]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Florida, American movie actors, American Roman Catholics, American stage actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1941 births, Living people

Dorothy Faye Dunaway (born January 14, 1941 in Bascom, Florida) is an American actress. She has starred in Bonnie and Clyde, Chinatown and The Thomas Crown Affair. She won an Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in Network. Duanaway is a convert to Roman Catholicism.

[[Old Melbourne Gaol]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Melbourne, Prisons, Museums in Australia, Law enforcement in Australia, 1835 establishments, 1830s establishments in Australia, 1929 disestablishments, 1920s disestablishments in Australia

The Old Melbourne Gaol is a large, historic prison in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The bluestone building was the first large prison built in Victoria. It was the location of many executions, including Ned Kelly who was hanged at the prison in 1880. It closed in 1929 and is now a museum.

Melbourne was first settled in 1835 and its first small gaol was built in 1839. A second gaol was built in 1841 next to the Supreme Court buildings. In 1852 work started on a new gaol based on the Pentonville Model Prison design. This had its own outside wall of solid bluestone. A second stage started in 1857, and the wall was extended in 1859. In 1860 the north wing, chapel, central hall and entrance was built. A western wing for female prisoners was started in 1862, and the outside wall was finished in 1864. There were also 17 jailer's houses, a chief warden's house and a hospital. It was built on a high point at the edge of the city. However a report in 1870 said the gaol should be closed and the prisoners moved to a more suitable location. The prison finally closed in 1929.

During World War II, the gaol was used as a military prison for Australian soldiers. After the war it became a storage building for the Victoria Police. Some of the buildings were pulled down to allow for the building of the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, now Victoria University. In 1972 the buildings were taken over by the National Trust as a museum.

[[Leukodystrophy]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic disorders

Leukodystrophies are disorders which affect the white matter of the brain and the nervous system. Nerves are surrounded by fatty cover of a substance called myelin. In a leukodystrophy, there are problems with the growth or the development of  this cover. This affects the function of the respective nerve. Myelin is made of at least ten different chemicals. Leukodystrophy is a gene defect. As a result of this defect, one of the molecules that make up myelin cannot be synthesized as it should. 

[[Indian Rebellion of 1857]]

CATEGORIES: Wars involving the United Kingdom, 19th century in India, Wars of independence, British India, Rebellions in Asia, 1857, 19th century rebellions, Mutinies, Resistance to the British Empire, Indian independence movement

The Indian Rebellion of 1857 is also called the Great Indian Event of 1857, the Indian Mutiny, the Sepoy Mutiny, India's First War of Independence or India's first struggle for independence. It began on 10 May 1857 at Meerut, as a mutiny of sepoys of the British East India Company's army. Sepoys in the Presidency of Bengal revolted against their British officers.

[[William Quantrill]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1865 deaths, Military personnel of the American Civil War, Bushwhackers

William Clarke Quantrill (July 31, 1837 – June 6, 1865), was a Confederate leader during the American Civil War. Quantrill lead a Confederate unit along the Missouri-Kansas border in the early 1860s. Quantrill was a leader in the Lawrence Massacre in Lawrence, Kansas in 1863. Quantrill was killed in Kentucky in a  Union ambush in 1865.

[[Jochen Hecht]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, American Hockey League players, Buffalo Sabres players, Edmonton Oilers players, German ice hockey players, People from Mannheim, Sportspeople from Baden-Württemberg, St. Louis Blues players

Jochen Hecht (born June 21, 1977 in Mannheim, West Germany) is a retired ice hockey centre that played a combined 13 seasons in the NHL.

He was picked by the St. Louis Blues with the 49th overall pick in the 1995 NHL Entry Draft. Hecht played 2 seasons with the St. Louis Blues, 1 season with the Edmonton Oilers and 10 seasons with the Buffalo Sabres. He also played 5 seasons in the DEL with Adler Mannheim. 

On April 26, 2013, he announced that he was retiring from professional ice hockey to reporters in the locker room after the Sabres final regular season game against the New York Islanders.

[[Giffen good]]

CATEGORIES: Goods

In economics, a Giffen good is one that people consume more of when its price increases. This violates the Law of Demand. This paradox is named after Robert Giffen, who first described it. Giffen observed that households that only had a minimum wage to survive, bought more bread when the bread price increased. This can be explained as follows: These households have to split their income between the cheap (and inferior) good, e.g. "bread", and an expensive good, e.g. meat. When the price of this inferior good increases by a certain amount, they can no longer afford to buy the more expensive good. For this reason, they spend more of their income on bread in order to be able to survive. 

Alfred Marshall wrote in Principles of Economics: 

[[Lima, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio, 1831 establishments in Ohio

Lima is a city in Allen County, Ohio, United States. The population of Lima was 40,081 in 2000. The mayor of Lima is David Berger. Lima was founded in 1831 as a county seat which was mandated by the Ohio legislature. It got its name from Patrick G. Goode, who was a judge. He insisted on the Spanish pronunciation "Lee-mah" after the capital city of Peru, but the pronunciation — "Lye-mah" — won.

Professional wrestler Al Snow was born in Lima. Actor and movie critic Donald Richie was also born there.

[[Growing Pains]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American sitcoms, 1985 American television series debuts, 1992 American television series endings, 1990s American sitcoms, ABC network shows, English-language television programs

Growing Pains is an American situation comedy that aired beginning in 1985 and ended in 1992. The show focused on an upper middle class family who had three children together. Joanna Kerns played Maggie Seaver and Tracey Gold played Carol Seaver.

[[Second City Television]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television series, 1976 television series debuts, Comedy television series, English-language television programs

Second City Television is a Canadian sketch comedy television series that first aired on September 21, 1976 and last aired on July 17, 1984. The series had 6 seasons and made 135 episodes. One of SCTV's most popular sketches was the Bob & Doug McKenzie sketches which featured Bob who was played by Rick Moranis and Doug is played by Dave Thomas. The sketch was so popular that it was given its own animated show in 2009 and was featured on the 2002 episode, "The Bart Wants What It Wants" of The Simpsons when they visit Toronto.

In Canada, reruns are shown on The Comedy Network.

[[One-party state]]

CATEGORIES: Political systems

A one-party system is a form of government where the country is ruled by a single political party, meaning only one political party exists and the forming of other political parties is forbidden.

Some countries have many political parties that exist, but only one that can by law be in control. This is called a one-party dominant state. In this case opposition parties against the dominant ruling party are allowed, but have no real chance of gaining power.  For example, in China all power is vested in the Communist Party of China.  Other parties are allowed to exist only if they accept the leading role of the Communist Party

.

The Soviet Union from 1922–1991, Nazi Germany from 1933–1945, Italy under Benito Mussolini from 1922–1943, and various Eastern Bloc states are some of the best-known examples of one-party states in history. Some one-party states are considered dictatorships and called a police state or a military dictatorship, if a secret police force or the military is used to keep a dictator in power through force.

The one-party system is also a common trait of communist Marxist-Leninist and fascist political philosophies.

[[Tracey Gold]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from New York City, 1969 births, Living people

Tracey Claire Fisher, better known as Tracey Gold (B. 16 May, 1969) is an American actress. She is best known for playing Carol Seaver in the sitcom Growing Pains from 1985 until 1992. She also acted in other television programs. The actress was born in New York City.

[[Skor]]

CATEGORIES: Candy

Skor is a chocolate bar made by The Hershey Company. It is a bar covered with milk chocolate and has butter toffee in the center of it. Skor was first launched in 1981 in the United States and 1983 in Canada under the name, Rutnam. One skor bar has 200 calories.

[[Heterozygote advantage]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics

Heterozygote advantage is the situation where, at a gene locus, the heterozygote has greater fitness than either homozygote.p205 It is a type of balancing selection.

[[Circuito de Jerez]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One circuits, 1985 establishments in Europe, 1980s establishments in Spain

Circuito de Jerez is a Spanish race track near Jerez de la Frontiera. It opened on December 8, 1985, and started holding motorcycling events and the Spanish Grand Prix in Formula One. The race was held in Jerez until 1990, since the circuit was in a remote (rural) area, and the Spanish Grand Prix was moved to Circuit de Catalunya in 1991.

However, in 1994, when the Autódromo Juan y Oscar Gálvez was not finished for it's grand prix, known as the Argentine Grand Prix, Jerez hosted the European Grand Prix that year. As well, a chicane was added in Turn 11 to slow down the cars and to avoid possibly fatal (deadly) accidents, such as the one suffered by Roland Ratzenberger at the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix. The European Grand Prix returned in 1997, this time being the final race of the season, and the championship was going to be decided between Michael Schumacher and Jacques Villeneuve. However, during the podium celebrations, Jerez's Mayor Pedro Pacheco disrupted the podium celebrations by presenting a trophy that was supposed to be presented by a dignitary from Daimler-Benz, which was related to Mercedes, an engine supplier who won the race. This incident resulted on the track being temporarily banned from hosting a Grand Prix. It has never hosted another Grand Prix, but still holds winter testing during the pre-season, and still remains very popular.

As of 2010, the circuit still holds the Spanish Motorcycle Grand Prix, and has done so since 1990.

[[Bhangra]]

CATEGORIES: Dances, Dance in India, Pakistani culture

Bhangra started in the Punjab region, now divided between India and Pakistan, and began as a folk dance which was conducted by Punjabi farmers of all creeds, Sikhs, Muslims and Hindus, to celebrate the coming of the harvest season. 

Bhangra became popular in Britain in the 1980s and the artists of Bhangra were selling over 30,000 cassettes a week in the UK even though not one of the artists made their way into the Top 40 UK Chart. Bhangra is also popular in Canada where singer, Jazzy B sold over 55,000 copies of his third album, Folk and Funky and became one of the best-selling Punjabi folk artists in the world. 

The outfits for Bhangra are Turla or torla, Pag, which is a turban that is a sign of pride/honor in Punjab and is tied differently than the traditional turbans that the Sikhs and other people wear on the street, Kurta which is a silk shirt, with about four buttons and is very loose with embroidered patterns, Lungi or chadar which is a loose loincloth tied around the dancer's waist, Jugi which is a waistcoat with no buttons, and Rumāl which are small scarves that are worn tied on to the fingers. 

[[Kia Sorento]]

CATEGORIES: Kia automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Kia Sorento is a mid-size crossover SUV that is built by the Kia Motors company. The Sorento has had 2 generations during its time. The assembly for the Nissan Cube is in South Korea, United States and Kazakhstan. The current generation Sorento shares the same platform with the Hyundai Santa Fe.

[[Paul di Resta]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Formula One drivers, Scottish racecar drivers, Formula One current

Paul di Resta (born April 16, 1986 in Livingston West Lothian) is a Scottish auto racing driver.  He is the current DTM champion. He make his Formula One debut in the 2011 Australian Grand Prix with the Force India, finishing in the points with a 10th place finish.

[[Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin

Chippewa Falls is a city in west central Wisconsin near Eau Claire, Wisconsin.

[[Ausonius]]

CATEGORIES: 310s births, 395 deaths, French poets, People from Bordeaux

Decimius Magnus Ausonius (ca. 310–395) was a Latin poet and rhetorician, born at Burdigala (Bordeaux).

[[Triumvirate]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A triumvirate is a group of three men. A duumvirate is a group of two.

The word is often used to mention a historical event or in talks of government. The word troika is Russian for triumvirate, and the term was used in the Soviet Union after V.I. Lenin died. Joseph Stalin, Lev Kamenev, and Grigory Zinoviev teamed up to gain power of the government. In the Soviet Union, troikas were usually considered to be three main people in the government: Party leader, head of state, and head of government.

In Ancient Rome,  Julius Caesar was a member of the first triumvirate with Pompey and Crassus. In 43 B.C.E. after he was dead, Marc Antony, Marcus Lepidus, and Octavian formed a second triumvirate to rule the Roman Empire.

[[Party leader]]

CATEGORIES: Leaders of political parties, Political parties

In politics, the party leader is the most powerful official within a political party. The party leader is typically responsible for managing the party's relationship with the general public. As such, he or she b.v.will be the person in the party the most responsible for convincing the electorate to vote for the party.

In many representative democracies, party leaders compete directly for high political office. For example, leaders of parties in presidential and semi-presidential republics will often run for President. In parliamentary systems of government, party leaders typically seek to become prime minister. In these countries, the party leader will try to be elected to the legislature, and, if elected, to simultaneously serve as the party's parliamentary leader.

[[Antlia]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

The constellation Antlia is a group of stars in the southern sky. Its name means "pump" and comes from the Ancient Greek word ἀντλία. It represents an air or vacuum pump. The stars that make Antlia are not bright or easy to see. The constellation was not created until the 18th century. Beginning at the north, the other constellations near Antlia are Hydra the sea snake, Pyxis the compass, Vela the sails, and Centaurus the centaur.

People who live in the northern parts of the world can see it in latitudes to 66 degrees north and people who live in the southern parts of the world can see it 50 degrees south from January through March.

[[Boysetsfire]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American punk bands, Post-hardcore bands, Musicians from Delaware, Newark, Delaware, Musical groups established in 1994, 1994 establishments in the United States, Musical groups disestablished in 2007, 2007 disestablishments in the United States, Musical groups established in 2010, 2010 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Delaware

Boysetsfire is an American post-hardcore rock band from Newark, Delaware. Boysetsfire has five members in the band; the current band members are Nathan Gray, Chad Istvan, Robert Ehrenbrand, Josh Latshaw and Matt Krupanski.

[[University of Colorado Boulder]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Pac-12 Conference, Colleges and universities in Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, 1876 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Colorado

The University of Colorado Boulder is a public university in Boulder, Colorado. The university has about 30,196 students. It was founded in 1876.

[[Battenberg cake]]

CATEGORIES: Cakes

Battenberg cake is a light sponge cake. It is long, square faced cake, covered in marzipan.  

When cut in open one can see four more squares alternately coloured pink and yellow. These coloured sections are made by dyeing half of the cake mixture pink, and half yellow, then cutting each resultant sponge into two long, uniform cuboids, and joining them together with apricot jam, to form one cake. Established variations are for coconut flavouring to the sponge cake and lemon curd or raspberry jam in place of apricot jam.

The cake was probably named in honour of the marriage, in 1884, of Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine Queen Victoria's granddaughter  to Prince Louis of Battenberg, with the four squares representing the four Battenberg princes: Louis, Alexander, Henry and Francis Joseph.

[[Murphy Brown]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, English-language television programs

Murphy Brown is an American situation comedy. It aired beginning November 14, 1988 until May 18, 1998 and revived in 2018. on CBS. The show covered multiple subjects, including single parenting. Candice Bergen played the title character.

[[Manuae (Cook Islands)]]

CATEGORIES: Cook Islands, Atolls

Manuae is an uninhabited atoll in the southern group of the Cook Islands, 100 kilometres south-east of Aitutaki. It is administratively part of Aitutaki, but does not belong to any district or tapere of Aitutaki. It is, however, part of Arutanga-Reureu-Nikaupara Constituency.

Manuae is a true atoll sitting on the peak of a submerged volcano which descends 4000 meters to the ocean bed. It is made of two horseshoe-shaped islets, Manuae to the west and Te Au O Tu to the east, with a total area of 6.17 km²on either side of a lagoon about 7 km x 4 km. Manuae has an area of 2.1 km², and Te Au O TU of 3.9 km². The lagoon is 13 km² in size, shallow and subject to large shifting sand banks. A coral reef surrounds the atoll and there is no passage through the reef.

The island is a marine park and is an important breeding ground for seabirds and marine turtles in the Central Pacific. The offshore waters of Manuae are good fishing grounds. 

Captain James Cook sighted Manuae on September 23 1773. It was the first of the Cook Islands he voyaged to. Initially he named it Sandwich Island but changed it to Hervey Island in honor of Augustus Hervey, 3rd Earl of Bristol, then a Lord of the Admiralty when he decided instead give the name of "Sandwich Islands" to the Hawaiian Islands. This name was later corrupted to Hervey's Island, or Hervey's Isle, and later applied to the entire southern group, as the Hervey Islands.  This name remained popular until 1824 when the islands were renamed the Cook Islands by the Russian cartographer von Krusenstern, in honor of Capt. Cook who had died in 1779. 

In April/May 1965 the population briefly increased to 120 when the island was visited by six expeditions (from Australia, N.Z., Japan, U.K., U.S.A. and U.S.S.R.) to observe the total solar eclipse of 1965 May 30.

Norwegian author Erlend Loe writes humorously about an expedition to Manuae in his 1999 novel "L".

The island once supported a small copra industry with a settlement established next to the small reef passage less than one kilometer northeast of Turakino, the westernmost point of the atoll.  The passage, at the sea entrance, is less than 4 metres wide and in a swell is exceedingly dangerous without local knowledge.

The island has an airfield that has been out of use for several years.

Fishermen from Aitutaki occasionally organise trips to Manuae. All regulations applicable to Aitutaki, apply to Manuae as well.

The population peaked with 32 at the 1956 census, but twenty years later the island was abandoned:

[[Lancia Thesis]]

CATEGORIES: Lancia automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 2000s automobiles

The Lancia Thesis was a car produced by Lancia from 2002 to 2009. It is a large car with retro styling, similar to the Rover 75. 

[[Hold It Against Me]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Britney Spears songs

"Hold It Against Me" is a 2011 single by Britney Spears. The song comes from her seventh studio album Femme Fatale. The song was released on January 11, 2011 to positive reviews.

[[Looting]]

CATEGORIES: Property crimes

Looting (also known as sacking, plundering, despoiling, despoliation, and pillaging) is to steal, especially as part of war, riot or other group violence. It may involve forcible robbery, but is not the same as robbery.

[[Iowa State University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Big 12 Conference, Colleges and universities in Iowa, 1858 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Iowa

Iowa State University of Science and Technology or as it is better known, Iowa State University is a public university in Ames, Iowa. The university has about 33,000 students. It was founded in 1858. The president of the university is Wendy Wintersteen. George Washington Carver was a student at Iowa State.

[[University of Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Western Athletic Conference, Colleges and universities in Idaho, 1889 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Idaho Territory

The University of Idaho is a public university in Moscow, Idaho. The university has about 11,957 students. It was founded in 1889. The current president of the university is M. Duane Nellis.

[[San José State University]]

CATEGORIES: California State University, Mountain West Conference, San Jose, California, 1857 establishments in California

San José State University is a public university in San Jose, California. The university, part of the California State University system, has about 31,280 students. It was founded in 1857. The current president of the university is Don W. Kassing. The university was originally called the Minns' Evening Normal School before the California legislature voted to change the school's name to San Jose State University in 1974. 

[[Absorbing a blow]]

CATEGORIES: Martial art techniques

In boxing and other fighting, absorbing a blow is when one person is hit without being badly hurt or stopped from continuing the fight. Sometimes a boxer will absorb a blow they could have avoided so that they can counterattack straight afterwards.

[[Economy of the United States in the 1920s]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s in the United States, Economy of the United States

The economy of the USA grew quickly in the 1920s for five main reasons. This growth in the 1920s greatly affected the USA throughout the 20th century and today as the world superpower.

[[White matter]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the nervous system, Animal tissues

The central nervous system is made of two types of tissue: white matter and grey matter. Grey matter contains nerve cell bodies, and white matter is made of the  nerve fibres. 

When a sample is freshly cut, it usually slightly pink in appearance (for both types). When preserved in formaldehyde, white matter appears to be almost white. White matter consists mostly of myelinated axons:. Myelin is a lipid tissue (a fat) with capillaries. It helps to keep the electrical in the nerve fibre. This is important for fast and accurate sending of signals. In the brain white matter is surrounded by grey matter most of the time. In the spine, white matter is outside, and grey matter inside: the myelin sourrounds the nerve cells, and helps the transmission of nerve signals.

White matter is used to connect different areas of grey matter. If a section of white matter is damaged, the brain may be able to find a different route to replace the lost connection. The brain contains a third kind of tissue, which appears darker. It is called substantia nigra, a part of the brain that is involved in pleasure & reward, addiction and movement. 

[[Fefe Dobson]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Singers from Toronto

Fefe Dobson is a singer and songwriter from Canada. She has had several records, most notably her self titled debut album. This singer was born February 28, 1985. after her fruitful music career she ascended into internet stardom.

[[Achondroplasia]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic disorders, Growth disorders

Achondroplasia is a form of Dwarfism. It is part of the chondrodystrophies or osteochondrodysplasias family which makes bones in a human's skeleton be too short or grow too slowly. It often affects the femur and humerus. It is caused by a dominant allele. That means only one parent has to have the gene. This gives a child a 50% chance of getting the condition. If both parents have the gene the chances are increased to 75%, but in 25% of the cases, it is very unlikely that the child would live more than a few months. However, the condition can also occur without either parent having the gene. Achondroplasia is caused by a change in the DNA for fibroblast growth factor receptor 3. This change affects the making of cartilage. Now that the part of the DNA that causes the condition is known, there is hope that new treatments may be developed.

[[Mason Jewett Field Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in the United States, Transport in Michigan, Buildings and structures in Michigan

Mason Jewett Field  is a public airport in the U.S. state of Michigan. It is one mile (1.85 km) southeast of Mason, in Ingham County.  The airport is owned and operated by the Capital Region Airport Authority.  The airport covers 275.  The elevation is 920 above sea level.  The airport has one asphalt runway.  There is no scheduled commercial airline service.

[[Working Girl]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 romance movies, 1988 comedy-drama movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, 1980s romantic drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Manhattan in fiction, Movies directed by Mike Nichols, Movies set in New York City, Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award, Office comedies

Working Girl is a 1988 American romantic comedy-drama movie starring Melanie Griffith as a Staten Island-raised secretary working in a New York City bank. Also starring are Harrison Ford, Alec Baldwin, and Sigourney Weaver.

[[State capitalism]]

CATEGORIES: Capitalism

State capitalism is an economic system where the state government controls most or all steps of making a product. Capitalism is an economic system calling for the private ownership of factories and everything needed to make a product - called the "means of production". 

In Free-market capitalism, "private ownership" means that one, or a few, private owners who own a business have control over the means of production, even though the workers are the people who make the products. 

[[Patrick Stump]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, American guitarists, American punk musicians, American funk singers, American rock musicians, American R&B singers, American R&B musicians, American funk musicians, Musicians from Illinois, Singers from Illinois, Multi-instrumentalists

Patrick Vaughn Stump (born Patrick Martin Stumph on April 27th, 1984) is an American musician, best known as the lead singer, guitarist and composer of the American rock band Fall Out Boy. With the band he achieved widespread popularity and success. On January 2010 he announced he was working on a solo album after his band took a break in late 2009. He released his first solo song "Spotlight (song)" in two versions, "Spotlight (Oh Nostalgia)" and "Spotlight (New Regrets)" on November 29, 2010. On February 22, 2011, he released his first EP, Truant Wave. He released his debut album called Soul Punk on October 18, 2011, of which he wrote every song, played every note, self-produced, and funded by himself. 

On May 6, 2011 he leaked a track off his album Soul Punk called "Explode", uploading it to his YouTube channel. On July 26, 2011 he released the first single "This City" featuring Lupe Fiasco on iTunes. 

[[Maureen O'Hara]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Dublin, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Irish movie actors, Irish stage actors, Irish television actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Singers from Dublin, 1920 births, 2015 deaths

Maureen O'Hara (17 August 1920 – 24 October 2015) was an Irish-American actress and singer. She was born in Ranelagh, Dublin and was a naturalised American citizen. She starred in many movies. She is noted for usually playing fiercely passionate heroines in her movies.

O'Hara died in her sleep at her home in Boise, Idaho at the age of 95. She was buried next to her husband at Arlington National Cemetery.

[[Soul Punk]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Debut albums, Pop albums

Soul Punk is the first studio album by American musician Patrick Stump. The album was released on October 18, 2011. Stump's solo project was officially revealed in January 2010 and was later titled Soul Punk. It is the first major musical project undertaken by Stump since Fall Out Boy's hiatus. The album is scheduled for release on October 18, 2011 through Island, with Stump officially announcing the release on July 25 via Twitter and the internet. The track "Explode" from the album was leaked on May 6, 2011 for promotion purposes.

The album's first single "This City" was released on July 26, 2011. The music video for the single will be released on September 20, 2011. The track features rapper Lupe Fiasco.

[[Porcelain (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 songs

"Porcelain" is a song by American electronica musician Moby. It is the third track from his album Play. It was the sixth single from that album. The song was released on June 12, 2000 in the UK. It reached number 5 in the UK charts. This is Moby's highest chart position there so far. The song was released in the U.S. two months later, on August 22. It was in the 1998 movie Playing by Heart before it was released in the U.S.  It was also on the soundtrack to the 2000 movie The Beach.

[[Ken Starr]]

CATEGORIES: United States Solicitors General, American judges, 1946 births, Living people

Ken Starr (born July 21, 1946) is a U.S. lawyer, a former federal U.S. Court of Appeals Judge and a Solicitor General. He was Independent Counsel (which was a special office that investigated government officials) while Bill Clinton was the President of the United States. 

Starr filed the Starr Report, which accused President Clinton of lying in court about having an affair with an intern at the White House.

[[Norman Smiley]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Black British sportspeople, English professional wrestlers, People from Northampton

Norman Anthony Smiley (born February 28, 1965 in Northampton, England) is an English professional wrestler who is best known for the ring names, Norman Smiley and for wrestling for WCW. Smiley is currently working as a trainer and an on–air authority figure for Florida Championship Wrestling and WWE. 

Smiley was the WCW Hardcore Champion two times during his career.

[[Linda B. Buck]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Scientists from Seattle, Washington, American biologists, American Nobel Prize winners, Female scientists

Linda Diane Brown (born January 29, 1947) Is an American biologist. She is most well known for the work she has done to research the olfactory system.

[[Richard Axel]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American biologists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, American Nobel Prize winners, Columbia University alumni, Scientists from Brooklyn

Physiology or MedicineRichard Axel (born July 2, 1946 in Brooklyn, New York City) is an American neuroscientist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2004 for working on the olfactory receptors which he shared with Linda B. Buck.

[[David Baltimore]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Scientists from New York City, American biologists, American Nobel Prize winners, Virologists

David Baltimore (born March 7, 1938 in New York City) is an American biologist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1975 for discovering reverse transcriptase. He shared the prize with Howard Temin and Renato Dulbecco.

The discovery of reverse transcriptase was made at the same time as Howard Temin. It overturned the central dogma of molecular biology because it showed that genetic information could traffic both ways between DNA and RNA. They published these findings in back-to-back papers in the journal, Nature. 

[[Clifford the Big Red Dog]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series, 2000 television series debuts, 2003 television series endings, Fictional dogs, PBS Kids shows, Television characters, English-language television programs

Clifford the Big Red Dog is a PBS Kids TV series.  It is based on the book series Clifford the Big Red Dog. It is about a dog that is big and red. He gets into trouble sometimes and has 2 best friends, Cleo and T-Bone. His owner, Emily Elizabeth, loves him very much and takes excellent care of him. In fact that's how he got so big.

[[Nathaniel Gorham]]

CATEGORIES: 1738 births, 1796 deaths, American Calvinists, Congregationalists, Politicians from Massachusetts

Nathaniel Gorham (May 27, 1738 – June 11, 1796) was the fourteenth President of the United States in Congress. He was also one of the signers of the United States Constitution. He was born in Charlestown, Massachusetts. His father was Nathaniel Gorham and his mother was Mary Soley. He was a delegate to the Continental Congress from 1782 until 1783, and also from 1785 until 1787. Gorham died in Charlestown, Massachusetts in June 11, 1796.

[[Rafflesiaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Rafflesiaceae

Rafflesiaceae is a family of flowering plants in the Malpighiales order. They are parasitic plants found in east and southeast Asia, including Rafflesia arnoldii, the plant with the largest flower of all plants.

[[Righteous Kill]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 crime movies, 2000s crime thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies directed by Jon Avnet, English-language movies

Righteous Kill is a 2008 crime thriller movie. Robert De Niro, Al Pacino, John Leguizamo and Donnie Wahlberg are in the movie. Curtis "50 Cent" Jackson also appears. The movie received mostly negative reviews from the critics.

[[Hydra]]

Hydra may refer to:

[[China Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia, Airlines of Taiwan, Companies of Taiwan

China Airlines is the largest airline in Taiwan, and is the flag carrier of the Republic of China. It takes passenger and cargo to over 90 cities world-wide. Its main base or hub is at Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport. Mandarin Airlines, a sister airline and wholly-owned subsidiary of China Airlines, flies places in China and Asia.

[[Mandarin Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia, Airlines of Taiwan, Companies of Taiwan

Mandarin Airlines is an airline from Taiwan. It takes passenger and cargo to over 34 cities world-wide. Its main base is at Taichung International Airport.

[[Taipei Taoyuan International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Asia, Buildings and structures in Taiwan

Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport (台灣桃園國際機場桃園機場) is the largest international airport in the Republic of China where most international flights depart and arrive everyday. Taipei Songshan Airport is in Taipei. It used to be the international airport of Taiwan. However as the number of people grew and a bigger airport was needed, there was no room to build more. In order to solve the problem, construction for new airport that can run 24 hours and meet the growing needs started. Taoyuan International Airport is in Taoyuan City.

[[Taichung International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Asia, Transport in Taiwan

Taichung International Airport is an international airport in Taiwan.

[[Chagas disease]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases spread by insects

Chagas disease is a disease caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. The disease is also known as American trypanosomiasis.  It is common in Central and South America. 

Carlos Chagas first described it in 1909. Humans are usually infected because they are bitten by a blood-sucking bug of the subfamily Triatominae. The disease can also be spread by blood transfusion, organ transplantation, or by eating food contaminated with the parasite. Pregnant women may spread it to the fetus. 

The disease has four stages. It can be cured by anti-parasitic drugs. Between eight and eleven million people may suffer from the disease, but many do not know they are infected. Strategies of controlling the disease are mostly focused on eliminating the insect vector, and on preventing contamination from other sources. 

[[Raymond Dart]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1988 deaths, Anthropologists, Anatomists, Australian social scientists, Australian biologists, South African scientists, Alumni of University College London‏, People from Brisbane

Raymond Arthur Dart (4 February 1893 – 22 November 1988) was an Australian anatomist and anthropologist, who worked for much of his life in South Africa.

In 1924 he discovered the first fossil of an Australopithecine, at Taung in Northwestern South Africa (now Botswana). It was Australopithecus africanus, an extinct hominid closely related to humans. This was a great event in the study of human evolution.

[[Metamorphosis (Hilary Duff album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums

Metamorphosis is the second album by Hilary Duff. It was released in 2003. The album became Duff's first number one album in the United States.

[[MuchMusic]]

CATEGORIES: Music media, Canadian television networks

"MuchMusic" is a Canadian TV channel. MuchMusic is dedicated to music, music-related programs, pop and youth culture. One of its popular program is the Top 30 Countdown.It is similar to MTV. 

[[Slant Magazine]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines

Slant Magazine is an online magazine which includes reviews of movies, music, TV, DVDs, theater, and video games. It also has interviews with actors, directors, and musicians.

[[Chris Applebaum]]

CATEGORIES: American movie directors, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people

Chris Applebaum is an American music video director. He has filmed music videos for many famous musicians including Rihanna, Hilary Duff, and Britney Spears.  Twenty-one of his music videos have become #1 on MTV.

[[Trypanosomiasis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by protozoa, Parasites

Trypanosomiasis is the name for several diseases, caused by parasites of the genus Tryposoma:

There are also various diseases that only affect animals, caused by such parasites, amongst others:

[[Al-Waleed bin Talal]]

CATEGORIES: Saudi Arabian people, Princes and princesses, 1954 births, Living people

Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal bin Abdulaziz Al Saud (الوليد بن طلال بن عبدالعزيز آل سعود; born 30 July 1954) is a member of the Saudi Royal Family. He is the nephew of the Saudi Arabian King Abdullah. An entrepreneur and international investor but without real political power within the House of Saud or in Saudi Arabia, he has amassed a fortune through investments in real estate and the stock market.As of March 2010, his net worth is estimated at US$19.4 billion, up from $13.3 billion, according to Forbes, making him the 19th richest person in the world on their list published in March 2010.  He has been nicknamed by Time magazine as the Arabian Warren Buffett.

Talal bought the super yacht Kingdom5KR. It had been owned by Donald Trump and called the "Trump Princess". The yacht, built in 1979, was used in the James Bond movie, Never Say Never Again. It has 11 cabins, can take 22 guests and has a crew of 31.

On 4 November 2017, he was arrested in Saudi Arabia, in an anti-corruption raid,  together with, among others, Waleed bin Ibrahim Al Ibrahim and Saleh Abdullah Kamel.

Al-Waleed was released from detention on 27 January 2018, following a financial settlement of some kind, after nearly three months in detention. In March 2018 he was dropped from the World's Billionaires list due to lack of current information.

[[Robert Broom]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1951 deaths, Anthropology, Scottish scientists, British biologists, South African scientists, Paleontologists

Professor Robert Broom (Paisley, 30 November 1866 – 6 April 1951) was a Scottish, and later South African, doctor and palaeontologist.

He qualified as a medical practitioner in 1895 and received his DSc in 1905 from the University of Glasgow. In 1893 he married Mary Baird Baillie.

From 1903 to 1910 he was Professor of Zoology and Geology at Victoria College, Stellenbosch, South Africa, and subsequently he became keeper of vertebrate palaeontology at the South African Museum, Cape Town.

[[Libertarian Party]]

The Libertarian Party may refer to:

[[Francisco J. Ayala]]

CATEGORIES: American biologists, Spanish scientists, Philosophers, Columbia University alumni, 1934 births, Living people

Francisco José Ayala was born March 12, 1934 in Madrid, Spain. He is a Spanish-American biologist and philosopher at the University of California, Irvine.

He is a former Dominican priest, ordained in 1960, but left the priesthood that same year.

After graduating from the University of Salamanca, he moved to the United States in 1961 to study for a PhD at Columbia University. There, he studied for his doctorate under Theodosius Dobzhansky, graduating in 1964. He became a U.S. citizen in 1971.

He has been President and Chairman of the Board of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.

[[The Sorcerer's Apprentice (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 movies, American adventure movies, American fantasy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City

The Sorcerer's Apprentice is a 2010 American fantasy adventure movie starring Nicolas Cage and Alfred Molina. The movie is named after The Sorcerer's Apprentice part in Disney's Fantasia

[[Kevin Dineen]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Carolina Hurricanes players, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Hartford Whalers players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, Ottawa Senators players, Philadelphia Flyers players, People from Quebec City, American Hockey League players

Kevin William Dineen (born October 28, 1963 in Quebec City, Quebec) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey right winger. He lived in Cape Elizabeth, Maine and moved Florida in 2010. He played a career total of played 21 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Hartford Whalers, Philadelphia Flyers, Carolina Hurricanes, Ottawa Senators, and Columbus Blue Jackets. He is currently the assistant coach of the Chicago Blackhawks. He was the head coach of the Florida Panthers from 2011–2013.

Dineen also scored the last goal ever for the Hartford Whalers in a 2–1 win against the Tampa Bay Lightning.

On January 6, 2006, He had his playing number 11 retired by the American Hockey League's Hartford Wolf Pack.

[[Lithuanian Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias

The Lithuanian Wikipedia is the Lithuanian language edition of Wikipedia. This edition was started in 2003.

As of October 2015, it is the 40th largest edition of Wikipedia by number of articles.

It currently has over 128,476 articles.

[[Chevrolet Avalanche]]

CATEGORIES: Chevrolet automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Pickup trucks

The Chevrolet Avalanche is a four-door sport utility truck. It is sold by General Motors' Chevrolet brand in the United States. The Avalanche was first made in 2002 and the second generation was first shown at the Chicago Auto Show in February 2006. It is named after the sudden collapse of mountain snowpacks that are known as Avalanches. There have been two generations of the Chevrolet Avalanche with the second one being made in 2007.

[[Chris Campoli]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Islanders players, Ontario Hockey League players, Ottawa Senators players, Swedish Hockey League players

Chris Campoli (born July 9, 1984 in Mississauga, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player that currently plays for the Montreal Canadiens of the National Hockey League as a defencemen. He also played for the New York Islanders from 2005 to 2008, the Ottawa Senators from 2008 to 2011 and the Chicago Blackhawks in 2011.

Campoli was traded to the Chicago Blackhawks, along with Conditional 7th-Round Draft Pick for Conditional 2nd-Round Draft Pick in 2011 and Ryan Potulny on February 28, 2011. He was signed as a free agent by the Montreal Canadiens to a one-year, $1,750,000 deal.

[[Jiří Tlustý]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, American Hockey League players, Czech ice hockey players, Carolina Hurricanes players, Living people, Ontario Hockey League players, Toronto Maple Leafs players

Jiří Tlustý (born March 16, 1988 in Slaný, Czechoslovakia) is a Czech NHL ice hockey left winger. He currently plays for the Carolina Hurricanes.

[[Cradle 2 the Grave]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, American action movies, Warner Bros. movies

Cradle 2 the Grave is a 2003 action movie that was produced by Joel Silver and directed by Andrzej Bartkowiak. The movie was released on February 28, 2003 in the United States and on March 20, 2004 in Hong Kong.

[[Ben Carson]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, African American politicians, American physicians, American Protestants, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, Politicians from Florida, Politicians from Baltimore, Maryland, Politicians from Michigan, Scientists from Detroit, Michigan, Scientists from Maryland, Seventh-day Adventists, Surgeons, 2016 United States presidential candidates, United States Secretaries of Housing and Urban Development, US Republican Party politicians, Yale University alumni

Benjamin S. "Ben" Carson, Sr (born September 18, 1951) is an American neurosurgeon and politician. He was the 17th United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development from 2017 to 2021. After graduating from Yale University, Carson went to University of Michigan Medical School, and was later accepted to Johns Hopkins University.

In 2008, Carson was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom from George W. Bush. He was the Director of Pediatric Neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital. He is known for, among other accomplishments, being the first doctor to separate twins that were joined together at the head.

[[Open Season (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 animated movies, 2006 comedy movies, 2000s 3D movies, 2006 computer-animated movies, American animated movies, American comedy movies, Movies about bears, Buena Vista International movies, Columbia Pictures movies, Open Season (franchise)

Open Season is a 2006 animated-comedy movie that was directed by Jill Culton, Roger Allers, and Anthony Stacchi and produced by Michelle Murdocca, Amy Jupiter, Steve Moore, and John B. Carls. The movie was released on September 29, 2006 and received mixed reviews from reviewers.

[[Rosemary Clooney]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2002 deaths, Actors from Kentucky, American movie actors, American pop musicians, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from lung cancer, People with bipolar disorder, Singers from Kentucky

Rosemary Clooney (May 23, 1928 - June 29, 2002) was an American singer and actress. She was born in Maysville, Kentucky. She became known with her song "Come On-a My House". She starred in many movies. She was diagnosed with bipolar disorder and died of lung cancer in Beverly Hills, California.

Her brother is television presenter Nick Clooney (born 1934). His nephew was actor George Clooney and was the mother of actor Miguel Ferrer.

[[Honda Civic]]

CATEGORIES: Honda automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Honda Civic is a subcompact and compact car that is built by the Honda company. The Civic has had 11 generations. The Honda Civic has been built and sold since 1972. The Chevrolet Vega and Ford Pinto were rolling sacrifices amid an international fuel crisis, but the small and efficient Civic felt like perfect timing. Honda offered the first-gen Civic as both a three-door hatchback and sedan. The sedan version essentially was exactly like the hatchback, except that the conventional trunk lid and fixed rear seat of the sedan were replaced by an upward-hinged rear window and a fold-down seat in the hatchback. Wheels were 12 inches in diameter, and radial tires, A/C, a two-speed automatic transmission, and a rear hatch wiper were the only options. The 8th and later generation Civics have a digital speedometer. The Civic DX, LX, LX-S / Sport, and EX are available with an automatic or manual transmission. The highest trim levels are the Civic Si and Type R, which are only available with a manual transmission and come with a more powerful engine. The Acura CSX, sold only in Canada, is nearly identical to the eighth generation (2006-2011) Civic.

[[Honda Today]]

CATEGORIES: Honda automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles

The Honda Today was a line of kei cars that were built by the Honda company. The Today was made from 1985 to 1998. The Honda Today was replaced by the Honda Life.

[[Norma (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

The constellation Norma is a small group of stars in the southern hemisphere between Scorpius and Centaurus. Its name is Latin for normal and can mean a right angle. The constellation may be pictured as a ruler, a carpenter's square, a set square, or a level.

[[Norma]]

Norma is a popular girl's name. Norma may also several other things: 

In science and technology:

Places:

In entertainment:

Tropical systems:

Other uses:

[[Lethbridge]]

CATEGORIES: Lethbridge

Lethbridge is a city in the Canadian province of Alberta.

The mayor of Lethbridge is Rajko Dodic.

The population is 86,659 from the 2010 municipal census.

Lethbridge is also home to a Western Hockey League team called the Lethbridge Hurricanes.

[[Andy Panda]]

CATEGORIES: Animated characters

Andrew "Andy" Panda is a fictional panda. He was created by Walter Lantz for Universal Studios in the 1930s -1940s from 1939-1949.

His girlfriend was Miranda Panda. He introduced Woody Woodpecker in 1940's Knock Knock. He was one of Walter Lantz's staples (the others being Woody Woodpecker, Oswald Rabbit, Chilly Willy). His last appearance was in 1949's "Scrappy Birthday". In comics he was often paired with Charlie Chicken.

[[Kesarakoni]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Karnataka, Villages in India

 Kesarakoni  is a village in the southern state of Karnataka, India.

[[Bridgeport Sound Tigers]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in the United States, American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, New York Islanders, Bridgeport, Connecticut

The Bridgeport Sound Tigers are an American professional ice hockey team that was founded in 2001. They play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the New York Islanders. They play in Bridgeport, Connecticut at the Webster Bank Arena. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Kalamazoo Wings.

[[Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Pittsburgh Penguins, Ice hockey teams in the United States

The Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1999 they currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the NHL. They play their home games in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania at the Mohegan Sun Arena at Casey Plaza. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Wheeling Nailers.

[[Hartford Wolf Pack]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 establishments in North America, American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, New York Rangers, Sports in Hartford, Connecticut

The Hartford Wolf Pack are an American professional ice hockey team. It originally began playing in the Canadian-American Hockey League in 1926 as the Providence Reds. 

They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the New York Rangers of the NHL. They play their home games in Hartford, Connecticut at the XL Center. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Greenville Road Warriors. They were also known as the Hartford Wolf Pack from 1997 to 2010. The changed their name to the Connecticut Whale in October 2010 to honor of the former Hartford Whalers of the National Hockey League. They changed their name back to the Hartford Wolf Pack after the 2012–13 AHL season.

[[Daniel Dennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers, American atheists, American philosophers, Scientists from Boston, Massachusetts, Skeptics

Daniel Clement Dennett III (born March 28, 1942 in Boston, Massachusetts) is an American philosopher, neuroscientist, and cognitive scientist. He is also an atheist.

[[Manchester Monarchs]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in the United States, 21st-century establishments in New Hampshire, American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Manchester, New Hampshire

The Manchester Monarchs were an American professional ice hockey team that played between 2001 and 2015. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Los Angeles Kings of the NHL. They play their home games in Manchester, New Hampshire at the Verizon Wireless Arena. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Ontario Reign. They have won two regular season titles.

[[Devin Hester]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Chicago Bears players, Atlanta Falcons players, American football wide receivers, Sportspeople from Florida

Devin Hester (born November 4, 1982 in Riviera Beach, Florida) is an American football return specialist for the Atlanta Falcons. Hester was drafted out of the University of Miami by the Chicago Bears with the 57th pick in the second round of the 2006 NFL Draft. Hester won an ESPY Award in 2007 for the Breakthrough Player of the Year.

[[Hunter Cantwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, Carolina Panthers players, American football quarterbacks, Sportspeople from Tennessee, People from Chattanooga, Tennessee

Hunter Cantwell (born December 30, 1985 in Chattanooga, Tennessee) is a retired American football quarterback who played for on the practice squad for the Carolina Panthers and the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). Cantwell played college football at the University of Louisville. He was undrafted and started his NFL career in 2009 and ended his NFL career in 2011. He is currently the quarterbacks coach for Campbellsville University.

[[University of Louisville]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Coast Conference, Colleges and universities in Kentucky, Louisville, Kentucky, 1798 establishments in Kentucky

The University of Louisville is a public university in Louisville, Kentucky. The university has about 19,743 students. It was founded in 1798. The current president of the university is Neeli Bendapudi. 

[[Orion]]

Orion may mean:

[[University of South Florida]]

CATEGORIES: American Athletic Conference, Colleges and universities in Florida, Tampa, Florida

The University of South Florida is a public university in Tampa, Florida. The university has about 45,713 students. It was founded in 1956. The current president of the university is Judy Genshaft.

[[West Virginia University]]

CATEGORIES: Big 12 Conference, West Virginia, Colleges and universities in the United States, 1867 establishments in the United States

West Virginia University is a public university in Morgantown, West Virginia. The university has about 29,306 students. It was founded in 1867. The current president of the university is E. Gordon Gee, who is in his second stint as president. 

[[Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Government

An agency is an organization which acts on behalf of others. There are commercial agencies, and government agencies. Dictionary.com defines 'agency': "an organization, company, or bureau that provides some service for another: a welfare agency". Actors, models, authors, sportspeople all have agents or agencies.

[[Acanthodii]]

CATEGORIES: Extinct fish

Acanthodii (sometimes called spiny sharks) is a class of extinct fishes, having features of both bony fish (Osteichthyes) and cartilaginous fish (Chondrichthyes). They appeared in the early Silurian (430 mya) and lasted until the late Permian (250 mya). The earliest ancanthodians were marine, but during the Devonian, freshwater species became predominant. They are distinguished in two respects: they were the first known jawed vertebrates, and they had stout spines supporting their fins, fixed in place and non-movable (like a shark's dorsal fin).

[[Villanova University]]

CATEGORIES: Big East Conference, Colleges and universities in Pennsylvania, 1842 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Villanova University is a private university in Villanova, Pennsylvania. The university has about 9,535 students. It was founded in 1842. The current president of the university is Rev. Peter M. Donohue, O.S.A. .

[[University of Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Big East Conference, Hockey East, Colleges and universities in Connecticut, 1881 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Connecticut

The University of Connecticut or sometimes referred to as UCONN for short is a public university in Storrs and Mansfield, Connecticut. The university has about 28,677 students. It was founded in 1881. The current president of the university is Dr. Philip E. Austin. 

[[Seton Hall University]]

CATEGORIES: Big East Conference, Colleges and universities in New Jersey, 1856 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in New Jersey

Seton Hall University is a private Roman Catholic university in South Orange, New Jersey, United States.  It was started in 1856 by Archbishop James Roosevelt Bayley. Seton Hall is the oldest diocesan university in the United States. Seton Hall is also the oldest and largest Catholic university in New Jersey. The university is known for its programs in business, law, education, nursing, and diplomacy.

Seton Hall is made up of eight different schools and colleges.  It has about 5,200 undergraduate students and about 4,400 graduate students. Its School of Law has 1,200 students. US News & World Report lists the School of Law as one of the top 100 law schools in the United States.In 2011, Seton Hall's Stillman School of Business is ranked 88 out of the top 100 undergraduate business schools.  It is #3 in the state of New Jersey according to BusinessWeek.

The Seton Hall College of Medicine and Dentistry was the first school of medicine in the State of New Jersey. The state took over the school in 1965.  It is now the New Jersey Medical School, part of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey.

[[DePaul University]]

CATEGORIES: Big East Conference, Colleges and universities in Chicago, 1898 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Illinois

DePaul University is a private university in Chicago, Illinois. The university has about 24,008 students. It was founded in 1898. The current president of the university is A. Gabriel Esteban, PhD. It was named after 17th-century French priest Saint Vincent de Paul.

DePaul's two main campuses are located in Lincoln Park and the Loop.  The Lincoln Park Campus is home to the Colleges of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences, Science and Health, and Education. The Loop campus is home to Colleges of Business, Law and Technology. 

Since 1998, DePaul University has been the largest Catholic university in the United States.

[[Marquette University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, Big East Conference, Colleges and universities in Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 1898 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Wisconsin

Marquette University is a private, coeducational, Roman Catholic university in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The university has about 11,599 students. It was founded in 1898. The current president of the university is Rev. Robert A. Wild, S.J. . 

[[Providence College]]

CATEGORIES: Big East Conference, Colleges and universities in Rhode Island, Providence, Rhode Island, 1917 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Rhode Island

Providence College is a private, Roman Catholic university in Providence, Rhode Island. The university has about 4,585 students. It was founded in 1917. The current president of the university is Fr. Brian J. Shanley, O.P. . 

[[St. John's University (New York City)]]

CATEGORIES: Big East Conference, Colleges and universities in New York City, 1870 establishments in New York (state)

St. John's University is a private, coeducational, Roman Catholic university in Queens, New York. The university has about 20,069 students. It was founded in 1870. The current president of the university is Rev. Donald J. Harrington. There is also a campus in Paris, France and Rome, Italy.

[[University of Cincinnati]]

CATEGORIES: American Athletic Conference, Colleges and universities in Ohio, Cincinnati, Ohio, 1819 establishments in the United States, 1810s establishments in Ohio

The University of Cincinnati is a public university in Cincinnati, Ohio. The university has about 41,357 students. It was founded in 1819. The current president of the university is Gregory H. Williams. 

[[University of Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain West Conference, Colleges and universities in the United States, Wyoming, 1886 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Wyoming Territory

The University of Wyoming is a public university in Laramie, Wyoming. The university has about 13,657 students. It was founded in 1886. The current president of the university is Tom Buchanan. Dick Cheney went to the University of Wyoming.

[[University of Nevada, Las Vegas]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain West Conference, Colleges and universities in the United States, Nevada, 1957 establishments in the United States

The University of Nevada, Las Vegas, often known as UNLV, is a public, coeducational university in Paradise, Nevada. The university has about 29,069 students. It was founded in 1957. The current president of the university is Neal J. Smatresk. 

[[Carol Channing]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, American movie actors, American dancers, American LGBT rights activists, Singers from Seattle, Washington, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from Washington, Actors from Seattle, Washington, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors

Carol Elaine Channing (January 31, 1921 – January 15, 2019) was an American stand-up comedian, actress, singer, dancer and voice artist. She received three Tony Awards. Channing played Lorelei in the movie Gentlemen Prefer Blondes and played Dolly in the movie Hello, Dolly!.

[[University of New Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain West Conference, Colleges and universities in New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, 1889 establishments in the United States

The University of New Mexico is a public university in Albuquerque, New Mexico. The university has about 34,674 students. It was founded in 1889. The current president of the university is David J. Schmidly. 

[[University of Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Big Ten Conference, Colleges and universities in Iowa, 1847 establishments in Iowa

The University of Iowa is a college in Iowa City, Iowa. It was founded in 1847.

[[San Diego State University]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain West Conference, California State University, San Diego, California, 1897 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in California

San Diego State University or SDSU for short is a public university in San Diego, California, and a part of the California State University system. The university has about 33,790 students. It was founded in 1897. The current president of the university is Elliot Hirshman. 

[[Boise State University]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain West Conference, Colleges and universities in Idaho, Boise, Idaho, 1974 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Idaho

Boise State University is a public university in Boise, Idaho. The university has about 19,993 students. It was founded in 1974. The current president of the university is Robert W. Kustra.

[[Troy University]]

CATEGORIES: Sun Belt Conference, Colleges and universities in Alabama, 1887 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Alabama

Troy University is a public university in Troy, Alabama. The university has about 30,000 students. It was founded in 1887. The current chancellor of the university is Jack Hawkins, Jr.

[[Jaclyn Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Houston, Texas

Jaclyn Smith (born October 26, 1945 in Houston, Texas) is an American actress. She played Kelly Garrett in the television series Charlie's Angels from 1976 to 1981. She also acted in many television movies.

[[University of North Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Conference USA, Colleges and universities in Texas, 1890 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Texas, Denton, Texas

The University of North Texas is a public university in Denton, Texas. The university has 40,796 students as of 2020. It was founded in 1890. The current president of the university is Neal Smatresk.

[[Western Kentucky University]]

CATEGORIES: Conference USA, Colleges and universities in Kentucky, 1906 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Kentucky

Western Kentucky University is a public university in Bowling Green, Kentucky. The university has about 20,712 students. It was founded in 1906. The current president of the university is Dr. Gary A. Ransdell. 

[[Kurt Thomas (basketball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, American basketball players, Sportspeople from Dallas, Texas, Living people

Kurt Vincent Thomas (born October 4, 1972 in Dallas, Texas) is an American basketball player. He currently plays for the Chicago Bulls as a Power forward and Center. 

He was drafted out of Texas Christian University in the 1995 NBA Draft in the 1st round with the 10th pick by the Miami Heat.

He has also played with the Miami Heat from 1995 to 1997, Dallas Mavericks from 1997 to 1998, New York Knicks from 1998 to 2005, Phoenix Suns from 2005 to 2007, Seattle SuperSonics from 2007 to 2008, San Antonio Spurs from 2008 to 2009 and the Milwaukee Bucks from 2009 to 2010.

[[The Adjustment Bureau]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 romance movies, 2010s mystery movies, 2011 science fiction movies, 2010s thriller movies, American mystery movies, American romance movies, American science fiction movies, American thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in New York City

The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 American romance science fiction thriller movie set in 2006. It was produced by George Nolfi, Chris Moore, Michael Hackett and Bill Carraro and was directed by George Nolfi. The movie was released on March 4, 2011.

[[Harmonia Macrocosmica]]

CATEGORIES: 1660 books, Astronomy, Science books

The Harmonia Macrocosmica is a star atlas by Andreas Cellarius. It was published in 1660 by Johannes Janssonius. The first part of the atlas has copper plate prints showing the universe models of Claudius Ptolemy, Nicolaus Copernicus and Tycho Brahe. In the second part are star maps of the Christian constellations. The atlas also had plates supporting the views of the Catholic Church, so the book was not placed on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum, a list of publications the Catholic Church censored.

[[Jane Russell]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Actors from Minnesota, American movie actors, American television actors, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Singers from Minnesota

Ernestine Jane Geraldine Russell, known simply as Jane Russell (June 21, 1921 - February 28, 2011) was an Canadian-American actress, born in Minnesota. She starred in almost two dozen films throughout her career. Russell died in Santa Maria, California of a respiratory related illness.

[[Meave Leakey]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, British biologists, Kenya, British anthropologists, British zoologists, British palaeontologists, Female scientists, Leakey family

Meave G. Leakey PhD DSc (hon) is a renowned paleontologist who studies the origin of mankind in West Africa. She was born Meave Epps, 28 July 1942 in London, and is married to Richard Leakey, the son of Louis and Mary Leakey. She is a research professor at Stony Brook University.

They have two children, Louise (born 1972) and Samira (born 1974). Her daughter Louise Leakey is also a paleontologist studying human origins.

Dr. Leakey's research team at Lake Turkana, Kenya made a discovery in 1999 that changed our understanding of early human ancestry. They found a 3.5 million-year-old skull and partial jaw thought to belong to a new branch of our early human family. She named the find Kenyanthropus platyops, or flat-faced man of Kenya.

[[Lake Turkana]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Africa, Archaeological sites in Africa

Lake Turkana, formerly known as Lake Rudolf, is a lake in the Great Rift Valley in northwest Kenya. Its far northern end crosses into Ethiopia. 

It is the world's largest permanent desert lake and the world's largest alkaline lake. By volume it is the world's fourth-largest salt lake after the Caspian Sea, Issyk-Kul Lake and the (shrinking) Aral Sea. Among all lakes, it ranks 24th in area.

The water is drinkable, but not palatable. It supports a rich lacustrine wildlife. The climate is hot and very dry. 

The rocks of the surrounding area are predominantly volcanic. Central Island is an active volcano, emitting vapors. Outcrops and rocky shores are found on the East and South shores of the lake, while dunes, spits and flats are on the West and North, at a lower elevation.

On-shore and off-shore winds can be extremely strong as the lake warms and cools more slowly than the land. Sudden, violent storms are frequent. Three rivers (the Omo, Turkwel and Kerio) flow into the lake, but lacking outflow, its only water loss is by evaporation. Lake volume and dimensions are variable. For example, its level fell by 10 between 1975 and 1993.

Due to temperature, aridity and geographic inaccessibility, the lake retains its wild character. Many Nile crocodiles are  on the flats. The rocky shores are home to scorpions and carpet vipers. Although the lake and its environs have been popular for expeditions of every sort under the tutelage of guides, rangers and experienced persons, they certainly must be considered hazardous for unguided tourists.

Lake Turkana National Parks are listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Sibiloi National Park lies on the lake's eastern shore, while Central Island National Park and South Island National Park are in the lake. Both have crocodiles.

The Lake Turkana area is regarded by many anthropologists as the cradle of humankind because there are many hominid fossils. The skeleton of Turkana boy was found near the lake in 1984.

[[Marie Osmond]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Actors from Utah, American country musicians, American television actors, Singers from Utah, People from Ogden, Utah

Olive Marie Osmond, known simply as Marie Osmond (born October 13, 1959) is an American singer, actress, and doll designer. She was born in Ogden, Utah. She is the sister of Donny Osmond. Marie was not a part of her family's singing group The Osmonds. She had some success as a solo country artist in the 1970s and 1980s. She also hosted several talk shows with her brother Donny.

[[Louis Leakey]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1972 deaths, British biologists, Kenyan scientists, British anthropologists, Autobiographers, British palaeontologists, British archaeologists, Leakey family

Louis Leakey (L.S.B. Leakey, 7 August 1903 – 1 October 1972) was a Kenyan archaeologist, anthropologist and naturalist.

His work was important in establishing human evolutionary development in East Africa. He also played a major role in creating organizations for future research in Africa and for protecting wildlife there.

Leakey was the third of the three great anthropologists of British origin who made Africa their home: the others were Robert Broom and Raymond Dart.

He started a tradition of palaeoanthropological inquiry in Kenya. His own family carried on the 'family firm'. Several of them became well-known anthropologists and fossil hunters.

Louis took part in national events of British East Africa and then Kenya at critical times.

In biology he asserted Charles Darwin's theory of evolution unswervingly, and set about to prove Darwin's hypothesis that man arose in Africa. He was also a devout Christian.chapter 3 

[[Donny Osmond]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Actors from Utah, American child actors, American child singers, American game show hosts, American movie actors, American pop musicians, American television actors, American television producers, Participants in American reality television series, People from Ogden, Utah, Singers from Utah, Musicians from Utah

Donald Clark "Donny" Osmond (born December 9, 1957) is an American musician, actor, singer, and teen idol. He is also a talk show and game show host. Donny was part of the group The Osmonds before he went solo later on. He was born in Ogden, Utah.

[[Degree of unsaturation]]

CATEGORIES: Organic chemistry

Degree of unsaturation (DOU) is a way to figure out how many rings or double bonds are in a molecule.

[[Olduvai Gorge]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Tanzania, Archaeological sites in Africa, Prehistoric Africa

The Olduvai Gorge is a steep-sided ravine in the Great Rift Valley that stretches through East Africa. It is in the eastern Serengeti Plains in northern Tanzania.

The Gorge is about 48 long. It is 45 km from the Laetoli archaeological site. The gorge is a highly important prehistoric site for the study of human evolution. It was once a lake, and got covered by layers of volcanic ash.

This site was occupied by Homo habilis about 1.9 million years ago, Paranthropus boisei 1.8 million years ago, and Homo erectus 1.2 million years ago. Homo sapiens occupied the site 17,000 years ago.

The name is a misspelling of Oldupai Gorge, which was adopted as the official name in 2005. Oldupai is the Maasai word for the wild sisal plant Sansevieria ehrenbergii, which grows in the gorge.

[[Vermicelli]]

CATEGORIES: Pasta

Vermicelli (English pronunciation: /ˌvɜrmɨˈtʃɛli/, Italian: vermiˈtʃɛlli, meaning "little worms") is a type of pasta. It is round in section and somewhat thinner than spaghetti.

[[Richard Leakey]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, British anthropologists, British palaeontologists, Atheists, People from Nairobi, Autobiographers, Civil servants, Leakey family

Richard Leakey (born 19 December 1944 in Nairobi, Kenya) is a politician,  paleoanthropologist and conservationist. He is second of the three sons of the anthropologists Louis Leakey and Mary Leakey.

[[Arizona State University]]

CATEGORIES: Pac-12 Conference, Colleges and universities in Arizona, Tempe, Arizona, 1885 establishments in the United States

Arizona State University is a public university in Tempe, Arizona. The university has about 70,440 students. It was founded in 1885. The current president of the university is Michael M. Crow.

[[Vanderbilt University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Southeastern Conference, Colleges and universities in Nashville, Tennessee, 1873 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Tennessee

Vanderbilt University is a private university in Nashville, Tennessee, named after Cornelius Vanderbilt. The university has about 12,714 students. It was founded in 1873. The current chairman of the university, whose official title is "Chancellor", is Daniel Diermeier.

[[Louise Leakey]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Kenyan scientists, Living people, British anthropologists, British palaeontologists, Female scientists, Leakey family

Louise Leakey (born 21 March 1972) is a Kenyan paleontologist. She does research and field work on human fossils in East Africa.

Louise first became actively involved in fossil discoveries in 1977, at the age of six, when she became the youngest person to find hominid fossils. In 1993, she replaced her father Richard Leakey as field expedition leader for Turkana paleontological expeditions, in one of the most arid and hostile environments on Earth.

Today, together with her mother, Meave Leakey, she leads the Koobi Fora research project. This has produced some of the most notable hominid fossil discoveries of the past two decades, the most recent being Kenyanthropus platyops.

Louise Leakey was born in Kenya in 1972, the same year as her grandfather Louis Leakey died. She  married Emmanuel de Merode, a Belgian primatologist in 2003. They have two daughters: Seiya, born in 2004, and Alexia born in 2006.

[[Furikake]]

CATEGORIES: Condiments

Furikake  is a type of condiment that has a mixture of dried and ground fish, sesame seeds, chopped seaweed, sugar, salt, and monosodium glutamate. It is popular in Japan and is usually put on rice. Furikake has around 6 calories.

[[My Darkest Days]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Canadian rock bands, Canadian hard rock bands, Post-grunge bands, 2005 establishments in Canada

My Darkest Days is a Canadian rock band from Norwood, Ontario. My Darkest Days has five members in the band; the current band members are Matt Walst, Sal Costa, Brendan McMillan, Doug Oliver and Reid Henry.

The band was formed in 2006 by lead singer Matt Walst. They released their self-titled debut album "My Darkest Days" on September 21, 2010. They are currently signed to 604 Records. They released their second studio album "Sick and Twisted Affair" on March 26, 2012.

[[Betty White]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Illinois, American animal rights activists, American movie actors, American television actors, Comedians from Illinois, Democrats (United States), Emmy Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Writers from Illinois, Television personalities from Illinois, People from Oak Park, Illinois, 1922 births, Living people

Betty Marion White (born January 17, 1922) is an American actress, comedian, presenter, singer, author, and television personality. She acted as Sue Ann Nivens in The Mary Tyler Moore Show and as Rose Nylund in the television sitcom The Golden Girls. She currently stars as Elka Ostrovsky, in the TV Land comedy Hot in Cleveland.

She has won seven Emmy Awards during her career. In 1983, she became the first woman to win a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Game Show Host. White also holds the record for longest span between Emmy nominations for performances—her first was in 1951 and her most recent was in 2012, a span of 61 years—and has become the oldest nominee as of 2013, aged 91. The actress is also the oldest winner of a competitive Grammy Award, which she won in 2012. She was host for the NBC entry Just Men!.

In 2011 White began hosting a new program, Betty White's Off Their Rockers. In the program senior citizens play practical jokes on the younger generation. A special Betty White's 90th Birthday Party was on NBC a day before the star's birthday on January 16, 2012. The show had appearances of many stars with whom White has worked over the years.

[[Homefront (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Windows games, 2011 video games, Shooter video games, THQ games

Homefront is a first-person shooter video game made by Kaos Studios for Windows and the Xbox 360 and Digital Extremes for the PC.

The game is set in the future America in the year 2027 and is about the nuclear-armed Korean People's Army (of North Korea) who invade the USA.  The game's main character can either fight the Koreans in the main game or the Americans in the multiplayer game.

There has been controversy over the game's release in Japan where they censored the game by removing all the references to North Korea which included pictures of North Korean leader Kim Jong-il because they thought that to "use their real names would have been 'malicious'  to an 'existing person' and an 'existing country.'". The game has also been banned from all types of sales in South Korea.

[[Sgt. Slaughter]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from South Carolina, WWE Hall of Fame

Robert Remus (born March 27, 1948, in Parris Island, South Carolina) better known by his ring name, Sgt. Slaughter, is a retired American professional wrestler that is best known for wrestling for WWF/E under the ring name Sgt. Slaughter. 

He is a one-time WWF Champion and was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2004 by Pat Patterson.

His finishing move was the Camel clutch and then the Cobra clutch.

[[Pretty Woman]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 comedy movies, 1990 romance movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies about prostitution, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies directed by Garry Marshall

Pretty Woman is a 1990 American romantic comedy movie set in Los Angeles. It stars Julia Roberts as a street prostitute and Richard Gere as a rich businessman. It became one of the highest-grossing movies of 1990. Roberts won a Golden Globe Award for her performance.

[[Darko Miličić]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Basketball players, Detroit Pistons players, Orlando Magic players, Memphis Grizzlies players, Minnesota Timberwolves players, New York Knicks players

Darko Miličić (born June 20, 1985 in Novi Sad, Serbia, Yugoslavia) is an Serbian basketball player that currently plays for the Minnesota Timberwolves of the NBA. He was drafted by the Detroit Pistons with the 2nd overall pick in the 1st round of the 2003 NBA Draft. He also played for the Detroit Pistons from 2003 to 2006, Orlando Magic from 2006 to 2007, Memphis Grizzlies from 2007 to 2009 and the New York Knicks from 2009 to 2010. He was traded to the Minnesota Timberwolves along with cash considerations for Brian Cardinal from the Knicks.

[[Barbara Walters]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, American journalists, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts, American television news anchors, American television talk show hosts, Emmy Award winners

Barbara Walters (born September 25, 1929) is an author and broadcast journalist. 

Walters was the news anchor at NBC's Today. For 25 years Walters also hosted the ABC show 20/20. She co-hosted the morning television show The View from 1997 to 2014. 

Walter's has interviewed every U.S. President since Richard Nixon.

[[UDFy-38135539]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies

UDFy-38135539 (also known as HUDF.YD3) is a galaxy in the Fornax constellation. At present it is the farthest confirmed object ever seen. UDFy-38135539 is 13.1 billion light years from the Earth.

[[Mira Sorvino]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New Jersey, Academy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Mira Sorvino (born September 28, 1967) is an American actress. She received an Academy Award for "Best Supporting Actress" for her role in the 1995 movie Mighty Aphrodite. She starred in many other Hollywood movies. More recently she has been starring in low budget or independent movies. 

[[Dynasty (1981 TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 television series debuts, 1989 disestablishments in the United States, 1980s American drama television series, Denver, Colorado, Television series about families, Television series set in Colorado, 1981 establishments in the United States, ABC network shows, English-language television programs

Dynasty was an American primetime soap opera which aired on ABC beginning in January 1981 and ending in May 1989. Starring in the series were John Forsythe, Heather Locklear, Linda Evans, Pamela Sue Martin and Joan Collins. This show was focused on the rich Carrington family from Denver, Colorado.

Between 1985 and 1987 a spin-off show The Colbys was being made.

[[Hank Gathers]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 1990 deaths, Deaths from cardiomyopathy, American basketball players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Eric "Hank" Gathers (February 11, 1967–March 4, 1990) was an American basketball player that played for Loyola Marymount University where he was a breakout star. Gathers originally played at the University of Southern California before transferring to Loyola Marymount University with his teammate Bo Kimble. He died on March 4, 1990, after he collapsed on the court after making an alley-oop dunk. He was reported as saying "I don't want to lay down!" before he stopped breathing and was declared dead on arrival at the hospital. He also collapsed at the free-throw line during an LMU home game on December 9, 1989 before. It was reported that he suffered from a heart-muscle disorder called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy during his autopsy. His life was featured in a 1992 TV movie, Final Shot: The Hank Gathers Story and in an ESPN film called Guru of Go for their 30 for 30 sries.

[[Bulletstorm]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Windows games, 2011 video games, Shooter video games, Cooperative video games, PlayStation 4 games, Xbox One games

Bulletstorm is a first-person shooter video game made by People Can Fly and Epic Games for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Microsoft Windows.

The game came under negative criticism by Fox News for it's use of profanity, crude behavior and sexual innuendo. Electronic Arts responded to this saying, "As you know, Bulletstorm is a work of entertainment fiction... The game and its marketing adhere to all guidelines set forth by the ESRB; both designed for people 17+...Much like Tarantino's Kill Bill or Rodriguez's Sin City, this game is an expression of creative entertainment for adults."

[[Wildlife Protection Act of 1972]]

CATEGORIES: Legislation, Protected areas, 1972, 1970s in India, 1970s in law

The Wildlife Protection Act of 1972 is a set of laws created in 1972 by the Government of India. Before 1972, India had only five national parks.

The Act protects wild animals, birds and plants in all of India, except the State of Jammu and Kashmir, which has its own wildlife act. It has six sections that give different degrees of protection. Schedule I https://web.archive.org/web/20100911112324/http://envfor.nic.in/legis/wildlife/wildlife2s1.html and part II of Schedule II https://web.archive.org/web/20100911112329/http://envfor.nic.in/legis/wildlife/wildlife2s2.html provide complete protection. Offences under these are given the highest penalty. Species listed in Schedule III https://web.archive.org/web/20100911112334/http://envfor.nic.in/legis/wildlife/wildlife2s3.html and Schedule IV https://web.archive.org/web/20101115020300/http://envfor.nic.in/legis/wildlife/wildlife2s4.html are also protected, but the penalties are much lower. Schedule V https://web.archive.org/web/20100911112344/http://envfor.nic.in/legis/wildlife/wildlife2s5.html includes the animals that can be hunted. The plants in Schedule VI https://web.archive.org/web/20100911112351/http://envfor.nic.in/legis/wildlife/wildlife2s6.html are prohibited from harvesting and planting.

[[Gombe Stream National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Africa, Geography of Tanzania

Gombe Stream National Park is a National Park in north-western Tanzania.

It borders on Lake Tanganyika, and is just south of the border with Burundi. The regional capital of western Tanganyika, Kigoma, is 10 miles (20 km) south of Gombe.

Established in 1968, Gombe is the smallest national park in Tanzania, with only 20 of forest running along the hills of the northern shore of Lake Tanganyika.

The terrain has steep valleys, and the forest vegetation ranges from grassland to alpine bamboo to tropical rainforest.

The Park can only be reached by boat.

[[Rue McClanahan]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2010 deaths, Actors from Oklahoma, American activists, American autobiographers, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Emmy Award winning actors

Rue McClanahan (February 21, 1934 – June 3, 2010) was an American actress. She acted in several television sitcoms, most notably The Golden Girls. She won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in 1987.

She also starred in Mama's Family. McClanahan died of a stroke. 

McClanahan was born Eddi-Rue McClanahan. She earned a Bachelor of Arts degree at the University of Tulsa.

She began acting on off-Broadway in New York City in 1957.  Her Broadway début was in 1969.  She was in the musical, Jimmy Shine. Dustin Hoffman was in the title role.

Her autobiography, My First Five Husbands ... and the Ones Who Got Away, was released in 2007.

[[Lead poisoning]]

CATEGORIES: Toxicology

Lead poisoning is a condition where there is too much lead in the body. Lead interferes with many processes, and is toxic to many organs and tissues. Treatment of the condition is usually focused on removing the source of lead.

[[Bulldozer]]

CATEGORIES: Machines, Engineering

Bulldozers are crawling machines which have blades. These machines are used for pushing large amounts of dirt or rubble during demolition or construction. They have claw-like devices in the rear to loosen materials which are densely compacted.

Bulldozers are structurally different from excavators, but in many respects their functions are similar. If we talk about universal types of construction equipment, then bulldozers are used when a large amount of work is expected. According to the method of movement, the bulldozers are divided into wheeled and tracked. This construction equipment is used for levelling the soil layer, digging trenches, as well as for transporting bulk cargo. The bulldozer is an economical and efficient construction assistant.

[[Grand Duke Alexei Alexandrovich of Russia]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 births, 1908 deaths, Russian grand dukes and duchesses, House of Holstein-Gottorp-Romanov, People with foods named after them

Grand Duke Alexei Alexandrovich of Russia (St. Petersburg 14 January 1850 (4 January O.S.) – Paris, 14 November 1908) was the sixth child and the fourth son of Alexander II of Russia and his first wife Maria Alexandrovna (Marie of Hesse). Destined to a naval career, Alexei Alexandrovich started his military training at the age of 7. By the age of 20 he had been appointed lieutenant of the Russian Imperial Navy and had visited all European military ports of Russia. In 1871 he was sent as a goodwill ambassador to the United States and Japan.

In 1883 he was appointed general admiral. He made a big contribution to re-equipping the Russian navy with new ships and in modernizing the naval ports. He was blamed for the Russian loss to the Japanese in the Battle of Tsushima. In 1905, he was relieved of his command. He died in Paris in 1908.

[[Provisional Irish Republican Army]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 establishments in Europe, 1997 disestablishments in Europe, 20th century in the United Kingdom, 20th century in Ireland, Irish republicanism, National liberation movements, Nationalist organizations in Europe, Politics of Ireland, Politics of the United Kingdom, Provisional Irish Republican Army

The Provisional Irish Republican Army was an Irish republican paramilitary organisation that wanted to unite Ireland, by using armed force to remove Northern Ireland from the United Kingdom, mainly during The Troubles era. It split from the Irish Republican Army (IRA) in 1969. Its violent activities formally ended in 1997. During that time, about 10,000 people were members. In 2002, there were about 1,000 people left; 300 of them were still in active service. In July 2005 it destroyed all its weapons and bombs.July 2019

Its opponents were the British Army, the Royal Ulster Constabulary, and loyalist paramilitary groups like the Ulster Volunteers. The PIRA aimed to remove Northern Ireland from the United Kingdom and create a socialist republic within a united Ireland. It tried to do this through armed attacks and explosions and by using political persuasion.

The Provisional Irish Republican Army is also referred to as the IRA, the PIRA, the Provos, or by its supporters as the Army or the 'RA. The PIRA usually refers to its members as volunteers. The IRA is a listed in the UK under the Terrorism Act 2000. It is also listed as an unlawful organisation in the Republic of Ireland. The United States does not list the IRA as a "foreign terrorist organization", but includes them in the category of "other selected terrorist groups also deemed of relevance in the global war on terrorism.".

[[Toa Payoh]]

CATEGORIES: Places in Singapore

Toa Payoh is a place in Singapore. It is found in the central area of the Singapore island and is well known for having the first bus interchange with air conditioner in it. The whole district covers a total of 845 ha in land area.

[[Loammi Baldwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1744 births, 1807 deaths, Harvard University alumni, Politicians from Massachusetts, People with foods named after them, American revolutionaries

Colonel Loammi Baldwin (January 10, 1744-October 20, 1807) was a noted American engineer, politician, and a soldier in the American Revolutionary War.

Baldwin is known as the Father of American Civil Engineering. His five sons, Cyrus Baldwin (1773-1854), Benjamin Franklin Baldwin (1777-1821), Loammi Baldwin, Jr. (1780-1834), James Fowle Baldwin (1782-1862), and George Rumford Baldwin (1798-1888) were also well-known engineers.  He surveyed and built the Middlesex Canal, but today he is perhaps best remembered for the Baldwin apple which he discovered when surveying the Middlesex Canal, and then developed at his farm

[[Maxime Vachier-Lagrave]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Chess grandmasters, French people

[[Eva Mendes]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American movie actors, Actors from Miami, Florida, Cuban actors

Eva Mendes (born March 5, 1974) is an American actress. She has been in movies including The Other Guys and Training Day. She was born in Miami, Florida and grew up in Los Angeles, California.Currently married to Evan Davies.

[[Estrildid finch]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes

The estrildid finches are small passerine birds of the Old World tropics and Australasia. They can be classified as the family Estrildidae (weaver-finch), or as a sub-group within the family Passeridae, which also includes the true sparrows.

They live in flocks and often colonial seed-eaters with short, thick, but pointed bills. They are all similar in structure and habits, but vary widely in plumage colours and pattern.

All the estrildids build large domed nests and lay 5–10 white eggs. Many species build roost nests. Some of the fire-finches and pytilias are hosts to the brood-parasitic indigobirds and whydahs respectively.

Most are sensitive to cold and require a warm, usually tropical, habitat, although a few have adapted to the cooler climates of southern Australia.

[[Magic Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, African-American basketball players, American Olympic gold medalists, American philanthropists, American television talk show hosts, Grammy Award winners, Living people, Los Angeles Lakers players, Medalists at the 1992 Summer Olympics, National Basketball Association broadcasters, People from Lansing, Michigan, People with HIV/AIDS, Sportspeople from Michigan, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

Earvin "Magic" Johnson Jr. (born August 14, 1959 in Lansing, Michigan) is an American retired NBA basketball player. He won the NBA Championship in 1980, 1982, 1985, 1987 and 1988 all with the Los Angeles Lakers. He played college basketball at Michigan State University where he developed a rivalry and friendship with Boston Celtics star Larry Bird when he faced him in the 1979 NCAA finals and three NBA championship games.  Although Johnson was a versatile player who played all five positions occasionally, he is considered by many to be the greatest point guard, passer and playmaker in the history of the game.

In 1991, Johnson made public that he had been diagnosed with HIV. He is a supporter of AIDS prevention.

In 1992, Johnson was a member of the United States men's national basketball team. That team won an Olympic gold medal.

He was inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2002 and was also named as one of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History in 1996.

On February 21, 2017, Johnson replaced Jim Buss as the president of basketball operations for the Los Angeles Lakers. On April 9, 2019, Johnson resigned from his role as president of basketball operations of the Lakers wishing to return to his role of NBA ambassador.

[[University of South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Southeastern Conference, Colleges and universities in South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, 1801 establishments in the United States, 1800s establishments in South Carolina

The University of South Carolina is a public, co-educational university in Columbia, South Carolina. The university has about 44,557 students. It was founded in 1801. The current president of the university is Dr. Harris Pastides. 

[[University of Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Southeastern Conference, Colleges and universities in Arkansas, Fayetteville, Arkansas, 1871 establishments in Arkansas

The University of Arkansas is a public, co-educational university in Fayetteville, Arkansas. The university has about 21,406 students. It was founded in 1871. The current president of the university is Dr. B. Alan Sugg. 

[[Chevrolet Cruze]]

CATEGORIES: Chevrolet automobiles, Sedans, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Chevrolet Cruze is a four-door sedan and hatchback that is built by General Motors' Chevrolet brand. A subcompact Cruze based on the Suzuki Ignis was built between 2001 and 2008. Since 2008, the current compact has been produced as a replacement for the Chevrolet Cobalt. The Cruze is actually a rebadged Daewoo Lacetti Premiere, prior to its introduction, the original model was sold under Suzuki in America. Chevrolet Cruze is the only compact model to not have a Pontiac twin, instead it shares similarities with the new Buick Verano.

In the US, the Cruze is available with either a 1.8-liter or 1.4-liter 4-cylinder engine producing 138 hp. Both are available with six-speed manual and automatic transmissions. GM has announced that in late 2016 a hatchback version of the Cruze will be offered in North America.

[[Lamborghini Murciélago]]

CATEGORIES: Lamborghini automobiles, Coupes, Roadsters, Sports cars, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Lamborghini Murciélago is a supercar. Lamborghini built it from 2001 to 2010. The Murciélago was succeeded by the Lamborghini Aventador. It replaced the Diablo. The Murciélago was designed by Luc Donckerwolke. Lamborghini built 4,099 Murciélagos. 

[[Ali Abdullah Saleh]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Assassinated people, Muslims, Presidents of Yemen

Ali Abdullah Saleh (علي عبدالله صالح; born 21 March 1942 – 4 December 2017) was a Yemeni politician. He was the first President of the Republic of Yemen. Before that time, Saleh served as the President of the Yemen Arab Republic (North Yemen) from 1978 until 1990. In 1990, he assumed the office of chairman of the Presidential Council of the Republic of Yemen (North & South Yemen). He was the longest-serving president of Yemen, ruling since 1978. On February 2, 2011, he announced that he would step down in 2013.

In December 2017, Saleh said he would not support the Houthis and instead sided with his former enemies – Saudi Arabia and president Hadi. However, he was killed by a Houthi sniper while attempting to leave the capital city of Sana'a amidst the ongoing battle on 4 December 2017. The Houthis said that it was the United Arab Emirates that dragged Saleh to "this humiliating fate."

[[Lamborghini Diablo]]

CATEGORIES: Lamborghini automobiles, Roadsters, Sports cars, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

1576 (Diablo)

The Lamborghini Diablo is a sports car. Lamborghini built it from 1990 to 2001. The  name Diablo means "devil" in Spanish. The Diablo replaced the Countach. Lamborghini made the Diablo in Sant'Agata Bolognese, Italy. Lamborghini built 2,884 Diablos in total. The next model after Diablo was Murciélago. 

[[Lamborghini Jalpa]]

CATEGORIES: Lamborghini automobiles, Sports cars, 1980s automobiles

The Lamborghini Jalpa is a sports car. Lamborghini built it from 1981 to 1988. The Jalpa came after the Silhouette. The Jalpa was designed by Carrozzeria Bertone.

[[Lamborghini Countach]]

CATEGORIES: Lamborghini automobiles, Sports cars, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles

The Lamborghini Countach is a sports car. Lamborghini built it from from 1974 to 1990. The Countach came after the Miura. Gruppo Bertone designed the Countach. The car used several different V12 engines by the time Lamborghini stopped making it in 1990.

[[Haloti Ngata]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, American football defensive tackles, Sportspeople from Los Angeles County, California, People from Inglewood, California, American football defensive ends

Etuini Haloti Ngata (born January 21, 1984 in Inglewood, California) is an American Football and defensive tackle for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). Ngata was drafted out of the University of Oregon by the Baltimore Ravens with the 12th pick in the first round of the 2006 NFL Draft. Ngata was selected to the Pro Bowl in 2010 and 2011. He won Super Bowl XLVII with the Ravens when they defeated the San Francisco 49ers 34-31.

[[Alaska North Slope]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Alaska

The Alaska North Slope is a region of the U.S. state of  Alaska. It is on the northern slope of the Brooks Range along the coast of  the. Arctic Ocean. 

The North Slope is known for having lots of oil. The  National Petroleum Reserve–Alaska and the Prudhoe Bay Oil Field are the two biggest areas where oil is found. The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is there also, and there has been a lot of debate about drilling for oil there. The oil from the North Slope is pumped south in pipes, called the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, to Valdez where it is loaded onto ships.

Because it gets so cold that far north only the very top of  soil, called "tundra" thaws each season; most of the soil is frozen all the time. On top of this permafrost, water flows to in shallow braided streams. Some of it goes into ponds. 

[[Cory Redding]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, American football defensive ends, Sportspeople from Houston, Texas, Baltimore Ravens players, Detroit Lions players, Indianapolis Colts players, Living people, Seattle Seahawks players

Cory Bartholomew Redding (born November 15, 1980 in Houston, Texas) is an American football defensive end for the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League (NFL). Redding was drafted out of the University of Texas by the Detroit Lions with the 66th pick in the third round of the 2003 NFL Draft. Redding has also played for the Detroit Lions from 2003 to 2008, the Seattle Seahawks in 2009, and Baltimore Ravens in 2010-2011, wearing #s 78, 94, and 93.

[[Dennis Pitta]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, American football tight ends, Football players from California, People from Fresno, California

Dennis Pitta (born June 29, 1985 in Fresno, California) is an American football  tight end for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). Pitta was drafted out of the Brigham Young University by the Baltimore Ravens with the 114th pick in the fourth round of the 2010 NFL Draft. He won Super Bowl XLVII with the Ravens when they defeated the San Francisco 49ers 34-31.

[[Terrell Suggs]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, American football linebackers, Sportspeople from Minneapolis, Minnesota

Terrell Raymonn Suggs (born June 11, 1982 in Minneapolis, Minnesota) is an American football player. He plays as a linebacker and defensive end for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). Suggs was drafted out of Arizona State University by the Ravens with the 10th pick in the first round of the 2003 NFL Draft. He won Super Bowl XLVII with the Ravens when they defeated the San Francisco 49ers 34-31.

[[The Double (Seattle Mariners)]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball, Seattle Mariners, 1995 in sports, New York Yankees, 1995 in the United States, 1990s in Washington (U.S. state)

The Double was a double hit by Edgar Martínez of the Seattle Mariners in the 1995 Major League Baseball playoffs. The Mariners were trailing by one run in the bottom of the 11 inning. When Martínez came to bat, Joey Cora was on third base and Ken Griffey, Jr. was on first. Martínez's hit drove in Cora and Griffey, giving the Mariners a 6–5 victory over the New York Yankees. This game gave the Mariners a 3-2 win in the American League Division Series. Former Mariners manager Lou Piniella called The Double "the hit... that saved baseball in Seattle."

[[Derrick Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American football safeties, Sportspeople from Colorado, Baltimore Ravens players, Green Bay Packers players, Living people, New England Patriots players, New York Giants players

Derrick Martin (born May 16, 1985 in Westminster, Colorado) is an American football strong safety that currently plays for the New England Patriots of the National Football League (NFL). Martin was drafted out of the University of Wyoming by the Baltimore Ravens with the 208th pick in the sixth round of the 2006 NFL Draft. 

[[Southeast Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Alaska

Southeast Alaska, sometimes called the Alaska Panhandle is the southeastern portion of the U.S. state of Alaska. It is west of the northern half of the Canadian province of British Columbia. A lot of the panhandle is part of the Tongass National Forest, which is the biggest national forest in the United States. This part of Alaska is known for its mild rainy climate and beautiful scenery.

[[Piers Morgan]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, English journalists, English television presenters, Television personalities from Surrey, The Apprentice contestants, Writers from Surrey

Piers Stefan Pughe-Morgan (born 30 March 1965 in Guildford, Surrey, England) is a British journalist and television personality best known as a co-presenter on the ITV Breakfast programme Good Morning Britain from 2014 to 2021. Morgan wrote for the News of the World from 1994 to 1995 and Daily Mirror from 1995 to 2004. He also is known as a judge on the show America's Got Talent and was also the winner of The Celebrity Apprentice. On 17 January 2011, he started a show called Piers Morgan Live on the Cable News Network and the show took over the timeslot that was previously taken by Larry King Live before Larry King retired. Piers Morgan was fired by CNN President Jeff Zucker in 2014. Piers Morgan's show was cancelled by CNN and the final episode appeared March 28, 2014. A major focus of his program was support for liberal causes, particularly restrictions on gun ownership. He had a feud with his predecessor Larry King. ITV announced that Morgan decided to leave the programme with immediate effect, following negative comments he had made about Meghan, Duchess of Sussex in the days after the U.S. airing of the Oprah with Meghan and Harry interview. Ofcom received over 57,000 complaints from viewers, including a complaint from the Duchess of Sussex herself.

[[Nuclear espionage]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear weapons

Nuclear espionage is sharing a country's secrets about nuclear weapons to other countries without permission. Since nuclear weapons have been invented, there have been many cases of known nuclear espionage, and also many cases where it has thought to have happened, but has not been proven. Because nuclear weapons are usually considered the most important of state secrets, all nations with nuclear weapons have strict rules against sharing information about how nuclear weapons are designed, where they are kept, and other things about them. There are also rules that keep countries who have signed non-proliferation agreements (which are meant to stop the spread of nuclear weapons) from sharing information about such weapons with the public.

[[Bush airplane]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft, Transport in Alaska

A bush airplane is an aircraft serving far away areas of a country, usually the African, Alaskan, and Canadian tundra or the Australian Outback. They are used where the road system is not good, or where there are no roads. Many planes used as bush planes are made by Cessna, or other makers of small and medium-sized airplanes

[[Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Abraham Lincoln, Museums in the United States, Buildings and structures in Springfield, Illinois, Presidential libraries, 2005 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Illinois

The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum is a museum in Springfield, Illinois. It contains papers and exhibits about U.S. President Abraham Lincoln.  Much of the museum is made of dioramas, or re-creations of scenes from the life of Lincoln.  These include scenes of Lincoln in Springfield, Lincoln in the White House, and Lincoln at Ford's Theater.  They were designed by Bob Rogers, who used to work for The Walt Disney Company as a designer.  Some historians did not like that the exhibits were designed by someone who had worked for Disney.  They thought that Disney people do not tell American history the right way.  Along with the dioramas are original artifacts of Lincoln, such as the first copy of the Gettysburg Address.  The library's founding director was Richard Norton Smith, who wrote several books on American presidents. Its current director is Eileen R. Mackevich.

Run by the state of Illinois, the library opened on April 19, 2005. After three years, it had more than 1.5 million visitors.

[[Swoosie Kurtz]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Omaha, Nebraska

Swoosie Kurtz (b. September 6, 1944) is an American movie and television actress. She is from Omaha, Nebraska. She began her acting career in the late 1970s. She starred as Alex in the NBC drama Sisters. Her career has been mainly on television, but Kurtz has had some Hollywood movies.

[[Fin Fang Foom]]

CATEGORIES: Marvel Comics characters

Fin Fang Foom is a supervillain that first appeared in 1961 in the #89 issue of Strange Tales. He was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. He has the power to super strength, the ability to fly with his wings at supersonic speeds, and can also spew combustible acid mist from his mouth. Fin Fang Foom also made multiple appearances in the Iron Man comics.

[[Empty Nest]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, NBC network shows, English-language television programs

Empty Nest was an American sitcom that aired Saturdays on NBC beginning in the late 1980s and ending in the mid 1990s. Starring in the sitcom were Park Overall and Richard Mulligan. The show was distributed under Touchstone Pictures and Television.

[[Branchiopoda]]

CATEGORIES: Branchiopods, Minor phyla

Branchiopoda is a class of crustaceans. It is the sister group to the other crustaceans. They are mostly small, freshwater animals that feed on plankton and detritus. However, many of the Cladocera are marine.

Branchiopods have gills on most of the animals' appendages, including some of the mouthparts. The name means "gill-foot".

[[Barbara Mandrell]]

CATEGORIES: Country musicians, Singers from Houston, Texas, 1948 births, Living people

Barbara Mandrell (born 25 December 1948 in Houston, Texas) is an American country singer. During the 1970s and 1980s she had many top ten hits.

[[American Beauty (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 comedy-drama movies, 1999 LGBT movies, 1990s satirical movies, American comedy-drama movies, American LGBT movies, American satirical movies, BAFTA Award winners, Best Picture Oscar, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, LGBT comedy-drama movies, Midlife crisis movies, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies about suburbia, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Movies directed by Sam Mendes, Adultery in movies

American Beauty is a 1999 American drama movie directed by Sam Mendes and written by Alan Ball. Kevin Spacey stars as Lester Burnham, an advertising executive who has a midlife crisis when he becomes infatuated with his teenage daughter's best friend, played by Mena Suvari. Annette Bening stars as Lester's materialistic wife, Carolyn, and Thora Birch plays their insecure daughter, Jane. Wes Bentley, Chris Cooper, and Allison Janney also feature. Academics have described the movie as a satire of American middle-class notions of beauty and personal satisfaction; further analysis has focused on the film's explorations of romantic and paternal love, sexuality, materialism, self-liberation, and redemption.

Ball began writing American Beauty as a play in the early 1990s, partly inspired by the media circus that accompanied the Amy Fisher trial in 1992. He shelved the play after deciding that the story would not work on stage. After several years as a television screenwriter, Ball revived the idea in 1997 when attempting to break into the movie industry. The rewritten script had a cynical outlook influenced by Ball's frustrating tenures writing for several sitcoms. Producers Dan Jinks and Bruce Cohen took the script for American Beauty to the fledgling DreamWorks studio, which bought it for $250,000, outbidding several other production bodies. DreamWorks financed the $15 million production and served as its North American distributor. American Beauty marked acclaimed theater director Mendes' movie debut; courted after his successful productions of the musicals Oliver! and Cabaret, Mendes was nevertheless only given the job after twenty others were considered and several A-list directors reportedly turned down the opportunity.

Spacey was Mendes' first choice for the role of Lester, though DreamWorks urged him to consider better-known actors. Similarly, the studio suggested several actresses for the role of Carolyn until Mendes offered the part to Bening without the studio's knowledge. Filming took place between December 1998 and February 1999 on sound stages at the Warner Bros. backlot in Burbank, California and on location in Los Angeles. Mendes' dominant directorial style was deliberate and composed; he made extensive use of static shots and slow pans and zooms to generate tension. Cinematographer Conrad L. Hall complemented Mendes' style with peaceful shot compositions to contrast with the turbulent on-screen events. During editing, Mendes made several changes that softened the cynical tone of Ball's script.

Released in North America on September 17, 1999, American Beauty was acclaimed by critics and audiences; it was the best-reviewed American film of the year and grossed over $350 million worldwide. Reviewers praised most aspects of the production, with particular emphasis on Mendes, Spacey and Ball; criticism tended to focus on the familiarity of the characters and setting. DreamWorks launched a major campaign to increase American Beauty's chances of Oscar success; at the 2000 ceremony the movie won Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor (for Spacey), Best Original Screenplay, and Best Cinematography. The movie was nominated for and won many other awards and honors, mainly for directing, writing and acting.

[[Alpha and Omega (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 animated movies, 2010 comedy movies, American animated movies, American comedy movies, Indian movies, Canadian animated movies, Canadian comedy movies, Movies about animals, Alpha and Omega, Lionsgate movies

Alpha and Omega is a 2010 3D American computer-animated comedy-drama movie. It was produced by Ken Katsumoto, Steve Moore and Richard Rich. It was directed by Anthony Bell and Ben Gluck. The movie was released on September 17, 2010. It was the last movie that Dennis Hopper acted in before he died on May 29, 2010. The movie is dedicated to Hopper. The movie was shot in 3D. A sequel, Alpha and Omega 2: A Howl-iday Adventure was released on October 8, 2013. It received mixed reviews. A second sequel, Alpha and Omega 3: The Great Wolf Games was released on March 25, 2014. Alpha and Omega: The Legend of the Saw Tooth Cave was released on September 23, 2014. Alpha and Omega: Family Vacation is currently in production.

[[Mount Cayley volcanic field]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of British Columbia

The Mount Cayley volcanic field is a volcanic area on the south coast of British Columbia, Canada. It is 31 long. The field gets its name from Mount Cayley, the biggest of several active volcanos in the area.

Most of the volcanoes there were created when material from inside the earth spilled onto the surface. Under the earth were layers of glacial ice from the last ice age. There are tuya—steep, flat-topped volcanoes—and lava domes. The first eruptions in the field occurred between 1.6 and 5.3 million years ago, and at least 23 eruptions have occurred in all.

The southern area has the most known volcanoes—11. The center of the field has at least five volcanoes, and the north has two volcanoes.

[[Type 2 diabetes]]

CATEGORIES: Diabetes mellitus, Diseases

Diabetes mellitus type 2 (or adult-onset diabetes) is a metabolic disorder where high levels of blood sugar  occur. Left untreated, it can cause heart attacks, strokes, blindness and kidney failure.

[[Due Date]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 buddy movies, 2010 comedy movies, 2010s road movies, American buddy movies, American comedy movies, American road movies, Buddy comedy movies, Comedy road movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Alabama, Movies set in Arizona, Movies set in Atlanta, Georgia, Movies set in California, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies set in Louisiana, Movies set in Mississippi, Movies set in New Mexico, Movies set in Texas, Pregnancy movies, Movies directed by Todd Phillips

Due Date is a 2010 American comedy road movie. It was produced by Todd Phillips, Daniel Goldberg, and Susan Downey and was directed by Todd Phillips. The movie was released on November 5, 2010. The movie has cameo appearances from Two and a Half Men stars Charlie Sheen and Jon Cryer.

Architect Peter and wannabe actor Ethan drive from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport to Los Angeles.

[[Life as We Know It (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 drama movies, 2010 romance movies, 2010 comedy-drama movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Atlanta, Georgia in fiction, English-language movies, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies set in Georgia (U.S. state)

Life as We Know It is a 2010 American romantic comedy-drama movie. It was produced by Barry Josephson and Paul Brooks and was directed by Greg Berlanti. The movie was released on October 8, 2010. It received mixed reviews by reviewers.

Two single people in Atlanta raise a baby after her parents are killed in a car accident.

[[Unstoppable (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 thriller movies, 2010s action thriller movies, American action thriller movies, English-language movies, 20th Century Fox movies

Unstoppable is a 2010 American action thriller movie. It was produced and directed by Tony Scott. It was final film directed by Tony Scott before his death in 2012. The movie was released on November 12, 2010. The movie received positive reviews with a 86% on Rotten Tomatoes which is certified fresh and is also rated as a 69% by Metacritic.

[[The Kids Are All Right (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 comedy-drama movies, 2010s LGBT movies, American comedy-drama movies, American LGBT movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies set in California, American independent movies

The Kids are All Right is a 2010 American comedy-drama movie. The movie stars Julianne Moore, Annette Bening, Mark Ruffalo and Mia Wasikowska. This movie is about a California lesbian couple and the events happening around them. This movie was nominated for several Academy Awards.

[[I Spit on Your Grave (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 crime movies, 2010 horror movies, 2010s crime thriller movies, 2010s horror thriller movies, 2010s serial killer movies, American crime thriller movies, American horror thriller movies, American movie remakes, American serial killer movies, English-language movies, Movies about revenge, Rape in movies, 2010s feminist movies, American independent movies

I Spin on Your Grave is a 2010 American crime horror thriller movie in the rape and revenge genre of movies. It was produced by Lisa M. Hansen, Paul Hertzberg and Meir Zarchi and was directed by Steven R. Monroe. The movie was released on October 8, 2010. The movie is a remake of the 1978 movie, I Spit on Your Grave. The movie received negative reviews with a 37% on Rotten Tomatoes which is rotten and is also rated as a 27% out of 100% by Metacritic.

[[Couples Retreat]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 comedy movies, 2009 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s sex comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American sex comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about dysfunctional families, Universal Pictures movies

Couples Retreat is a 2009 American comedy movie that was produced by Scott Stuber and was directed by Peter Billingsley. The movie was released on October 9, 2009. The movie received negative reviews with a 11% on Rotten Tomatoes which is rotten and is also rated as a 23% out of 100% by Metacritic. Even though the movie was negatively reviewed it became a box office success and was ranked first for its opening weekend grossing $34,286,740.

[[The Time Traveler's Wife (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 drama movies, 2009 romance movies, 2000s fantasy movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, American fantasy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Time travel movies, Movies directed by Robert Schwentke

The Time Traveler's Wife is a 2009 American romantic fantasy drama movie. It was produced by Brad Pitt, Nick Wechsler and Dede Gardner and was directed by Robert Schwentke. The movie was released on August 14, 2009. The movie received mixed reviews with a 38% on Rotten Tomatoes which is rotten and is also rated as a 45% out of 100% by Metacritic. The movie is based on the 2003 novel with the same name.

[[Paul (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 buddy movies, 2011 comedy movies, 2011 science fiction movies, American buddy movies, American comedy movies, American road movies, American science fiction movies, British buddy movies, British comedy movies, British science fiction movies, Buddy comedy movies, Comedy science fiction movies, Movies set in Nevada

Paul is a 2011 British-American science fiction comedy movie. It was produced by Nira Park, Tim Bevan and Eric Fellner. It was directed by Greg Mottola. The movie was released on February 14, 2011 in the United Kingdom and was released in the United States on March 18, 2011. It is set in Nevada and was filmed in New Mexico. The movie received positive reviews with a 66% on Rotten Tomatoes which is fresh.

[[Megamind]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 3D movies, 2010 animated movies, 2010 comedy movies, 2010 science fiction movies, 2010s superhero movies, American animated movies, American comedy movies, American science fiction movies, American superhero movies, Comedy science fiction movies, Movies composed by Hans Zimmer, Supervillain movies

Megamind is a 2010 animated, science fiction-comedy movie that was produced by Lara Breay and Denise Nolan Cascino. Ben Stiller and Stuart Cornfeld were executive producers. The movie was directed by Tom McGrath. The movie was released in Russia on October 28, 2010 and on November 5, 2010 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews from critics but it was positively welcomed from audience who praised its story, characters, humor, soundtrack, animation, emotional weight and message, even becoming an animated cult during the years. There is also a video game based on the movie with the same name.

[[Patrick Ewing]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, American Olympic gold medalists, Jamaican sportspeople, New York Knicks players, Orlando Magic players, Seattle SuperSonics players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

Patrick Aloysius Ewing (born August 5, 1962 in Kingston, Jamaica; pronounced PA-TRIK ah-LOY-shus YOO-ing), also known as Pat Ewing, is a Jamaican-American retired NBA basketball player.  He is originally from the nation of Jamaica, not Jamaica, Queens.  He is an 11 time NBA All-Star. He was inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2008. His jersey number 33 was retired by the New York Knicks. He is currently an assistant coach for the Orlando Magic.  Ewing is considered one of the greatest centers in the game's history and one of the greatest players who did not win an NBA championship during their career.  However, he did win an NCAA championship in 1984 as a member of the Georgetown Hoyas, and this team is generally regarded as one of the greatest college men's basketball teams of all time.  Furthermore, Ewing is considered one of the greatest college players of all time.  He was nicknamed Big Pat and Hoya Destroya.  Ewing's Knicks played Michael Jordan's Chicago Bulls four different times in the playoffs; 1989, 1991, 1992, and 1993.  Ewing's son, Patrick Ewing, Jr., also briefly played in the NBA.

[[Black Swan (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 drama movies, 2010 horror movies, 2010 thriller movies, 2010s drama thriller movies, 2010s LGBT movies, 2010s psychological movies, American drama thriller movies, American horror thriller movies, American LGBT movies, American psychological movies, Borderline personality disorder in fiction, Dance movies, English-language movies, LGBT drama movies, LGBT thriller movies, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies directed by Darren Aronofsky, Movies set in New York City, Mystery drama movies, Mystery thriller movies, American independent movies

Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological drama thriller movie set in New York City. It was produced by Ari Handel, Scott Franklin, Mike Medavoy, Arnold Messer and Brian Oliver and directed by Darren Aronofsky. The movie was released in Italy on September 1, 2010 and on December 3, 2010 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 88% on Rotten Tomatoes which is "certified fresh" and has a 79 rating out of 100 on Metacritic. The movie is based on the ballet, Swan Lake. The movie won the Academy Award for Best Actress, the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role, the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress - Motion Picture Drama, the Broadcast Film Critics Association Award for Best Actress, and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role for the movie.

[[Darren Aronofsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American movie directors, American Jews, Entertainers from New York City

Darren S. Aronofsky (born February 12, 1969 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American movie director. His best known movies that he has directed are Requiem for a Dream, The Wrestler and Black Swan. He attended Harvard University where he graduated in 1991 and majored in social anthropology. He is Jewish and has Ukrainian and Russian descent. He will be directing Bond 25 and it will star Daniel Craig as 007, Clive Owen and Sophie Ellis-Bextor.

[[Craig Ferguson]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, British television talk show hosts, Entertainers from Glasgow, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Scottish comedians, Scottish movie actors, Scottish voice actors, Television personalities from Glasgow

Craig Ferguson (born 17 May 1962) is an Scottish actor, comedian and late night television host. He hosted The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson from 2005-2014 on CBS. He also hosted Shark Week in 2010 on the Discovery Channel. He became an American citizen on 1 February 2008.

He currently hosts Celebrity Name Game on Syndication. He also hosts Join or Die with Craig Ferguson on History.

[[Hall Pass (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 buddy movies, 2011 comedy movies, 2011 romance movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010s sex comedy movies, Adultery in movies, American buddy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American sex comedy movies, Buddy comedy movies, English-language movies

Hall Pass is a 2011 American romantic comedy movie that was produced by Charles B. Wessler, Bradley Thomas and Benjamin Waisbren and was directed by Farrelly brothers: Bobby & Peter. The movie was released on February 25, 2011. The movie received mixed reviews with a 37% on Rotten Tomatoes which is rotten and Metacritic rated the movie 47% out of 100.

[[Edgar Martínez]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American baseball players, Seattle Mariners players, Sportspeople from New York City

Edgar Martínez (born January 2, 1963) was an American Major League Baseball player for the Seattle Mariners. Martínez played for 18 years for the Mariners before retiring in 2004.

[[Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in India, Delhi, 1998 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in India

Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (simply Indraprastha University or IP) (गुरु गोबिंद सिंह इंद्रप्रस्थ विश्वविद्यालय) is a public university, located in Delhi, India. It is a teaching as well as recognising university, which recognises more than 120 colleges of Delhi-NCR (National Capital Region) and has 15 schools and centres on its campus. It is one of the best universities of India. This is the only university of India and first in Asia which has received Platinum Technology Award in Geneva, Switzerland presented by association Otherways Management and Consulting (OMAC), a Paris based international organisation.

[[Ford's Theater]]

CATEGORIES: Theatres in the United States, Abraham Lincoln, Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C.

Ford's Theater is a building in Washington, D.C.. It is most well known as the place where Abraham Lincoln was shot by John Wilkes Booth during the play Our American Cousin. It is called Ford's Theater because it was run by a man named Ford during the American Civil War. The building has been rebuilt several times. Before the Civil War, it was used as church. After the Civil War, it was used as a museum, warehouse and office. It is now a National Historic Site.

[[Vince Prudente]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American jazz musicians, American trombonists, Musicians from Pennsylvania

Vince Prudente (born November 18, 1937, Connellsville, Pennsylvania) is an American trombonist, pianist, arranger, composer, and music teacher. He has played with Duke Ellington, Lionel Hampton and Woody Herman.

In April 1972 Prudente joined the Duke Ellington band as a trombone player. He played on a number of Ellington recordings including Duke Ellington's Third Sacred Concert - The Majesty Of God, recorded in Westminster Abbey in 1973. He played on three songs on the Ellington Suites, recorded between 1959 and 1972, and released in 1987. He also played on "Mendoza" from the album Up In Duke's Workshop, recorded in 1972 and released in 1992. In 1973 he played on Duke Ellington in Sweden. 

After Ellington's death in 1974, the Duke Ellington Orchestra continued to play and record under the leadership of Duke's son, Mercer Ellington. Prudente played on the Duke Ellington Orchestra's first album without Duke Ellington, Continuum, recorded in 1974 and 1975. Larry Ridley was also a member of the orchestra, and Prudente played with his jazz sextet in 1994 and 1995.

He has also played trombone on Phyllis Hyman's 1998 album, One On One. Prudente plays trombone with Jim Hobbs and The Fully Celebrated Orchestra's album,

Lapis Exilis.

In 2004 Prudente took part in the Ellington Reunion Project, when 18 former members of Ellington's orchestra got together to perform two concerts.

Prudente is also a music teacher and has worked in a number of different universities, including NYU and Chico State, teaching trombone, improvisation, arranging and several other courses in jazz. 

In 2007 Prudente made his first album, called "The Treatment" with his quartet, playing both trombone and piano.

[[Boeing 747-8]]

CATEGORIES: Boeing 747

The Boeing 747-8 is a jet airliner, and the current production variant of the Boeing 747. It was developed from the Boeing 747-400, with improvements such as more powerful engines, a longer fuselage to hold more passengers, and new wings developed for the Boeing 787. The 747-8 first flew in 2010 and entered service in 2011. It comes in two variants, the 747-8I passenger airliner and the 747-8F freighter.

[[Anne Heche]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Ohio, American crime victims, American movie actors, American television actors, American television producers, American television writers, Bisexual people, LGBT actors, LGBT directors, LGBT people from Ohio, LGBT writers, Movie directors from Ohio, 1969 births, Living people, Emmy Award winning actors

Anne Celeste Heche (born May 25, 1969) is an American actress and screenwriter. She starred in the television soap opera Another World. She received a Daytime Emmy Award in 1991.  She has starred in many theatrical movies. She is best known for her role in Six Days Seven Nights, where she starred opposite Harrison Ford.

As Heche was beginning to establish herself in movies during the late 1990s, her career was negatively affected by her highly publicized same-sex relationship with Ellen DeGeneres. This resulted in Heche losing movie offers.

[[Anna Pavlova]]

CATEGORIES: 1881 births, 1931 deaths, Russian ballerinas, Ballets Russes

Anna Pavlova (St Petersburg, 12 February 1881 – The Hague, Netherlands, 23 January 1931)  was a Russian, and later English, ballerina of the early 20th century. 

She is widely regarded as one of the finest classical ballet dancers in history. She was a principal artist of the Imperial Russian Ballet and the Ballets Russes of Serge Diaghilev. 

Pavlova is most recognised for dancing the rôle of The Dying Swan. She danced this short ballet (only four minutes) about 4000 times. The choreography was by Mikhail Fokine. Her interpretation influenced the way others danced Odette in Tchaikovsky's Swan Lake.

In the early 20th century, with her own company, Pavlova became the first ballerina to tour ballet around the world.

[[Allegheny Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of the United States, Geography of Maryland, Geography of Pennsylvania, Geography of Virginia, West Virginia, Appalachian Mountains

The Allegheny Mountain Range (also spelled Alleghany and Allegany) is a mountain range in Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia. The Allegheny mountains are a part of the Appalachian Mountains in the eastern United States and Canada.

[[Conflict of interest]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Ethics, Law, Politics

Conflict of interest is a situation when personal goals may affect the persons’ ability to do their job fairly and in a professional way.

[[Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Former members of the German Bundestag, German nobility, German Roman Catholics, Government ministers of Germany, People from Munich, Politicians from Bavaria, Politicians of the Christian Social Union of Bavaria

[[Ken Griffey, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Seattle Mariners players, Chicago White Sox players, Cincinnati Reds players, National League All-Stars, African-American baseball players

George Kenneth "Ken" Griffey, Jr. (born November 21, 1969), nicknamed "Junior" and "The Kid", is a former Major League Baseball center fielder. Griffey Junior played for the Seattle Mariners, Cincinnati Reds, and the Chicago White Sox before his retirement in 2010. Griffey Jr. is number five on the all-time home run list, with 630 home runs.

[[Melissa Gilbert]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the Screen Actors Guild, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Michigan, Politicians from Michigan, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Politicians from California, US Democratic Party politicians, 1964 births, Living people

Melissa Gilbert (born May 8, 1964) is an American actress and writer. She is famous for acting as Laura Ingalls Wilder in Little House on the Prairie (1974-1984). She has also acted in many other television programs and movies.  Gilbert had two terms as president of the Screen Actors Guild. On June 9, 2009 her autobiography, Prairie Tale: A Memoir, was released.

[[Expert]]

CATEGORIES: Skills, Critical thinking

An expert is an individual recognized as a reliable source of knowledge or skill in a particular field. An expert’s corresponding ability or expertise is, mostly, based on his/her  credential, training, education, profession, publication or experience. Historically, an expert was referred to as a wise old man. Such individual was usually a profound intellectual distinguished for wisdom and sound judgment. In law, an expert witness may contribute specialized knowledge of a field.

Someone who is not an expert may be called a beginner or a novice if they are new to that field.

[[Canouan]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Caribbean islands

Canouan is a island in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The island is only about 3.5 miles by 1.25 miles. It is located at the south of St. Vincent. Canouan also has an airport called the, Canouan Airport. 

[[Calgary Transit]]

CATEGORIES: Calgary, Light rail, Transport in Canada

Calgary Transit is Calgary's public transit system. It operates both buses and light-rail transit trains. Calgary Transit operates about 1,125 buses and trains, and serves Calgary's population of over 1 million. Most Calgary Transit vehicles are designed with three stripes; one light blue, one blue and one dark blue. This design was changed in 2007 to red and grey.

[[Saint Vincent (island)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Caribbean islands

Saint Vincent is an island and is the largest island in the chain of islands called Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The largest city on the island is Kingstown. Kingstown has about 25,418 people.

Saint Vincent is a volcanic island. It was disputed between France and the United Kingdom in the 18th century.

[[Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 establishments, American fast food restaurants

Popeyes Louisiana Chicken, known simply as Popeyes, is a fried chicken fast food franchise. The franchise, which used to be called Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits, consists of over 2,600 restaurants in over 40 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and over 30 other countries worldwide.

Popeyes was started in 1972, and in 1992 became owned by AFC Enterprises, which until 2004 also owned Church's Chicken. In 2017, the company was bought out by Restaurant Brands International (owned by 3G Capital of Brazil), and Popeyes restaurants are now operated as a subsidiary along with Burger King and Tim Hortons.

Popeyes' headquarters recently moved from Atlanta to Miami.

[[Carrie-Anne Moss]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, 1967 births, Living people, People from Burnaby

Carrie-Anne Moss (born August 21, 1967) is a Canadian actress. Moss started her career on television, but became famous for her character, Trinity, in The Matrix trilogy.

[[The Wonder Years]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 American television series debuts, 1993 television series endings, 1960s in fiction, 1970s in fiction, 1980s American comedy television series, 1980s American drama television series, 1990s American comedy television series, 1990s American drama television series, 1990s comedy-drama television series, 1990s teen television series, American comedy-drama television series, American teen comedy television series, American teen drama television series, High school television series, English-language television programs

The Wonder Years is an American comedy-drama series which aired on ABC between 1988 and 1993. It starred Fred Savage and Danica McKellar. Each episode in this series was focused twenty years before the then current year (1968-1973). The show won several awards during its run.

[[Fordham University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, Atlantic 10 Conference, Colleges and universities in New York City, 1841 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in New York (state)

Fordham University is a private research university in New York City, New York. The university has about 14,544 students. It was founded in 1841. The current president of the university is Reverend Joseph M. McShane S.J..

[[Long Island University]]

CATEGORIES: Northeast Conference, Colleges and universities in New York, 1926 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in New York (state)

Long Island University is a private, coeducational university with campuses in Brooklyn and Brookville, New York. The Brooklyn campus is known as LIU Brooklyn, while the Brookville campus is branded as LIU Post (formal name: C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University). The university has about 24,170 students. It was founded at the Brooklyn location in 1926; the Post campus followed in 1954. The current president of the university is David J. Steinberg, Ph.D. .

[[Liberty University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Virginia, 1971 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Virginia

Liberty University is a private, christian university in Lynchburg, Virginia. The university has about 69,214 students. It was founded in 1971 by Jerry Falwell. The current chancellor of the university is Jerry Falwell, Jr. . 

[[Cleveland State University]]

CATEGORIES: Horizon League, Colleges and universities in Ohio, Cleveland, Ohio, 1964 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Ohio

Cleveland State University is a public university in Cleveland, Ohio. The university has about 17,204 students. It was founded in 1881 as Fern College and then was later established again in 1964 when it was renamed Cleveland State University. The current president of the university is Ronald M. Berkman. 

[[University of Dayton]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic 10 Conference, Colleges and universities in Ohio, Dayton, Ohio, 1850 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Ohio

The University of Dayton is a private, Roman Catholic university in Dayton, Ohio. The university has about 10,569 students. It was founded in 1850. The current president of the university is Eric Spina. 

[[University of Denver]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Colorado, Denver, Colorado, The Summit League, National Collegiate Hockey Conference, 1864 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Colorado

University of Denver is a private university in Denver, Colorado. The university has about 11,644 students. It was founded in 1864. The current chancellor of the university is Robert Coombe. 

[[Horizon League]]

CATEGORIES: Horizon League, NCAA Division I athletics conferences, 1979 establishments in the United States

The Horizon League is a NCAA conference that plays in the NCAA Division I. The conference is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana and features universities and colleges from the Great Lakes Region. While it plays many sports, it has never played football.

[[Butler University]]

CATEGORIES: Big East Conference, Colleges and universities in Indiana, Indianapolis, Indiana, 1855 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Indiana

Butler University is a private, co-educational university in Indianapolis, Indiana. The university has about 4,512 students. It was founded in 1855. The current president of the university is Bobby Fong. 

[[University of Detroit Mercy]]

CATEGORIES: Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, Horizon League, Colleges and universities in Michigan, 1990 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Michigan

The University of Detroit Mercy is a private, Roman Catholic co-educational university in Detroit, Michigan. The university has about 5,450 students. It was formed in 1990 with the merger of two Catholic schools in Detroit—the University of Detroit, a Jesuit school founded in 1877 as Detroit College, and Mercy College of Detroit, founded by the Sisters of Mercy in 1941. The current president of the university is Antoine M. Garibaldi. 

[[University of Wisconsin–Green Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Horizon League, University of Wisconsin, Green Bay, Wisconsin, 1965 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Wisconsin

The University of Wisconsin–Green Bay is a public university in Green Bay, Wisconsin, and a part of the University of Wisconsin System. The university has about 6,549 students. It was founded in 1965. The current chancellor of the university is Dr. Thomas K. Harden. 

[[Loyola University Chicago]]

CATEGORIES: Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, Missouri Valley Conference, Colleges and universities in Chicago, 1870 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Illinois

Loyola University Chicago is a private, Jesuit university in Chicago, Illinois. The university has about 15,951 students. It was founded in 1870. The current president of the university is Michael J. Garanzini, S.J. . 

[[University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee]]

CATEGORIES: Horizon League, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 1956 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Wisconsin

The University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee is a public university in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and part of the University of Wisconsin System. The university has about 30,455 students. It was founded in 1956. The current chancellor of the university is Michael Lovell. 

[[University of Illinois at Chicago]]

CATEGORIES: Horizon League, Colleges and universities in Chicago, 1858 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Illinois

The University of Illinois at Chicago, often called UIC, is a public research university in Chicago, Illinois. The university has about 30,000 students. Part of it was founded in 1858, part was founded in 1965.  UIC has 15 colleges.  Thirteen colleges cover certain fields: Applied Health Sciences, Architecture & the Arts, Business Administration, Dentistry, Education, Engineering, Liberal Arts & Sciences, Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy, Public Health, Social Work, and Urban Planning & Public Affairs.  Two colleges serve sub-groups of students: Graduate College and (undergraduate) Honors College.

The current chancellor of the university is Paula Allen Mears.  UIC is in the same university family as UIUC and UIS.  The president of the family is Robert Easter.

[[Valparaiso University]]

CATEGORIES: Missouri Valley Conference, Colleges and universities in Indiana, 1859 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Indiana

Valparaiso University is a private university in Valparaiso, Indiana. The university has about 4,061 students. It was founded in 1859. The current president of the university is Mark A. Heckler. 

[[Geotechnical engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering, Geology

Geotechnical engineering is an important subset of civil engineering dealing with engineering performance of earth materials. Geotechnical engineering uses principles of soil and rock mechanics to determine:

to design:

and to monitor: 

Foundations built for above-ground structures include shallow and deep foundations. Retaining structures include earth-filled dams and retaining walls. 

[[Wright State University]]

CATEGORIES: Horizon League, Colleges and universities in Ohio, 1967 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Ohio

Wright State University is a public university in Dayton, Ohio. The university has about 19,793 students. It was founded in 1967. The current president of the university is David R. Hopkins, P.E.D. . The University is named after the Wright brothers. 

[[Youngstown State University]]

CATEGORIES: Horizon League, Missouri Valley Football Conference, Colleges and universities in Ohio, 1908 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Ohio

Youngstown State University is a public university in Youngstown, Ohio. The university has about 15,194 students. It was founded in 1908. The current president of the university is Jim Tressel, better known as a former football coach both at Youngstown State and Ohio State University.

[[Texas Southern University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Texas, Houston, Texas, Historically black colleges and universities, 1927 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in Texas

Texas Southern University is a public university in Houston, Texas. The university has about 11,550 students. It was founded in 1927. The current president of the university is John Rudley. The university is a historically black university.

[[St. Bonaventure University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic 10 Conference, Colleges and universities in New York, 1858 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in New York (state)

St. Bonaventure University is a private, Roman Catholic university in Allegany, New York. The university has about 2,500 students. It was founded in 1858. The current president of the university is Sr. Margaret Carney, OSF STD.

[[Sacred Heart University]]

CATEGORIES: Northeast Conference, Atlantic Hockey, Colleges and universities in Connecticut, 1963 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Connecticut, Fairfield, Connecticut

Sacred Heart University is a private, Roman Catholic university in Fairfield, Connecticut. The university has about 6,023 students. It was founded in 1963. The current president of the university is John J. Petillo.

[[Denis Leary]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Massachusetts, American stand-up comedians, Comedians from Massachusetts, People from Worcester, Massachusetts

Denis Colin Leary (born August 18, 1957 in Worcester, Massachusetts) is an American actor, comedian, producer, singer and writer. He is the star and co-creator of the television show Rescue Me. His career as a comedian has been controversial because he allegedly stole not only material but his entire act from the dead comedian Bill Hicks.

[[Ice Age (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 animated movies, 2002 computer-animated movies, 2002 comedy movies, American animated movies, American comedy movies, Blue Sky Studios movies, English-language movies, Movies about animals, Movies set in prehistory, 20th Century Fox movies, Ice Age (franchise), Movies directed by Chris Wedge

Ice Age is a 2002 American computer animated comedy drama movie. It was produced by John C. Donkin and Lori Forte and was directed by Chris Wedge. The movie was released on March 15, 2002.

The movie was positively welcomed  from both audiences and film critics which praised its story, humor, characters, emotional weight, voice cast performance (especially those of Leguizamo and Leary), David Newman's musical score and the ending.

The movie currently had four sequels, Ice Age 2: The Meltdown in 2006, Ice Age 3: Dawn of the Dinosaurs in 2009, Ice Age 4: Continental Drift in 2012, and Ice Age: Collision Course in 2016. There has also been a Christmas special and a series of short movies revolving around the comic relief character in the movies.

[[Ovarian cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Diseases and disorders of the female reproductive system

Ovarian cancer is cancer that involves different regions of the ovary. Recent evidence suggests the Fallopian tube may be related to the cancer. Other types of this condition involve egg cells. The risk increases with age and decreases with pregnancy. Ovarian cancer is the fifth leading cause of cancer death for females, and the survival rates for this condition vary.

[[Rio (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 animated movies, 2011 comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about animals, Jungle movies, Multilingual movies, American animated movies, Movies set in South America, American comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies

Rio, originally called Rio: The Movie, is a 2011 computer-animated comedy movie that was produced by Chris Jenkins and Bruce Anderson and was directed by Carlos Saldanha. Rio was released on April 8, 2011, in Brazil and on April 15, 2011, in North America. A sequel, titled Rio 2, was released on April 11, 2014.

[[Hollerado]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian rock bands, Indie rock bands

Hollerado is a Canadian indie rock band from Manotick, Ontario. Hollerado has four members in the band; the current band members are Dean Baxter, Jake Boyd, Nixon Boyd and Menno Versteeg. Their name is a parody of the United States state, Colorado.

[[American University]]

CATEGORIES: Patriot League, Colleges and universities in the District of Columbia, 1893 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Washington, D.C.

American University is a private, Methodist university in Washington, D.C.. The university has about 9,940 students. It was founded in 1893. The current president of the university is former U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell since June 2017. 

[[Alborz Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Iran

Alborz (also written Alburz, Elburz or Elborz), is a mountain range in northern Iran. Its borders start  at Azerbaijan and Armenia in the northwest of Iran and reach to the  southern  end of the Caspian Sea. The mountain range ends  in the east at the borders of Turkmenistan and Afghanistan.

Tehran, the capital of Iran is at the foot of the Alborz mountain range.

Mount Damavand, the tallest mountain in the Middle East, is located in this mountain range.

[[American Gangster (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 drama movies, 2000s biographical movies, 2000s crime drama movies, American biographical movies, American crime drama movies, American gangster movies, English-language movies, Movies about drugs, Movies set in New Jersey, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in the 1960s, Movies set in the 1970s, Vietnam War movies, Movies about the illegal drug trade

American Gangster is a 2007 American biographical crime drama movie. It is set in New York City, New Jersey, Thailand and Vietnam. Denzel Washington stars as real life African American drug smuggler Frank Lucas. Russell Crowe stars as the detective determined to stop the drug empire controlled by Lucas. The movie was released in November 2007. Despite being set in the late 1960s and the 1970s, the movie has many anachronisms.

[[Youthanasia]]

CATEGORIES: Megadeth albums, 1994 albums

Youthanasia is a CD released by the thrash metal band, Megadeth. The album was a success in Canada. The CD went gold in under 30 minutes.

[[Fiat Tipo]]

CATEGORIES: Fiat automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles

The Fiat Tipo is a car produced by Fiat. It replaced the Fiat Ritmo in 1988, and were replaced by the Fiat Bravo and Brava in 1995. The Tipo name returned in 2016 on an entirely new generation of small family cars. 

[[Lancia]]

CATEGORIES: Lancia automobiles, Italian automobile companies, 1906 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in Italy

Lancia is an Italian automobile manufacturer. It was established in 1906. It has been owned by Fiat since 1969.

[[Burt Reynolds]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Florida, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Michigan, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), People from Lansing, Michigan, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Former Roman Catholics

Burton Leon "Burt" Reynolds Jr. (February 11, 1936 – September 6, 2018) was an American actor, director and producer.

He starred in many roles, such as Dan August, Deliverance, The Longest Yard with its 2005 remake, Without a Paddle (2004) and Smokey and the Bandit. He won two Golden Globe Awards, including in Evening Shade for Best Actor in a Television Series Musical or Comedy and in Boogie Nights for Best Supporting Actor – Motion Picture.

[[International Commerce Centre]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in China, Buildings and structures in Hong Kong

The International Commerce Centre is the tallest building in Hong Kong. The building was finished in 2009 and has a height of 1,588 feet. It has 118 floors. Inside the top floors of the building is a hotel for people to stay in.

[[Vectrex]]

CATEGORIES: Video game consoles

The Vectrex is a video game console created by Smith Engineering. The Vectrex is the only console of its kind to use vector graphics.

[[Stephanie zu Guttenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Anti-pornography activists, German nobility, People from Munich

Stephanie Freifrau von und zu Guttenberg (born 24 November 1976 in Munich), née Stephanie Gräfin von Bismarck-Schönhausen (Countess of Bismarck-Schönhausen), is a German activist against child abuse, and the President of Innocence in Danger, a group which wants Internet censorship of child pornography.  She has also co-written a book about these topics.

She is the wife of Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, the former German Minister of Defence. A member of the Bismarck family, she is the great-great-granddaughter of Chancellor Prince Otto Bismarck and great-granddaughter of Foreign Secretary Herbert, Prince of Bismarck. She is also a descendant of Robert Whitehead, the inventor of the torpedo, and diplomat Alexander, Count of Hoyos.

She got a degree in business administration and textile engineering (Fashion Business Management) from the private academy Fachakademie für Textil & Schuhe in Nagold, and has worked during her schooling for several textile companies.

On 12 February 2000, she married Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, whom she had met when attending Love Parade in Berlin in 1995. They have two daughters, born in 2001 and 2002.

[[Bismarck herring]]

CATEGORIES: Edible fish, Dishes named after people, German food

The Bismarck herring is pickled fresh, filleted Baltic herring, traditionally packed in small wooden barrels.

Johann Wiechmann had a store in Stralsund, Germany, and his wife Karoline prepared the herring for sale.  Wiechmann admired Otto von Bismarck and sent a barrel on Bismarck's birthday.  When the German Empire was created Wiechmann  sent a second barrel but this time asked to name the herrings after him.  Bismarck agreed, and the original recipe Bismarck herring were sold up until the end of World War II, and revived in 1997 in Stralsund.

[[Águas de São Pedro]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in São Paulo (state), 1940 establishments in South America, 1940s establishments in Brazil

Águas de São Pedro (IPA: ˈaɡwas di sɐ̃w̃ ˈpedɾu) is a Brazilian city of the state of São Paulo. It is the second smallest Brazilian city in area, with only 3.612 km².

[[Dot Jones]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Sportspeople from California, Actors from Stanislaus County, California, 1964 births, Living people

Dot Jones (born on January 4, 1964 as Dorothy-Marie Jones) is an athlete and actress who has had multiple roles in television. She played Shannon Beiste in Glee.

Dot was born in Turlock, California and moved to Hilmar, where she grew up. When she was in middle school, she became very tall very fast. This made her back hurt, so she started exercising by lifting weights to strengthen the muscles. By high school, she was very good at lifting weights and won contests. She was named the school's female athlete of the year. When she was 19, she tried arm wrestling, and was very good at it. She won the world championship 15 times.

After she graduated high school, Dot went to Modesto Junior College, and then California State University, where she kept playing sports. She got a scholarship for track, which paid for her classes. She played softball and the track sport shot put and set records in the sport. After college, Dot worked with troubled children at the Fresno County Juvenile Probation center while continuing her involvement with sports.

Dot, who had never thought of acting, was seen at a bodybuilding contest by Shirley Eson, who was on the TV show American Gladiators. Shirley said Dot should try out for the show Knights and Warriors, which was like American Gladiators. Dot got the part.

After Knights and Warriors ended, Dot acted in other shows, such as Full House, Roseanne, Chicago Hope, Lizzie McGuire, The Suite Life of Zack and Cody, iCarly and Desperate Housewives. Dot was well known for playing Coach Kelly on Lizzie McGuire. Dot is friends with Ryan Murphy, a man who helped create the TV show Glee. Dot is a fan of the show and asked if she could be in it. Ryan created the character Coach Beiste for her.

[[Scott Walker]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American Evangelicals, Governors of Wisconsin, People from Colorado Springs, Colorado, Politicians from Colorado, 2016 United States presidential candidates, US Republican Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Scott Kevin Walker (born November 2, 1967) is an American Republican politician. He was the 45th Governor of Wisconsin from 2011 to 2019. He was a two-term Governor, elected in 2010 and 2014, but losing in 2018 to Tony Evers.

[[CT]]

CT can mean

[[Glee]]

CATEGORIES: Glee, 2009 American television series debuts, 2015 American television series endings, English-language television programs

Glee is an American musical comedy-drama television show. It started on May 19, 2009. It ended on March 20, 2015. Its sixth and last season started on January 9, 2015. The show is about a group of high school students and their teachers at the fictional William McKinley High School. The show is set in Lima, Ohio. Most of the students are in the school's glee club, called New Directions. The students and adults deal with relationships, sexuality and social issues. They often sing to help them understand these topics.

[[Andrew Cuomo]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Politicians from New York City, US Democratic Party politicians, United States Secretaries of Housing and Urban Development, Governors of New York, American Roman Catholics

Andrew Mark Cuomo (born December 6, 1957) is an American politician. He was the 56th Governor of New York from 2011 to 2021.

He was 64th New York State Attorney General and the 11th United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under Bill Clinton. 

He was born in Queens. His father Mario Cuomo was also Governor of New York and Andrew worked for him. 

Cuomo has promoted several policies such as legalizing same-sex marriage, tough laws against guns, allowing businesses not to pay taxes for some time in some parts of the state, continuing the moratorium (delay) on hydraulic fracturing for extracting (taking out) petroleum and natural gas, he started the United States Climate Alliance, a group of states intending to stop climate change by following the terms of the Paris Climate Accords and pro-immigration policies.

He was reelected governor in 2014 and 2018. In 2020, he became well known across the country over his leadership and handling over the COVID-19 pandemic in New York. However, his administration was accused of cover-up the actual number of COVID-related deaths in nursing homes. 

From late 2020, many of Cuomo's former secretaries and assistants have accused him of sexual harassment. In August 2021, an investigation found that Cuomo did sexually harass multiple women during his time as governor. On August 10, 2021, Cuomo announced that he would resign as governor. He resigned on August 24 and was replaced by Kathy Hochul, the lieutenant governor of New York.

[[Pat Quinn (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American lawyers, Lieutenant Governors of Illinois, Governors of Illinois, People from Hinsdale, Illinois, US Democratic Party politicians

Patrick Joseph "Pat" Quinn III (born December 16, 1948), is an American politician. He was the Governor of Illinois from 2009 to 2015. He is a member of the Democratic Party. He was Lieutenant Governor of Illinois from 2003 to 2009. He lost re-election in 2014 to Bruce Rauner.

[[Salt (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 thriller movies, 2010s action thriller movies, 2010 mystery movies, 2010s spy movies, American action thriller movies, American spy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in South Korea, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in Washington, D.C., Movies set in North Korea, Movies directed by Phillip Noyce, Multilingual movies

Salt is a 2010 action thriller spy movie that was produced by Lorenzo di Bonaventura and Sunil Perkash and was directed by Phillip Noyce. The movie was released on July 23, 2010. The movie received mixed to positive reviews with a 61% on Rotten Tomatoes which is fresh and a 65% out of 100 from Metacritic. It is set in North Korea, New York City and Washington, D.C.

[[My One and Only (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 movies, American comedy movies, Multilingual movies

My One and Only is a 2009 comedy movie that was produced by Aaron Ryder, Ara Katz and Art Spigel and was directed by Richard Loncraine. The movie was released on August 21, 2009. The movie received many positive reviews with a 71% on the website Rotten Tomatoes and a 62% from another website, Metacritic.

[[WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2007]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation Portable games, Xbox 360 games, WWE video game series, THQ games

WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2007 is a wrestling video game that was published by THQ. The video game was released for the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable and Xbox 360 systems. The video game was released on January 25, 2007 in Japan, November 14, 2006 in North America, November 10, 2006 in Europe and on November 16, 2006 in Australia for the PlayStation 2 & Xbox 360. and the game was released on February 22, 2007 in Japan, December 6, 2006 in North America and on December 15, 2006 in Europe for the PSP.

The video game received a 8.1 for both the PS2 and Xbox 360 and a 7.9 for the PSP from GameSpot. 

It is part of the WWE SmackDown vs. Raw video game series.

[[NCAA Basketball 10]]

CATEGORIES: Sports video games, 2009 video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, National Collegiate Athletic Association

NCAA Basketball 10 is a college basketball video game that was published by EA Sports. The video game was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 systems on November 18, 2009. The athlete on the cover of the game is Blake Griffin when he played for the Oklahoma Sooners.

The video game received a 7.0 for both the PS3 and Xbox 360 from GameSpot and also received a 7.8 for both the Xbox 360 and the PS3 from IGN. 

The game was the last installment in the NCAA Basketball video game series.

[[NCAA Basketball 09]]

CATEGORIES: Sports video games, 2008 video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, National Collegiate Athletic Association

NCAA Basketball 09 is a college basketball video game that was published by EA Sports. The video game was released for the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 2 and Xbox 360 systems. The video game was released on November 17, 2008. The athlete on the cover of the game is Kevin Love who currently plays for the Minnesota Timberwolves.

The video game received a 7.0 for both the PS3 and Xbox 360 from GameSpot and also received a 7.1 for both the Xbox 360 and the PS3 and a 5.1 for the PS2 from IGN. 

The game was the 13th installment in the NCAA Basketball video game series.

[[Australia Day]]

CATEGORIES: National Days, Australian culture

Australia Day is a public holiday held on 26 January every year in Australia. It is celebrated to remember the day that the First Fleet landed in Australia. On 26 January 1788 British people landed at Sydney Cove and began a British convict settlement.

Some people do not believe that Australia Day should be celebrated on this date.

[[Laverne & Shirley]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, Television spin-offs, ABC network shows, 1976 television series debuts, English-language television programs

Laverne & Shirley was an American situation comedy which aired from January 1976 to May 1983 on ABC. Penny Marshall played Laverne; Cindy Williams played Shirley. The series was set between 1959 and 1967 and was made under Paramount Television.

[[Penny Marshall]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American voice actors, Movie directors from New York City, Movie producers from New York, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from heart failure, Screenwriters from New York City, American television writers

Carole Penny Marshall (October 15, 1943 – December 17, 2018) was an American actress, producer and director. She starred as Laverne in the sitcom Laverne & Shirley from 1976 to 1983. Marshall directed many movies, including Awakenings, A League of Their Own, and Big.

From 1971 to 1981, she was married to actor and director Rob Reiner. Her brother was director Garry Marshall. She was born in The Bronx, New York City.

Marshall died on December 17, 2018 in Los Angeles, California from heart failure complicated from diabetes and heart disease, aged 75.

[[Adventureland (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 comedy-drama movies, 2009 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, 2000s teen comedy movies, 2000s teen drama movies, 2000s teen romance movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Pennsylvania, Movies set in the 1980s, Pittsburgh in fiction

Adventureland is a 2009 American romantic comedy-drama movie. It is set in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in summer 1987. It was produced by Sidney Kimmel, Anne Carey and Ted Hope. It was written and directed by Greg Mottola. Adventureland was released on April 3, 2009 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 88% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 76 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Shakespeare in Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 romance movies, 1998 comedy-drama movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Best Picture Oscar, British comedy-drama movies, British romantic comedy movies, British romantic drama movies, English-language movies

Shakespeare in Love is a 1998 British-American romantic comedy-drama movie starring Gwyneth Paltrow, Ben Affleck and Judi Dench. It won 7 Academy Awards, including Best Picture of 1998. This movie is about the involvement of William Shakespeare in a serious love affair with Viola (played by Paltrow).

[[Ömer Aşık]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Turkish basketball players, Chicago Bulls players, Bursa

Ömer Aşık (born July 4, 1986 in Bursa, Turkey) is a Turkish basketball player. He was drafted by the Portland Trail Blazers with the 36th pick in the 2nd round of the 2008 NBA Draft. However, he did not play a game with them and was traded to the Chicago Bulls. He also played with the Turkish national basketball team where he won the silver medal in the 2010 FIBA World Championship.

His nicknames are Aşik and Destroy, The Turkish Hammer, and The SuperBull from Istanbul, all given to him by Bulls color commentator Stacey King.

[[Hedo Türkoğlu]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish basketball players, Orlando Magic players, Phoenix Suns players, Sacramento Kings players, San Antonio Spurs players, Toronto Raptors players, 1979 births, Living people, Los Angeles Clippers players, People from Istanbul

Hidayet "Hedo" Türkoğlu (born March 19, 1979 in Gaziosmanpaşa, İstanbul, Turkey) is a Turkish basketball player. He was drafted by the Sacramento Kings with the 16th pick in the 1st round of the 2000 NBA Draft. He has also played with the Sacramento Kings from 2000 to 2003, San Antonio Spurs from 2003 to 2004, Orlando Magic from 2004 to 2009, Toronto Raptors from 2009 to 2010, Phoenix Suns in 2010 and currently the Orlando Magic since 2010 when he was traded to the Magic in 2010 along with Jason Richardson and Earl Clark for Vince Carter, Marcin Gortat, Mickaël Piétrus, a 2011 first-round draft pick and $3 million.

[[Mehmet Okur]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Turkish basketball players, Detroit Pistons players, Utah Jazz players

Mehmet Okur (born May 26, 1979 in Yalova, Turkey) is an Turkish basketball player. He was drafted by the Detroit Pistons with the 37th pick in the 2nd round of the 2001 NBA Draft. He currently plays for the Utah Jazz as a center and power forward. He has also played for the Detroit Pistons from 2002 to 2004 until he signed with the Jazz after the Pistons were unable to pay his salary due to salary cap limitations.  

[[Hiroshima Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Hiroshima Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Hiroshima Prefecture is a Japanese prefecture in the Chūgoku region of the island of Honshu. The capital city is Hiroshima.

[[Iwate Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Iwate Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Iwate Prefecture is a prefecture in the Tōhoku region of Japan. It is on the island of Honshu. The capital city is Morioka.

[[Williams pear]]

CATEGORIES: Pears, Dishes named after people

The Williams' bon chretien pear, commonly called the Williams pear, or Bartlett pear in the U.S. and Canada, is the most commonly grown variety of pear in most countries outside Asia.

It is a summer pear, not as tolerant of cold as some varieties. It is often eaten raw, but holds its shape well when baked, and is a common choice for canned or other processed pear uses.

[[Maserati MC12]]

CATEGORIES: Maserati automobiles, Sports cars, 2000s automobiles

The Maserati MC12 was a sports car that was built by the Maserati company from 2004 to 2005. There were only 50 cars that were produced. The MC12 was closely based on the Enzo Ferrari. The MC12 was succeeded by the Maserati MC12 Corsa in 2006.

[[Enoch Bartlett]]

CATEGORIES: 1779 births, 1860 deaths, People with foods named after them

Enoch Bartlett (1779–1860) was a farmer from Dorchester, Massachusetts.  

He bought Thomas Brewer's farm in Roxbury.  This farm had a field of pear trees, which he named after himself, as he did not know the fruit already had a name.

In 1828 a new batch of pear trees arrived from England, and it was realised that the Bartlett pear was the same as the Williams pear, but by this time the name had stuck, and is still the commonest name for this type of pear in Canada and the United States.

[[Bitmap]]

The term Bitmap can have different meanings:

[[The Faint]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Musical groups from Nebraska, Musicians from Omaha, Nebraska, Musical groups established in 1995, 1995 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Nebraska

The Faint are an American indie rock band from Omaha, Nebraska.

They have made 6 albums in their career.

[[Binary image]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

A Binary image is a kind of raster graphic image. Each pixel of the image can only one of two different values, usually black and white. For this reason, only one bit is needed per pixel. Most of the time, the value 0 is coded as white, and 1 is used for black. 

Binary images are used:

[[United States Tennis Association]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis in the United States, Tennis organisations, Non-profit organizations of New York, 1881 establishments in the United States

United States Tennis Association' (USTA) is the organization that controls tennis at the national level in the United States. It is a non-profit private organization formed in 1881 to standardize the rules of tennis. It is affiliated with the International Tennis Federation, which is the international governing body of tennis. 

At present USTA has more than 700,000 members. Its aim is to promote and develop the game of tennis and to develop better infrastructure for tennis. The USTA runs the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center which hosts the U.S. Open, the last grand slam of the year.

[[Belizean Creole]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of North America, Belize

Kriol is one of the languages spoken in Central America, mainly in Belize. It is not an official language but is spoken by about half a million people. Kriol is based on English and is similar to other Creole languages, like Miskito Coastal Creole, and Jamaican Patois.

[[Frances McDormand]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Chicago, Academy Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Frances McDormand (born June 23, 1957) is an American movie, television and stage actress. She won the Academy Award for "Best Actress" for her portrayal of Marge in 1996's Fargo. She was nominated three times for "Best Supporting Actress". McDormand was born in Chicago, Illinois. She is married to Joel Coen since 1984 and has two adopted sons. They currently live in New York City.

[[Joan Collins]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Actors from London, English movie actors, English novelists, English stage actors, English television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, People from Paddington

Dame Joan Henrietta Collins DBE (born 23 May 1933) is an English actress, author and columnist. She played Alexis Colby in Dynasty.

[[Jackie Collins]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, American novelists, Cancer deaths in California, Deaths from breast cancer, English novelists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Hampstead, Writers from London

Jacqueline Jill "Jackie" Collins  OBE (4 October 1937 – 19 September 2015) was an English-American novelist. She wrote 32 novels, all of which have been on the New York Times bestsellers list. In total, her books have sold over 400 million copies and have been translated into 40 languages. Eight of the books were made into movies or television mini-series.

She died on 19 September 2015 of breast cancer in Beverly Hills, California, aged 77. 

She was the younger sister of Joan Collins.

[[Sikh temple]]

CATEGORIES: Sikhism, Temples

A Sikh temple or Gurdwara (the door or the gateway to the Guru) is a place of worship in the Sikh religion. In the temple, the Sikh scriptures are recited or sung, and sermons are given.  Festivals are celebrated there. Sikh congregations also take part in birth, death, baptism, and marriage ceremonies in the temple. Guru Granth Sahib is usually placed at one end of the temple, high up under a canopy.

The Gurdwara serves many needs. It is a place where people can develop spiritual knowledge and wisdom. It is open to everyone, of every age, sex, caste, and creed. All men, women and children are treated as equals. The temple offers shelter and food to anyone in need. It offers care for the sick, elderly, and disabled. It is also a centre for promoting culture and health. In the temple, children are often taught about morality, Sikhism, and history. The Gurdwara is also a place where people can talk about problems facing the Sikh community. For example, they can talk about situations where the Sikh code of discipline was broken, and they can decide on what punishment is needed. The Gurdwara also plays a socio-economic role in the Sikh community. It is expected to be free from any sectional interests or party politics. 

A free kitchen is attached to every Gurdwara. There, the food (Langar) is prepared and served. Other people and communities are allowed to visit a Gurdwara. This is one of the things that the Sikh community does to improve relations and understanding between Sikhs and other communities. These visits help satisfy others' curiosity about Sikhism. They also help visitors to better understand the Sikh religion, customs, and culture. 

A Gurdwara is marked by the Nishan Sahib, the Sikh flag. The four doors of a Sikh temple represent the Door of Peace, the Door of Livelihood, the Door of Learning, and the Door of Grace. These doors must always remain open to everyone.

[[Red-shouldered macaw]]

CATEGORIES: True parrots

The red-shouldered macaw (Diopsittaca nobilis) is a species of parrot. There are three sub-species. They are green with red shoulder flashes. 

The birds are sometimes sold as pets. The are smaller than most macaws, and bond well with humans. They are intelligent birds, so many people keep them as companion animals. They are from South America, and eat fruits, nuts, and seeds.

It is native to the tropical lowlands, savannah, and swamplands of Venezuela, the Guianas, Bolivia and Brazil. It has two distinct subspecies, the noble macaw and Hahn's macaw.

The red-shouldered macaw nests in a hole in a tree. There are usually three or four white eggs in a clutch. The female incubates the eggs for about 24 to 26 days, and the chicks fledge from the nest about 54 days after hatching.

[[Endometrial cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Diseases and disorders of the female reproductive system

Endometrial cancer is cancer in the endometrium (lining of the uterus). The cancer is usually diagnosed during its early stages, resulting in a better survival rate than most cancers. Endometrial cancer is the most common gynecologic cancer in the United States: over 35,000 women are diagnosed each year.

[[Quiet Riot]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, Hard rock bands, Glam metal bands, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California

Quiet Riot is an American heavy metal band. They are best known for their hit singles "Cum On Feel the Noize" and "Metal Health". The band was started in 1973 by guitar player Randy Rhoads and bass player Kelly Garni, first calling themselves Mach 1, before changing the name to Little Women and finally Quiet Riot in May 1975. The first line-up featured lead singer Kevin DuBrow, Rhoads, Garni, and drummer Drew Forsythe.  The lineup now has no starting members and includes lead singer Scott Vokoun, drummer Frankie Banali, bass player Chuck Wright, and guitar player Alex Grossi. Both Banali and Wright played on the band's most successful album Metal Health era, but Wright played bass on only two songs including the hit song "Metal Health", but did sing backup on the whole album. 

The band's name came from a conversation with Rick Parfitt of British band Status Quo in which Parfitt said he'd like to name a band "Quite Right". With his thick English accent, it sounded like he was saying "Quiet Riot". They are ranked at number 100 on VH1's "100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock".

[[Arthur Christmas]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 comedy-drama movies, 2011 animated movies, American comedy-drama movies, American animated movies, British comedy-drama movies, British animated movies, Christmas movies

Arthur Christmas (originally called Operation Rudolph) is a 2011 computer-animated comedy-drama movie that was produced by Steve Pegram and was directed by Sarah Smith and Barry Cook. Arthur Christmas was released on November 11, 2011 in the United Kingdom and on November 23, 2011 in North America.

[[Arm wrestling]]

CATEGORIES: Wrestling

Arm wrestling is a sport with two players. Each player places one arm, either the right or left, on a surface, with their elbows bent and touching the surface, and they grip each other's hand. The goal is to pin the other's arm onto the surface, with the winner's arm over the loser's arm.

[[You Can't Take It With You (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 movies, American romantic comedy movies, 1930s comedy movies, 1930s romance movies, Best Picture Oscar, Movies directed by Frank Capra

You Can't Take It With You is a 1938 comedy movie that was produced by Frank Capra and was also directed by Frank Capra. The movie was released on August 23, 1938 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with Rotten Tomatoes giving the movie a 96% which is certified "fresh". The movie also won two Academy Awards for Best Picture and Best Director for Frank Capra.

[[It Happened One Night]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 movies, 1930s romance movies, 1930s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Academy Award winning movies, United States National Film Registry movies, Best Picture Oscar, Columbia Pictures movies, Movies directed by Frank Capra

It Happened One Night is a 1934 comedy movie that was produced by Frank Capra and Harry Cohn and was directed by Frank Capra. The movie was released on February 22, 1934 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with Rotten Tomatoes giving the movie a 97% which is certified "fresh". The movie also won all five of the major Academy Awards (Best Picture, Director, Actor, Actress, and Screenplay), making it the first movie to do so.

[[Adam Foote]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Colorado Avalanche players, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Quebec Nordiques players, American Hockey League players, Ontario Hockey League players

Adam David Vernon Foote (born July 10, 1971 in Whitby, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey defenceman that played 20 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) most notably with the Quebec Nordiques/Colorado Avalanche organizations. Foote played his last NHL game on April 10, 2011 with the Avalanche in a 4-3 OT win and was awarded the first star of the game. He won a gold medal with Team Canada in the 2002 Winter Olympics.

[[Clay County]]

Clay County is the name of 18 counties in the United States.

[[Clay County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1866 establishments in Alabama

Clay County is a county of the US state of Alabama.   As of 2010 the population was 13,932.  Its county seat is Ashland and it is a prohibition or dry county.

[[Clay County, Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Arkansas counties, 1873 establishments in Arkansas

Clay County is a county in Arkansas.

[[Clay County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1858 establishments in Florida

Clay County is a county in Florida.  Its county seat is Green Cove Springs.

[[Téa Leoni]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, 1966 births, Living people

Elizabeth Téa Pantaleoni (born February 25, 1966), better known by her stage name Téa Leoni, is an American actress. She has starred many movies. These include: Bad Boys, Deep Impact, The Family Man, Jurassic Park III, Fun with Dick and Jane, Spanglish, Ghost Town and Tower Heist.

Leoni separated from her husband, David Duchovny, in 2011.

[[Clay County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1854 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Clay County is a county in Georgia. Its county seat is Fort Gaines.

[[All Quiet on the Western Front (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s war movies, Academy Award winning movies, American drama movies, American war movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, United States National Film Registry movies, Universal Pictures movies, World War I movies, Movies directed by Lewis Milestone

All Quiet on the Western Front is a 1930 American war movie that was produced by Carl Laemmle, Jr. It was  directed by Lewis Milestone. The movie was released on April 21, 1930 in North America. The movie received positive reviews.  Rotten Tomatoes gives the movie a 97% which is certified "fresh". The movie also won two Academy Awards for "Best Picture" and "Best Director" for Lewis Milestone. The movie is also ranked #54 on the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list. The movie is based after the novel, All Quiet on the Western Front.

[[Philadelphia Warriors]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Pennsylvania, 1962 disestablishments, 1960s disestablishments in the United States, 20th-century disestablishments in Pennsylvania

[[Crop milk]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

Crop milk is a way of feeding from the crop of parent birds, by regurgitating to young birds. They are found among all pigeons and doves where they are referred to as pigeon milk. Crop milk is also produced by flamingos and even some penguins.

[[Lilies of the Field (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 drama movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Academy Award winning movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Ralph Nelson

Lilies of the Field is a 1963 drama movie that was produced by Ralph Nelson and was also directed by Ralph Nelson. The movie was released in 1963 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with Rotten Tomatoes giving the movie a 100% which is certified "fresh". The movie also won an Academy Award for Best Actor for Sidney Poitier.

[[Eared dove]]

CATEGORIES: Doves

The Eared Dove,  Zenaida auriculata, is a New World tropical dove. It is seen throughout South America from Colombia to southern Argentina and Chile, and on the offshore islands from the Grenadines southwards. It appears to be partly migratory, but it may only be when it needs more food. When it lays its eggs, it builds a small stick nest several meters up in a tree.

It is a close relative of the North American Mourning Dove.

[[Socorro dove]]

CATEGORIES: Doves

The Socorro dove (Zenaida graysoni) is a dove that was endemic to Socorro Island on the west coast of Mexico. The last bird was seen there in 1972. For this reason, IUCN has classified the species as extinct in the wild. In captivity, there are not more than about 200 and probably fewer than 100 purebred birds. Because of this, a reintroduction program is being prepared.

It is a close relative of the mourning and eared doves. It was at one time considered a subspecies of the mourning dove.

[[Sean Bergenheim]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American Hockey League players, Finnish ice hockey players, Florida Panthers players, Living people, New York Islanders players, Sportspeople from Helsinki, Swedish Hockey League players, Tampa Bay Lightning players

Sean Bergenheim (born February 8, 1984 in Helsinki, Finland) is a professional Finnish ice hockey left winger that currently plays for the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League (NHL). He was drafted by the New York Islanders with the 22nd overall pick in the 2002 NHL Draft.

He also played with the New York Islanders for 7 seasons before signing a one-year contract with the Tampa Bay Lightning in the 2009–10 offseason. He played for the Lightning for 1 season and was signed to a four-year contract worth $11 million with the Florida Panthers. He played in the FNL for Jokerit where he played three seasons and in the SEL for the Frölunda HC for one season.

[[Morehead State University]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio Valley Conference, Colleges and universities in Kentucky, 1887 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Kentucky

Morehead State University is a public, co-educational university in Morehead, Kentucky. The university has about 9,509 students. It was founded in 1887. The current president of the university is Dr. Wayne D. Andrews.

[[University of Montana – Missoula]]

CATEGORIES: Big Sky Conference, Colleges and universities in Montana, 1893 establishments in Montana, Missoula, Montana

University of Montana – Missoula is a public university in Missoula, Montana. The university has about 15,642 students. It was founded in 1893. The current president of the university is Royce Engstrom.

[[Northern Arizona University]]

CATEGORIES: Big Sky Conference, Colleges and universities in Arizona, Flagstaff, Arizona, 1899 establishments in the United States

Northern Arizona University is a public university in Flagstaff, Arizona. The university has about 22,204 students. It was founded in 1899. The current president of the university is John D. Haeger.

[[Big Sky Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Big Sky Conference, NCAA Division I athletics conferences

The Big Sky Conference is a NCAA conference that play in the NCAA Division I. The conference is headquartered in Ogden, Utah and features universities and colleges from the Western United States, plus one in the Midwestern U.S. In football, the league plays in the second-level Division I FCS.

[[Portland State University]]

CATEGORIES: Big Sky Conference, Colleges and universities in Oregon, Portland, Oregon, 1946 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Oregon

Portland State University is a public university in Portland, Oregon. The university has about 27,972 students. It was founded in 1946. The current president of the university is Wim Wiewel.

[[Eastern Washington University]]

CATEGORIES: Big Sky Conference, Colleges and universities in Washington, 1882 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Washington (state)

Eastern Washington University is a public university in Cheney, Washington. The university has about 10,750 students. It was founded in 1882. The current president of the university is Dr. Rodolfo Arévalo.

[[Idaho State University]]

CATEGORIES: Big Sky Conference, Colleges and universities in Idaho, 1901 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in Idaho

Idaho State University is a public university in Pocatello, Idaho. The university has about 15,553 students. It was founded in 1901. The current president of the university is Arthur C. Vailas, Ph.D. .

[[University of Northern Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Big Sky Conference, Colleges and universities in Colorado, 1889 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Colorado

The University of Northern Colorado is a public, coeducational university in Greeley, Colorado. The university has about 12,358 students. It was founded in 1889. The current president of the university is Kay Norton.

[[Montana State University]]

CATEGORIES: Big Sky Conference, Colleges and universities in Montana

Montana State University – Bozeman is a public university in Bozeman, Montana. The university has about 13,559 students. It was founded in 1893. The current president of the university is Waded Cruzado.

[[California State University, Sacramento]]

CATEGORIES: Big Sky Conference, California State University, Sacramento, California, 1947 establishments in the United States, 1940s establishments in California

California State University, Sacramento, also known as Sacramento State University, is a public university in Sacramento, California. The university has about 29,241 students. It was founded in 1947. The current president of the university is Alexander Gonzalez.

[[Weber State University]]

CATEGORIES: Big Sky Conference, Colleges and universities in Utah, Ogden, Utah, 1889 establishments in the United States

Weber State University is a public university in Ogden, Utah. The university has about 25,130 students. It was founded in 1889. The current president of the university is F. Ann Millner.

[[Virginia Commonwealth University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic 10 Conference, Colleges and universities in Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, 1838 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Virginia

Virginia Commonwealth University is a public university in Richmond, Virginia. The university has about 32,436 students. It was founded in 1838. The current president of the university is Michael Rao, Ph.D.  It came from a merger between the Richmond Professional Institute and the Medical College of Virginia in 1968. It has over 32,000 students. It is classified as having very high research activity by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education.

[[Hofstra University]]

CATEGORIES: Colonial Athletic Association, Colleges and universities in New York, 1935 establishments in the United States, 1930s establishments in New York (state)

Hofstra University is a private university in Hempstead, New York. The university has about 12,400 students. It was founded in 1935. The current president of the university is Stuart Rabinowitz.

[[Winona State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Minnesota, 1858 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Minnesota

Winona State University is an American public university in Winona, Minnesota. It is the oldest member of the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities system. WSU has more than 80 programs on its main campus. It was established in 1858.

[[George Mason University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic 10 Conference, Colleges and universities in Virginia, 1957 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Virginia

George Mason University (also known as GMU or "Mason") is a public university in Fairfax, Virginia. The university has about 32,562 students. It was founded in 1957. The current president of the university is Alan G. Merten.

[[Georgia State University]]

CATEGORIES: Sun Belt Conference, Colleges and universities in Georgia (U.S. state), Atlanta, Georgia, 1913 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Georgia State University is a public university in Atlanta, Georgia. The university has about 31,533 students. It was founded in 1913. The current president of the university is Mark P. Becker.

[[James Madison University]]

CATEGORIES: Colonial Athletic Association, Colleges and universities in Virginia, 1908 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Virginia

James Madison University is a public university in Harrisonburg, Virginia. The university has about 18,971 students. It was founded in 1908. The current president of the university is Dr. Linwood H. Rose.

[[Béarnaise sauce]]

CATEGORIES: Sauces, Dishes named after people, French food

Béarnaise sauce (sauce béarnaise) be.aʁnɛz is a sauce made of clarified butter, egg yolks, and  herbs.  It is considered to be a 'child' of the mother Hollandaise sauce, one of the five mother sauces in French haute cuisine. The difference is only in their flavouring: Béarnaise uses shallot, chervil, peppercorn, and tarragon, while Hollandaise uses lemon juice.

In appearance it is light yellow and opaque, smooth and creamy.

Béarnaise is a traditional sauce for steak.

[[Northeastern University]]

CATEGORIES: Colonial Athletic Association, Colleges and universities in Massachusetts, Hockey East, 1898 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Massachusetts

Northeastern University is a private university in Boston, Massachusetts. The university has about 20,749 students. It was founded in 1898. The current president of the university is Joseph Aoun.

[[Old Dominion University]]

CATEGORIES: Conference USA, Colleges and universities in Virginia, Norfolk, Virginia, 1930 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Virginia

[[Towson University]]

CATEGORIES: Colonial Athletic Association, Colleges and universities in Maryland, 1866 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Maryland

Towson University (TU) is a public university in Towson, Maryland. The university has about 21,117 students. It was founded in 1866. The current president of the university is Robert L. Caret.

[[University of North Carolina Wilmington]]

CATEGORIES: Colonial Athletic Association, Colleges and universities in North Carolina, 1947 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in North Carolina

The University of North Carolina Wilmington is a public, coeducational university in Wilmington, North Carolina. The university has about 16,000 students. It was founded in 1947. The current chancellor of the university is Jose V. Sartarelli.

[[Şebnem Sönmez]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Actors from Istanbul, Turkish stage actors, Turkish movie actors, Turkish television actors

Şebnem Sönmez (full name Tevhide Şebnem Sönmez, born June 5, 1968) in Istanbul, Turkey. She is a Turkish theatre and cinema actress.

[[Colonial Athletic Association]]

CATEGORIES: Colonial Athletic Association, NCAA Division I athletics conferences, Richmond, Virginia, 1979 establishments in the United States

The Colonial Athletic Association (CAA) is a NCAA conference that play in the NCAA Division I. The conference is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and features universities and colleges from the Eastern United States.

The CAA was founded in 1979 when the Eastern College Athletic Conference (ECAC) split its basketball league into several conferences. It was first known as the ECAC South Basketball League, and became the Colonial Athletic Association in 1985 when it added other sports.

[[University of North Carolina at Greensboro]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in North Carolina, Greensboro, North Carolina, 1891 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in North Carolina

The University of North Carolina at Greensboro is a public university in Greensboro, North Carolina. The university has about 18,502 students. It was founded in 1891. The current chancellor of the university is Linda P. Brady.

[[East Tennessee State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Tennessee, 1911 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Tennessee

East Tennessee State University is a public university in Johnson City, Tennessee. The university has about 15,000 students. It was founded in 1911. The current president of the university is Brian Noland.

[[Berliner (doughnut)]]

CATEGORIES: Dishes named after people, German food, American food, Cakes

A Berliner  is a type of doughnut from Germany and Central Europe.

They are made from sweet yeast dough fried in fat or oil, with a marmalade or jam filling and usually icing, powdered sugar or conventional sugar on top. They are sometimes made with chocolate, champagne, custard, mocha, or advocaat filling, or with no filling at all.  The filling is injected with a large syringe after the pastry is fried.

The name of the doughnut is different in various areas of Germany. While most areas call it a Berliner, residents of Berlin, Brandenburg and Saxony know them as Pfannkuchen, which in the rest of Germany generally means pancakes - pancakes are known there as Eierkuchen (lit. egg cakes). In parts of southern and central Germany (Bavaria), as well as in much of Austria, they are a variety of Krapfen; in Hessen they are referred to as Kräppel or Kreppel, or, in Palatinate, Fastnachtsküchelchen (literally: "little carnival cakes").

In South Tirol, part of northern Italy, the food is called krafen or krapfen. In Slovenia, it is krof; in Croatia krafne; in Bosnia, and Serbia krofne. In Poland they are known as pączki, in the Czech Republic as kobliha.  In Hungary, it is called fánk. All of these are essentially identical preparations. 

In English-speaking countries, Berliners are usually called doughnuts and are usually filled with jam, jelly, custard or whipped cream. However, in South Australia, the Kitchener bun is a Berliner cut on the side for the filling of jam and cream. In Anglophone North America, the most common term for the jam- or jelly-filled pastry is "jelly doughnut".  The name is somewhat misleading, since the jam or jelly used is specially made with less pectin, so that it does not "set" like jams and jellies manufactured for table use but has a consistency comparable to Bavarian cream.

The cream or custard-filled variety usually also feature chocolate icing and are sometimes called Bavarian cream or Boston cream doughnuts (the latter name from its resemblance to Boston cream pie). The Boston cream doughnut has been designated the official state doughnut of Massachusetts.

In Ontario and the prairie western provinces of Canada, as well as parts of the Midwest in the U.S., such a round jelly- or custard-filled doughnut is commonly called a "Bismarck," while a filled bar doughnut is called a "Long John", and usually contains pastry creme, custard or whipped cream but can contain a jelly filling. Other Canadian terms include "jambuster" in Manitoba, and "Burlington bun" in Nova Scotia.

Berliners are traditionally eaten to celebrate on New Year's Eve (Silvester) as well as the carnival holidays (Mardi Gras). A common German practical joke is to secretly fill some Berliners with mustard instead of jam and serve them together with regular Berliners without telling anyone.

In Portugal, berliners are slightly bigger than their German counterparts. They are known as bolas de Berlim (Berlin ball) and the filling is always an egg-yolk- based yellow cream called creme pasteleiro (lit. confectioner's cream). The filling is inserted after a half- length cut and is always visible. Regular sugar is used to sprinkle on it. They can be found in almost every pastry shop in the country.  

Such versions are also found in Latin America, in Chile, Uruguay and Argentina, where it's not only filled with custard (called "Crema pastelera"), but with jam (especially red ones) or manjar blanco.  In Brazil, berliners are called sonhos (dreams) and traditionally filled with yellow cream (called simply creme).  Some modern variants filled with doce de leite (a type of milk jam), or a mix of chocolate and doce de leite, can be found in Rio de Janeiro's bakeries.

In Israel, a version of the pastry called sufganiyah is traditionally eaten during the holiday of Hanukkah. While sufganiyot are usually filled with jam, many modern variants exist.

[[Campbell University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in North Carolina, 1887 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in North Carolina

Campbell University is a private, coeducational baptist university in Buies Creek, North Carolina. The university has about 10,471 students. It was founded in 1887. The current president of the university is Jerry M. Wallace.

[[Belmont University]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio Valley Conference, Colleges and universities in Nashville, Tennessee, 1890 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Tennessee

Belmont University is a private, coeducational university in Nashville, Tennessee. The university has about 5,936 students. It was founded in 1890. The current president of the university is Robert Fisher.

[[Florida Gulf Coast University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Sun Conference, Colleges and universities in Florida, 1991 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Florida

Florida Gulf Coast University is a public, coeducational university in Fort Myers, Florida. The university has about 12,024 students. It was founded in 1991. The current president of the university is Wilson G. Bradshaw.

[[Jacksonville University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Sun Conference, Colleges and universities in Florida, 1934 establishments in the United States, Jacksonville, Florida, 20th-century establishments in Florida

Jacksonville University is a private university in Jacksonville, Florida, United States. The university has about 3,600 students.February 2012 It was founded in 1934. The current president of the university is Kerry D. Romesburg.

[[Kennesaw State University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Sun Conference, Colleges and universities in Georgia (U.S. state), 1963 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Kennesaw State University is a public, coeducational university in Kennesaw, Georgia. The university has about 23,452 students. It was founded in 1963. The current president of the university is Daniel S. Papp.

[[Lipscomb University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Sun Conference, Colleges and universities in Nashville, Tennessee, 1891 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Tennessee

Lipscomb University is a private, coeducational university in Nashville, Tennessee. The university has about 3,742 students. It was founded in 1891. The current president of the university is L. Randolph Lowry III.

[[Clay County, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Illinois counties, 1824 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Illinois

Clay County is a county in Illinois.

[[Clay County, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Indiana counties, 1825 establishments in the United States, Brazil, Indiana, 1820s establishments in Indiana

Clay County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Brazil.

[[Mercer University]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Macon, Georgia, Colleges and universities in Georgia (U.S. state), 1833 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Mercer University is a private, coeducational university in Macon, Georgia. The university has about 8,000 students. It was founded in 1833. The current president of the university is William D. Underwood.

[[University of North Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Sun Conference, Colleges and universities in Florida, Jacksonville, Florida, 1969 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Florida

The University of North Florida (UNF) is a public university in Jacksonville, Florida. The university has about 16,509 students. Its campus comprises 1,300 acres amid a natural preserve on Jacksonville's Southside. It was founded in 1969. The current president is David Szymanski.

UNF was established in 1965 and began offering classes in 1972. UNF was initially designated an upper division college for juniors and seniors. It began admitting freshmen in 1984.

The university has 220 clubs and organizations for students as well as an active student government and Greek life. The student-run newspaper The Spinnaker is published monthly. The university's intercollegiate athletics teams are known as the Ospreys, and are currently members of the Atlantic Sun Conference in NCAA Division I.

[[University of South Carolina Upstate]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Sun Conference, Colleges and universities in South Carolina, 1967 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in South Carolina

University of South Carolina Upstate is a public university in Spartanburg, South Carolina. The university has about 4,608 students. It was founded in 1967. The current chancellor of the university is Dr. John C. Stockwell.

[[Stetson University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Sun Conference, Colleges and universities in Florida, 1883 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Florida

Stetson University is a private, co-educational university in DeLand, Florida. The university has about 2,200 students. It was founded in 1883. The current president of the university is Wendy B. Libby.

[[Atlantic Sun Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Sun Conference, NCAA Division I athletics conferences, 1978 establishments in the United States

The ASUN Conference is a NCAA conference whose members play in NCAA Division I. The conference is headquartered in Atlanta and mostly features universities and colleges from the southeastern United States. The ASUN does not play football, but plans to add that sport in 2022 in the second level of Division I football, the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS).

The ASUN began in 1978 as the Trans America Athletic Conference (TAAC). It became the Atlantic Sun Conference in 2001 and rebranded itself as the ASUN Conference in 2016.

[[Higher Learning]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s crime drama movies, 1995 LGBT movies, American crime drama movies, American LGBT movies, English-language movies

Higher Learning is a 1995 American drama movie directed by John Singleton and starring Ice Cube, Laurence Fishburne, Tyra Banks, Jennifer Connelly, Kristy Swanson and Omar Epps. Its subjects include racial prejudice, crime and struggles with sexuality taking place at a fictional university.

[[Oomycete]]

CATEGORIES: Protista

The Oomycota are a class in a huge phylum of eukaryotic microorganisms called the Heterokonts. Oomycetes are a distinct phylogenetic lineage of fungus-like microorganisms.

They are not actually fungi, though some have filaments as fungi do. Like fungi, they are saprophytic and pathogenic. also like fungi, oomycetes rarely have septa, and if they do, they are scarce.

They are microscopic organisms that reproduce both sexually and asexually. Oomycetes are some of the most prolific pathogens of plants, causing devastating diseases such as potato blight and sudden oak death.

They are often referred to as water moulds (or moulds), although the water-loving nature which led to that name is not true of most species, which are terrestrial pathogens.

[[Hurricane Helene (1958)]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in the United States

Hurricane Helene was one of the most powerful Atlantic storms of 1958. The storm's peak winds were 135 miles per hour. This hurricane moved north of the West Indies and brushed the United States' east coast. Helene was the only hurricane to affect the United States in 1958.

[[Garter snake]]

CATEGORIES: Colubrids

The garter snake (Thamnophis sirtalis) is a Colubrid snake.

It is common across North America between Alaska/Canada and Central America. It is the single most widely distributed genus of reptiles in North America. It is famous for its resistance to the poison produced by the rough-skinned newt. Garter snakes are actually venomous, just not to humans, since the amount of toxin in their saliva is too weak to really cause damage to a human. The worst they could do to you is musk on you or bite you and leave a harmless rash. In fact, cat bites are probably more serious than garter snake bites. They prey on rodents, small fish, small birds, salamanders, earthworms (not red wigglers, as they are bad for them) insects, and insect larva. They are attracted to water sources and hiding spots. You can identify a garter snake because almost every species has a stripe running down its back, the color varying and depending on the species, as there are many different species of garter snakes. They are incredibly common animals, settling in backyards and local woods. As you read this, there is probably at least one garter slithering in the nature-filled area behind you, whatever that may be. All snakes like to hide, and garters are no exception, even if they are incredibly common and small. They hide under leaves, trees, bricks and rocks stacked up, plants, sticks, and anything they can find. If you are trying to catch a garter, look for them under these places, and you just might find them. Like most snakes, female garters tend to be longer than the males, so that's one form of sexing them.  

[[James Storm]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Tennessee, TNA wrestlers

James Allan Black (born June 1, 1977 in Franklin, Tennessee) is an American professional wrestler who is better known by the ring name, James Storm and is currently signed to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling where he was once one-half of the wrestling stable, Beer Money, Inc. with Robert Roode. Storm is a six-time NWA World Tag Team Champion with Chris Harris (six) and Christopher Daniels (one), five-time and current TNA World Tag Team Champion with Gunner (one and current) and Robert Roode, two-time World Beer Drinking Champion. Storm also won the Asylum Alliance Tag Team Tournament in 2003 with Harris, the Team 3D Invitational Tag Team Tournament in 2009 with Roode and the TNA Tag Team Championship Series in 2010 with Roode.

[[Hernandez (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Houston, Texas

Shawn Hernandez (born February 11, 1973 in Houston, Texas) is an American professional wrestler who is better known by the ring name, Hernandez and is currently signed to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. Hernandez is also known for forming the tag team stable, The Latin American Xchange with Homicide which ended when he was betrayed by Homicide and was attacked by him on the September 10 edition of TNA Impact!. 

He has been a two time NWA World Tag Team Champion with Homicide and a two time TNA World Tag Team Champion with Homicide (once) and Matt Morgan (once). He also won the Deuces Wild Tournament in 2008 with Homicide.

His finishing move is called the Border Toss which is a throwing crucifix powerbomb.

[[Albany County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Albany County, Wyoming, 1868 establishments in Wyoming Territory

Albany County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming, and was created on December 16, 1868. As of 2010, 36,299 people lived there. Albany County's seat is Laramie.

[[Natrona County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Natrona County, Wyoming, 1868 establishments in Wyoming Territory

Natrona County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. It was created on December 16, 1868. As of 2010, 75,450 people lived there. Natrona County's seat is Casper.

[[Manufacturing engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

Manufacturing engineering is a field of engineering dealing with the design, development, and implementation of integrated systems of humans, machines, and information resources to provide products and services.

Manufacturing engineering applies knowledge and skills in the physical, social, engineering, and management sciences, as well as in human sciences, computer systems and information technologies, manufacturing processes, operations research, production, and automation.

[[Nuclear engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

Nuclear engineering is a field of engineering dealing with application of atomic nuclei breakdown and other sub-atomic physics, based on the principles of nuclear physics. It includes the interaction and maintenance of nuclear fission systems and components such as nuclear reactors, nuclear power plants, and nuclear weapons.

Nuclear engineering also includes the study of nuclear fusion, medical and other applications of radiation, radiation safety, heat transport, nuclear fuel and other related technologies, nuclear proliferation, and the effect of radioactive waste or radioactivity on the environment.

[[Edie Falco]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1963 births, Living people

Edie Falco (born July 5, 1963 in Brooklyn, New York City) is an American movie, television and stage actress. She plays Carmela in HBO's The Sopranos. She starred in Nurse Jackie as the title character. She also acted in many movies.

[[Cymbeline]]

CATEGORIES: Plays by William Shakespeare

The Tragedy of Cymbeline  is a play by William Shakespeare. It is based on a story in a book called Holinshed's Chronicles by Raphael Holinshed. Shakespeare also used History of the Kings of Britain by Geoffrey of Monmouth about the real-life British king Cunobelinus. Shakespeare also used a story in a book by Giovanni Boccaccio called Decameron for some details. The first known performance was in April 1611. It was first printed in 1623 in the First Folio, a collection of all of Shakespeare's plays. 

[[Systems engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering, Systems

Systems engineering is a field of engineering that deals with complex engineering projects which should be designed and managed over the life cycle of the project. Therefore, issues such as logistics, the coordination of different teams, and automatic control of machinery become really complicated. Systems engineering deals with work-processes and tools to handle such projects. For this, it applies both technical and human-centered disciplines such as control engineering, industrial engineering, organizational studies, and project management.

[[Leigh Francis]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Actors from West Yorkshire, Comedians from Yorkshire, English television actors, People from Leeds

Leigh Francis (born 30 April 1973) is an English comedy performer best known for his portrayal of foreign celebrity-obsessed character Avid Merrion in Channel 4 comedy programme Bo' Selecta!, as well as Northern businessman Keith Lemon in Keith Lemon's Very Brilliant World Tour and Celebrity Juice. As Keith Lemon, he has also made many appearances on Big Brother's companion shows Big Brother's Little Brother and Big Brother's Big Mouth.

[[Hurricane Flora]]

CATEGORIES: Deadly storms, 1963, 20th centuy in Haiti, 1960s in Cuba, Hurricanes in Haiti

Hurricane Flora was among the deadliest Atlantic hurricanes. This hurricane happened in Autumn 1963. The storm hit southwestern Haiti at peak intensity (her winds peaked at 145 miles per hour). Flora then drifted over Cuba for almost four days before heading northeast into the Atlantic. Between seven thousand and eight thousand people died due to Flora. At that time, the death toll was the most from any storm since the Galveston Hurricane in September 1900. The name Flora was later retired.

[[Dance-pop]]

CATEGORIES: Dance music, Pop music

Dance-pop is a genre of pop music that originated in the 1980s and is still popular nowadays. It incorporates elements of normal pop music, and it is (usually) fast-paced and upbeat.  This is a common genre for many artists, including Lady Gaga, Michael Jackson, Madonna, Rihanna, Kesha, Britney Spears, Whitney Houston, Janet Jackson, and Katy Perry.

[[Electropop]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic music, Pop music

Electropop (also called technopop) is a musical genre in which electronic music and pop music are combined together. The genre has been popular since the 1990s, 2000s and 2010s. "Electropop" is the short form of "electronic pop".

[[Doc Walker]]

CATEGORIES: Country bands

Doc Walker is a country music band from Portage la Prairie, Manitoba, Canada, which is near Winnipeg. Band members are Murray Pulver - guitars and vocals, Chris Thorsteinson - lead vocals and guitars, Dave Wasyliw - vocals and guitars. They have been together since the band formed in 1995, have been called "the hardest working country band in Canada".

They have had several Top 10 songs on the charts. Hits include "Beautiful Life", "From Here", and "I'm Gonna Make You Love Me". Other great songs are "That Train", "North Dakota Boy", "Rocket Girl", "Driving With the Breaks On", "Coming Home", and "Whoever Made Those Rules". 

“Simplicity is the best hook sometimes,” -Chris Thorsteinson.

[[Mechatronics engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

Mechatronics (or mechatronic engineering) is a combination of mechanical engineering, electronic engineering, computer engineering, control engineering, and systems-design engineering in order to design and manufacture some useful products. Mechatronics is an engineering system design that combines several areas of study and avoids splitting engineering into separate disciplines.

[[Tree of life (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology

The tree of life is a metaphor which expresses the idea that all life is related by common descent.

Charles Darwin was the first to use this metaphor in modern biology. It had been used many times before for other purposes.

The evolutionary tree shows the relationships among various biological groups. It includes data from DNA, RNA and protein analysis.

Tree of life work is a product of traditional comparative anatomy, and modern molecular evolution and molecular clock research. Below is a simplified version of present-day understanding. 

[[Three's Company]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 establishments in the United States, 1977 television series debuts, 1984 disestablishments in the United States, 1984 television series endings, 1970s American sitcoms, 1980s American sitcoms, ABC network shows, American television series based on British television series, Santa Monica, California, Television series about friendship, Television series set in Los Angeles County, California, English-language television programs

Three's Company is an American situation comedy. It aired on the ABC network. It began in March 1977 and ended in September 1984.

The show is a remake of the British sitcom Man About the House. Nowadayswhen the domestic distribution rights are handled by creator Don L. Taffner's estate and the international rights are handled by FremantleMedia (whose company Thames originated the sitcom Man About the House).

The show is set in Santa Monica, California. It is about a man pretending to be gay so his landlord won't evict him, it is also about financial struggling such as the roommates not being able to pay their rent. The sitcom heavily relies on innuendo and sexy misunderstandings. It is also a comedy of errors. The show had two spinoffs also based on Britcoms: The Ropers (George & Mildred) & Three's a Crowd (Robin's Nest).

The series was later the subject of the made-for-TV movie Behind the Camera: the Unauthorized Story of Three's Company. The movie showed how cast changes led to the show ending.

[[Filmation]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 establishments in the United States, Companies based in California, 1960s establishments in California

Filmation Associates or Filmation Studios was an American production company that produced animated television series and live action programming during the late 20th century. Founded in 1963, the company was in Reseda, California.

[[Theriodont]]

CATEGORIES: Theriodonts

Theriodonts  are a major group of therapsids. They are a clade which include not only the traditional theriodonts, but also their descendants the mammals as well (in the same way that theropod dinosaurs include the birds as a sub-clade).

They can be defined in traditional terms as a suborder of Synapsida that lived from the Middle Permian to the Middle Cretaceous. Theriodonts appeared about 265 million years ago, in the Middle Permian. Even these early theriodonts were more mammal-like than their relatives. 

Theriodonts fall into three main groups: Gorgonopsia, Therocephalia and Cynodontia. Early theriodonts may have been warm-blooded. Early forms were carnivorous, but several later groups became herbivorous during the Triassic. 

Theriodont jaws were more mammal-like than was the case of other therapsids, because their dentary (lower jaw) was larger, which gave them more efficient chewing. Several other bones that were previously on the lower jaw, moved into the ears, allowing the theriodonts to hear better and their mouths to open wider. This made the theriodonts the most successful group of synapsids. 

Eutheriodonts refer to all theriodonts except the gorgonopsians (the most primitive group). They included the therocephalians, cynodonts and their descendants – the mammals. The name means "true beast tooth". The eutheriodonts have larger skulls, accommodating larger brains and improved jaw muscles. 

The theriodonts (eutheriodonts) are one of the two synapsid survivors of the great Permian–Triassic extinction event, the other being the dicynodonts. Therocephalians included both carnivorous and herbivorous forms; both died out after the Lower Triassic.  

The remaining theriodonts, the cynodonts, also included carrnivores such as Cynognathus, as well as newly evolved herbivorous Traversodonts.  While Traversodonts for the most part remained medium-sized to reasonably large (length of largest species up to 2 meters), the carnivorous forms became progressively smaller as the Triassic progressed.  

By the Upper Triassic the small cynodonts included the rodent-like tritylodonts (possibly related to or descended from travsersodonts), and the tiny, shrew-like, trithelodonts, which evolved into the first mammals. The trithelodonts died out during the Jurassic, and the tritylodonts survived in the Cretaceous, but the mammals continued to evolve. Many mammal groups managed to survive the Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event, which wiped out the non-avian dinosaurs, allowing the mammals to diversify and dominate the Earth.

[[Laura Ingraham]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American radio personalities, Writers from Connecticut, American political commentators, Writers from Washington, D.C., American conservatives

Laura Ingraham (born 19 June 1964) is an American conservative political commentator, author and radio host. Her nationally syndicated talk show The Laura Ingraham Show was broadcast for nine years on the Talk Radio Network. She has been known for her controversial statements against the left wing party.

[[Peptide bond]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

A peptide bond is a special chemical bond that happens between two amino acids. In the reaction (called condensation), the two amino acids are combined into a dipeptide. 

[[Repenomamus]]

CATEGORIES: Theriodonts

Repenomamus is the largest known mammal from the Cretaceous period. Its fossil was found in Manchuria.

There is good evidence that it fed on dinosaurs. It is not known whether Repenomamus was a hunter or a scavenger.

[[Frederick William III of Prussia]]

CATEGORIES: 1770 births, 1840 deaths, Electors and Electresses, House of Hohenzollern, Kings and Queens of Prussia, People from Potsdam

Frederick William III (Friedrich Wilhelm III.) (3 August 1770 – 7 June 1840) was king of Prussia from 1797 to 1840.

[[Population growth]]

CATEGORIES: Population

Population growth is the rate at which a population grows or expands. For example, if a population increased from 100 to 110 in a year, then it would have had a population growth of 10% per year.

[[Olathe, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Johnson County, Kansas, County seats in Kansas, 1857 establishments in Kansas Territory

Olathe is a city in Johnson County, Kansas, United States. It is also the county seat of Johnson County. In 2010, 125,872 people lived in Olathe. It is the fourth biggest city in Kansas. By 2018, the Census Bureau estimated 139,605 people lived in Olathe.

[[2010 United States Census]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 in the United States, United States Census

The Twenty-Third United States Census, known as Census 2010 or 2010 Census was a count of the population of the United States. It was done by the Census Bureau. It found that the population of the United States on April 1, 2010 was 308,745,538. This was an increase of 9.7 percent over the 281,421,906 people counted during the 2000 Census. This was the twenty-third federal census.

The Census Bureau did not use a long form for the 2010 Census. The 2010 Census used only a short form asking ten basic questions. 

[[Objectivism]]

Objectivism may mean:

[[Attila the Hun]]

CATEGORIES: 406 births, 453 deaths, Asian military people, European military people

Attila, or Attila the Hun (406-453), was a leader of the Huns from 434 CE until he died in 453 CE. He was one of the most common ruler. 

Attila led the Hunnic Empire, and was known as a feared military commander. He invaded Gaul, and nearly captured the city of Aurelianum. In 451 CE, he lost the Battle of the Catalaunian Plains, the only one he ever lost. He also invaded Italy and attacked and looted several towns.

Attila died in 453. The traditional account of his death is that it happened the night after his marriage to a woman named Ildiko. The Huns declined in the years immediately after Attila's death.

[[SEPTA]]

CATEGORIES: Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, 1965 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) is an agency that is in control of many types of transport, including buses, commuter rail, elevated rail and subways. It operates 13 "Regional Rail" services in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area.

[[Mount Pinatubo]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Asia, Geography of the Philippines

Mount Pinatubo is a stratovolcano on Luzon in the Philippines. It is near the Tri-Cabusilan Mountain range, separating Luzon's west coast from the central plains. 

Before 1991 the volcano was inconspicuous and heavily eroded. It was covered with dense forest, and several thousand indigenous people lived there. The volcano erupted in June 1991, destroying thousands of buildings and houses and killing over 800 people. Mount Pinatubo's eruption effects were felt worldwide. There is now a caldera where before was the central cone.

It erupted in June 15, 1991 and is located on the island of Luzon in the Phillipines. Many Lahars and pyroclastic flows damaged much of the infrastructure of the country. They also killed upwards of 800 people. Officials at the US marine base were able to evacuate many people, but property damage was costly, totaling billions of phillipine pesos.

[[SEPTA Regional Rail]]

CATEGORIES: Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority

The transit agency SEPTA operates many Regional Rail services. SEPTA Regional Rail runs in the city and suburbs of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The lines were originally owned by the Reading Railroad and the Pennsylvania Railroad, long-time competitors. The Center City Commuter Connection connects the thirteen lines. The core stations in the CCCC are Suburban Station, the elevated 30th Street Station and Jefferson Station.

[[Brookings, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in South Dakota, Cities in South Dakota, 1883 establishments in Dakota Territory

Brookings is a city in the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Brookings County, and 22,056 people lived there at the 2010 census. The mayor of Brookings is Tim Reed. Brookings was founded in 1883. The city of Brookings was named after Wilmot Wood Brookings, a pioneer promoter.

[[Mama's Family]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, NBC network shows, First run syndicated television programs, English-language television programs

Mama's Family was an American sitcom that aired beginning January 22, 1983 and ended February 24, 1990. The show was first canceled in May 1984, but returned in September 1986 in first run syndication; between its cancellation and September 1985 NBC aired reruns of the sitcom.

The show's theme song is "Bless My Happy Home" by Emmy and Grammy award winner Peter Matz (music) and Vicki Lawrence (lyrics). The show's producers chose to use an instrumental version.

[[University of South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in South Dakota, Missouri Valley Football Conference, The Summit League, 1862 establishments in Dakota Territory

University of South Dakota is a public university in Vermillion, South Dakota. The university has about 10,515 students. It was founded in 1862. The current president of the university is James W. Abbott.

[[South Dakota State University]]

CATEGORIES: Missouri Valley Football Conference, The Summit League, Colleges and universities in South Dakota, 1881 establishments in the United States

South Dakota State University is a public university in Brookings, South Dakota. The university has about 12,816 students. It was founded in 1881. The current president of the university is David Chicoine.

[[Black Rebel Motorcycle Club]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Musical groups from San Francisco, 1998 establishments in California

Black Rebel Motorcycle Club is an American rock band from San Francisco, California. Black Rebel Motorcycle Club has three members in the band; the current band members are Peter Hayes, Robert Levon Been and Leah Shapiro. 

[[DJ Hero]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, Music video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Wii games

DJ Hero is a music video game, released on October 27, 2009 in North America, October 28, 2009 in Australia and on October 29, 2009 in Europe. The game was released for the PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Wii video game consoles. The game uses a turntable-shaped controller that allows players to simulate the motions of a DJ. The game is a spin-off of the Guitar Hero video game series. It was well-received by journalists. GameSpot gave the game a 8.0 for both the 360 and PS3 and IGN gave the game a 9.0 for both the 360 and PS3. The game had such good sales that it produced a sequel called DJ Hero 2.

[[NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship]]

CATEGORIES: College basketball, National Collegiate Athletic Association

The NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship, or NCAA Tournament is a single-elimination (if you lose a game, you stop playing) college basketball tournament with 68 college teams playing each other. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) created it in 1939. When it was started in 1939, it only had eight teams. It has grown slowly, but steadily.

The tournament is played from mid-March to early April, so basketball around that time is sometimes called "March Madness".

There are two ways to get in. You can win your conference (a group of about 8 to 12 basketball teams) championship, or get voted in by the NCAA. At first, only one team was allowed in from each conference, but now more can come from each conference.

[[These Words]]

CATEGORIES: Songs by Natasha Bedingfield, 2004 songs

"These Words" is a pop and R&B single. It is sung by Natasha Bedingfield. It comes from Bedingfield's debut record Unwritten. It was the album's 2nd international single. The song hit top forty worldwide and was certified platinum for the United States and AustraliaDecember 2011. It was released in 2005 in the United States.

[[Jarome Iginla]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Art Ross Trophy winners, Boston Bruins players, Calgary Flames players, Canadian Christians, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Colorado Avalanche players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Kamloops Blazers players, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Medalists at the 2010 Winter Olympics, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Rocket Richard Trophy winners, Sportspeople from Edmonton, Memorial Cup winners

Jarome Arthur-Leigh Adekunle Tig Junior Elvis Iginla (born July 1, 1977) is a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the Colorado Avalanche of the National Hockey League (NHL).

He played in the WHL for the Kamloops Blazers where he played three seasons. He was drafted by the Dallas Stars with the 11th overall pick in the 1995 NHL Draft but did not play a game with them. He also played for the Calgary Flames for 16 years where he was the captain. He was traded to the Pittsburgh Penguins on March 28, 2013 in exchange for Kenneth Agostino, Ben Hanowski, and a first-round draft pick in the 2013 NHL Draft. He played 28 combined games with the Penguins. He is a Christian of his father's faith.

On July 5, 2013, Iginla signed a one-year, $6 million contract with the Boston Bruins.

On July 1, 2014, Iginla signed three-year, $16 million contract with the Colorado Avalanche.

[[Suze Orman]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American journalists, Writers from Chicago, Emmy Award winners

Susan Lynn Orman, better known as Suze Orman (born June 5, 1951) is an American financial advisor, motivational speaker, and television host. Orman was born in Chicago. She received her B.A. in social work. She worked as a financial advisor for Merrill Lynch. In 1983 she became the vice-president of investments at Prudential Bache Securities. In 1987, she founded the Suze Orman Financial Group. She hosts The Suze Orman Show on CNBC since 2002. Orman has written seven New York Times best seller books. She also hosted six PBS specials based on her books, for which she won two daytime Emmy Awards. In addition to this, she also hosts programs on QVC.

[[Finding Nemo (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 video games, Finding Nemo, Game Boy Advance games, Nintendo GameCube games, MacOS games, Mobile games, PlayStation 2 games, Windows games, Xbox games, THQ games, Video games based on movies

Finding Nemo is an action-adventure video game. The game was released for the Game Boy Advance, PlayStation 2, Xbox, and Nintendo GameCube video game consoles. The game was also released for the Macintosh, Mobile phone, and for  Microsoft Windows. GameSpot gave the game a 6.2 for the Xbox, PS2 and GameCube and IGN gave the game a 6.0 for the Xbox, PS2 and GameCube. The game is based on the 2003 movie Finding Nemo.

There was also a sequel for the Nintendo DS called, Finding Nemo: Escape to the Big Blue that was released on February 9, 2006. 

[[Estelle Getty]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Comedians from New York City, Emmy Award winning actors, Jewish American actors, Deaths from dementia with Lewy bodies, 1923 births, 2008 deaths

Estelle Getty (July 25, 1923  July 22, 2008) was an American actress. She was born in New York City to Polish immigrants and was Jewish. She is best known for playing Sophia on the television show The Golden Girls from 19851992. She also starred in several motion pictures and other television sitcoms.

[[Aqua (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, 20th century establishments in Denmark, Copenhagen, Danish musical entertainers, Musical groups established in 1994, Pop music groups, 1994 establishments in Europe, Musical groups disestablished in 2001, 2001 establishments in Europe, Musical groups established in 2007, 21st century establishments in Denmark, 2007 establishments in Europe, 2000s disestablishments in Denmark

Aqua is a Danish-Norwegian group who sing dance-pop music. The group were first signed in 1994. They have made two studio albums, two compilation albums, two remix albums and sixteen singles. The group split up in 2001 and reformed in 2007.

[[Saturn Vue]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn automobiles, Green vehicles, Sport utility vehicles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Saturn Vue was a car. It was a compact crossover SUV. General Motors' made it. The Vue was part of the Saturn brand. The Saturn Corporation made it from 2002 to 2005.  The Vue was the first GM vehicle to use the Theta platform. Theta has become global since it  replaced the GM SUV frames, especially the Chevrolet Blazer frame. 

In 2006 GM introduced the second generation of the Vue, built by Opel. It was a rebadged Opel Antara with changes for the American market. This generation of the Vue was sold from 2007-2009 until Saturn stopped selling cars in 2010. The Vue is still being made by the General Motors company. General Motors reintroduced the Vue to fleets and companies as the Chevrolet Captiva Sport. In September 2014 GM announced that it would stop making the Captiva Sport and start selling its new subcompact CUV the Trax instead. Until 2012 the Vue was the only Saturn model that was re-introduced later followed by the Outlook's body style being used on the Acadia.

[[Blister]]

CATEGORIES: Medical signs

A blister is a small sac of fluid in an upper layer of the skin caused by friction, burning or freezing. Most blisters are filled with a clear fluid called serum or plasma (blister water). Some blisters, however, are filled with blood; they are called blood blisters.

[[Saturn Outlook]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn automobiles, Sport utility vehicles, 2000s automobiles

The Saturn Outlook was a full-size crossover SUV that was built by General Motors' Saturn brand. The Outlook was made by the Saturn Corporation from 2006 to 2010 until Saturn went defunct in 2010. The Saturn Outlook replaced the Relay minivan which was discontinued due to its unsuccessful sales. The vehicle received a 5 out of 5 stars for both frontal and side by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and was also named Insurance Institute for Highway Safety's Top Safety Pick in both 2008 and 2009. Although the Saturn brand is no longer active GM has decided to use the bodyshell of the Outlook on the redesigned GMC Acadia.

[[Saturn Relay]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn automobiles, Minivans, 2000s automobiles

The Saturn Relay was a minivan that was built by General Motor's Saturn brand. The Relay was made by the Saturn Corporation from 2005 to 2007. The Relay was the first and only minivan made by the Saturn company. The Relay is also the only Saturn vehicle that was a badge engineered vehicle. Due to poor sales the Relay was replaced by the Saturn Outlook in 2006.

[[Weeds (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 television series debuts, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American comedy television series, Black comedy, English-language television programs

Weeds is an American comedy television series which was on Showtime from August 8, 2005 - September 16, 2012. The series is about a widow (who is played by Mary-Louise Parker) who is a mother of two sons Silas (who is played by Hunter Parrish) and Shane (who is played by Alexander Gould) and she turns to selling marijuana to support her family after her husband, Judah (who was played by Jeffrey Dean Morgan) suddenly dies.

[[The Highwayman (poem)]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century British poems, 1906 works

The Highwayman is a long poem by Alfred Noyes published in 6996966996969. It is written in bald form. It wasn't very popular when first published, and is still a barely read narrative poem today.

[[Source Code]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 science fiction movies, 2010s thriller movies, American science fiction movies, American thriller movies, Movies set in Chicago, Illinois, Movies shot in Chicago, Illinois, Time travel movies

Source Code is a 2011 American science fiction-thriller movie that was produced by Mark Gordon, Jordan Wynn and Philippe Rousselet and was directed by Duncan Jones. Source Code was released on April 1, 2011 in North America. The movie gained very positive reviews with a 90% from Rotten Tomatoes and a 74 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Highwayman]]

CATEGORIES: Crime

A highwayman was a type of robber who attacked people who were travelling.  They were common in the British Isles from the time of Elizabeth I to the 1800s. Highwaymen rode on horses. They were thought to be socially superior to footpads (who robbed on foot).

Some highwaymen robbed alone but others worked in gangs.  They often targeted coaches because they did not have much defence, They stole money, jewellery and other valuable items. The penalty for robbery with violence was execution by hanging. The 17th century highwayman James Hind was hanged, drawn and quartered. As a supporter of King Charles, the Protectorate charged him with treason.

One of the most famous highwaymen was Dick Turpin, who was hanged for his crimes in 1739. The Australian bushranger  Ben Hall was said to be one too. 

The worst place for highwayman were Shooter’s Hill and Finchely Common.

Highwayman were not only just men but woman too.The Soldiers would catch the Highwayman.

[[Narrative poetry]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry, Oral tradition

Narrative poetry is a type of poetry that tells a story. Narrative poems can be short or long. Some are novels or short stories written in verse form. Many older narrative poems were designed to be passed on through generations as a way of recording history.

[[Bothwell Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Scotland

Bothwell Castle is a large medieval castle in Scotland. It is sited on a high, steep bank, above a bend in the River Clyde, in South Lanarkshire. It is located between Uddingston and Bothwell, about 10 south-east of Glasgow. The castle was built in the 13th century by the ancestors of Clan Murray. It was built to guard a strategic crossing point of the Clyde. Bothwell played a key role in Scotland's Wars of Independence. It changed hands several times.

[[Velpur]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in India

Velpur is a village in India. It is in the state of Andhra Pradesh  in the West Godavari district.

[[Child labour]]

CATEGORIES: Child labour

[[Cash crop]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

A cash crop is a crop that is grown to be sold on the market. This is different from a subsistence crop which is grown for the personal use of the farmer, or as food for the farmer's animals.

There are several different categories of cash crops, for different purposes.

[[Caulfield, Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Melbourne

Caulfield is a suburb in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, 7 miles south-east from Melbourne's central business district. Its Local Government Area is the City of Glen Eira. In 2006 there were 4790 people living in Caulfied.

The boundaries of Caulfield are Kooyong Road in the west, Glen Eira Road in the north, Glenhuntly Road in the south and Booran Road in the east.

Caulfield is best known as the location of Caulfield Racecourse and the Caulfield campus of Monash University.

[[Stereo MCs]]

CATEGORIES: English pop music groups

The Stereo MCs are an electronic dance group from London which formed in 1985. They are best known worldwide for their 1992 top 20 single "Connected".

[[Stratosphere]]

CATEGORIES: Layers of Earth's atmosphere

The stratosphere is one of the layers of the atmosphere of the planet Earth. It extends from about 8 km above the poles (18 km above the equator) to about 50 km. In the stratosphere, the temperature rises with increasing height. This makes the stratosphere very stable. This temperature gradient is caused by the ozone layer which absorbs some UV radiation from sunlight. The absorbed radiation is converted to heat. 

This differs from the lower layer, the troposphere, where temperature declines with higher altitude, and from the next higher layer, the mesosphere, where the temperature again declines.

Airplanes that are going far usually fly in the lower stratosphere, because the engines are more efficient in cold air and drag is small in low air density air.

[[MAC address]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

Computers that use a computer network or internet network need to be identified. For this reason, many network connection types, like Ethernet or Wi-Fi, use unique addresses to identify the network card, a part of a computer, to access the network. These addresses are usually called the Media Access Control address or MAC address.

Each computer is given a MAC address by its computer maker. The way for giving MAC addresses to computers, created by Xerox, is used.  MAC addresses have 48-bits (how many 1s or 0s it has in it). As each of the twelve entries can have 16 possible values (0 through 9 and A through F), there are 1612 or 248 (or 281,474,976,710,656) possible MAC addresses. MAC addresses identify many things, such as the type of device being used.

A MAC address is used by the network to send and receive data (computer information) to the right place almost like mail being sent and received from a home mail address. The MAC address is like door number or street number. 

[[Chloë Sevigny]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Connecticut, Actors from Massachusetts, American fashion designers, Models from Massachusetts, American movie actors, American television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1974 births, Living people

Chloë Sevigny (born November 18, 1974) is an American actress, fashion designer and former model. She was born in Springfield, Massachusetts and raised in Darien, Connecticut. Her father was of French Canadian origin; her mother is Polish American. Sevigny starred in many independent or avant garde movies during the 1990s and 2000s. She also had a fashion career during the mid 1990s. 

[[Tara Lipinski]]

CATEGORIES: American figure skaters, Sportspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1982 births, Living people, American Olympic gold medalists

Tara Lipinski (born June 10, 1982) is an American figure skater. She won the Ladies' Singles Olympic gold medal for figure skating at the 1998 Winter Olympics. She is the youngest individual to win a gold medal in Winter Olympics' history. 

[[Anna Freud]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1982 deaths, Austrian Jews, Female scientists, Jewish British scientists, Austrian psychiatrists, Recipients of the Decoration for Services to the Republic of Austria, Refugees from Nazism, Scientists from Vienna

Anna Freud (3 December 1895 – 9 October 1982) was the sixth and last child of Sigmund Freud and his wife Martha Bernays Freud.

She was born in Vienna. She followed the path of her father and contributed to the field of psychoanalysis.

With Melanie Klein, she may be considered the founder of psychoanalytic child psychology. As her father put it, child analysis had received a powerful impetus through "the work of Frau Melanie Klein and of my daughter, Anna Freud". Her work emphasized the importance of the ego and its ability to be trained socially.

[[FCSB]]

CATEGORIES: Bucharest, Romanian football clubs, 1947 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Romania

F.C. Steaua Bucureşti is a football team from Bucharest, Romania. It was founded on 7 June 1947 as ASA Bucureşti (ASA Bucharest). The original FC Steaua București team was part of the namesake CSA Steaua București sports club and belonged to the Ministry of National Defence. It has won the most championships in Romania, 23, and it is the only team from Romania to win a UEFA Champions League title. Its chairman is George Becali (usually "Gigi" Becali).

[[Chevrolet Express]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Chevrolet automobiles

Chevrolet Express and GMC Savana are full sized passenger or cargo vans made via General Motors. These vans seat between eight and fifteen passengers. The cargo vans are used for commercial and business purposes. The Express/Savana vans were first produced around 1996.

[[Weatherford, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Weatherford is a city in Parker County, Texas near Fort Worth. It is part of Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area.

[[Green River Formation]]

CATEGORIES: Lagerstätten, Geography of Colorado, Geography of Utah, Geography of Wyoming

The Green River Formation is an Eocene rock formation on the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains. It records sediment from a group of intermountain lakes. Its fine fossils make this a lagerstätte, a place of exceptional preservation.

The various fossil beds of the Green River Formation span a 5 million year period, dating to between 53.5 and 48.5 million years ago (mya). During this period the climate moved from the moist early Eocene climate and the slightly drier mid-Eocene. 

The sediments are deposited in very fine layers, in pairs: a dark layer from the growing season, and a light-hue inorganic layer in winter. 

Each pair of layers is called a varve and represents one year. The sediments of the Green River Formation present a continuous record of six million years. The mean thickness of a varve here is 0.18 mm, with a minimum thickness of 0.014 mm and maximum of 9.8 mm.

The sedimentary layers were formed in a large area named after the present-day Green River, a tributary of the Colorado River. The formation is in three separate basins around the Uinta Mountains of northeastern Utah:

[[Peggy Lee]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, 1920 births, 2002 deaths, Actors from North Dakota, Singers from North Dakota

Norma Egstrom (May 26, 1920 - January 2002) was an American actress and jazz singer. She is better known as Peggy Lee. She acted in many movies. She also wrote the music for them. She sang and acted for six decades. Lee was born in Jamestown, North Dakota.

[[Hurricane Alex (2010)]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in Mexico, 2010 in Belize, 2010 in Mexico

Hurricane Alex was a rare June hurricane and the first tropical cyclone of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season. The storm first struck near Belize as a tropical storm. After entering the Gulf of Mexico, Alex became a hurricane and struck northeast Mexico; it was the first hurricane in June since Hurricane Allison in 1995. The storm killed 51 people (33 directly) and caused almost $1.9 billion in damage (2010 USD).

[[Optical gain medium]]

CATEGORIES: Light

An optical gain medium (also called an active laser medium) can make light stronger. In general, gain media must be powered by another energy source in order to have energy to provide as light. Some gain media can be powered using electricity, but many others need light energy from bright flash lamps or a laser.  Optical gain media are used in lasers. The first lasers used artificial ruby as their optical gain medium.

[[Microvillus]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology

Microvillus (plural microvilli) is a very tiny hair-like membrane in the body.  The microvillus greatly increase the amount of surface area for a cell. In humans, the microvilli can give a cell 600 times more surface area. They are good for absorbing things and for secreting things. They are found in many places in a human body including the ear, the tongue, the nose and the intestines. 

On a tongue, the microvilli are the tiny hairs on the taste buds that send signals to the brain.  These signals are interpreted by the brain, and tells the brain what things taste like. Over time, as a person tastes more and more things, the brain stores the information the microvilli send in a databank of information.  This databank is used to compare new tastes to old tastes, and help to classify them by comparing and contrasting their qualities.

In the intestines, the microvilli are able to absorb (take) nutrients from the digested food for the body to use.

[[Languages of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of the United States

English is the de facto national language of the United States, with 82% of the population claiming it as a mother tongue, and some 96% claiming to speak it "well" or "very well". However, no official language exists at the Federal level.  There have been several proposals to make English the national language in amendments to immigration reform bills, but none of these bills have made a federal language. However, some states have adopted the English language as their official language. On the other hand, a lot of another languages, like Spanish, French, Italian, Arabic, Japanese, Korean, Russian, Polish, Finnish, Dutch, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Welsh, Irish, Scottish Gaelic, Hindi, Mandarin, Hebrew, Cantonese, Chinese, Ukrainian, Navajo, Indonesian, Malay, Vietnamese, Tagalog, Portuguese, etc. Are spoken in the United States as second languages.

[[Judith Miller (journalist)]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American journalists, writers from New York City, 1948 births

Judith Miller is an American conservative journalist. She was born January 2, 1948. She worked for the New York Times until retiring from there around November 2005. She later became a contributor to Fox News and then a contributing writer for a conservative magazine called Newsmax.

Her coverage of Iraq's alleged Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) program both before and after the 2003 invasion generated much controversy. A number of stories she wrote while working for The New York Times later turned out to be inaccurate or simply false.<

[[Gilda Radner]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 1989 deaths, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, Comedians from Michigan, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television writers, American voice actors, Deaths from ovarian cancer, Emmy Award winners

Gilda Susan Radner (born June 28, 1946 - May 20, 1989) was an American actress and comedian. She was born in Detroit, Michigan. She was one of the original cast members of NBC's comedy program Saturday Night Live (for which she won an Emmy Award in 1978). She died from ovarian cancer in Los Angeles, California.

She was married to actor Gene Wilder before her death.

[[September Affair]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s musical movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Multilingual movies, Movies directed by William Dieterle

September Affair is a 1950 musical movie that was produced by Hal B. Wallis and was directed by William Dieterle. The movie was released on October 18, 1950 in North America. The movie received positive reviews and also won a Golden Globe Award in 1951 for Best Original Score.

[[How to Train Your Dragon (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 3D movies, 2010 animated movies, 2010s fantasy movies, 2010 comedy movies, American animated movies, American fantasy-comedy movies, Movies based on books, Movies about animals, DreamWorks Animation movies

How to Train Your Dragon is a 2010 computer animated fantasy-comedy movie based on the 2003 book of the same name and made by DreamWorks Animation. It was released on March 26, 2010. It received positive reviews with Rotten Tomatoes giving the movie a 98% and Metacritic gave it a 74 out of 100. The movie was nominated for two Academy Awards for Best Animated Feature and Best Original Score. A sequel, How to Train Your Dragon 2, was released on June 13, 2014. A third film, How to Train Your Dragon 3, was released in 2019.

[[Christopher Mintz-Plasse]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, American movie actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Christopher Charles Mintz-Plasse (born June 20, 1989 in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, California) is an American Actor. He is famous for playing the character Fogell/McLovin in the movie, Superbad and Chris D'Amico/Red Mist in the movie, Kick-Ass.

[[Jonah Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors

Jonah Hill Feldstein (born December 20, 1983 in Los Angeles, California) better known as, Jonah Hill is an American actor, producer, screenwriter and comedian. He is notable for playing the character Seth in the movie, Superbad. He started his acting career in his first philosophical comedy movie, I Heart Huckabees as Bret.

[[Cheryl Hines]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Miami, Florida, 1962 births, Living people, American television actors

Cheryl Hines is an American actress and television director. She is most noted for playing Cheryl in the HBO show Curb Your Enthusiasm. She was born September 11, 1962, Miami Beach, Florida.

[[Jill Eikenberry]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Actors from New Haven, Connecticut, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors

Jill Eikenberry (born 21 January 1947) is an American actress. She was born in New Haven, Connecticut. Her most well known role was playing Ann Kelsey in L.A. Law (1986-1994). She appeared in many television movies in the 1980s. 

[[Kids Helpline]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in Australia, 1991 establishments in Australia

Kids Helpline is a counselling service in Australia for people who are between 5 and 25 years old. Children & young people contact Kids Helpline to speak about problems in their lives. These problems range from fighting with friends and breaking up with a partner to suicidal thoughts and being hurt or abused. 

Kids Helpline employs about 110 people to work as counsellors. The call centres are based in Brisbane so all the calls that people make to the Kids Helpline go through to a call centre in Brisbane.  These counsellors listen to nearly 6,000 calls from young people each week. Kids Helpline is run by yourtown. Most of the money needed for it to run is raised through lotteries held by yourtown. The Australian Government also helps by giving some money. Optus is their biggest sponsor.

[[Zack and Miri Make a Porno]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 comedy movies, 2008 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies about pornography, Movies directed by Kevin Smith, Movies set in Pennsylvania, NC-17 rated movies, Screenplays by Kevin Smith, Sex comedy movies

Zack and Miri Make a Porno is a 2008 American romantic sex comedy movie. It was produced by Scott Mosier and was directed by Kevin Smith. The movie was released on October 31, 2008 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 65% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 56 out of 100 from Metacritic. 

[[Pineapple Express (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 comedy movies, 2008 crime movies, 2000s action comedy movies, 2000s buddy movies, 2000s criminal comedy movies, American action comedy movies, American buddy movies, American criminal comedy movies, Buddy comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about drugs, Movies about murderers, Movies set in the 1930s, Movies directed by Judd Apatow

Pineapple Express is an 2008 American stoner action comedy movie produced by Judd Apatow and Shauna Robertson, and directed by David Gordon Green. It was released on August 6, 2008 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 68% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 64 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[The Twilight Zone (1959 TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American science fiction television series, 1950s television series, 1960s television series, 1980s television series, 2002 American television series debuts, CBS network shows, First run syndicated television programs, UPN network shows, English-language television programs

The Twilight Zone is an American television series created by Rod Serling. It is a series of unrelated stories of drama, psychological thriller, fantasy, science fiction, suspense, and/or horror, often ending with a dark or unexpected twist. A popular and critical success, it introduced many Americans to serious science fiction and abstract ideas through television and Twilight Zone books and comics.

The success of the first series started two revival series: one series that ran for several seasons on CBS and in syndication in the 1980s, and another series that ran on UPN from 2002 to 2003. It would also lead to a movie, a radio series, a comic book, a magazine and  other spin-offs that would go on for 50 years.

Aside from Serling himself, who wrote nearly two-thirds of the series' total episodes, writers for The Twilight Zone included authors such as Charles Beaumont, Richard Matheson, Jerry Sohl, George Clayton Johnson, Earl Hamner, Jr., Reginald Rose, Harlan Ellison and Ray Bradbury.  Many episodes also featured adaptations of classic stories by such writers as Ambrose Bierce, Lewis Padgett, Jerome Bixby and Damon Knight.

Twilight Zone's writers often used science fiction as a way for social commentary. Television networks and sponsors who had censored all possible offensive material from the mostly live dramas were not aware of the methods developed by writers such as Ray Bradbury for dealing with important issues through fantasy. Themes include nuclear war, mass hysteria, and McCarthyism, subjects that were not allowed on more "serious" primetime television.

The first series contained 156 episodes. Seasons 1, 2, 3, 5 were half hour shows. Season four (1962–1963) contained one-hour episodes.

[[Blackshirts]]

CATEGORIES: History of Italy, Fascism

The Blackshirts were a Fascist paramilitary group in Italy during the rise and reign of Benito Mussolini.

[[Catherine Deshayes]]

CATEGORIES: 1640s births, 1680 deaths, Executed French people, French criminals, People executed by burning, People executed for witchcraft, Serial killers

Caterine Deshayes, sometimes known as Catherine Monvoisin, or simply La Voisin was a French serial killer. She was born around 1640, and executed as a witch on 16 February 1680, in Paris; together with several others. She played an important role in the so-called Affair of the Poisons. She lived from charging high fees to make horosocopes. She celebrated black masses, practiced abortions, sold love potions and poisons. She is said to have sacrificed infants. Together with the Hellfire club this is one of the earliest known examples of theistic satanism.

Many nobles were among her clients, among them, Madame de Montespan a courtesan of Louis XIV.

[[Carol Burnett]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Singers from Texas, Writers from Texas, American television actors, American movie actors, Comedians from Texas, Mark Twain Prize recipients, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, Actors from San Antonio, Texas

Carol Burnett is an American singer, writer, dancer, actress and comedian. She is notable for her stage and television acting. She began her career in New York. She had her own television program: The Carol Burnett Show (1967-1978 on CBS). Burnett was born in San Antonio, Texas in 1933.

Burnett has won many awards. These include six Emmy Awards, five Golden Globes and a Tony.

[[Boy Meets Curl]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons episodes, 2010 television episodes

"Boy Meets Curl" is the twelfth episode of The Simpsons twenty-first season. In this episode, The Simpson family visit Vancouver where Marge and Homer compete in the 2010 Winter Olympics in the mixed-doubles curling team with Seymour Skinner and his mother Agnes. Marge's sweeping earns a win for the team and they earn a spot for the Olympics. Meanwhile, Lisa is given an Olympic mascot pin and she decides to collect them but her pin collecting addiction goes out of control. Marge injures her shoulder in the semi-finals and she is told that she will never sweep again and that the American mixed curling team must concede the gold medal to Sweden. Lisa buys so many Olympic mascot pins that she doesn't have anymore money left so she trades her pearl necklace for a mascot pin from the 1924 Winter Olympics. Bart offers to help Lisa with defeating her pin collecting addiction and manages to get back her necklace by tricking the pin vendor with "Fatov," who is a phony mascot that was "created" in advance for the 2014 Winter Olympics but the mascot is really Homer's mouth, clipped by Bart from his driver's license. When Marge is about to leave Vancouver, she reveals that she is left-handed to Homer and says that she always used her right hand to not seem unusual. She has enough strength to change Maggie's diaper and dress her with one hand. They both decide to re-participate in the gold medal game where they defeated Sweden and won the gold medal.

[[Ball and socket joint]]

CATEGORIES: Joints

A ball and socket joint (enarthrosis, spheroidal joint) is a joint in which the ball-shaped surface of a bone fits into the cup-like indentation of another bone. This type of joint allows the bone to move in a 360° angle—with more freedom than other joints.

[[Alexandre Étienne Choron]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1924 deaths, French chefs, People from Caen

Alexandre Étienne Choron (Caen, 1837 – 1924) was a French chef. As chef de cuisine of the celebrated restaurant Voisin on the rue Saint Honoré, Choron is best known for his invention of Choron sauce, a béarnaise sauce enriched with tomato concentrate.

Choron is also remembered for the food he served during the Siege of Paris by the Prussians, which began on 19 September 1870.  During the siege, Parisians were reduced to eating cats, dogs, and rats. The bourgeois did not want to eat such low animals, and the de luxe restaurants had plenty of customers. As food reserves dwindled, these restaurants, including Voisin, improvised.  Choron served exotic animal dishes at Voisin.  For the midnight Christmas meal of 1870, Choron had a menu mostly of the best parts of the animals kept in the Jardin d'acclimatation (one of the Paris zoos). The menu – stuffed head of donkey, elephant consommé, roasted camel, kangaroo stew, bear shanks roasted in pepper sauce, wolf in deer sauce, cat with rat, and antelope in truffle sauce – has become legendary.  The menu's wines were Mouton-Rothschild 1846, Romanée-Conti 1858 and Château Palmer 1864.

Choron became famous for his elephant dishes (éléphant): Trompe d’éléphant in sauce chasseur and Éléphant bourguignon.  After the elephant at the Jardin d'acclimatation were used at the Christmas table, the two elephants (Castor and Pollux) at the Paris' jardin zoologique were consumed on 31 December 1870 at Voisin. In early January, it was the elephant at the Jardin des Plantes (Paris' botanical garden) which was sent to the abbatoir.  It was bought by Choron for his restaurant at the price of 15 francs per pound. By 13 January Voisin was out of elephant meat and substituted horse. The siege was lifted two weeks later.

[[Femme Fatale]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Britney Spears albums

Femme Fatale is the seventh studio album by American recording artist Britney Spears. It was released on March 25, 2011 by Jive Records.

[[Sassafras]]

CATEGORIES: Medicinal plants

Sassafras is a genus that contains three current and one extinct species of deciduous trees in the family Lauraceae. It was originally in eastern North America and eastern Asia.

Sassafras trees grow from 9.1 tall and from 7.6 wide. The trunk grows 70 across.

"Sassafras" was named by the botanist Nicolas Monardes in the 16th century. It is said to be a corruption of the Spanish word for saxifrage.

[[Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot]]

CATEGORIES: 1796 births, 1875 deaths, Artists from Paris, French painters, Engravers

Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot 16 July 1796 – 22 February 1875) was a French landscape and portrait painter  as well as a printmaker in etching. 

He is a key figure in landscape painting, and painted many works. He was in  the Neo-Classical tradition, but he anticipated the "en plein air" (painting outside in front of the scenery) of impressionism.

[[Poa pratensis]]

CATEGORIES: Poaceae

Poa pratensis, also Smooth Meadow-grass, Common Meadow Grass, or Kentucky Bluegrass, is a perennial species of the grass family Poaceae. It is native to Europe, Asia, and northern Africa. It is 30 tall.

Poa pratensis makes a useful pasture plant. It is also used for making lawns in parks and gardens. Poa is Greek for fodder, which is food fed to livestock.

The name Kentucky Bluegrass came from its blue flower heads.

[[Tim Russert]]

CATEGORIES: American lawyers, American television presenters, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Journalists from New York, Writers from Buffalo, New York, Television personalities from New York, 1950 births, 2008 deaths

Tim Russert (May 7, 1950 - June 13, 2008) was an American television journalist and lawyer. He was the longest serving moderator for NBC's Meet the Press beginning in 1991. He was the senior vice president of NBC News and a frequent correspondent and guest on NBC's The Today Show and Hardball. He was born in Buffalo, New York. Russert died from a heart attack in Washington, D.C.

[[Kangaroo Jack]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 comedy movies, 2000s adventure movies, American adventure movies, American comedy movies, Australian comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City, Movies about animals, South Australia

Kangaroo Jack is an 2003 American-Australian adventure comedy movie set in New York City and Australia. It was produced by Jerry Bruckheimer and was directed by David McNally. Kangaroo Jack was released on January 17, 2003 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 8% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 16 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[University of Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Southeastern Conference, Colleges and universities in Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, 1865 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Kentucky

The University of Kentucky sometimes shortened to UK is a public, co-educational university in Lexington, Kentucky. The university has about 27,209 students. It was founded in 1865. The current president of the university is Dr. Eli Capilouto. 

[[Central Connecticut State University]]

CATEGORIES: Northeast Conference, Colleges and universities in Connecticut, 1849 establishments in the United States

Central Connecticut State University is a public university in New Britain, Connecticut. The university has about 12,315 students. It was founded in 1849. The current president of the university is Jack Miller. 

[[University of North Carolina at Charlotte]]

CATEGORIES: Conference USA, Colleges and universities in North Carolina, Charlotte, North Carolina, 1946 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in North Carolina

The University of North Carolina at Charlotte is a public, coeducational university in Charlotte, North Carolina. The university has about 24,700 students. It was started in 1946. The current chancellor of the university is Dr. Phillip L. Dubois. 

[[George Hearst]]

CATEGORIES: American journalists, writers from California, writers from Missouri, 1820 births, 1891 deaths

George Hearst (1820 – 1891) was a successful prospector during the Gold Rush. He was born in Missouri into a family of farmers. He went west during the Gold Rush. By the 1860s he owned many copper and silver mines. His mining business grew bigger. In 1880 he bought the San Francisco Examiner to promote his political opinions and himself. He favored the two-party system. He said to Mark Twain in San Francisco that he was a Republican so his little boy, William Randolph Hearst, would become a Democrat. In 1886 he became a state senator in California. Later, his son bought more and more newspapers, which were often accused of being sensational.

[[Dances with Wolves]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 drama movies, 1990s western movies, American drama movies, American epic movies, American western movies, United States National Film Registry movies, Movies composed by John Barry, Multilingual movies

Dances with Wolves is an 1990 American epic drama-western movie that was produced by Jim Wilson, Kevin Costner and Jake Eberts and was directed by Kevin Costner. Dances with Wolves was released on November 21, 1990, in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 76% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 72 out of 100 from Metacritic. The movie won 7 Academy Awards for Best Picture, Directing, Writing Adapted Screenplay, Best Cinematography, Film Editing, Sound Mixing and Original Music Score. The movie also won 2 Golden Globe Awards for Best Motion Picture – Drama and Best Director.

[[Surfer, Dude]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, American comedy movies, American independent movies

Surfer, Dude is an 2008 comedy movie that was produced by Sidney Gus Gustawes, Mark Gustawes and Matthew McConaughey and was directed by S.R. Bindler. Surfer, Dude was released on September 5, 2008 in North America. The movie received strongly negative reviews with a 0% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 16 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Meet the Fockers]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 comedy movies, American comedy movies, American sequel movies, English-language movies, Movies about families, Movies directed by Jay Roach, Movies set in Florida

Meet the Fockers is a 2004 American comedy movie. It was produced by Robert De Niro, Jon Poll, Jay Roach, Jane Rosenthal and Nancy Tenenbaum and was directed by Jay Roach. Meet the Fockers was released on December 22, 2004 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 38% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 41 out of 100 from Metacritic. It is the first sequel to the 2000 movie, Meet the Parents. The second sequel which was called, Little Fockers was released in 2010.

[[Barcelona Sants railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Barcelona, Railway stations in Europe, Transport in Spain, 1970s establishments in Spain

Barcelona Sants (also Estació de Sants) is the main railway station in Barcelona, operated by RENFE. Built in the 1970s, the current station has become Barcelona's most important transport centre. The station is named after Sants, the neighbourhood of Barcelona that it is in.

The station has recently been remodeled to accommodate the Spanish high-speed train AVE, which began service on 20 February 2008.

[[Hampton University]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference, Colleges and universities in Virginia, Hampton, Virginia, 1868 establishments in the United States, Historically black colleges and universities, 19th-century establishments in Virginia

Hampton University is a private university in Hampton, Virginia. The university has about 5,000 students. It was founded in 1868. The current president of the university is William R. Harvey. It is a historically black university.

[[Bethune-Cookman University]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in Florida, Colleges and universities in Florida, Daytona Beach, Florida, Historically black colleges and universities, Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference

Bethune-Cookman University is a private university in Daytona Beach, Florida. The university has about 4,000 students. It was founded in 1904. The current president of the university is Trudie Kibbe Reed. It is a historically black university, which means that it was founded to educate African American students.

[[Bain-marie]]

CATEGORIES: Cookware and bakeware

A bain-marie (or water bath) is a piece of equipment used in science, industry, and cooking to heat materials gently and gradually to fixed temperatures, or to keep materials warm over a period of time.

[[Creighton University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, Big East Conference, Colleges and universities in Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska, 1878 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Nebraska

Creighton University is a private, coeducational, Jesuit, Roman Catholic university in Omaha, Nebraska. The university has about 7,385 students. It was founded in 1878.

[[Austin Peay State University]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio Valley Conference, Colleges and universities in Tennessee, 1927 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Tennessee

Austin Peay State University is a public university in Clarksville, Tennessee. The university has about 10,723 students. It was founded in 1927. The current president of the university is Timothy Hall. 

[[Mercedes Ruehl]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City

Mercedes Ruehl (born February 28. 1948) is an American stage, television and motion picture actress. She was born in New York City. She is best known for her supporting role in the 1991 movie The Fisher King.

[[University of Akron]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-American Conference, Colleges and universities in Ohio, Akron, Ohio, 1870 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Ohio

The University of Akron is a public, coeducational university in Akron, Ohio. The university has about 29,251 students. It was founded in 1870. The current president of the university is Luis M. Proenza. 

[[Eastern Michigan University]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-American Conference, Colleges and universities in Michigan, 1849 establishments in the United States

Eastern Michigan University is a public, coeducational university in Ypsilanti, Michigan. The university has about 23,000 students. It was founded in 1849. The current president of the university is Susan Martin. 

[[Western Michigan University]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-American Conference, National Collegiate Hockey Conference, Colleges and universities in Michigan

Western Michigan University is a public university in Kalamazoo, Michigan. The university has about 25,045 students. It was founded in 1903.  Since 2000, the president of the university has been John M. Dunn. 

[[Central Michigan University]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-American Conference, Colleges and universities in Michigan, 1892 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Michigan

Central Michigan University is a public, coeducational university in Mount Pleasant, Michigan. The university has about 28,389 students. It was founded in 1892. The current president of the university is George E. Ross. 

[[Perleberg]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Brandenburg

Perleberg (Low German: Perlberg) is a German town in the state of Brandenburg. It is halfway between the cities Berlin and Hamburg. It is the capital of the district of Prignitz. In 2010 about 12,400 persons lived in this town.

[[Northern Illinois University]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-American Conference, Colleges and universities in Illinois, 1895 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Illinois

Northern Illinois University is a public university in DeKalb, Illinois. The university has about 25,313 students. It was founded in 1895. The current president of the university is John G. Peters. On February 14, 2008, a gunman named Steven Kazmierczak shot and killed 6 people (including himself) as well as injured 21 people on the university campus which made it the fourth-deadliest university shooting in United States history.

[[Bowling Green State University]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-American Conference, Central Collegiate Hockey Association, Western Collegiate Hockey Association, Colleges and universities in Ohio, 1910 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in Ohio

 Bowling Green State University is a public university in Bowling Green, Ohio. The university has about 22,882 students. It was founded in 1910. The current president of the university is Dr. Carol A. Cartwright. 

[[Kent State University]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-American Conference, Colleges and universities in Ohio, 1910 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in Ohio

Kent State University is a public university in Kent, Ohio. The university has about 41,365 students. It was founded in 1910. The current president of the university is Beverly Warren.

[[Ohio University]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-American Conference, Colleges and universities in Ohio, 1804 establishments, 1800s establishments in Ohio

Ohio University is a public university in Athens, Ohio. The university has about 25,908 students. It was founded in 1804. The current president of the university is M. Duane Nellis. 

[[St. Cloud State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Minnesota, 1869 establishments in the United States, National Collegiate Hockey Conference, Western Collegiate Hockey Association, 19th-century establishments in Minnesota

The St. Cloud State University is a university in St. Cloud, Minnesota. It was established in 1869. It has over 15,000 students. It is the largest member of the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities system.

St. Cloud State has teams in 20 NCAA sports, plus the non-NCAA sport of Nordic skiing, nicknamed Huskies. Of the NCAA teams, 18 play in the Northern Sun Intercollegiate Conference, a Division II conference. The men's and women's ice hockey teams compete in the top-level NCAA Division I, with the men playing in the National Collegiate Hockey Conference and the women in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association.

[[Ball State University]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-American Conference, Colleges and universities in Indiana, 1918 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Indiana

Ball State University is a public, coeducational university in Muncie, Indiana. The university has about 21,401 students. It was founded in 1918. The current president of the university is Jo Ann M. Gora.

[[Miami University]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-American Conference, National Collegiate Hockey Conference, Colleges and universities in Ohio, 1809 establishments in the United States, 1800s establishments in Ohio

This is the university in Ohio. For the university in Florida, see University of Miami.

Miami University is a public, coeducational university in Oxford, Ohio. The university has about 20,126 students. It was founded in 1809. The current president of the university is David C. Hodge. 

[[Colgate University]]

CATEGORIES: Patriot League, Colleges and universities in New York, 1819 establishments in the United States, 1810s establishments in New York (state)

Colgate University is a private university in Hamilton, New York. The university has about 2,837 students with really really white teeth. It was founded in 1819. Since 2010 the president of the university is Jeffrey Herbst.

[[La Niña]]

CATEGORIES: Weather events

La Niña is a coupled ocean atmosphere phenomenon that is counterpart to El Niño. The

name means "little girl" in Spanish. La Niñas are often, though not always, preceded by an El Niño phenomenon. Weather patterns in the United States are usually different than during El Niño years. During La Niñas the Atlantic hurricane season produces more intense storms than normal.

[[Central Committee]]

CATEGORIES: Government

In political parties, the Central Committee (also called Steering Committee or National Committee) is a group of party members that make all decisions for the party.

The Committee is usually led by a Chairman. The Committee usually elects it's Chairman to represent it, and also elects other important members of the party.

In one-party dictatorships, the Central Committee is all-powerful and leads the country. In the Soviet Union, for example, Joseph Stalin, used his power as General Secretary to have complete control over the Communist Party of the Soviet Union's Central Committee and was able to become more powerful than the Committee itself.

[[This Tuesday in Texas]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 in professional wrestling, Sports in San Antonio, Texas, World Wrestling Entertainment pay-per-view events, 1990s in San Antonio, Texas, 1991 in the United States, December events

This Tuesday in Texas was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on December 3, 1991 at Freeman Coliseum in San Antonio, Texas. There were five professional wrestling matches were scheduled on the card. The main event was a rematch involving Hulk Hogan and the Undertaker. Lukewarm reaction made the experiment a failure.

[[Perry Saturn]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Cleveland, Ohio

Perry Arthur Satullo (born October 25, 1966) is a American professional wrestler. He is best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Federation (WWF) and Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) under the ring name, Perry Saturn.

In an interview, Saturn revealed that he had been shot with a .25 caliber handgun in the back of the neck while he was trying to save a woman who was being raped by two men. After he was shot, Satullo became addicted to crystal meth and was homeless for two and a half years. Many friends and fans believed that he was dead until he made a surprise appearance at a WWE event.

[[John Tenta]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2006 deaths, Canadian professional wrestlers, Cancer deaths in Florida, Deaths from bladder cancer, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from British Columbia, Sumo wrestlers

John Anthony Tenta, Jr. (June 22, 1963 – June 7, 2006) was a Canadian sumōtori and professional wrestler. He was best known for wrestling with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) under the ring names, Earthquake and Golga and World Championship Wrestling (WCW) under the ring names, Avalanche and The Shark. 

He was also known for being a sumo wrestler where did quite well but retired from the sport due to the difficulty of the sumo lifestyle, the toll the hard ring surface was taking on his body and the large tattoo of a tiger on his left biceps which in Japan is associated with gangsters. He was born on June 22, 1963 in Surrey, British Columbia and died on June 7, 2006 in Sanford, Florida from bladder cancer.

Tenta was shown in the video games, WWF WrestleFest in 1991, WWF Super WrestleMania in 1992, King of Colosseum II in 2004 and as DLC character in WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 in 2009.

[[Arthur Griffith]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1922 deaths, Irish Free State, Irish republicanism, Sinn Féin politicians

Arthur Griffith (Art Ó Gríobhtha; 31 March 1872 – 12 August 1922) was the founder of Sinn Fein, which became the political wing of the Irish Republican Army. Griffith said the Act of Union of Great Britain and Ireland in 1800 was illegal and that there  should therefore be one government for Great Britain and another for Ireland.  The King of Great Britain would also be King of Ireland. 

Elected to the parliament in 1918, he was also responsible for the Anglo-Irish Treaty (1921) which helped set up the Irish Free State.

[[Aristide Briand]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1932 deaths, Prime Ministers of France, French Nobel Prize winners

Aristide Briand (a.ʁis.tid bʁi.jɑ̃; 28 March 1862 – 7 March 1932) became the Prime Minister of France in 1909. He participated in the movement for labour-union formation and also in drafting the law of separation of church and state. Briand was criticised for trying to make peace with Germany. However, it was Briand who played a leading role in formulating the Locarno Pact, a treaty intended to establish peace in western Europe and ease relations with Germany.

[[Jimmy Snuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Fijian sportspeople, Former WWE wrestlers, Deaths from stomach cancer, WWE Hall of Fame

James William "Jimmy" Reihsnukks (May 18, 1943 – January 15, 2017) was a Fijian semi-retired professional wrestler. He is better known by his ring name, Jimmy "Superfly" Snuka. His first match was in 1967. Snuka is one of the most remembered wrestlers, along with Hulk Hogan, Ted DiBiase, and more. His daughter Tamina Snuka currently works for the WWE. His son Jimmy Snuka, Jr. also worked for the company.

As of March 2013, he no longer wrestles although he still makes appearances now and again. In August 2015, his wife announced that Snuka was diagnosed with stomach cancer.

On September 1, 2015, Snuka was arrested and charged with third-degree murder and involuntary manslaughter in the 1983 death of his girlfriend Nancy Argentino at an Allentown, Pennsylvania hotel. The charges were dismissed in 2017, because of Snuka's terminal illness and dementia. 

Snuka died of stomach cancer on January 15, 2017 in Pompano Beach, Florida, aged 74.

[[Bill Goldberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Atlanta Falcons players, Former WWE wrestlers, Jewish American sportspeople, Sportspeople from Tulsa, Oklahoma

William Scott "Bill" Goldberg (born March 27, 1966 in Tulsa, Oklahoma) is an American professional wrestler who is best known for wrestling with WCW and WWE. Goldberg also played professional football with the Los Angeles Rams and the Atlanta Falcons. He currently hosts the television show Garage Mahal which is shown on the DIY Network and he is currently a  WWE Hall of Famer  .

[[Sienna Miller]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American fashion designers, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, British fashion designers, English models, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Models from New York City, 1981 births, Living people

Sienna Rose Diana Miller (born December 28, 1981) is a British-American actress, model and fashion designer. She has starred in Layer Cake, Alfie, Factory Girl, "G.I. Joe: Rise of the Cobra" and The Edge of Love. She was nominated for the Orange Rising Star Award in 2008.

[[Julie Christie]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Animal rights activists, BAFTA Award winning actors, British activists, British movie actors, British stage actors, British television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, People of British India, People from Assam, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Julie Christie (born 14 April 1941) is a British actress. She has worked in theatre, motion picture and television. She has won the Academy, Golden Globe, BAFTA and Screen Actors Guild Award. In 1997 she was given a BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award, a lifetime achievement award. She has starred in many movies throughout her career. She was born in British India to British parents.

In 1967, Time magazine said of her: "What Julie Christie wears has more real impact on fashion than all the clothes of the ten best-dressed women combined". 

[[2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 disasters in Asia, 2011 earthquakes, 2010s earthquakes in Asia, 2010s in Japan, Earthquakes in Japan, March events, Tsunamis

The 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami was a 9.0-magnitude earthquake followed by tsunami waves. It was measured at 8.4 on the JMA seismic intensity scale The earthquake happened 130 off  Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture, on the east coast of the Tōhoku of Japan, on March 11, 2011 at 05:46:23 UTC. It was at a depth of 24.4 km (15.2 miles). It was  the most powerful earthquake to hit Japan in recorded history. It was also the fourth most powerful earthquake on Earth since modern record-keeping began in 1900.

On 10 February 2015, the Japanese National Police Agency report confirmed 15,890 deaths, 6,152 injured, and 2,590 people missing.

[[Lea Michele]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American animal rights activists, American LGBT rights activists, American musical theatre actors, American television actors, Grammy Award winners, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Lea Michele Sarfati (born August 29, 1986), known by her stage name Lea Michele, is an American actress and singer. Michele began working as a child actress on Broadway in shows like Ragtime and Les Misérables. She was the first person to play the character Wendla in the musical Spring Awakening and now plays Rachel Berry in the Fox television series Glee.

[[Cory Monteith]]

CATEGORIES: Accidental deaths in Canada, Actors from British Columbia, Actors from Calgary, Canadian drummers, Canadian musicians, Canadian television actors, Drug-related accidental deaths, People from Victoria, British Columbia, 1982 births, 2013 deaths

Cory Allan Michael Monteith (May 11, 1982–July 13, 2013) was a Canadian actor and musician, best known for his role as Finn Hudson on the Fox television series Glee.

[[Beyti (meat dish)]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Eastern foods

Beyti is a type of Turkish meat dish.

During a visit to Switzerland in 1961, Beyti Güler was inspired by the renowned butcher Möller's way of preparing meat. When he returned home, he introduced a dish consisting of roasted lamb fillets wrapped in strips of lamb cutlet fat. It came to be named after him when the kebap's fame spread all over the world.

[[Beyti (restaurant)]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Turkey, 1945 establishments in Asia, Asian restaurants, Turkish food

Beyti is a restaurant in Istanbul, Turkey. It was opened in 1945 in the neighbourhood of Küçükçekmece. It is owned and managed by Beyti Güler. The restaurant specialises in traditional Turkish food, particularly roasted meat.

[[Jane Lynch]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, LGBT people from Chicago, American stage actors, American television actors, Comedians from Chicago, Cornell University alumni, Emmy Award winning actors, Lesbians, LGBT actors, LGBT comedians

Jane Lynch (born July 14, 1960) is an American comedian and actress. Since 2009, she has played Sue Sylvester in the Fox musical-comedy series Glee for which she has won an Emmy Award and a Golden Globe Award. She has also acted in comedy movies such as Best in Show, The 40-Year-Old Virgin and Role Models, as well as television shows as lawyer Joyce Wischina in The L Word, Dr. Linda Freeman in Two and a Half Men and Diana Reid on Criminal Minds. She has appeared on iCarly as Sam's mother. She was also a regular on the comedy-drama series Party Down as Constance Carmell; the role got good reviews.

[[Husband]]

CATEGORIES: Family

A husband is a married man. "Married" means that the law says two people are legally "joined". During the wedding ceremony, the husband is called the groom (or bridegroom). In Christianity and Judaism a husband can have one wife (monogamy). In Islam a husband can have up to four wives (polygamy).

[[Michael Kort]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, American academics, American historians, Biographers

Michael Kort (born 1944) is an American historian.  After studying at Johns Hopkins University and New York University, he eventually became a professor at Boston University. He specializes in Soviet history.

[[Freezing rain]]

CATEGORIES: Precipitation

Freezing rain is rain that freezes when it hits the ground. It happens when the air is above freezing, but the ground is below freezing. It makes things slippery, and can cause problems.

[[Operation (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Arithmetics

In mathematics, an operation is a function which takes some input (or inputs) and produces an output. Some of the most common operations include addition, subtraction, multiplication and division, all of which take two inputs and produce an output. These are called binary operations, and are often used when solving math problems. 

There are more operations than these, including raising numbers to exponents, taking the root and applying the logarithm.

[[The 39 Clues]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books

The 39 Clues (main series) is a series of eleven adventure books written by seven authors. In the series, the two main characters, Dan and Amy Cahill's grandmother, Grace Cahill dies. In her will, she says each person can get one million dollars or search for clues around the world and become super powerful. There are also online and card games. in book ten it states that all who pass through the gauntlet will get double the amount they turned down.

[[First-person narrative]]

CATEGORIES: Literary terms

A first-person narrative is a narrative mode in which a story or work that is narrated (told) by one character at a time, speaking from their point of view only. First-person narrative may be told by only one storyteller, or many.

This type of narrative can use such words like me, myself and I.

[[Jacksonwald, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pennsylvania

Jacksonwald is a community in Exeter Township, Pennsylvania, United States. It is less than a mile from the borough of St. Lawrence, Pennsylvania.

[[Monica (entertainer)]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B singers, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia, 1980 births, Living people

Monica Denise Arnold (born October 24, 1980), known simply as Monica, is an American R&B singer-songwriter. Her debut album Miss Thang was released in 1995. Her second album, The Boy Is Mine, was successful internationally. She was born on October 24, 1980.

[[Wanda Sykes]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Virginia, Actors from Washington, D.C., African American actors, African American comedians, American movie actors, American stand-up comedians, American television actors, American television presenters, American television producers, American television writers, American voice actors, American LGBT people, Comedians from Virginia, Comedians from Washington, D.C., Lesbians, LGBT actors, LGBT African Americans, LGBT broadcasters, LGBT comedians, LGBT writers, People from Portsmouth, Virginia, Television talk show hosts, Writers from Virginia, Writers from Washington, D.C., 1964 births, Living people

Wanda Sykes (born March 7, 1964) is an American Writer, Comedienne and Actress. She was born in Portsmouth, Virginia and raised in Washington, D.C. She starred in the sitcom Curb Your Enthusiasm on the HBO network. In November 2009 her late night talk show The Wanda Sykes Show premiered.

[[Perilla]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae

Perilla is a genus of annual herb which is a member of the mint family. In mild climates the plant can reseed itself. There are both green leafed and purple leafed versions of this plant. The plant's leaves resemble stinging nettle leaves, though they are slightly rounder in shape.

[[Jake Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Texas, WWE Hall of Fame

Aurelian Jake Smith, Jr. (born May 30, 1955) is a American semi-retired professional wrestler. He is best known for wrestling with WWF, WCW and ECW under the ring name, Jake "The Snake" Roberts. He is a second generation wrestler because his father is Aurelian "Grizzly" Smith. He was known for bringing out snakes during his matches, one of his snakes being a python named Damien.

He made a surprise return on the January 6, 2014 episode of Raw titled Old School Raw and dumped a snake on the face of a downed Dean Ambrose. On the January 27, 2014 episode of Raw, Jerry Lawler announced that Roberts was the second entrant in the WWE Hall of Fame Class of 2014.

[[Mike Krzyzewski]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Chicago, Sportspeople from North Carolina, College basketball coaches

Michael William "Mike" Krzyzewski (ʃəˈʃɛvski, born February, 13, 1947) is an American college basketball coach.  He is sometimes referred to as Coach K.  He was born in Chicago and went to school at the United States Military Academy, where he played guard.  He served in the Army as a basketball coach, and was later the coach of the U.S. Military Academy's basketball team.  In 1980, Krzyzewski became the head coach at Duke University, where he has been for 31 years.  His teams have been to the NCAA Tournament 27 times, been to the Final Four 11 times, and won 4 national championships.  Krzyzewski has also been the coach of the United States national basketball team since 2006.  He was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2001.

[[Glenn Ford]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Canadian movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Canadian television actors, Canadian stage actors, Deaths from stroke, 1916 births, 2006 deaths, People from Quebec City

Glenn Ford (May 1, 1916 - August 30, 2006) was an American actor, born in Canada.

[[Randy Savage]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2011 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Former WWE wrestlers, American Roman Catholics, Sportspeople from Columbus, Ohio, WWE Hall of Fame

Randy Savage (real name Randall Mario Poffo, November 15, 1952 – May 20, 2011) was an American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Federation (WWF), World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). His father Angelo Poffo (1925-2010) was a wrestler, as is his brother, Lanny Poffo (born 1954). Savage was married to professional wresting manager, Miss Elizabeth until they divorced in 1992. Poffo also released a rap record called, Be A Man which featured a diss track about Hulk Hogan and a tribute song about "Mr. Perfect" Curt Hennig. He died on May 20, 2011 after having a heart attack while driving in Seminole, Florida, resulting in a car accident.

On March 28, 2015, he was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Hulk Hogan. He was represented by his brother Lanny Poffo.

[[Lynne Ewing]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, American novelists, American screenwriters

Lynne Ewing is an American book writer and a movie writer.

She moved a lot as she was growing up; her father was in the Marine Corps. She has two sisters.  Lynne finished high school in Lima, Peru after going to seven other schools.  The time she was in the country Peru, she learned to speak the language Spanish. She attended the University of California at Santa Barbara. She was 30 years old when she began writing for newspapers, documentaries, magazines, and did screen writing. She is also a counselor.  The first books that she wrote were Drive-By and Party Girl. Drive-By took six years to write, and Party Girl has been made into a movie called Living the Life. She has written the finished book Daughters of the Moon and Sons of the Dark line of books.  She lives in Los Angeles and Washington D.C.. Ms. Ewing has two children, Jonathan, a molecular biologist, and Amber, a lawyer who works around the country. She has also been to Japan, China, Russia, Europe, Malaysia, Singapore, Laos, Myanmar, and Thailand. She has started a new line of books named Sisters of Isis. 

[[Shemp Howard]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Comedians from New York City, Actors from New York City, 1895 births, 1955 deaths

Shemp Howard (March 11, 1895 - November 22, 1955) was an American comedian and actor. He was born in Brooklyn, New York.

[[Moorhead, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota, County seats in Minnesota

Moorhead is a town in Minnesota with a population of 32,177. It is regarded as the twin city of Fargo, North Dakota, since they are right next to each other. The town was first built in 1870 near a natural crossing point for the Red River. It was named after William G.Moorhead, who was a director of the Northern Pacific Railway. 

Musician Buddy Holly was on his way to Moorhead when he died in a plane crash. This was called "the Day that Music Died" in the song "American Pie", by Don McLean.

[[Red Grange]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1991 deaths, Chicago Bears players, American football running backs, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Harold Edward "Red" Grange (June 13, 1903 – January 28, 1991) was an American football halfback and actor that played in the National Football League (NFL) for 9 seasons. He was nicknamed "The Galloping Ghost" from a Chicago sportswriter named Warren Brown. He played in the NFL for 3 teams during his professional career the Chicago Bears in 1925 and again from 1929-1934 and also played for the New York Yankees in 1926 and 1927. He played college football at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and his jersey number #77 is retired by the university and is also retired by the Chicago Bears. Grange also acted in two silent movies; One Minute to Play in 1926 and Racing Romeo in 1927. He is inducted into the College and Pro Football Hall of Fame and in 2008 ESPN named him the greatest college football player of all time.  Grange never fumbled the football during his NFL career.December 2018

[[Caddyshack]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 comedy movies, 1980s sports movies, American sports comedy movies, English-language movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Harold Ramis

Caddyshack is a 1980 American sports comedy movie that was produced by Douglas Kenney and was directed by Harold Ramis. Caddyshack was released on July 25, 1980 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 76% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

This movie had a sequel, Caddyshack II.

[[Bull Durham]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 comedy movies, 1988 romance movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, 1980s sports movies, American romantic comedy movies, American sports movies, English-language movies, Movies set in North Carolina, Sports comedy movies

Bull Durham is an 1988 American romantic comedy baseball movie set in Durham, North Carolina. It was produced by Thom Mount and Mark Burg and was directed by Ron Shelton. Bull Durham was released on June 15, 1988 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 98% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 73 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Ostracod]]

CATEGORIES: Crustaceans

Ostracods are a class of the Crustacea. They are often called seed shrimps because of their appearance. 

Some 65,000 species (13,000 of which are living) have been identified. 

Ostracods are small crustaceans, typically around 1 in size, but varying from 0.2 to 30 in the case of Gigantocypris. 

Their bodies are flattened from side to side and protected by a bivalve-like, chitinous or calcareous valve or "shell". The hinge of the two valves is in the upper (dorsal) region of the body.

Marine ostracods live in the zooplankton. Others live in the benthos, on or in the upper layer of the sea floor. 

Many ostracods are also found in fresh water. Terrestrial species of Mesocypris are known from humid forest soils of South Africa, Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania. They have a wide range of diets, and the group includes carnivores, herbivores, scavengers, and filter feeders.

Copepods may not be monophyletic.  Ostracod taxa are grouped into a Class based on gross morphology (what they look like). Their DNA sequence analysis in their mitochondria has been examined. The results are not clear.

[[Urban decay]]

CATEGORIES: Cities

Urban decay is the process whereby a city or area goes into conditions of disrepair or becomes decrepit or filled with blight. Urban decay involves white flight, population changes, depopulation, economic troubles, high local unemployment, higher than usual crime and political issues. Blight is associated with condemned homes, empty lots and deserted areas that oftentimes attract criminal activity. 

[[Aerobic]]

Aerobic is an adjective that means 'requiring oxygen'.

Aerobic may also refer to:

[[Muhammad Hassan]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, People from Syracuse, New York, Sportspeople from New York

Mark Copani (born November 7, 1981 in Syracuse, New York) is a retired American professional wrestler who is best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) under the ring name, Muhammad Hassan. 

His gimmick was about a Middle Eastern-American wrestler that wanted acceptance from the stereotypes created by the 9/11 attacks. His gimmick got attention from the New York Post, TV Guide, Variety and other news sources because he was supposed to face The Undertaker in a match The Great American Bash and Teddy Long put Hassan's manager, Daivari in a match with The Undertaker on the earlier version of SmackDown.

After Daivari was defeated, Hassan began to pray on the entrance ramp and five masked men came out that were dressed in black shirts, ski-masks, and camo pants. They were armed with clubs and a piano wire and they beat and choked the Undertaker out, and Hassan put him in the Camel Clutch.

Three days later before the episode aired, the London bombings took place and UPN didn't have enough time to edit the segment out of the episode and they showed the unedited version in the United States and Canada but was removed from airing in Australia and Europe.

UPN urged the WWE to remove Hassan's character from television which they succeeded in when Copani was released from his WWE contract on September 21, 2005.

[[Essen (disambiguation)]]

Essen may refer to:

[[WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw 2006]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation Portable games, THQ games, WWE video game series

WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2006 is a wrestling video game that was published by THQ except in Japan where it was published by Yukes. The video game was released for the PlayStation 2 and PlayStation Portable video game systems. The video game was released on November 11, 2005 in Europe and November 14, 2005 in North America for the PlayStation 2 and on December 16, 2005 in Europe and December 13, 2005 in North America for the PlayStation Portable.

It is part of the WWE SmackDown vs. Raw video game series.

[[WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2008]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, Mobile games, Nintendo DS games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation Portable games, Wii games, Xbox 360 games, WWE video game series, THQ games

WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2008 is a wrestling video game that was published by THQ. The video game was released for the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, Nintendo DS, Wii and Xbox 360 systems. The video game was also released as a mobile game. The video game was released on November 9, 2007 in Europe and on November 13, 2007 in both North America and Australia The game was also released on November 9, 2007 in Europe, November 13, 2007 in North America and on November 22, 2007 in Australia for the PSP.

The game was the first of the SmackDown vs. Raw games to feature the newly revived ECW brand.

It is part of the WWE SmackDown vs. Raw video game series.

[[Single White Female]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 drama movies, 1992 thriller movies, 1990s drama thriller movies, American drama thriller movies, Borderline personality disorder in fiction, English-language movies, Movies about murderers, Movies based on books, Movies set in Manhattan, Movies directed by Barbet Schroeder

Single White Female is a 1992 American thriller movie. The movie stars Bridget Fonda, who plays a young businesswoman looking for a roommate in New York City. The roommate she chooses (played by Jennifer Jason Leigh) initially seems normal. However, she later tries to take over her life and shows that she is a controlling and violent woman who has borderline personality disorder. The film is based on John Lutz's suspense novel SWF Seeks Same. Single White Female was released in August 1992. It was directed by Barbet Schroeder.

[[WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, PlayStation 2-only games, THQ games, WWE video game series

WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw is a wrestling video game that was published by THQ except in Japan where it was published by Yuke's. The video game was only released for the PlayStation 2 video game console. The video game was released on November 2, 2004 in North America, November 12, 2004 in Europe and on February 3, 2005 in Japan. It was called Exciting Pro Wrestling 6: SmackDown! vs. RAW in Japan. It is part of the WWE SmackDown vs. Raw video game series.

[[Peter Jennings]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2005 deaths, Canadian journalists, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from lung cancer, People from Toronto, Television news anchors, Writers from Ontario

Peter Jennings (29 July 1938 – 7 August 2005) was a Canadian journalist, born in Toronto, Ontario. 

He was a journalist and news anchor for World News Tonight on ABC between 1983 and 2005. 

He died in Manhattan, New York City, in 2005 of complications from lung cancer.

[[Scram]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear energy

A scram or SCRAM is a quick shutdown of a nuclear reactor.  It is done in an emergency (a dangerous situation). A scram is performed by quickly inserting all of the control rods, or, if this fails, injecting boric acid into the reactor. A reactor that has been shut down still requires cooling due to decay heat. If the cooling system fails, the core can still melt down even if the reactor has been shut down. This has happened during several nuclear accidents, including Three Mile Island and Fukushima. The RBMK reactors used in the Soviet Union had graphite-tipped control rods, a design flaw which caused the reactivity to increase for a moment when the reactor was scrammed. This design flaw contributed to the Chernobyl disaster.

[[Sorrel]]

CATEGORIES: Caryophyllales, Herbs, Leaf vegetables, Medicinal plants

Sorrel (Rumex acetosa), also called common sorrel or garden sorrel, is a perennial herb that is cultivated as a garden herb or leaf vegetable (pot herb). Sorrel is also known by the names spinach dock and narrow-leaved dock.

[[Rock Springs, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wyoming, 1888 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Wyoming Territory

Rock Springs is an American city in the state of Wyoming. It is in Sweetwater County. The city has about 18,708 people. The current mayor of Rock Springs is Carl Demshar. On September 2, 1885, a riot between the Chinese immigrant miners and white immigrant miners killed at least 26 people and it was caused because of racial tensions and labor dispute.

[[Buffalo, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wyoming, County seats in Wyoming

Buffalo is an American city in the state of Wyoming. It is in Johnson County. The city has about 3,900 people. The town is known for methane production from the coal bed methane extraction method that is used in the Powder River Basin.

[[Sendai, Miyagi]]

CATEGORIES: Sendai, Miyagi

Sendai is the capital city of Miyagi Prefecture, Japan. It is the largest city in the Tōhoku Region. Sendai is also called the City of Trees. About 1,045,986 people live in the city as of 2010.

Date Masamune built the castle at Sendai in 1601. The modern-day city of Sendai developed around it.

On March 11, 2011, an earthquake and a tsunami badly damaged the city and its surroundings.

Sendai Airport SDJ is in nearby Natori, Miyagi, 13.6 south southeast of Sendai Station. The airport was badly damaged by the tsunami, but re-opened for limited service the next month. The US State Department said the airport was safe to visit.

There are several ski resorts and golf clubs in Sendai. The football club Vegalta Sendai has its stadium in the city. Sendai has one university: Tohoku University.

[[Electron transport chain]]

CATEGORIES: Cellular respiration

An electron transport chain (ETC) is how a cell gets energy from sunlight in photosynthesis. Electron transport chains also occur in reduction/oxidation ("redox") reactions, such as the oxidation of sugars in cellular respiration.

In aerobic respiration, each molecule of glucose leads to about 34 molecules of ATP (Adenosine triphosphate) being produced by the electron transport chain. This is by far the most productive part of respiration.

[[David Carradine]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2009 deaths, Accidental deaths from erotic asphyxiation, Actors from Hollywood, American movie directors, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors

David Carradine (December 8, 1936 Hollywood, California, U.S. – June 3, 2009, Bangkok, Thailand), was an American actor. He was famous as the lead in a 1970s tv series Kung Fu.

Carradine had an unstable childhood. This instability continued throughout his life. He married five times. He was frequently arrested and prosecuted for a variety of offenses which often involved substance abuse. He died on June 3, 2009, from erotic asphyxiation.

[[Fortaleza Esporte Clube]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 establishments, 1910s establishments in Brazil, Brazilian football clubs, Fortaleza

Fortaleza Esporte Clube is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[Jack Palance]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2006 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Jack Palance (born Volodymyr Palahniuk, February 18, 1919 - November 10, 2006) was an American actor. He won an Academy Award for his role in the comedy movie City Slickers (1991).

[[Vagrancy (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Animals

Vagrancy is a phenomenon in biology when animals appear very far from their normal range. These animals are called vagrants. The term accidental can be used as well. There are a number of reasons for such animals to become a vagrant - such as weather conditions - but these causes are still rather confused.

Vagrancy is known to occur in birds, insects, mammals and turtles.

[[Kamaishi, Iwate]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Iwate Prefecture

Kamaishi is a city in Iwate Prefecture. 32,609 people live there as of March 2020. It is a historic city because of its part in World War II where it was the first naval bombardment by the U.S. Navy. The city was completely detroyed on June 15, 1896 when a 7.2 magnitude earthquake and tsunami hit the coast of Iwate. The city was again destroyed in 2011 by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. 

[[Fukushima, Fukushima]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Fukushima Prefecture

Fukushima is a city in northern Japan. It is the capital of Fukushima Prefecture. The city of Iino was merged into the city of Fukushima on 1 July 2008.

[[Burt Lancaster]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1994 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Best Actor Academy Award winners, Actors from New York City, Movie directors from New York, Movie producers from New York

Burt Lancaster (November 2, 1913 - October 20, 1994), was an American actor and director.

[[Fairly Legal]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American television series, English-language television programs

Fairly Legal was an American legal drama television series that was created by Michael Sardo. Fairly Legal debuted on January 20, 2011 on the USA Network. Filming for the show takes place in Vancouver. The story is about a woman named Kate Reed who is a former lawyer turned mediator. She works at the San Francisco law firm that her father has started and left her and the law firm to deal with his death.

[[The Sandman (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Utah, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

James "Jim" Fullington (born June 16, 1963 in Sandy, Utah) is an American professional wrestler who is best known for wrestling with Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) under the ring name, The Sandman. When he was wrestling for ECW he was nicknamed a "Hardcore Icon". He also wrestled for WWE from 2005 to 2007, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling from 2002 to 2003 and again in 2010, and World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in 1991. On July 20, 2008, Fullington was arrested for fighting at a Yonkers, New York restaurant with the employees.

[[Chris Candido]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2005 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Deaths from surgical complications, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from New Jersey, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Christopher B. "Chris" Candito (March 21, 1972–March 28, 2005) was an American professional wrestler. He was better known by his ring name Chris Candido. He was best known for his time with World Championship Wrestling (WCW), Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW), New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW), Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), and Smoky Mountain Wrestling (SMW). He was also known for his time with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) where he competed under the ring name Skip and was part of the tag team, The Bodydonnas.  

He was married to wrestling valet, Tammy Lynn Sytch who is better known by the name, Sunny.

[[Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Japan, Earthquake engineering, Nuclear power plants, Fukushima Prefecture

Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant (also called Fukushima I) is a disabled nuclear power plant in the town of Ōkuma in Fukushima Prefecture, Japan. Fukushima Daiichi was the first nuclear power plant to be built and run only by the Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO).

In March 2011 there were nuclear emergencies at the power plant and some other Japanese nuclear facilities, which raised questions about the future of nuclear power. Following the Fukushima nuclear disaster, the International Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035.

[[Mark Appleyard]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Ontario, Skateboarders

Mark Appleyard (born November 11, 1982 in Oakville, Ontario) is a Canadian professional skateboarder. He is currently sponsored by Element Skateboards, Thunder, Autobahn, Globe Shoes, Volcom, CCS, Arnette, and Vivo. He was the Thrasher Skater of the Year in 2003.

[[Pierre-Luc Gagnon]]

CATEGORIES: Skateboarders, Sportspeople from Montreal, 1980 births, Living people

Pierre-Luc Gagnon, sometimes known as PLG for short (born May 2, 1980 in Boucherville, Montreal) is a Canadian professional skateboarder. He is currently sponsored by Osiris, Darkstar, Electric, RDS, Skullcandy, Capix, Boost Mobile and Monster Energy Drink. He has competed in five X Games where he won fifteen medals, four of them being gold.

At 32 years old, Pierre-Luc Gagnon is a successful skateboarder and well-known in his discipline. He has won eight gold medals at the X-Games competition.

Gagnon found his passion at the age of nine years old. He asked his father to buy his first skateboard. When he got it, he started to visit the local planchodrome intensively. But during the winter in Quebec, it is harder to find a place to practice this sport. With a group, they decided to rent a localation where they put some ramps. 

In 1992, his father, who is a physical education teacher, convinced the city of Boucherville to open an indoor skate park. After this, he practiced his sport each day after school for six years and gained skills.

In 1996, he tries his luck during a competition (Vans Amateur series) which accompanies a musical tour everywhere in North America. The winner of each city is allowed to go to Los Angeles for the big final. Gagnon won the whole competition and had his first contract with Vans. He started his professional career by doing demonstration with the team and competition.

But in 2000, He decided to move to California where the sport is more important and he could do it all year long. There is also more competition in California. Since he moved there, he has competed in Brazil, China and Switzerland. For him, skateboarding is not just a sport; it is a kind of art. It is a way of expressing himself, being original and unique. It is not a traditional sport where everybody executes the same tricks. A skateboarder needs to develop a unique style almost like an artist.

Pierre-Luc Gagnon said that skateboarding helps kids to use their imagination for trying new things. He fell in love with skateboarding when he started and he never stops.  He started to go to the skate park each day after school at the age of nine, and now he practices it six days a week three hours by day.

[[Jeff Teague]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, American basketball players, Atlanta Hawks players, Sportspeople from Indiana

Jeffrey "Jeff" Demarco Teague (born June 10, 1988 in Indianapolis, Indiana) is an American basketball player that currently plays for the Atlanta Hawks of the NBA. He went to Wake Forest University for college where he played for the Wake Forest Demon Deacons basketball team. He was drafted by the Atlanta Hawks with the 19th pick in the 2009 NBA Draft. Teague is probably best known for his known for his ability to drive to the basket and his shooting ability.

[[Ol' Dirty Bastard]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2004 deaths, African American musicians, American crime victims, American people convicted of drug offenses, American rap musicians from New York, Criminals from New York City, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, Singers from New York City

Russell Tyrone Jones (November 15, 1968 – November 13, 2004), better known by his stage name Ol’ Dirty Bastard was an American rapper and music producer. He is probably best known for being one of the founding members of the rap group Wu-Tang Clan. He also had a solo career and released two studio albums during that time.

He died on 13 November 2004 from a drug overdose at the age of 35.

[[Gibsons, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Gibsons is a Canadian city in British Columbia, Canada. Gibsons is on the Sunshine Coast. The Canadian television series, The Beachcombers, was set and shot in Gibsons. The movies Charlie St. Cloud and Needful Things were filmed in Gibsons. The town also won the Berkeley Springs International Water Tasting contest which made them the first in the world. The town was first called Gibson's Landing in 1929 but was changed to Gibsons in 1947.

[[Dev (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from California, 1989 births, Living people

Devin Star Tailes (born July 2, 1989), best known by her stage name Dev, is an American singer. Her associated acts include Far East Movement. Her song "Booty Bounce" was sampled in the Far East Movement's "Like a G6". Her most successful single was "In the Dark".

Dev was born in Tracy, California. She later moved herself to Los Angeles.

[[Courtenay, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Courtenay is a Canadian city in British Columbia, Canada. Courtenay is on the east coast of Vancouver Island. The current mayor of Courtenay is Greg Phelps. Courtenay has a population of 21,940 people as of 2006. A 7.3 magnitude earthquake hit the west of Courtenay a lot of chimneys were destroyed, there was also damage to the post office and the Courtenay elementary school. It was the largest earthquake to hit Vancouver Island.

[[December 2010 North American blizzard]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 in the United States, Historic blizzards in the United States, 2010 in weather, December 2010 events

The December 2010 North American blizzard was a historic blizzard that hit the northeaster part of North America in late December 2010. The blizzard produced heavy snow and strong winds. Over 20 of snow on parts of New York City. An area south of Elizabeth City, New Jersey had the most snow fall. It had 36 of snow.  Elizabeth City itself got 31 of snow.

[[Tom Zbikowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, American football safeties, Sportspeople from Illinois, People from Park Ridge, Illinois

Thomas Michael Zbikowski (born May 22, 1985 in Park Ridge, Illinois, often known as just "Zibi") is a Professional boxer and American football safety for the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League. Zbikowski was drafted out of the University of Notre Dame by the Baltimore Ravens with the 86th pick in the third round of the 2008 NFL Draft. He also played for the Baltimore Ravens from 2008 to 2011.

[[James Hardy (American football)]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, 2017 deaths, Baltimore Ravens players, Buffalo Bills players, American football wide receivers, Sportspeople from Indiana, People from Fort Wayne, Indiana

James W. Hardy, III (December 24, 1985 – June 7, 2017) was an American football wide receiver for the Baltimore Ravens. Hardy also played for the Buffalo Bills from 2008 to 2010. Hardy was drafted out of Indiana University by the Buffalo Bills with the 41st pick in the second round of the 2008 NFL Draft.

On June 7, 2017, a body was found in the Maumee River in Fort Wayne, Indiana. The next day, the Allen County Coroner determined the body to be that of Hardy. The cause of his death has yet to be determined. He was 31 years old.

[[Ed Dickson]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, African American players of American football, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, Sportspeople from Los Angeles County, California, People from Inglewood, California, American football tight ends

Edward James Dickson (born July 25, 1987 in Inglewood, California) is an American football Tight End for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). Dickson was drafted out of the University of Oregon by the Baltimore Ravens with the 70th pick in the third round of the 2010 NFL Draft.

[[Saving Private Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 movies, 1990s drama movies, 1990s war movies, Academy Award winning movies, American drama movies, American epic movies, American war movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies directed by Steven Spielberg, Movies set in France, Movies set in the 1940s, World War II movies

Saving Private Ryan is a 1998 American war movie directed by Steven Spielberg and written by Robert Rodat. Set during the Invasion of Normandy in World War II, the movie is known for its graphic portrayal of war and for the intensity of its second scene of 24 minutes, a depiction of the Omaha Beach assault during the Normandy landings. The movie follows United States Army Rangers Captain John H. Miller (Tom Hanks) and his squad (Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Giovanni Ribisi, Vin Diesel, Adam Goldberg, and Jeremy Davies) as they search for a paratrooper, Private First Class James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon), the last surviving brother of a family of four, with his three other brothers having been killed in action.

In 1996, producer Mark Gordon pitched Rodat's idea, which was inspired by the Niland brothers, to Paramount, which eventually began development on the project. Spielberg, who at the time was forming DreamWorks, came on board to direct the project, and Hanks joined the cast. After the cast went through training supervised by Marine veteran Dale Dye, the movie's photography started in June 1997 and lasted two months. The movie's D-Day scenes were shot in Ballinesker Beach, Curracloe Strand, Ballinesker, just east of Curracloe, County Wexford, Ireland and used members of the Irish Army as infantry for the D-Day landing.

Released on July 24, 1998, Saving Private Ryan received acclaim from critics and audiences for its performances (particularly from Hanks), realism, cinematography, score, screenplay, and Spielberg's direction, and was placed on many movie critics' 1998 top ten lists. It was also a box office success, becoming the highest-grossing movie of 1998 in the United States with $216.8 million domestically and the second-highest-grossing movie of 1998 worldwide with $481.8 million worldwide. Additionally, it grossed $44 million from its release on home video in May 1999. The movie won several accolades, including Best Picture and Best Director at the Golden Globes, Producers Guild of America, Directors Guild of America, and Critics' Choice Awards. The movie was nominated for eleven Academy Awards at the 71st Academy Awards, where it won five: Best Director (Spielberg's second), Best Film Editing, Best Cinematography, Best Sound, and Best Sound Effects Editing, though it lost the Academy Award for Best Picture to Shakespeare in Love in a controversial Oscars upset.

Since its release, Saving Private Ryan has been considered one of the greatest war movies of all time and has been lauded as influential on the war movie genre. It is credited for renewing interest in World War II media. In 2007, the American Film Institute ranked Saving Private Ryan as the 71st-greatest American movie in AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies (10th Anniversary Edition) and in 2014, the film was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.

[[Brendon Ayanbadejo]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, American football linebackers, Sportspeople from Chicago

Oladele Brendon Ayanbadejo (born September 6, 1976 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American football Linebacker and Special teamer for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). He has played for 8 NFL teams as well as 3 CFL teams. He played college football at UCLA. He won Super Bowl XLVII with the Ravens when they defeated the San Francisco 49ers 34-31.

[[Brandon Jones (wide receiver)]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, American football wide receivers, Sportspeople from Texas

Brandon Jones (born October 6, 1982 in Texarkana, Texas) is an American football wide receiver in the National Football League who is currently a free agent. He was drafted out of the University of Oklahoma by the Tennessee Titans with the 96th pick in the third round of the 2005 NFL Draft. He also played for the Tennessee Titans from 2005 to 2008, San Francisco 49ers in 2009 and the Seattle Seahawks in 2010. He was also drafted by the New York Yankees of Major League Baseball but he didn't sign a contract with them. In 2011, the Baltimore Ravens signed Jones. Jones caught the game-winning touchdown from Tyrod Taylor in a preseason game against the Washington Redskins, but was released by the Ravens.

[[Andre Ramsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, Buffalo Bills players, American football offensive tackles, Sportspeople from New Hampshire, People from Portsmouth, New Hampshire

Andre Alexander Ramsey (born July 24, 1987 in Portsmouth, New Hampshire) is an American football Offensive tackle that is currentlywhen a free agent. He last played for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). Ramsey played college football at Ball State University. He also played for the Buffalo Bills in 2009.

[[Punter]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian football, American football positions

A punter (P) is a position in American and Canadian football. Punters are members of the special teams. Punts punt the ball away to the opposite team during a fourth (American) or Third (Canadian) down. The punter will sometimes do a fake punt and run or throw the ball. They can also fill in for a placekicker. 

[[Matt Stover]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, Cleveland Browns players, Indianapolis Colts players, American football placekickers, Sportspeople from Dallas, Texas

John Matthew "Matt" Stover (born January 27, 1968) is a former American Football placekicker. He played college football for Louisiana Tech. As of the start of the 2009 NFL season, he was the third most accurate kicker in the history of the National Football League. He is of Greek origin and is Christian. He has spent time with the New York Giants, the Cleveland Browns, and the Baltimore Ravens, where he played for 13 seasons. He was signed by the Indianapolis Colts in October 2009 to replace injured kicker Adam Vinatieri. His signature celebration had his thumbs and pointer fingers pointed outward with his arms halfway or all the way in the air.

[[Joseph Gordon-Levitt]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Movie directors from California, Movie producers from California, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Joseph Leonard Gordon-Levitt (born February 17, 1981 in Los Angeles, California) is an American actor, musician and singer. Gordon-Levitt made his big screen debut in the 1992 movie Beethoven.

[[First person]]

First person may refer to:

[[Danny Glover]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Actors from San Francisco, African American actors, African American movie directors, American activists, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Movie directors from California, Movie producers from California

Danny Lebern Glover (born July 22, 1946) is an American actor, director and activist. He was born in San Francisco, California. Glover made his big screen debut in the 1979 movie Escape from Alcatraz. Glover won an MTV Movie Award in 1993 for Best On-Screen Duo in the movie Lethal Weapon 3 which he shared with Mel Gibson.

[[Christian art]]

CATEGORIES: Christian art

Christian art is an art form related to Christianity. There are a lot different definitions of it.  Christian art is mainly defined by pieces that try to show or express the ideas of Christianity. Most Christian denominations or groups either use or have used art to some extent. Other groups, however, have do not like the idea of religious images, and there have been major periods of iconoclasm within Christianity. Images of Jesus and events from the Life of Christ are the most common subjects, and scenes from the Old Testament play a part in the art of most Christian groups.  Images of the Virgin Mary and saints are less common in Protestant art than in Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox art.

[[Tony Danza]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American boxers, American movie actors, American television actors, Sportspeople from New York City, American teachers

Tony Danza (born Anthony Salvatore Iadanza; April 21, 1950 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American actor, producer and boxer. His mother was an immigrant from Sicily; his father was a sanitation worker. Danza made his big screen debut in the 1981 movie Going Ape!. Danza was also the host of the ESPY Awards in 1996 and Miss America in 2002.

[[Saitama]]

The word Saitama has several uses:

[[Samantha Eggar]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, 1939 births, Living people

Samantha Eggar (born 5 March 1939) is a British actress.

Eggar was born in London. Her father was a British Army officer. Her mother hadPortuguese and Dutch acestors.  

[[John McDouall Stuart]]

CATEGORIES: 1815 births, 1866 deaths, Exploration of Australia, Australian explorers, Scottish people, People from Fife

John McDouall Stuart (7 September 1815spaced ndash5 June 1866) is regarded as one of Australia's greatest explorers. He went on seven major exploring trips into the centre and north of Australia. He was leader of six of these expeditions. He spent more time out in the Australian bush exploring the land than any other explorer. On each trip, he was able to go further north and found water sources that helped him with his final long journey. In 1862, he crossed Australia from Adelaide, South Australia, to Van Diemen Gulf in the Northern Territory. He was the first European to cross the continent from north to south and then return again.

Exploring Australia caused Stuart to become very sick from diseases such as scurvy and beriberi. He pushed himself to the very limits of human endurance. Each trip left him weaker and at the end of his last trip he was unable to walk or ride and had to be carried back. Stuart's discoveries opened up the country for the growth of farming sheep and cattle. His route was used to build the Australian Overland Telegraph Line from Adelaide to Darwin which joined an undersea line from Java. This meant that for the first time, Australians could communicate quickly with the rest of the world. But his personal rewards were small. He was given some land by the government and a small salary from his employers. Stuart died poor in England at the age of 50.

[[Clayton Moore]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Chicago, Deaths from myocardial infarction, 1914 births, 1999 deaths

Clayton Moore (September 14, 1914 – December 28, 1999) was an American actor.

[[Courtney Thorne-Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Actors from San Francisco, American movie actors, American television actors

Courtney Thorne-Smith (born 8 November 1967) is an American actress. She is best known for her television work. Her television roles include Alison Parker on Melrose Place, Georgia Thomas on the sitcom Ally McBeal and Lyndsey McElroy on Two and a Half Men. She has acted in many movies and other television programs. Thorne-Smith was born in San Francisco, California.

[[Stan Laurel]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1965 deaths, Actors from Lancashire, British silent movie actors, Comedians from Lancashire, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English movie actors, English television actors

Stan Laurel (16 June 1890 – 23 February 1965), was an English actor, comedian, writer, director and musician.

[[Page-turner]]

CATEGORIES: Music

A page-turner is a person whose job is to turn sheet music pages for a solo musician, often a pianist, usually during a performance.

While some music is arranged so that the pages end at places where the musician can spare one hand to turn them, this is not always possible. A page-turner is often needed by musicians who are playing difficult pieces and prefer not to play from memory. A page-turner needs to be able to understand the musician's signals and follow the music to know when to turn the page. Page-turners are sometimes friends of the performer or members of the accompanying orchestra helping the musician. Professional page-turners are usually freelance casual workers.

Mechanical page-turners are also available, sometimes controlled by the musician via a foot pedal. Charles Halle is said to have invented the automatic page-turner.

[[Jim Thorpe]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1953 deaths, Native American people, Sportspeople from Oklahoma, American football players, American baseball players, New York Giants (NL) players

James Francis Thorpe (May 28, 1888 – March 28, 1953) was an American athlete in track, football, and baseball. Thorpe was part Native American and was from Oklahoma.  He played football, track, and six other sports at Carlisle Indian School in Pennsylvania.  While at Carlisle, Thorpe's team was one of the best in the country, and beat an Army team that had Dwight Eisenhower. Thorpe won gold medals in the pentathlon (five track and field events in one day) and decathlon (ten events in two days) at the 1912 Summer Olympics. After the decathlon, the King of Sweden called him the greatest athlete alive. His medals were taken away because he had played professional baseball, but were returned in 1982, long after his death. 

After the Olympics, Thorpe played professional baseball and football. He played for football teams including the Canton Bulldogs, Rock Island Independents, Chicago Cardinals and New York Giants.  He was commissioner of the NFL for one year.  Thorpe is in the NFL Hall of Fame.  He also played for baseball teams including the New York Giants, Cincinnati Reds, and Boston Braves   For several years, Thorpe toured with football, baseball and basketball teams that only had Native American players.  Late in life, Thorpe had problems with alcoholism. Thorpe died in 1953. He was buried in Mauch Chunk, Pennsylvania, which changed its name to Jim Thorpe, Pennsylvania.

[[Crocodylomorph]]

CATEGORIES: Archosaurs

The Crocodylomorphs are an important group of archosaurs that include the crocodilians and their extinct relatives.

During Mesozoic and early Tertiary times the Crocodylomorpha were far more diverse than they are now.  Triassic forms were small, lightly built, active terrestrial animals.  These were supplanted during the early Jurassic by various aquatic and marine forms.  The later Jurassic, Cretaceous, and Tertiary saw a wide diversity of terrestrial and semi-aquatic lineages. Modern crocodilians do not appear until the Upper Cretaceous.

[[Lepidosauromorph]]

CATEGORIES: Reptiles

The Lepidosauromorphs are a large group of reptiles. It includes all diapsids closer to lizards than to archosaurs. 

The only living sub-group is the Lepidosauria: lizards, snakes, and the tuatara. 

The most important fossil group, the Sauropterygia, includes the plesiosaurs.

[[Backlash (2006)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in American television, 2006 in professional wrestling, Lexington, Kentucky, WWE Backlash, 21st century in Kentucky

Backlash (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on April 30, 2006 at the Rupp Arena in Lexington, Kentucky. It was the eighth annual Backlash PPV. The pay-per-view received 273,000 more buys then last year's Backlash pay-per-view.

[[Backlash (2005)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in professional wrestling, Manchester, New Hampshire, WWE Backlash, 2005 in the United States, History of New Hampshire, May 2005 events

Backlash (2005) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 1, 2005 at the Verizon Wireless Arena in Manchester, New Hampshire. It was the seventh annual Backlash PPV. 

[[Lepidosauria]]

CATEGORIES: Scaled reptiles

The Lepidosauria (Greek for scaled lizards) are reptiles with overlapping scales. They include the tuataras, lizards, snakes and amphisbaenians.

Lepidosauria is a superorder of Sauropsida. It includes the orders : 

[[Backlash (2003)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 in professional wrestling, Worcester, Massachusetts, WWE Backlash, 2003 in the United States, 2000s in Massachusetts

Backlash (2003) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on April 27, 2003 at the Worcester Centrum in Worcester, Massachusetts. It was the fifth annual Backlash PPV. The pay-per-view had a 0.67 buyrate and sold 10,000 tickets.

[[Casineria]]

CATEGORIES: Stem tetrapods

Casineria was a tetrapod which lived 340 million years ago (mya) in the Mississippian. It was a small animal, length about 15 centimeters. 

It lived in what was then a fairly dry environment in what is now Scotland. It had a mosaic of 'basal' (= primitive) amphibian and 'derived' (= advanced) amniote characters. 

Casineria was at or very near the origin of the amniotes. It may have been one of the very first true amniotes. The only fossil lacks key elements: most of the skull and the whole lower body is missing. This makes exact analysis difficult.

Casineria was an insectivore. This earliest amniote had five fingers with claws on each hand, and marks the earliest known clawed foot. 

Its name, Casineria, is a latin version of Cheese Bay, the site near Edinburgh, where it was found.

[[Protoclepsydrops]]

CATEGORIES: Stem tetrapods

Protoclepsydrops was an early amniote from about 314 million years ago. Its remains were found at the Joggins Fossil Cliffs World Heritage Site. The dating of this site has been debated, with dates from 320 million years ago (mya)  to 305 mya being suggested.p39 It is now settled as 314.5–313.4 mya +/- 1.1 million years.p40

The skeletal remains of Protoclepsydrops suggest it may have been a synapsid. If so, it is the oldest synapsid known, though its status is unconfirmed because its remains were fragmentary. Protoclepsydrops lived slightly earlier than Archaeothyris, which was definitely a synapsid. Like Archaeothyris, Protoclepsydrops had a body shape which resembled modern lizards. 

[[Paleothyris]]

CATEGORIES: Stem tetrapods

Paleothyris was a small, agile, anapsid reptile which lived in the Pennsylvanian epoch in Nova Scotia (about 312 to 304 million years ago). 

Paleothyris had sharp teeth and large eyes: it was a nocturnal hunter. It was about a foot long. It probably fed on insects and other smaller animals found on the floor of its forest home. 

Paleothyris was an early sauropsid, yet it still had some features that were more labyrinthodont-like than reptile-like. Its skull lacked fenestrae, holes found in the skulls of most reptiles and mammals.

[[Amy Brenneman]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Connecticut

Amy Frederica Brenneman (born 22 June 1964) is an American producer and actor. She is best known for starring in NYPD Blue and Judging Amy. She has also starred in many movies. She was born in Connecticut.

[[Westlothiana]]

CATEGORIES: Stem tetrapods

Westlothiana lizziae is an early tetrapod. It is a transitional fossil, with a mixture of amphibian and early amniote characters.282 Its body shape had a superficial resemblance to modern-day lizards. It lived during the Carboniferous period, about 350 million years ago. 

The type specimen was discovered in East Kirkton Quarry, Bathgate, Scotland, in 1984. It was named after the County of West Lothian where it was found. 

[[Magic Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Disney - Orlando, 1971 establishments in Florida, Theme parks in Florida

Magic Kingdom is one of four theme parks at the Walt Disney World Resort near Orlando, Florida. Magic Kingdom was the first park built at the resort. It opened on October 1, 1971. It was designed and built by WED Enterprises. The park's layout and attractions are similar to Disneyland in Anaheim, California.  In 2009, the park had around 17.2 million visitors, making it the most visited theme park in the world.

The symbol of Magic Kingdom is Cinderella Castle. That castle is based on the castle in the movie Cinderella.

[[Archaeothyris]]

CATEGORIES: Synapsids, Stem tetrapods

Archaeothyris was the earliest definite synapsid. It lived in the late Carboniferous period, 306 million years ago. 

It was found in Nova Scotia, at the same locality as Hylonomus, and Petrolacosaurus, which are similar to Archaeothyris, but probably sauropsids. 

Protoclepsydrops is slightly older, but its status as a synapsid is unclear as the remains are more fragmentary.

[[Ray Milland]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1986 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Glamorgan, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from lung cancer, Welsh movie actors, Welsh television actors

Ray Milland (3 January 1907 – 10 March 1986) was a Welsh actor and director.

[[Canine tooth]]

CATEGORIES: Teeth

Canine teeth are found in mammals. They are the eye teeth, fangs or dogteeth. They are on either side of the incisors. Their main function is to hold food firmly in order to tear it apart, and also attack and defence.

In some mammals they are weapons of attack and defence. Examples are: wolves and dogs; the cat family; walrus. Baboons and the great apes have large canines, especially the adult males. In humans they are much reduced, and sit in line with the other teeth.

[[Premolar]]

CATEGORIES: Teeth

The premolar teeth of mammals are the teeth between the canines and the molars. There are at most a total of eight of them. The number is reduced in the dental formula of many species.

As the name suggests, they are like smaller molars, and their function is to crush  and grind food.

[[Water park]]

CATEGORIES: Theme parks

A water park (occasionally written as waterpark) is an theme park that features water play areas, such as water slides, splash pads, spraygrounds (water playgrounds), lazy rivers, or other recreational bathing, swimming, and barefooting environments. Water parks in more current states of development may also have some type of artificial surfing or bodyboarding environment such as a wave pool or FlowRider.

[[January 31 – February 2, 2011 North American winter storm]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in Canada, 2011 in the United States, 2010s in Mexico, 2011 in weather, Natural disasters in Canada, February 2011 events, Historic blizzards in the United States, January 2011 events

The Groundhog Day blizzard of 2011 was a large blizzard that struck parts of Canada, Mexico, and the United States between 31 January 2011 and 2 February 2011. The blizzard was also called the 2011 Groundhog Day Blizzard because it happened close to Groundhog Day. The storm dumped over 14 of snow from Oklahoma City to Chicago and Boston. An ice storm south of the blizzard affected many areas from Dallas to Indianapolis to just north of New York City. The ice storm caused over 1 inch of ice on most of these areas. Heavy rain fell from Little Rock to New York City. At the same time, severe thunderstorms and tornadoes were seen across Texas and Alabama. A tornado watch was issued for Alabama, where an EF1 tornado dropped down. 

[[Adam West]]

CATEGORIES: Actors who played Batman, American television actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American movie directors, American television presenters, American radio personalities, American video game actors, Writers from Washington, Actors from Washington, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from leukemia, 1928 births, 2017 deaths

Adam West (William West Anderson; September 19, 1928 – June 9, 2017) was an American actor, director and voice artist. He is known for his role as Batman in the 1960s Batman television series and as Mayor Adam West in Family Guy. West has also acted in movies and on stage.

[[Crash Holly]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2003 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Drug-related suicides in the United States, Former WWE wrestlers, People from Anaheim, California, Sportspeople from California

Michael John "Mike" Lockwood (August 25, 1971 – November 6, 2003) was an American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Federation (WWF) under the ring name, Crash Holly. He was a member of the Holly cousins along with Hardcore Holly. He died on November 6, 2003, after committing suicide from mixing prescription medication and alcohol at wrestler Stevie Richards' house.

[[Bo Derek]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Long Beach, California, 1956 births, Living people, People from Long Beach, California

Bo Derek (born Mary Cathleen Collins, November 20, 1956 in Long Beach, California), is an American actress. She was coordinated by spouse John Derek in Fantasies, Tarzan, the Ape Man (both 1981), Bolero (1984) and Ghosts Can't Do It (1989), all of which got negative surveys. A widow since 1998, she lives with entertainer John Corbett. Presently in semi-retirement, she makes periodic film, TV, and narrative appearances. 

[[Spike Dudley]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Former WWE wrestlers, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Rhode Island, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Matthew "Matt" Hyson (born August 13, 1970 in Providence, Rhode Island) is a semi-retired American professional wrestler. He was best known for wrestling with Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) and World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) under the ring name, Spike Dudley. He also wrestled for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling under the ring name, Brother Runt. He was known for being a member of the tag team, The Dudley Boyz. 

[[Jessica Lange]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Minnesota, American activists, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Jessica Lange (born April 20, 1949) is an American television, movie and stage actress. She was born in Cloquet, Minnesota. Her most notable performances happened in the movies King Kong (her first movie role), The Postman Always Rings Twice, Tootsie, Music Box, Rob Roy, and Frances (a movie about Frances Farmer). She starred in many other movies. During her career, she has gotten several awards.

[[Lumbricus terrestris]]

CATEGORIES: Annelids

Lumbricus terrestris, also known as the common worm, lob worm, or dew worm, is a large reddish worm native to Europe, but now also widely distributed elsewhere around the world (along with several other lumbricids), due to human introductions. In some areas where it has been introduced, some people consider it to be a serious pest species, since it is out-competing locally native worms.

Through much of Europe it is the largest naturally occurring species of earthworm, typically reaching 20 – 25 cm in length when extended (though in parts of southern Europe there are native species which are much larger). It has an unusual habit of copulating on the surface at night, which makes it more visible than most other earthworms.

[[Davey Boy Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2002 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Canada, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in British Columbia, English professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Lancashire

David Smith (27 November 1962 – 18 May 2002) was an English professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Federation (WWF) and World Championship Wrestling (WCW) under the ring names, (The) British Bulldog and Davey Boy Smith. He had a close relationship with the Hart family and was trained in The Hart Dugeon by Stu Hart. Smith died of a heart attack.

[[Glenn Ruth]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Former WWE wrestlers, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from New Jersey, People from Camden, New Jersey

Glenn Ruth (born June 13, 1969 in Camden, New Jersey) is a retired American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) under the ring name Thrasher. Ruth was best known as one half of the tag team The Headbangers, along with Mosh.

[[Charles Warrington]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Former WWE wrestlers, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from New Jersey

Glenn Ruth (born May 28, 1971 in Cherry Hill, New Jersey) is a retired American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Federation (WWF) under the ring names, Chaz and Mosh. Warringon was also one half of the tag team, The Headbangers, along with Thrasher.

He is currently a Sales Director for DEX Imaging in Tampa, Florida. He also plays outfield for the nationally-ranked Fort Lauderdale professional kickball team "The Meatballs".

[[Joel McCrea]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1990 deaths, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Los Angeles County, California

Joel McCrea (November 12, 1905 – October 10, 1990) was an American actor.

His career began in the late 1920s in movies such as The Fair Co-Ed (1927) and The Five O'Clock Girl (1928).

He had a starring role in the Western movie Wells Fargo (1937) and Union Pacific (1939). Those movies turned McCrea, into a prominent actor in westerns, from that moment he would never stop starring in Westerns. In another of his classics, Buffalo Bill (1944), he plays the legendary buffalo hunter. His other successful role was of "The Virginian" in The Virginian (1946). He was directed by renowned director Raoul Walsh in Colorado Territory (1949), he plays an outlaw who plans to rob the railroad.

In the 1950's,  he starred in some interesting western movie as The San Francisco Story (1952), Border River (1954), and the Classic Wichita (1955), by Jacques Tourneur, The Gunfight at Dodge City (1959), as Bat Masterson.  

One of his best movies, was with the actor Randolph Scott in Ride the High Country (1962) by Sam Peckinpah. His last movies were The Young Rounders (1966) - Sioux Nation (1970) - Cry Blood, Apache (1970) and Mustang Country (1976).

[[Oliver Hardy]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1957 deaths, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), American silent movie actors, Comedians from Georgia (U.S. state), Deaths from cerebral thrombosis, Movie directors from Georgia (U.S. state)

Oliver Hardy (January 18, 1892 - August 7, 1957) was an American comedian, actor and director.

[[Loni Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from Saint Paul, Minnesota

Loni Kaye Anderson (born August 5, 1946,  St. Paul, Minnesota) is an American actress. She is best known for playing Jennifer Marlowe in the sitcom WKRP in Cincinnati. She was married to Burt Reynolds from 1988 to 1993.

[[Vampiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Canadian professional wrestlers, People with Alzheimer's disease, People from Thunder Bay

Ian Richard Hodgkinson (born May 31, 1967 in Thunder Bay, Ontario) is a semi-retired Canadian professional wrestler that currently wrestles for Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA). 

He is probably best known for wrestling with Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre in the early 1990s and with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) under the ring name, Vampiro. 

He currently serves as the head of the Guardian Angels' chapter in Mexico City. 

On April 12, 2019, Hodgkinson was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease.

[[Eartha Kitt]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from South Carolina, African American actors, African American musicians, American movie actors, American singer-songwriters, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Singers from South Carolina, 1927 births, 2008 deaths

Eartha Kitt (January 17, 1927 – December 25, 2008) was an American singer and songwriter who had many hit songs. She was also an actress. Kitt died of colorectal cancer in Weston, Connecticut. She was the first musician to record the song "Santa Baby".

[[Morganucodon]]

CATEGORIES: Theriodonts

Morganucodon is an early mammaliaform genus.p79 It lived during the latest Upper Triassic or earliest Jurassic.p299

Unlike many other early mammals, Morganucodon is known from abundant and well preserved material. Most of this comes from Glamorgan in Wales (Morganucodon watsoni).

According to Kemp, it is impossible to say whether the rock fissures (cracks), where the remains were found, are latest Triassic or earliest Jurassic.p142

Morganucodon first appeared about 205 million years ago.  "It was a small animal with a skull 2-3 cm in length and a body length of about 10 cm inches. In general appearance it would have looked like a shrew or mouse".p143

[[Castle Vale Estate]]

CATEGORIES: Birmingham, Town and country planning in the United Kingdom

Castle Vale is a housing estate near Erdington, 9 northeast of Birmingham city centre, in England. The area has about 10,000 people. It has modern homes because a lot of new houses were built after World War II.  It is known as a postwar overspill estate.

The area was originally known as Berwood, from the Saxon 'Bearu' meaning 'the woods'. Historically the area was a boggy and wooded area, and development only started when Edward Darcy began cutting down the trees in the 17th century and the Birmingham and Fazeley Canal was built in the 18th century. In the 20th century, the land became the site for the first aeroplane take-off in Birmingham which led to a long aviation history being associated with the area. Castle Bromwich Aerodrome was established on the site and operated from 1914 to 1960, being a major airfield in both World Wars and also having industrial importance as the testing facility for locally manufactured airplanes and the location for the British Industries Fair. 

Castle Vale became infamous from the 1970s onwards as a large scale example of a failed postwar overspill estate, which suffered from poor construction and maintenance, social deprivation and high levels of crime. The area became the focus of a targeted regeneration initiative, led by the Castle Vale Housing Action Trust (CVHAT) from 1993 to 2005, where the estate witnessed the demolition of many of its houses and facilities, the repair of remaining properties, and the construction of new housing and facilities along with the remodelling of the estate, funded both privately and publicly. It is now hailed as an example of a successful community-led regeneration scheme.

[[Mahayana]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhism, Buddhist terminology

Mahayana (महायान, mahāyāna, literally the "Great Vehicle") is one of the two main branches of Buddhism. Mahayana Buddhism is from India. Zen is a kind of Mahayana that is influenced by Confucianism.

[[Tritylodont]]

CATEGORIES: Theriodonts

Tritylodonts  were small to medium-sized mammal-like cynodonts. They varied in size from a rabbit to a beaver.

They were the last family of the non-mammalian synapsids. One of the last cynodont lines to appear, the family Tritylodontidae descended from a Cynognathus-like cynodont. Their teeth had three cusps (bumps) which gave them their name.

The tritylodonts were herbivorous, chewing through vegetation, such as stems, leaves, and roots. Tritylodonts have no canine teeth, just incisors and cheek teeth. The jaw worked by grinding forward and backwards, shredding the food between the ridges of the teeth.

They were the longest surviving of all the non-mammalian therapsids. They appeared in the latest Triassic period, and persisted through the Jurassic until the middle of the Cretaceous. This shows that the tritylodonts were a successful group of therapsids, even though they lived right beneath the ruling dinosaurs' feet, so to speak.

It is very clear that the tritylodonts were warm-blooded. The tritylodont fossils were found in the Americas, South Africa, and Eurasia. They may have managed to live worldwide, including Antarctica.

There are quite a few parallels between these tritylodonts (which are outside the mammal line) and multituberculates, which are mammals. The tritylodonts had no competition in the Jurassic, because all the other  mammal-like types were either carnivores or insectivores. Kermack's conclusion is that when the multituberculates appeared (middle Jurssic) they were in direct competition, and eventually they out-competed the earlier group, and replaced it.

[[August Belmont]]

CATEGORIES: 1813 births, 1890 deaths, Ambassadors of the United States, Bankers, German Jews, Jewish American politicians, Jewish businesspeople, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Hesse, Politicians from New York City, Businesspeople from New York City, US Democratic Party politicians

August Belmont, Sr. (8 December 1813–24 November 1890) was born in Alzey, Hesse, to a Jewish family. He emigrated to New York City in 1837 when he became the American representative of the Rothschild family's banking house in Frankfurt.   Later he became an American citizen, and married Caroline Slidell Perry, daughter of Commodore Matthew Calbraith Perry.

[[Parmigiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cheese dishes

Parmigiana is a Southern Italian dish made with a shallow-fried sliced filling, with cheese and tomato sauce on top, then baked. Eggplant parmigiana is the earliest version. Other kinds made with breaded meat cutlets, such as veal and chicken parmigiana, are popular in other countries, usually in areas with a lot of Italian immigrants.  

[[Veal]]

CATEGORIES: Meat

Veal is the meat of young cattle (calves), as opposed to beef from older cattle. Though veal can be made from a calf of either sex and any breed, most veal comes from male calves of dairy cattle breeds. Veal has a tender texture.

[[Hyssop]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae, Herbs, Medicinal plants

Hyssop (Hyssopus) is a genus of about 10-12 species of herbaceous or semi-woody plants in the family Lamiaceae, native from the east Mediterranean to central Asia. They are aromatic, with upright branched stems up to 60 cm long covered with fine hairs at the tips. The leaves are narrow ovals, 2–5 cm long. The small blue flowers are on the upper part of the branches during summer. By far the best-known species is the Herb Hyssop (H. officinalis), widely grown outside its native area in the Mediterranean.

Note that anise hyssop, Agastache foeniculum (also called blue giant hyssop) is a very different plant and not a close relation although both are in the mint family.  Anise hyssop is native to much of north-central and northern North America.

[[Heisenberg's uncertainty principle]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is one of the most important results of twentieth century physics. It relates to measurements of sub-atomic particles. Certain pairs of measurements such as (a) where a particle is and (b) where it is going (its position and momentum) cannot be precisely pinned down.p96

Albert Einstein thought that such a quantum theory could give us only a partial description of nature.p99 He thought that Heisenberg's discovery showed that human knowledge is limited, but he also thought that nature is absolute. That is, he thought that there is no "uncertainty" in nature, and that the uncertainty exists only in our knowledge about it. However, many other scientists disagree with Einstein.

Heisenberg's idea is that if something like an electron were shot into a big box with a certain speed and in a certain direction, then it would be possible to calculate a fairly accurate idea of what its path would be like in the future. However, if the box were made smaller then we would have a more certain idea of where it was located, and because of that we would have to have a less certain idea of how it was traveling. American physicist Brian Greene gave the analogy of a moth which flies placidly around in a large closet but who flies frantically back and forth and up and down when placed in a glass jar.p114 Another interesting uncertainty phenomenon, which makes possible many electronic devices, is called quantum tunneling. In our everyday life, people cannot move through walls. However, electrons can move through solid walls.p115 In the animation to the right, you can see a faint white puff on the right side of the wall after a big puff hits the wall from the left. That dim spot of light represents the photon or other atomic particle which tunnels through the wall.

[[Anthony Henday]]

CATEGORIES: 1720s births, 1762 deaths, History of Canada, People from the Isle of Wight

Anthony Henday (fl. 1750 – 1762) was one of the first white men to explore the interior of the Canadian northwest. His explorations were for the Hudson's Bay Company (HBC) who were worried that La Vérendrye and the other western commanders were taking furs from the northwest to their forts.

Henday volunteered to undertake an expedition into this territory. He came from the Isle of Wight, and was a convicted smuggler and joined the HBC in 1750 as a net-maker and labourer. Henday had gained some experience in inland travel after arriving at York Factory. On June 26, 1754, he set out with a group of  Plains Indians. They passed the French Fort Paskoya where he may have met La Corne, the western commander at that time.

In October of 1754 he and his group came to what is now Alberta from York Factory with a mission to meet the Blackfoot and perhaps trade with them. The Blackfoot did not give a clear answer, but Henday decided they meant “no”, so he travelled back to York Factory with news that he had explored the area and had met with the Blackfoot. Since the answer had been unsure, there was no more expeditions to Alberta.

This trip, and later ones, took Henday across much of the prairies of what is now Saskatchewan and Alberta and his journal shows that he brought a lot of trade to York Factory. Records show that some of the trade also went to the French at Fort Saint-Louis (Fort de la Corne)  and Fort  Paskoya which were on the route to Hudson Bay. He left the service of the HBC in 1762 largely because his efforts for the company, at least in his estimation, had not been properly recognized.

Anthony Henday Drive, a large ring road in Edmonton is named in his honour.

[[Disney's Hollywood Studios]]

CATEGORIES: Disney - Orlando, 1989 establishments in the United States, Theme parks in Florida, 1980s establishments in Florida

Disney's Hollywood Studios is a theme park at the Walt Disney World Resort near Orlando, Florida, United States. Its theme is show business, based on Hollywood in the 1930s and 1940s. It was the third park built at the resort. It opened on May 1, 1989, as Disney-MGM Studios.

In 2009, the park had around 9.7 million guests, ranking it the fourth-most visited amusement park in the United States, and seventh-most visited in the world.

The park symbol is The Sorcerer's Hat, which is based on the magical hat from Fantasia; it replaced the Earful Tower as the park's icon in 2001 but now both have been removed.

[[Therocephalia]]

CATEGORIES: Theriodonts

Therocephalia ('beast-heads') are an extinct group of theriodonts. They lived from the middle Permian into the Triassic 265—245 million years ago, about 20 million years.

The therocephalians  are named after their large skulls. Their skulls, with the structure of their teeth, suggest that they were successful carnivores. 

Like other non-mammalian therapsids, therocephalians are sometimes described as mammal-like reptiles. In fact Therocephalia is the group most closely related to the cynodonts, which gave rise to the mammals. 

This relationship shows in a variety of anatomical features, possibly including whiskers and hair. There remain many unanswered questions about the phylogeny, anatomy, and physiology of therocephalians.

The fossils of therocephalians are numerous in the Karoo of South Africa, but have also been found in Russia, China, and Antarctica. 

Early therocephalian fossils discovered in Middle Permian deposits of South Africa support a Gondwanan origin for the group, which seems to have spread quickly throughout the world. Although almost every therocephalian lineage ended during the great Permian–Triassic extinction event, a few representatives of the subgroup (called Eutherocephalia) survived into the early Triassic and continued to diversify.

However, the last therocephalians became extinct by the early middle Triassic. The reasons for their extinction are not known.

[[Matrix mechanics]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

Matrix mechanics is the first way that physicists found to express quantum physics in mathematical form. Werner Heisenberg initially developed this form of expression of the laws of physics just as an equation that he could use to predict the intensities of the photons in the various bands of the hydrogen spectrum.

Heisenberg's teacher and colleague, Max Born, saw that his equation was essentially the plan for creating and multiplying matrices. 

The matrix form of quantum physics is still used since it is useful and convenient for some purposes. Other mathematical ways, particularly Erwin Schrödinger's equation using a wave function, are mathematically equivalent but are easier to use for other purposes.  

One of the early successes of this theory was announced shortly thereafter and is now called the Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle.

[[Space Shuttle Discovery]]

CATEGORIES: Space Shuttles

Space Shuttle Discovery (OV-103) is the third space shuttle run by NASA. It has flew more missions than any orbiter. It is named after RRS Discovery. It was retired on March 9, 2011. It has spent one year (365 days) in space. It is now on display at the National Air and Space Museum in Washington D.C.

[[Narain Karthikeyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Formula One current, Formula One drivers, NASCAR drivers, Tamil Nadu sportspeople, Tamil people

Kumar Ram Narain Karthikeyan is a racing driver. He was born on 14 January 1977 in Coimbatore, India. He is the first Formula One driver from India. He made his Formula One debut in 2005 with the Jordan team. In January 2011, he was signed to drive for the Hispania Racing team in the 2011 Formula One season.

[[Diospyros]]

CATEGORIES: Ebenaceae

Diospyros is a genus of about 450–500 species of deciduous and evergreen trees. Most are native to the tropics, with only a few species extending into temperate regions. They are commonly known as ebony or persimmon trees. The generic name is derived from the Greek words διός (dios), meaning "of Zeus" and πυρός (pyros), meaning "grain" and was originally applied to the Caucasian Persimmon (D. lotus).

[[Ebenaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Ebenaceae

The Ebenaceae are a family of flowering plants, which includes ebony and persimmon. The family has approximately 500 species of trees and shrubs in two genera, Diospyros and Euclea. The species are mostly evergreen and native to the tropics and subtropics, with a few deciduous species native to temperate regions. Diospyros contains 450-500 species and a pantropical distribution, with the greatest diversity of species in Indonesia and Malaysia. Euclea contains 20 species, native to Africa, the Comoro Islands, and Arabia. A persistent calyx on the fruits is characteristic of the family.

[[Robert Mitchum]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Bridgeport, Connecticut, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from lung cancer, 1917 births, 1997 deaths

Robert Mitchum (August 6, 1917 – July 1, 1997) was an American actor.

[[Occipital lobe]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the brain

The occipital lobe is the back part of a mammal's brain. It is the visual processing center, and it is made up of most of the anatomical region of the visual cortex. 

[[Southcentral Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Alaska

Southcentral Alaska is a part of the U.S. state of Alaska. It is around the  Gulf of Alaska.  Most of the people of the state live in this part of the state.  Anchorage, the largest city in Alaska, is here. 40% of the people in Alaska live in or near Anchorage.

The area includes Cook Inlet, the Matanuska-Susitna Valley, the Kenai Peninsula, Prince William Sound, and the Copper River Valley.  Tourism, fishing, and making petroleum are the biggest businesses.

Other towns include Palmer, Wasilla, Kenai/Soldotna, Homer, Seward, Valdez, and Cordova.

[[Southwest Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Alaska

Southwest Alaska is a region of the U.S. state of Alaska. There is no official rule about where it begins and ends.

[[Deanna Durbin]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Winnipeg, Canadian movie actors, Canadian singers, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Unexplained deaths

Edna Mae Durbin, known as Deanna Durbin (December 4, 1921 – April 20, 2013), was a Canadian actress and singer. She was in a number of musical movies in the 1930s and 1940s, singing standards and operatic arias. Her first movie was in 1936 with Judy Garland in Every Sunday. She was born in Manitoba, Canada, 4 December 1921 but has lived near Paris since she married Charles David in 1950. Durbin's death was announced on April 30, 2013 in Paris, France from unknown causes, aged 91. It was later announced that Durbin died on April 20. 

[[Colony collapse disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Animal diseases

Colony collapse disorder (CCD) is an occurrence where worker bees from a beehive abruptly disappear. The exact cause of colony collapse disorder is unknown. However, chemicals, parasites, and Varroa mites have been proposed as factors contributing to colony collapse disorder.

Early in 2013, the European Food Safety Authority issued a declaration that three specific neonicotinoid pesticides pose an acute risk to honeybees, and the European Commission (EC) proposed a two-year ban on them. David Goulson, who led one of the key 2012 studies at the University of Stirling said that the decision "begs the question of what was going on when these chemicals were first approved." The chemical manufacturer Bayer said it was "ready to work with" the EC and member states.

[[Jaime Pressly]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Actors from North Carolina, American movie actors, American television actors

Jaime Pressly is an American model and actress. She played Joy Turner in NBC's sitcom My Name is Earl. She has also starred in numerous motion pictures. The actress was born July 30, 1977, Kinston, North Carolina.

[[Boris Karloff]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 births, 1969 deaths, Actors from London, Deaths from emphysema, Disease-related deaths in England, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Grammy Award winners

Boris Karloff a.k.a. William Henry Pratt (November 23, 1887 – February 2, 1969), was an English actor.

[[Kipp Christianson]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American basketball players, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Wisconsin

Kipp Christianson (born September 30, 1974) is a part-time  American professional wrestler and a former basketball player. He is best known for his time in the WWE where he wrestled under the ring name Eli Cottonwood. 

Christianson competed on the second season of NXT. His pro was John Morrison. He was the second rookie eliminated. He returned to NXT in April 2012. He was teamed with Bray Wyatt for a short time. He asked to be released from the WWE in June 2012.

At an independent wrestling show, Christianson announced that he would retire as a wrestler on July 10, 2014.October 2014

Christianson came out of retirement in February 2016.

Christianson wrestled on February 14, 2016 in Minnesota at an independent promotion event.

[[Morgan Fairchild]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from Dallas, Texas, American stage actors

Patsy Ann McClenny (born February 3, 1950), better known as Morgan Fairchild, is an American actress. She became famous in the late 1970s and early 1980s. She had important roles in several television series. She also worked in live theater and acted in television comedies. Fairchild was born in Dallas, Texas. She is a board member of the Screen Actors Guild.when

[[Hypoglycemia]]

CATEGORIES: Disorders, Blood

Hypoglycemia is when the level of blood sugar is lower than normal. A normal blood sugar level is about 70 to 100 milligrams per deciliter.  All of the cells in the body need sugar to do their jobs and to survive.  When a person does not have enough blood sugar, their body cannot work normally.

Hypoglycemia can cause many symptoms.  Some common symptoms are nausea, feeling hungry, sweating, feeling sad, and heart palpitations (feeling the heart pounding).  Bad hypoglycemia can make a person act like they are drunk or have taken drugs.  Very bad hypoglycemia can look like a stroke.   

Hypoglycemia can happen to anyone, at any age, but it usually happens in people who are diabetic.  It is often a complication of treatment for diabetes with insulin or oral medications. 

Hypoglycemia is treated by returning the blood sugar levels back to normal.  Often, a hypoglycemic person can bring their blood sugar levels back up by eating.  In the worst cases, when the blood sugar is very low, hypoglycemia is treated by giving sugar water intravenously (through a needle placed into a vein). In some cases, the liver is able to handle the issue by making glucose.

The brain and other parts of the body cannot work without sugar.  Because of this, severe (very bad) hypoglycemia can cause serious medical problems (like seizures) or even death if it is not treated quickly enough.

[[What the Hell]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Avril Lavigne songs

"What the Hell" is a 2011 single from Canadian singer Avril Lavigne's album Goodbye Lullaby. It was released on January 11, 2011. The song received a 4 out of 5 from About.com, a 5 out of 5 from Digital Spy, a 3.5 out of 5 from Rolling Stone and was called positive by Blogcritics, Frost Magazine, Idolator, MTV and was classified as a mixed reaction by Stereoboard.com.

[[Tyson Kidd]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Canadian professional wrestlers, Living people, People from Calgary, WWE wrestlers

Theodore James (TJ) Wilson (born July 11, 1980) is a Canadian retired professional wrestler that currently works for the WWE as a producer, after retiring from in-ring competition in 2017.

He is from Calgary, Alberta and was the final graduate of the famed Hart Dungeon. He competed in his first match with Stampede Wrestling in Calgary at the age of fifteen in 1995. In the WWE, he was a former member of the wrestling stable, The Hart Dynasty along with David Hart Smith and Natalya.

He married Natalya in June 2013.

On June 7, 2015, it was announced that Kidd suffered a severe neck and spinal injury in a dark match with Samoa Joe on Raw. Kidd announced that he would be out for over a year. Kidd tweeted that 5% of people are able to survive his injury and that he had 16 staples, 4 screws and a rod inserted in his neck. Dave Meltzer of the Wrestling Observer Newsletter said "It is unbelievable that Tyson Kidd came through as well as he did", and said that most people who survive the injury end up being a quadriplegic.

[[Aretha Franklin discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies

This discography is a list of the albums and singles by Aretha Franklin.

[[Nate Dogg]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American people convicted of assault, American rap musicians from Mississippi, American R&B musicians, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from stroke, People from Long Beach, California, Singers from California, 1969 births, 2011 deaths

Nathaniel Dwayne Hale (August 19, 1969 – March 15, 2011), better known by his stage name, Nate Dogg, was an American singer, rapper, and songwriter.

[[Disney's Animal Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Disney - Orlando, 1998 establishments in the United States, Theme parks in Florida, 1990s establishments in Florida

Disney's Animal Kingdom is a theme park at the Walt Disney World Resort near Orlando, Florida, United States. It was the fourth park built there, and it opened on April 22, 1998. It is the largest Disney theme park in the world, covering more than 500. It is also the first Disney theme park to be themed around animal conservation, a philosophy once pioneered by Walt Disney himself. Disney's Animal Kingdom is accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, meaning they have met or exceeded the standards in Education, Conservation and Research.

Soon after the park opened, Disney advertised the park using the fictional word "nahtazu". It is pronounced "not a zoo". It was meant to state that the park is more than just a city zoo. Disney stopped using the word in January 2006.

), 50 tree. The tree is man-made. The leaves are made out of resin. Tourists can walk around the whole park to see all 325 animals carved in the bark of the tree.

In 2009, the park had around 9.59 million guests, ranking it the fifth-most visited amusement park in the United States and eighth-most visited in the world.

[[Disneyland Resort]]

CATEGORIES: Disney, Anaheim, California, 1955 establishments in California

Disneyland Resort is a recreational resort in Anaheim, California. The resort is owned and operated by The Walt Disney Company through its Parks and Resorts division and is home to two theme parks, three hotels and a shopping, dining, and entertainment area. 

The area now known as the Disneyland Resort was developed by Walt Disney in the 1950s and for over 40 years was known simply as Disneyland. When it opened to guests in 1955, the property consisted of Disneyland, its 100 parking lot, and a hotel known as the Disneyland Hotel, owned and operated by Disney's business partner Jack Wrather. 

After doing well with the multi-park, multi-hotel business model at Walt Disney World in Florida, Disney decided to do the same thing in Anaheim and bought a lot of land next to Disneyland. This included buying the Disneyland Hotel from the Wrather company as well as the Pan Pacific Hotel from its Japanese owners. Disney renamed the Pan Pacific Hotel to the Disneyland Pacific Hotel. After its first publicly known proposal for a second theme park in Anaheim was scrapped, construction began in 1998 on a theme park called Disney's California Adventure Park; a hotel called Disney's Grand Californian Hotel, a renovation, renaming, and re-theming of the Disneyland Pacific Hotel; and an admission-free shopping and dining area called Downtown Disney. During the expansion, the name Disneyland Resort was coined to refer to the entire Disney complex, while Disneyland Park was coined to refer to the original theme park.

[[Tablet computer]]

CATEGORIES: Tablet computers

A tablet computer (sometimes called a tablet) is a type of computer that can be carried easily.  Unlike a laptop it has no physical keyboard or trackpad, though users sometimes add those things. Users control a tablet mostly by using its touchscreen with multi-touch technology similar to a smartphone. The screen can be anywhere from 7 (sometimes called a phablet) to 12 in size, but many have a screen size of about 10 diagonal.

Almost all tablet computers can access the Internet using Wi-Fi, and many can use mobile phone networks like 2G, 3G, 4G, and 5G. Like smartphones, many tablets have sensors such as a camera and a microphone. Other features tablets have are high definition, anti-glare (with less reflection) displays, a Bluetooth radio (to connect to printers and other devices), flash memory, and cloud storage services to back up information on the tablet and synchronize data.

Science fiction started putting tablets in stories after the middle 20th century. Some companies started making real tablets late in the century. The release of the Apple iPad in 2010 got much attention, and other companies made and sold more.

[[Spanish Data Protection Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Spain

The Spanish Data Protection Agency (Agencia Española de Protección de Datos, AEPD) is the national data protection authority from the Kingdom of Spain. It is an agency dependant of the Spanish Ministry of Justice that was created in 1993. It is tasked with protecting Spanish people's privacy.

This agency ensures compliance of the Organic Law 3/2018 as of December regarding the protection of personal data and digital rights (Ley Orgánica 3/2018, de 5 de diciembre, de Protección de Datos Personales y garantía de los derechos digitales) and the General Data Protection Regulation. It is located in Madrid and it has the power to act in all the Kingdom. Currently the director of the agency is Mar España Martín, and previously José Luis Rodríguez Álvarez and Artemi Rallo Lombarte.

The Spanish Data Protection Agency is a public law entity with legal personality. It has full public and private capacity to act independently of public administration in the exercise of their functions. It ensures that the titulars of the files that contains personal information strictly follows the data protection legislation.

[[Moe Howard]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1975 deaths, American movie actors, Comedians from New York City, Actors from New York City, American television actors, American stage actors, Deaths from lung cancer, Vaudeville performers

Moe Howard (June 19, 1897 –- May 4, 1975) was an American actor and comedian.

[[Marisa Tomei]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Actors from Brooklyn, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Best Supporting Actress Academy Award winners

Marisa Tomei is an American movie, stage and television actress. She was born in Brooklyn, New York City. She is of Italian ancestry. She has starred in a number of television programs, movies and stage plays. She starred in the comedy My Cousin Vinny in 1992. 

[[Patrick Macnee]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from London, Actors who played in James Bond movies, American activists, American movie actors, American radio actors, American radio personalities, American stage actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, English movie actors, English radio actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People educated at Eton College, People from Paddington, Television personalities from London, Writers from London

Patrick Macnee (6 February 1922 – 25 June 2015) was a English-American actor. 

[[Larry Fine]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1975 deaths, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American television actors, Comedians from Pennsylvania, Deaths from stroke

Larry Fine (October 5, 1902 - January 24, 1975) was an American actor, comedian and violinist.

[[Vaisakhi]]

CATEGORIES: Religious festivals

Vaisakhi (ਵਿਸਾਖੀ, बैसाखी vaisākhī (also known as Vishu or Baisaki) is an important festival celebrated by Sikhs and Hindus. It is a very big celebration in South Asia and is celebrated around April 13.

[[Curly Howard]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1952 deaths

Curly Howard (October 22, 1903 – January 18, 1952) was an American comedian and actor.

[[Winston-Salem, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Winston-Salem, North Carolina, County seats in North Carolina

Winston-Salem is a city in the U.S. state of North Carolina. It has about 230,000 people. It is near Greensboro, North Carolina. Winston-Salem used to sell tobacco. It is called Winston-Salem because there were two towns, Winston and Salem, that combined.

Winston-Salem is in central North Carolina. Interstate 40 goes through it. It has a mild climate, with hot summers and cool winters. It gets about 40 inches of rain per year. It can also snow in Winston-Salem.

Old Salem is a historic part of Winston-Salem. There people can learn what life was like there around 1800.

[[R. J. Umberger]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, American Hockey League players, American ice hockey players, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Living people, Philadelphia Flyers players, Sportspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States Hockey League players, Ice hockey centres

Richard Alan "R. J." Umberger, Jr. (born May 3, 1982) is a former American professional ice hockey center. In the National Hockey League (NHL) Umberger has played for the Philadelphia Flyers and he has also played for the Columbus Blue Jackets.

He was drafted by the Vancouver Canucks with the 16th overall pick in the 2001 NHL Draft but did not play a game with them. He also played for Philadelphia Flyers from 2004 to 2008. He played college hockey at Ohio State University. On June 23, 2014, Umberger was traded back to the Philadelphia Flyers along with a 2015 4th round draft pick for Scott Hartnell.

[[Akureyri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iceland, Municipalities of Iceland, 1786 establishments in Europe, Establishments in Iceland

Akureyri is a city in the northeast of Iceland. It is the second largest city in Iceland. It was founded in 1786. As of 2015, 18,191 people lived there. The mayor of Akureyri is Eiríkur Björn Björgvinsson.

[[Robert Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Nebraska, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from lung cancer, 1911 births, 1969 deaths

Robert Taylor (August 5, 1911 – June 8, 1969), was an American actor.

Born Spangler Arlington Brugh in Filley, Nebraska, U.S.. Robert Taylor was one of the greatest figures in Hollywood. His career the most diverse roles from war to historical movies as Bataan (1943), Quo vadis(1951). He starred as a corrupt cop in Rogue Cop (1954). 

Among his best movies include Ivanhoe (1953), Above and Beyond (1952), All the Brothers Were Valiant (1953), The House of the Seven Hawks (1959).  

He plays the legendary Billy the Kid in Billy the Kid (1941), one of the most successful Westerns of all time. 

In 1959 Robert Taylor stars in the television series The Detectives Starring Robert Taylor, He played the role of Det. Capt. Matt Holbrook, in 98 episodes. It was also special guest co-star in the TV movie Hondo and the Apaches (1967).

Taylor died of lung cancer.

[[Brian Elliott]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Calgary Flames players, Colorado Avalanche players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Ottawa Senators players, Philadelphia Flyers players, St. Louis Blues players

Brian Elliott (born April 9, 1985) is a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender currently playing for the Philadelphia Flyers of the National Hockey League (NHL). He was drafted by the Ottawa Senators with the 291st overall pick in the 2003 NHL Draft and played 3 seasons with them before being traded to the Colorado Avalanche on February 18, 2011 for Craig Anderson. Brian Elliott has also played for the St. Louis Blues and Calgary Flames.

[[Luscious Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Indie rock bands, Musical groups from New York City

Luscious Jackson was an American alternative rock band formed around 1991. The group consisted of Jill Cunniff, Vivian Trimble, Kate Schellenbach and Gabby Glaser. Between 1993 and 2000 they released one EP, three full-length LPs and ten songs. They disbanded around 2000.

[[Ossicles]]

CATEGORIES: Bones of the skull, Evolutionary biology

The ossicles are the three smallest bones in the human body. They may be called ear bones or auditory ossicles. They are in the auditory system of all mammals. 

They are contained within the middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth (cochlea). The absence of the auditory ossicles would cause moderate-to-severe deafness.

[[Green Hornet]]

CATEGORIES: Superheroes, Comics characters

The Green Hornet is a vigilante superhero in the world of comic books, etc. Green Hornet has a sidekick named "Kato". Green Hornet wears a green mask. The character was created by George W. Trendle and Fran Striker.

[[Joanna Kerns]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Actors from San Francisco, American television actors

Joanna Crussie DeVarona, better known as Joanna Kerns (born February 12, 1953) in San Francisco, California) is an American actress. She is best known for playing Maggie Seaver in the sitcom Growing Pains. She has had guest roles on other television series.

[[Faneuil Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Boston, Massachusetts, National Register of Historic Places, 1742 establishments, 1740s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in Massachusetts

Faneuil Hall is an historic place near the waterfront in Boston, Massachusetts. It was built in 1742. It has been a marketplace and a meeting hall. Today it is the city's Government Center. It was the site of several speeches by Samuel Adams and others encouraging independence from Great Britain. It is now part of Boston National Historical Park and a stop on the Freedom Trail. It is sometimes called "the Cradle of Liberty".

[[Vilfredo Pareto]]

CATEGORIES: Italian economists, Sociologists, Italian scientists, 1848 births, 1923 deaths

Vilfredo Federico Pareto (born Wilfried Fritz Pareto, 1848-1923) was an Italian engineer, economist, and sociologist. He made several important contributions to economics; he looked at the distribution of income. Pareto efficiency and Pareto distribution are named after him.

[[Chuck Connors]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, American baseball players, Chicago Cubs players, Los Angeles Dodgers players, American basketball players, Boston Celtics players, Sportspeople from New York City, 1921 births, 1992 deaths

Chuck Connors (April 10, 1921 – November 10, 1992) was an American actor, and athlete.

Connors died in 1992 in Los Angeles at Cedars Sinai Medical Center. The cause of death was lung cancer and pneumonia. He was 71 year old.

[[Neve Campbell]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Actors from Ontario, Canadian movie actors, Canadian movie producers, Canadian television actors, Living people, People from Guelph

Neve Adrianne Campbell (ˈ; born October 3, 1973) is a Canadian actress. She is best known for her role as Sidney Prescott in the horror film series Scream. She got her start appearing in the Canadian television series Catwalk (1992), before she played Julia Salinger in the American drama series Party of Five (1994–2000). She has starred in many films, such as The Craft (1996), Wild Things (1998), Panic (2000), The Company (2003), and Skyscraper (2018). Campbell also starred as LeAnn Harvey in the Netflix drama series House of Cards (2016–2017).

[[Spyro the Dragon (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 video games, PlayStation-only games, Spyro video games

Spyro the Dragon is a platform video game that was published by Sony Computer Entertainment. The video game was released for the PlayStation video game system. The video game was released on April 1, 1999 in Japan, September 10, 1998 in North America, October 23, 1998 in Europe and on November 15, 1998 in Australia.

The game got a 8.3 out of 10 from GameSpot and a 9.0 out of 10 from IGN.

It is the first game in the Spyro video game series. It is followed by Spyro 2: Ripto's Rage! and remade as a part of Spyro Reignited Trilogy.

[[Bobby McFerrin]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American jazz musicians, American jazz singers, Musicians from Manhattan, Reggae musicians, Singers from New York City, 1950 births, Living people

Robert "Bobby" McFerrin, Jr. (born March 11, 1950 in Manhattan, New York City) is an American singer and musician.  He is probably best known for his 1988 hit song, "Don't Worry, Be Happy". In his musical career he has won 10 Grammy Awards. 

[[Lee Marvin]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1987 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Lee Marvin (February 19, 1924 – August 29, 1987), was an American actor.

[[Pocketful of Sunshine (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Songs by Natasha Bedingfield, 2008 songs

"Pocketful of Sunshine" is a single by Natasha Bedingfield from her United States record of the same name. The song was a top five hit in the United States. This was Bedingfield's second top five hit in the United States of America. It was released in 2008.

