[[Hironobu Sakaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Japanese video game designers, People from Ibaraki Prefecture

Hironobu Sakaguchi is a Japanese video game developer. He worked for Square (now called Square Enix) from 1983 to 2003. After this, he left the company and created his own video game company in 2004, called Mistwalker. He is most well-known for being the creator of the Final Fantasy series.

[[Wii Balance Board]]

CATEGORIES: Wii hardware

The Wii Balance Board (called Wii Board in Europe) is a balance board accessory made for Nintendo's Wii and Wii U game console. It was first used for Wii Fit, and was also used for other games, including We Ski.

[[Colleges and universities in the U.S. Virgin Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the United States by location, US Virgin Islands, Lists of colleges and universities, United States-related lists

This is a list of colleges and universities in the United States Virgin Islands:

[[Colleges and universities in American Samoa]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Oceania, Colleges and universities in the United States by location, American Samoa, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in American Samoa:

[[Colleges and universities in Guam]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Oceania, Colleges and universities in the United States by location, Guam, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Guam:

[[Education in the Northern Mariana Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Education in the United States, Northern Mariana Islands

Children in the Northern Mariana Islands must go to school from the ages of 6 to 18.

Public schools are governed by the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public School System. The system is based on the public school system in the United States. It was started in 1987.

There is one university in the territory: Northern Marianas College in Saipan. It has campuses in Tinian and Rota.

[[Colleges and universities in Puerto Rico]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the United States by location, Puerto Rico, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Puerto Rico:

[[Colleges and universities in Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the United States by location, Lists of colleges and universities, Alaska

This is a list of colleges and universities in Alaska:

[[Hugo Wolf]]

CATEGORIES: 1860 births, 1903 deaths, Austrian composers, Austrian musicians, Romantic composers

Hugo Wolf (born Windischgraz (now Slovenj Gradec, Slovenia) 13 March, 1860; died Vienna,  22 February  1903) was an Austrian composer of Slovene origin.  He is famous for his Lieder (German art songs).  He found new ways of expressing poetry in music. He used the song forms that had been made by Schubert and Schumann, but his harmonies bring something very new and personal to German song. He was particularly fond of the music of Richard Wagner and his tonal writing is influenced by him.  He belongs to the late Romantic period.

Although he wrote other kinds of music besides Lieder, the only other piece of his which is played regularly is his Italian Serenade.

At times Wolf worked very hard and composed a lot of music.  At other times he felt unhappy and had depression.  Towards the end of his life he went mad and had to go to an asylum.  He died of syphilis.

His name is pronounced “Hoo-go Volf” (rhyming with “golf”).

[[Colleges and universities in Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Arizona, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Arizona:

[[Rosé Quartet]]

CATEGORIES: String quartets

The Rosé Quartet was a string quartet formed by Arnold Rosé in 1882.

The group played together for 55 years, until 1938.  Arnold Rosé was the first violin for the whole of that time, but the other members changed. Julius Egghard played the second violin at first; then it was Albert Bachrich, until 1905 when Paul Fischer joined.  The viola player was Anton Loh, then Hugo von Steiner until 1901, then Anton Ruzitska; after 1920, Max Handl played the viola. Eduard Rosé, Arnold’s brother, was the cellist at first, but left after one season he left to get married and was replaced by Reinhold Hummer.  The next cellist was Friedrich Buxbaum; cellist Anton Walter joined in 1921, but later on Buxbaum took over once more.

The group were particularly famous between 1905 and 1920, with Rosé, Fischer, Ruzitska, and Buxbaum.  They were known for their great performances of Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven, but also some more modern composers including Arnold Schoenberg.

The group often gave the first Vienna performances of works by Brahms, including his Clarinet Quintet and his Quintet in G major Opus 111. It also gave the first performance of Schoenberg's first and second string quartets and the sextet Verklärte Nacht in which they were joined by two other members of the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra: Franz Jelinek, viola, and Franz Schmidt, cello.

[[Colleges and universities in the District of Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the District of Columbia, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in the District of Columbia:

[[Colleges and universities in Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Arkansas, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Arkansas:

[[Colleges and universities in Delaware]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Delaware, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Delaware:

[[Colleges and universities in Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the United States by location, Lists of colleges and universities, Wyoming

This is a list of colleges and universities in Wyoming:

[[Colleges and universities in West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: West Virginia, Lists of colleges and universities, Colleges and universities in the United States by location

This is a list of colleges and universities in West Virginia:

[[Colleges and universities in Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Nebraska, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Nebraska:

[[Colleges and universities in Montana]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Montana, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Montana:

[[Colleges and universities in Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Idaho, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Idaho:

[[Colleges and universities in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the United States, Lists of colleges and universities, United States-related lists

This is a list of lists of colleges and universities in the United States:

[[Colleges and universities in Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Iowa, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Iowa:

[[Colleges and universities in Rhode Island]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Rhode Island, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Rhode Island:

[[Colleges and universities in South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in South Dakota, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in South Dakota:

[[Colleges and universities in Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Maine, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Maine:

[[Colleges and universities in Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Maryland, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Maryland:

[[Gothic fiction]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction genres

Gothic fiction is a genre of fiction which combines parts of both horror and romance. The genre is said to have started in England in 1764 with Horace Walpole's book The Castle of Otranto. The Castle of Otranto's second edition was subtitled A Gothic Story. The idea quickly spread to other European languages.

A famous early example of gothic fiction is  Frankenstein by Mary Shelley, in the early 19th Century. Edgar Allen Poe's work and Bram Stoker's Dracula were written later.

[[Colleges and universities in Nevada]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the United States by location, Lists of colleges and universities, Nevada

This is a list of colleges and universities in Nevada:

[[Colleges and universities in South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in South Carolina, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in South Carolina:

[[Colleges and universities in North Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: North Dakota, Lists of colleges and universities, Colleges and universities in the United States by location

This is a list of colleges and universities in North Dakota:

[[Colleges and universities in Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Louisiana, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Louisiana:

[[Colleges and universities in Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Virginia, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Virginia:

[[Colleges and universities in New Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in New Mexico, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in New Mexico:

[[Colleges and universities in Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Wisconsin, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Wisconsin:

[[List of colleges and universities in Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Tennessee, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Tennessee:

[[Colleges and universities in New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in New Hampshire, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in New Hampshire:

[[Colleges and universities in Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Oklahoma, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Oklahoma:

[[Betta splendens]]

CATEGORIES: Perciformes, Freshwater fish, Aquarium fish

Betta splendens is a species of freshwater fish in the genus Betta. Bettas are also called  betta fish or Siamese fighting fish. They are called Siamese fighting fish because people used to make them fight each other. Betta splendens are native to Thailand. They are a popular aquarium fish species. They are known for their interesting behavior, bright colors, and ability to breath air.  

[[Colleges and universities in Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Texas, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Texas:

[[Through the Fire and Flames]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, Power metal, DragonForce

"Through the Fire and Flames" is the first single from the British power metal band DragonForce. The song is the first one from DragonForce’s third album, Inhuman Rampage. It features two quick guitar solos by Herman Li and Sam Totman. It was released on August 3, 2006. April 2009

[[East Asian calligraphy]]

CATEGORIES: Asia, Chinese language

The East Asian tradition of calligraphy originated and developed in China. The countries that use East Asian calligraphy are China, Japan, Korea and Vietnam.

[[Washington Nationals]]

CATEGORIES: Washington Nationals, 1969 establishments in the United States

The Washington Nationals are the professional baseball team based in Washington, D.C., United States. They compete in Major League Baseball (MLB). The Nationals are a member of the Eastern Division of the National League. They are called "The Nats" for short.

From 2005 to 2007, the Nationals played in Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium. The team now plays in Nationals Park, which is in Washington, D.C. along the Anacostia River.

The franchise was founded in 1969 and at that time they played in Montreal, Quebec as the Montreal Expos. They were the first MLB team in Canada and were the only such team until the Toronto Blue Jays began to play in 1977. There was a strong rivalry between these two teams. Since the Expos moved to Washington in 2004, the Blue Jays are now the only team outside the United States.

The Nationals played in their first World Series games in 2019 against the Houston Astros, and they won at 4-3 to clinch their first ever World Series title in their franchise history. The other baseball team from Washington, D.C. recently won the World Series title was in 1924 as Washington Senators.

[[Catcher]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball positions

A catcher is a position in baseball.  The catcher crouches behind the home plate and catches the ball thrown by the pitcher.

[[Satin]]

CATEGORIES: Woven fabrics

Satin is a type of cloth that has a glossy surface and a dull back.

Satin is commonly used in baseball jackets, athletic shorts, women's lingerie, nightgowns, and evening gowns. It is also used in some men's boxer shorts, shirts and neckties, bed sheets, and in the making of pointe shoes for use in ballet.

Satin was originally woven by the silk weavers in China. As the secrets of silk making were carried westward, splendid satins were woven in Genoa and Florence, then at Lyons and in England in the 15th cent. 

Modern satins are made in a great variety of fibers, including synthetic ones. The term satin now refers to any fabric that is manufactured with a satin weave and is a mixture of silk threads with a synthetic filament, such as rayon or polyester. Silk mixed with short-staple cotton threads is referred to as sateen. Satin fabric is easily recognized by its even, glossy surface and flowing drape.

Dutchess satin is a gorgeous, high thread count, medium-bodied, low luster blended satin that sews easily and benefits from underlining to maintain shape. The extra weight of dutchess satin, as compared to regular satin fabric, lends itself to beading and embroidery. The synthetic component allows the fabric to be machine washed, and makes it last longer. Dutchess satin is used extensively for bridal wear and accessories, due to its pearly sheen and structural stability. The wrinkle-resistant material is also ideal for evening wear and lingerie.

[[Charles O. Finley]]

CATEGORIES: Businesspeople from Indiana, Baseball executives, People from Gary, Indiana, Oakland Athletics, 1918 births, 1996 deaths

Charles Oscar Finley (February 22 1918 - February 19 1996), nicknamed Charlie O or Charley O, was an American businessman. He was the owner of the Oakland Athletics of Major League Baseball team.

[[Detroit Wolverines]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball teams, Sports in Detroit, Michigan, 1881 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Michigan, 1888 disestablishments, 1880s disestablishments in the United States, Disestablishments in Michigan

The  Detroit Wolverines were a 19th century Major League Baseball team that played in the National League from 1881 to 1888 in the city of Detroit. They played in Recreation Park when it was started in 1879.

[[Flannel]]

CATEGORIES: Woven fabrics

Flannel is a soft woven fabric, of various fineness. It usually does not have a nap, and instead gains its softness through the loosely spun yarn it is woven from. It is commonly used to make clothing, bed sheets, and sleepwear.

Flannel was originally made from carded woolMay 2008 or worsted yarn, but is now often made from either wool and cotton, or wool and synthetic fibre.

[[American Association (19th century)]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball leagues

The American Association (AA)  was a baseball major league from 1882 to 1891.

[[Toyota Supra]]

CATEGORIES: Toyota automobiles

The Toyota Supra was a sports car made by Toyota from 1979 until 2002. The Supra was called the Celica Supra until 1986, when it became a separate model. Toyota stopped selling the Supra in the United States in 1998 and Canada in 1995.

[[Ana Ivanović]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Female tennis players, French Open champions, People from Belgrade, Serbian tennis players, World No. 1 tennis players

mDecember 2020

Ana Ivanović (Ана Ивановић Sr Ana Ivanovic.ogg) born 6 November 1987) is a Serbian former tennis player. She was the number 1 player for 12 weeks from June to September 2008. She won the French Open in 2008 and came second there in 2007. She also came second at the Australian Open in 2008.  She has also played tennis for Serbia in the international tournament called the Fed Cup.

Ivanović is tall, and is famous for the way she plays. She is best known for her powerful serve. Although she is Serbian, Ivanović currently lives in Basel, Switzerland. As of January 2015, she has earned over $13 million during her tennis career. Outside tennis, she is interested in clothes and fashion, and is an ambassador for the worldwide charity for children, UNICEF.

In December 2016, Ivanović announced her retirement from pro tennis.

[[Colleges and universities in North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in North Carolina, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in North Carolina:

[[Women's Tennis Association]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 establishments, St. Petersburg, Florida, Tennis organisations, WTA Tour

The Women's Tennis Association (WTA), formed in 1973 by Billie Jean King, is the main organizing body of women's professional tennis. It organizes the WTA Tour, the worldwide professional tennis tour for women. The WTA's counterpart organization for men's professional tennis is the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP).

The WTA was formed in the month of June 1973, and is able to trace its beginnings back to Houston, Texas, with the first Virginia Slims tournament, which was organized by Gladys Heldman and held in September 1970. The WTA gives out awards every year for players who have done well during the season. The WTA is based in St. Petersburg, Florida.

[[Grand Slam (tennis)]]

CATEGORIES: Grand Slam tennis tournaments

The four Grand Slam tournaments, also known as The Majors, are the most important tennis tournaments. This is due to the world ranking points players can earn, their tradition, the prize-money, and public and media attention.

[[Colleges and universities in Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Kentucky, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Kentucky:

[[Colleges and universities in Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Mississippi, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Mississippi:

[[Lewis Hamilton]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Black British sportspeople, English racecar drivers, Formula One current, Formula One drivers, GP2 Series drivers, People from Stevenage, Sportspeople from Hertfordshire

Sir Lewis Carl Davidson Hamilton MBE (born 7 January 1985 in Stevenage, Hertfordshire, England) is a British Formula One racing driver, currently racing for the Mercedes AMG Petronas team. A seven-time World Champion, he is often regarded as one of the greatest F1 drivers in history.

Hamilton won the British Formula Renault, Formula Three Euroseries, and GP2 championships as his racing career advanced. He became an F1 driver for McLaren-Mercedes in 2007, making his Formula One debut (first race) 12 years after his first meeting with Ron Dennis. Hamilton comes from a mixed-race background, with a black father and white mother. He is often labelled "the first black driver in Formula One".

In his first season in Formula One, Hamilton set many racing records. He finished second in the 2007 FIA Formula One World Championship, just one point behind Kimi Räikkönen. He won his first World Championship the next season by one point ahead of Felipe Massa, overtaking Timo Glock on the final lap in Brazil. He signed for Mercedes at the end of 2012 to race for them in the 2013 season. Hamilton has gone on to win five more World Championships, all with the Mercedes team, becoming the most successful British driver in Formula One history.

[[Todd Bentley]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Canadian Christians, Evangelicals, Evangelists, People from British Columbia

Todd Bentley (born 1976) claims to be a Canadian Evangelical Christian and practiced as an Evangelist before being denounced. He was one of the main preachers who are part of the Charismatic revival meetings in Lakeland, Florida known as the Florida Healing Outpouring. Attendance at the meetings was as high as 10,000 visitors a night from around the world. Todd Bentley has since been denounced as a false prophet by Christian communities.

[[NCAA Division I]]

CATEGORIES: NCAA Division I athletics conferences

Division I is the highest level of college sports in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) in the United States. Its schools generally have the biggest budgets, the best facilities, and offer more their students more athletic scholarships than Divisions II and III.

Below is a list of sports conferences belonging to Division I:

[[NCAA Division II]]

CATEGORIES: National Collegiate Athletic Association, College athletics conferences

Division II is the middle division of competition in the National Collegiate Athletic Association. It is less competitive and less expensive than Division I, but more competitive than Division III, which offers no athletic scholarships. Divisions II and III were previously known togther as the NCAA College Division.

This is a list of Division II athletics (or sports) conferences:

These conferences do not play football:

These conferences play only one or two sports. Note that the NCAA treats swimming and diving as a single sport. Also, the NCAA counts men's and women's teams in the same sport as playing two different sports.

[[NCAA Division III]]

CATEGORIES: National Collegiate Athletic Association, College athletics conferences

Division III is a division of the National Collegiate Athletic Association of the United States. The division is made up of colleges and universities that choose not to offer their students athletic scholarships.

This is a list of athletics conferences that belong to this division, divided into several groups by sports sponsorship:

[[Atlantic Coast Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Coast Conference

The Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) is one of the major college sports conferences in the United States. It was formed in 1953 by a group of seven colleges and universities that left the Southern Conference.

[[Keir Hardie]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1915 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United Kingdom, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in Scotland, Former Labour MPs (UK), Scottish politicians

James Keir Hardie (15 August 1856 – 26 September 1915) was a Scottish socialist and labour leader, and was the first independent labour Member of Parliament (MPs) in the UK Parliament, seven years before the start of the Labour Party.

He was born in Newhouse, Lanarkshire. He worked as a coal miner, but his bosses stopped him from working when he made a union.  He became a politician, and was elected to (chosen for) parliament in 1892.  At first he was a Liberal, but he was interested in making a working class party.  He started the Independent Labour Party in 1893, and what became the modern Labour party in 1900. He died in Glasgow following a series of strokes.

[[Southeastern Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Southeastern Conference

This is a list of colleges and universities who play sports in the Southeastern Conference:

[[Fausto Coppi]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1960 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Italy, Italian cyclists, Military personnel of World War II, Sportspeople from Piedmont, Tour de France winners

Angelo Fausto Coppi (15 September 1919 – 2 January 1960) was an Italian racing cyclist. He was born in Castellania. He was one of the most successful and most popular cyclists of all time. He won the Tour de France twice, in 1949 and 1952. He won the Giro d'Italia five times, in 1940, 1947, 1949, 1952 and 1953. He also held the World Hour record (the farthest cycled in one hour) from 1942 to 1956.

He fought in the Second World War. He was a prisoner of war of the British. It is possible that Coppi could have won many more races in the five years that were lost because of the war. Coppi died of malaria in Tortoni in 1960 at the age of 40.

[[Hurricane Hazel]]

CATEGORIES: Retired tropical cyclone names, Category 4 Atlantic hurricanes, Hurricanes in the United States, 1954 in the United States, History of Grenada, 20th centuy in Haiti, 20th century in the Bahamas, 20th century in South Carolina, 1950s in North Carolina, 20th century in Virginia, 20th century in West Virginia, 20th century in Maryland, 1950s in Pennsylvania, 1950s in New York (state), 1954 in Canada, October events

Hurricane Hazel was the worst hurricane of the 1954 Atlantic hurricane season and one of the worst hurricanes of the 20th century. Hazel killed as many as 1,000 people in Haiti before striking the United States just south of Wilmington, North Carolina as a Category 4 hurricane. 19 people were killed in North Carolina, and 81 people were killed when it hit Toronto, Ontario. It is the strongest hurricane ever recorded to strike so far inland.

[[Miguel Induráin]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Giro d'Italia winners, Living people, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Olympic gold medalists, People from Navarre, Spanish cyclists, Spanish Olympic medalists, Spanish Roman Catholics, Tour de France cyclists, Tour de France winners

Miguel Ángel Indurain Larraya (born July 16, 1964) is a Spanish retired road racing cyclist. He was a professional cyclist from 1985 to 1996. He was the first person to win the Tour de France five times in a row from 1991 to 1995. He also won the Giro d'Italia two times, in 1992 and 1993. In 1994, he cycled 53.040 kilometres in one hour, which was a new hour record. He also won the Olympic Gold medal for the time trial in 1996.

Indurain was very good at time trials. In the five Tours de France that he won, he only won two stages that were not time trials. He finished time trials much quicker than other cyclists, so he did not need to attack in mountain stages. In the 1996 Tour de France, he had a bad cold and he could not win. He retired later in 1997.

[[Shimon Peres]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Belarusian Jews, Deputy government ministers of Israel, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in Israel, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, HaAvoda politicians, Harvard University alumni, Israeli civil servants, Israeli former political leaders, Israeli Nobel Prize winners, Israeli opposition leaders, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Kadima politicians, Mapai politicians, Naturalized citizens of Israel, New York University alumni, Polish Jews, Presidents of Israel, Prime Ministers of Israel, Honorary Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire, Honorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George

Shimon Peres GBR (שמעון פרס; born Szymon Perski; 2 August 1923 – 28 September 2016) was a Polish-born Israeli statesman. He was the President of the State of Israel. Peres served twice as the Prime Minister of Israel. He also served as Interim Prime Minister twice. Peres has been a member of 12 cabinets. His political career spanned over 66 years.

He was one of three leaders who shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 1994.  The others were Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser Arafat. All three got the prizes for trying to make peace in the Middle East.

On September 13, 2016, Peres, aged 93, suffered a severe stroke and was hospitalized in Ramat Gan, Israel. He had suffered a massive brain hemorrhage. Two days later, he was reported as being in a serious but stable condition. However, on September 26, an examination found damage to his brainstem. He died on September 28 of complications from the stroke.

His cousin was the American Hollywood actress Lauren Bacall. Their fathers were brothers.

[[Ehud Olmert]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, Israeli former political leaders, Israeli lawyers, Israeli mayors, Israeli prisoners, Jewish Israeli criminals, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish lawyers, Kadima politicians, Likud politicians, Prime Ministers of Israel

Ehud Olmert, Hebrew: אהוד אולמרט , (born 30 September 1945 in Binyamina) is a Israeli lawyer and former politician. He was Prime Minister of Israel.

Olmert was a Member of Knesset from 1974 to 2009, with an interruption from 1999 to 2003. He was also mayor of Jerusalem from 1993 to 2003.

In 2006 he switched from Likud to newly formed Kadima. He was the head of Kadima until September 2008.

He was the 12th Prime Minister of Israel between 14 April 2006 and 31 March 2009, succeeding Ariel Sharon and succeeded by Benjamin Netanyahu.

From February 2016 till July 2017, Olmert was spending time in prison because of a felony conviction of breach of trust and bribery.

[[Kadima]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in Israel, Former political parties in Israel, Zionist parties, Liberal parties

Kadima, Hebrew: קדימה‎‎ - Forward,  is an Israeli political party.  

Its ideology is centrist liberal, and Zionist. 

Kadima believed in both Israel's security and continuing the peace process, and supported negotiating an agreement for peace with the Palestinians, but is de facto defunct.

Kadima was founded on November 24, 2005 by Ariel Sharon, as a splitting from Likud.

Number of seats in the 20th Knesset: / (-2).

[[Svetlana Kuznetsova]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Female tennis players, Russian tennis players

Svetlana Aleksandrovna Kuznetsova (Cyrillic: Svetlana_kuznetsova.ogg; born June 27, 1985) is a Russian professional tennis player who is currently ranked World No. 4. She won the US Open singles title in 2004 and was the runner-up in singles at the French Open in 2006 and the US Open in 2007, losing both finals to Justine Henin in straight sets.

[[Jacques Anquetil]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 1987 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, Deaths from stomach cancer, Doping cases in cycling, French cyclists, Giro d'Italia winners, Tour de France winners, Vuelta a España winners

Jacques Anquetil (8 January 1934 – 18 November 1987), was a French road racing cyclist. He was the first cyclist to win the Tour de France five times, in 1957 and from 1961 to 1964. Anquetil was very good at riding time trials, and this helped him to win grand tours. He also won the Giro d'Italia in 1960 and 1964, and the Vuelta a España in 1963.  This made him the first cyclist to win all three grand tours.  In 1956 he rode 46.159 kilometres in one hour, making a new hour record.

Anquetil was born in Mont-Saint-Aigan. He died of stomach cancer in Rouen. 

[[Hour record]]

CATEGORIES: Cycling

The hour record for bicycles is the record for the longest distance cycled in one hour on a bicycle.  The first recorded hour record was in 1876 when F. L. Dodds rode 26.508 kilometres on a penny-farthing bicycle.  Many people since then have tried to be the fastest.  People trying to break the record have helped to change bicycle designs.

In 1972, the Belgian cyclist Eddy Merckx set a record of 49.431 kilometres.  It was the record for twelve years.  Since that time technology has allowed much more aerodynamic bicycle designs.  The Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI), the group that controls the sport of cycling, has made rules to make cyclists ride cycles similar to Merckx's bicycle.  Instead there is now another record, the International Human Powered Vehicle Association (IHVA) hour record, for other designs.  The hour record for regular bicycles is called the UCI record.  

Ondřej Sosenka holds the UCI hour record at 49.700 kilometres.  Sam Whittingham holds the IHVA hour record at 86.752 kilometres.

[[Billie Jean King Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis tournaments

The Billie Jean King Cup is the premier team competition in women's tennis, launched in 1963 as the Federation Cup to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the International Tennis Federation (ITF).  The competition name changed to Fed Cup in 1995, and then to its current name, honoring American tennis great and women's rights advocate Billie Jean King, in September 2020.

[[Kateryna Bondarenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Female tennis players, Ukrainian sportspeople

 Kateryna Volodymyrivna Bondarenko  (Катерина Володимирівна Бондаренко, born 8 August 1986) is a professional female tennis player from Ukraine and a doubles champion at Australian Open in 2008.

The younger sister of Alyona Bondarenko, she was born in Kryvyi Rih, Ukraine, then part of the Soviet Union.  She plays right-handed and turned pro in 2000.

[[Port Arthur]]

Port Arthur may refer to: 

Other

[[Melinda Czink]]

CATEGORIES: Female tennis players, 1982 births, Hungarian sportspeople, Living people

Melinda Czink (born October 22, 1982 in Budapest) is a Hungarian professional female tennis player. On March 1, 2004 Czink reached her career-high singles ranking of World No. 64.

[[Maria Kirilenko]]

CATEGORIES: Sportspeople from Moscow, 1987 births, Living people, Female tennis players, Russian tennis players

Maria Yuryevna Kirilenko (Мари́я Ю́рьевна Кириле́нко; born 25 January 1987 in Moscow, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union) is a Russian professional tennis player. She won her first WTA Tour title in 2005, defeating Anna-Lena Grönefeld 6–3, 6–4 in the China Open. Kirilenko reached #19, her career-high singles ranking, on the WTA tour in June 2008. She is a good friend of Maria Sharapova. She is affectionately called Makiri.

[[Alberto Contador]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Doping cases in cycling, Giro d'Italia winners, Spanish cyclists, Sportspeople from Madrid, Tour de France winners, Vuelta a España winners

Alberto Contador Velasco (born 6 December 1982 in Madrid) is a Spanish  road racing cyclist for the Astana Team. He won the 2007 Tour de France riding for the Discovery Channel team. He also won the 2008 Giro d'Italia riding for Astana. Contador is very good at climbing mountains.

Contador became a professional in 2003. In 2004 he started to have headaches. A few days later, while he was racing, he crashed and went to hospital. There, doctors found a problem with a blood vessel in his brain. He needed some dangerous surgery, and needed many months to recover (get better). In 2005 he was healthy, and rode in his first Tour de France. He finished in 31st place. 

In 2006 his team had some trouble. A doctor in Spain had given drugs to athletes to help them to win. Some cyclists on Contador's team had worked with the doctor. The police wanted to check to see if Contador had taken drugs. As a result, Contador could not enter the 2006 Tour de France. Later the police decided that Contador had not taken drugs from the doctor. The case about the doctor was called the Operación Puerto doping case, and caused many problems in cycling.

[[Dinara Safina]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Female tennis players, Living people, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Russian tennis players, Tatars, US Open (tennis) champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Dinara Mikhailovna Safina (Дина́ра Миха́йловна (Муби́новна) Са́фина), born April 27, 1986) is a Russian professional tennis player of Tatar ethnicity. She was born in Moscow, Russia. She is the younger sister of former world number one men's player, Marat Safin.

She was coached by Glen Schaap, former trainer of Nadia Petrova. Her new coach is Željko Krajan. Her mother, Rauza Islanova used to be her trainer when she was younger and still gives advice to Dinara. Dinara Safina's father is director of the Spartak tennis club in Moscow. She has won one Grand Slam title, the  women's double title at the 2007 U.S. Open with her partner Nathalie Dechy. She also reached the final of the French Open in 2008, losing to current World No. 1 Ana Ivanović.

[[Alejandro Valverde]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Spanish cyclists, Vuelta a España winners

Alejandro Valverde Belmonte (born April 25, 1980) is a Spanish road racing cyclist. He rides for the Caisse d'Epargne team. Valverde won the Liège-Bastogne-Liège race in 2006 and 2008. He was second in the 2006 Vuelta a España and sixth in the 2007 Tour de France. He won the 2008 Critérium du Dauphiné Libéré, an important race before the 2008 Tour de France. This means that many people think he will do well in the Tour. 

Valverde is a strong climber, sprinter and time trialist.

[[Time trial]]

CATEGORIES: Cycling, Tour de France

In many racing sports an athlete will compete (take part) in a time trial.  This is when the athlete races over a course as fast as he can. In cross country skiing and biathlon competitions, a skier will start every 30 to 60 seconds. These are called interval starts. In cycling a time trial (TT) can be a single track race, or an individual time trial on the road.  Time trials are often a part of a stage race, for example the Tour de France.

In a team time trial in cycling, a team of riders will race together.  A group can ride faster than just one rider because riders following the leader are sheltered from the wind.  

In rowing, time trial races, where the boats start every 10 to 20 seconds, are usually called "head races".

[[Markhor]]

CATEGORIES: Caprids, National symbols of Pakistan, Mammals of Asia

The markhor (Capra falconeri) is a large goat. It is found in woodland in Central Asia, Karakoram and the Western Himalayas, this is the National Animal of Pakistan. 

Markhor are 65 to 115 centimetres tall at the shoulder.  They usually weigh from 40 to 110 kilograms. Females are a tan colour with a white underbelly and a pattern of black and white on the legs. Males are a lighter tan colour with the same white underbelly and pattern on the legs.  Males also have a black face and lots of long white fur on their neck and chest which can grow down to their knees. Both males and females have corkscrew-shaped horns which can grow up to 160 cm / 64 inches long in males, and up to 25 cm / 10 inches in females.

Markhor live in places 500 to 3500 metres (1,500 to 11,000 feet) high, where they eat grass, leaves.  Markhor often stand on their back legs to reach the top leaves of trees. Markhor are active (move around more) in the early morning and late afternoon. Females gather in herds (groups) of up to nine animals.  Males usually live alone.

The markhor is the National animal of Pakistan. The word "Markhor" is Persian for "Snake Eater".  They live in Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Afghanistan, Tajikistan and India's Kashmir Valley. In Pakistan, they live in the Chitral, Ghizar and Hunza regions.  There are fewer markhor left because human beings take livestock to eat grass in the places where the markhor lives.  Other people have killed the markhor for its horns.  As of 2012, the IUCN said there were probably 2,500 markhor left in the wild.

[[She's So Unusual]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 albums, Pop albums

She's So Unusual is the first solo album by the famous American 1980s pop singer Cyndi Lauper. It was released in 1983. It included the popular single, "Girls Just Want to Have Fun".

[[Betta]]

CATEGORIES: Perciformes, Freshwater fish

Betta is a genus of fish. The Siamese fighting fish is a fish in this genus. Some species of betta like the Betta Splendens are very brightly coloured and can be purchased in a local pet store. Other species of betta are more rare. The males often express their aggression at other males as well as females by flaring at one another. They are surface breathers, and and breathe air from the surface to make bubble nest which attracts the female for breeding. Betta fishes are found in little water bodies, full of fallen leaf litter and peat thereby providing lots of hiding places. There are various species of Betta, most popular being Betta splendens, Betta smaragdina , Betta mahachaiensis, Betta coccina, Betta albimarginata, Betta imbellis, etc.

[[Lichtenstein, Saxony]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Saxony, Zwickau Rural District

Lichtenstein is a small town in Saxony. It is between Zwickau and Chemnitz. Lichtenstein has the second name "Stadt im grünen" (engl. "town in green"). Lichtenstein has several sights. There are 7 museums, 2 theaters, 1 castle and 7 nature parcs. The most famous museum of Lichtenstein is the "Miniwelt". There are many world sights in small, for example the statue of Liberty. As of December 2011, 12,613 people live there.

Lichtenstein consists of 3 parts the main town, Lichtenstein and the two small villages "Heinrichsort" and "Rödlitz".

Neighbour towns are Bernsdorf, Glauchau, St. Egidien, Mülsen, Hohndorf and Oelsnitz.

[[Otogizōshi]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese mythology, Japanese folklore

Otogizōshi are a group of short stories with pictures, written in Japan, mostly in the period between 1392 and 1573. There are about 350 of these stories. They are about many different things: love, religion, fighting, humor, and other things. The otogizōshi were often read to an audience.

[[Salem, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Massachusetts, County seats in Massachusetts

Salem is a city in Essex County, in Massachusetts. It was home of the Salem Witch Trials of 1692.

[[Deval Patrick]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, African American politicians, Governors of Massachusetts, 2020 United States presidential candidates, Politicians from Chicago, US Democratic Party politicians, 21st-century American politicians

Deval Laurdine Patrick (born July 31, 1956) is an American politician. He was elected to be the governor of Massachusetts in 2006. He is the first African-American to be elected governor of that state. He is only the third African-American to be elected a governor of any state in the United States. Patrick ran as a Democrat.

He was born in Chicago, Illinois on 31 July 1956, is a lawyer, and holds two degrees from Harvard University.

On November 11, 2019, The New York Times reported that Patrick was thinking of a 2020 presidential candidacy. He announced his candidacy three days later on November 14. He ended his campaign on February 12, 2020 a day after the New Hampshire primary.

[[Structure of the Earth]]

CATEGORIES: Earth, Structure of the Earth

The structure of the Earth is divided into layers. These layers are both physically and chemically different. The Earth has an outer solid layer called the crust, a highly viscous layer called the mantle, a liquid layer that is the outer part of the core, called the outer core, and a solid center called the inner core. The shape of the earth is an oblate spheroid, because it is slightly flattened at the poles and bulging at the equator.

The boundaries between these layers were discovered by seismographs which showed the way vibrations bounced off the layers during earthquakes. Between the Earth's crust and the mantle is a boundary called the moho. It was the first discovery of a major change in the Earth's structure as one goes deeper.

A full explanation of these effects is not yet clear. It seems that the high temperature and pressure cause changes in the crystallization of minerals, so that the composition might be a kind of changing mixture of liquid and crystals.

[[Provisional designation in astronomy]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical objects

A provisional designation in astronomy is the naming convention of astronomical objects as soon as they are found. The provisional designation is usually replaced by a permanent name once a good orbit has been calculated. With asteroids, so many have been found that many will never be named by the people who found them.

[[Traffic sign]]

CATEGORIES: Traffic signs

A traffic sign or a road sign is a sign put at the side of roads to give information to drivers. It can direct people driving where to go or what to do.

A road sign is something that gives information by means of a symbol, or in only 1 or 2 words. It helps people in their vehicles on the road. Some signs include: give way, stop, keep left, no U-turn, no parking, zebra crossing ahead, and much more.  Traffic signs are very useful. Without signs and traffic lights there would be many accidents and arguments on the road.

[[Istituto Nazionale di Statistica]]

CATEGORIES: Italy

Istituto Nazionale di Statistica is the national statistical institute of Italy. The name translates to 'National Institute of Statistics'. This institute collects information about the country, including counting the people in Italy (the census). It is sometimes called Istat.

[[Harold Rubin]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2020 deaths, South African entertainers, White South African people, Israeli musicians, Jazz musicians, Activists

Harold Rubin (13 May 1932 – 1 April 2020) was a South African-born Israeli visual artist and free jazz clarinettist. He was born in Johannesburg. He became a founding member of the 1980s Zaviot jazz quartet, which recorded albums with the label Jazzis Records and performed at festivals and clubs in Israel and Europe until its break-up in 1989.

Rubin died on 1 April 2020, aged 87.

[[List of Adventures in Odyssey characters]]

CATEGORIES: Adventures in Odyssey, Lists of fictional characters

The following is a list of the characters from the ''Adventures in Odyssey'' radio program.

[[List of WTA number 1 ranked players]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis, Lists of sportspeople, WTA Tour

The Women's Tennis Association (WTA) world number one ranking is a 52-week system based on the total points won by a female professional tennis player, during a WTA season. The WTA started ranking players on 3 November 1975, and 21 women have achieved the number one status in singles and 32 players in doubles.

Please needs updates. We are in 2019

[[Barbour County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1832 establishments in Alabama

Barbour County, Alabama is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. Its name is in honor of James Barbour, who was Governor of Virginia.  As of 2000 the population was 29,038.  Its county seat is Clayton.

[[Monpazier]]

CATEGORIES: Bastides, Communes in Dordogne

Monpazier is a city in France. It is in the Dordogne departement, in Aquitaine. In 1999, 516 people lived there. It has been named one of the most beautiful villages in France by the association Les Plus Beaux Villages de France. It was built as a bastide. For some time, Eleanor of Aquitaine and Richard III lived there. 

The city was founded by Edward I of England in 1284. It is of rectangular design, built around a main square. 

The city is about half-way between Bergerac and Sarlat-la-Canéda. Each city is about 45 km away. The River Dropt runs through the city.

[[Sarlat-la-Canéda]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Dordogne

Sarlat-la-Canéda (Sarlat e La Canedat), or simply Sarlat, is a town and commune in southwestern France, in the region of Aquitaine. It is a subprefecture of the Dordogne department.

[[Hurricane Erika (2003)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 Atlantic hurricane season, Hurricanes in Mexico, Hurricanes in the United States, Category 1 Atlantic hurricanes, 2003 in Texas, 2003 in Florida, 2000s in Mexico

Hurricane Erika was a Atlantic hurricane that hit extreme northeastern Mexico near the Texas-Tamaulipas border. It happened on August 16, during the 2003 Atlantic hurricane season. Erika was the eighth tropical cyclone, fifth tropical storm, and third hurricane of the season that year. The storm was created from a non-tropical area of low pressure that was tracked for five days before developing in the eastern Gulf of Mexico on August 14. Under the influence of a high pressure system, Erika moved quickly westward and became stronger under favorable conditions.

[[Bergerac]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Dordogne, Wine regions of France

Bergerac (Brageirac) is a commune and a subprefecture of the Dordogne department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region, southwestern France.

It is the second biggest city of the department, after Périgueux.

Despite the similarities in their names, there is no connection to Cyrano de Bergerac, a French writer from Paris.

[[Sweet chestnut]]

CATEGORIES: Fagales, Trees

The sweet chestnut (Castanea sativa), sometimes called European chestnut, Spanish chestnut or Portuguese chestnut is a family of trees. 

Originally these trees were native to the Mediterranean parts of Europe and Asia Minor. These trees can grow to sizes between 20 and 35m high. The trees are deciduous, they do not have leaves in winter.

The trees are usually grown for their edible fruit.

[[James S. Sherman]]

CATEGORIES: 1855 births, 1912 deaths, Deaths from Bright's disease, Vice Presidents of the United States, Politicians from New York, US Republican Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians

James Schoolcraft Sherman (October 24, 1855 in Utica, New York – October 1912, also in Utica, New York, while in office) was the twenty-seventh vice president of the United States. He was in office from March 4, 1909 to October 30, 1912. Sherman was a member of the Republican Party, and served with President William Howard Taft.

[[Rainer Küchl]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Austrian violinists, Concertmasters

Rainer Küchl (*August 25 1950 in Waidhofen an der Ybbs) is an Austrian musician.  He plays the violin and is a music professor.

He started to play the violin at the age of 11. At the age of 14, he studied music at the University of Music and Performing Arts, Vienna.

He became the concertmaster of the Vienna Philharmonic at the age of 20. In 1973 he founded the Küchl Quartett which is known as the Wiener Musikverein Quartett.

[[Wilson Allen Wallis]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1998 deaths, American economists, Scientists from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Wilson Allen Wallis (November 5, 1912 – October 12, 1998) was an American economist and statistician best known for serving as president of the University of Rochester.  He studied at the University of Minnesota and finished his studies in 1932. He was a member of the Chi Phi Fraternity.

From 1959 to 1989, he was the economic adviser to the U.S. presidents Dwight Eisenhower, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford and Ronald Reagan.

[[March of the Penguins]]

CATEGORIES: Documentary movies, 2005 movies, Academy Award winning movies, Movies about animals, English-language movies, French-language movies, Multilingual movies, Buena Vista International movies

March of the Penguins is a documentary about Emperor penguins. It won an Academy Award and was directed by Luc Jacquet. It was made in France.

[[Sindhi]]

Sindhi could mean:

[[Mangrio]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani tribes, Ethnic groups in Pakistan, Ethnic groups in India, Ethnic groups in Sindh

Mangrio (Sindhi مݣڕیو, منگریو) is the name of a Sindhi Muslim Rajput tribe found in Randi-khanas and chaklas of the Sindh region of Pakistan and Rajasthan in India. Mangrio are Suryavanshi )Rajput. They are the Royal family of Jaisalmer, India

[[Enlightenment (Window Manager)]]

CATEGORIES: Free software

Enlightenment (also known simply as E), is a free software/open source window manager for the X Window System. It can be used alone or together with a desktop environment such as GNOME or KDE. Enlightenment is sometimes used as a replacement for a full desktop environment.

[[Buddhism in Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Religion in Pakistan, Buddhism

There are no significant Buddhist communities left in Pakistan.

A few Buddhists may still exist in Pakistani Kashmir  and a significant community exists in Jammu and Kashmir to the east of the Line of Control. Mostly Ladakhi and ethnically related to Tibetans (plus a few Indo-Aryan Dards), a rough dividing line between Islamic culture and Buddhist culture can be drawn through Mulbekh and Shergol in the Indus valley (to the east of Kargil) and well to the west of Leh, the Nun Kun massif and Rangdum Buddhist monastery at the head of the Suru river valley (a tributary of the Indus) on the Indian Kashmiri side of the line of control.

[[Colleges and universities in Utah]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Utah, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Utah:

[[World Series of Poker]]

CATEGORIES: Poker

WSOP or the World Series of Poker is one among the biggest poker tournaments in the gambling world, which has been organized officially, in 1970. The bracelet of WSOP along with the cash prize of millions of dollars fascinates many players from the entire world that are keen to play poker in this tournament. This tournament is an apex of interest to all poker players. A mere participation of a poker player seems to appeal towards pride. 

[[Colleges and universities in Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Washington, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Washington:

[[Big 12 Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Big 12 Conference, 1996 establishments in the United States

The Big 12 Conference is a college athletic conference that is part of the NCAA's Division I. It started when the Big 8 Conference joined together with four colleges from Texas that had been part of the Southwest Conference, and the first games in the Big 12 Conference were played in 1996.

[[OpenDocument]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats, OpenOffice

OpenDocument Format (ODF) is a computer file format for word processors, presentation software and other computer programs. 

For example, OpenOffice and LibreOffice are programs that uses ODF to save text, slideshows and spreadsheets.

[[Pac-12 Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Pac-12 Conference

The Pac-12 Conference is a group of universities who play each other in football, basketball, and other sports.  It has won more national championships than any other conference.   

This is a list of colleges and universities who play sports in the Pac-12 Conference:

[[Big East Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Big East Conference

The Big East Conference is a college sports conference in the United States which sponsors many sports, but does not play football. The league has its roots in the original Big East Conference, which was founded in 1979 as a basketball-focused league by a group of schools in the Eastern U.S. That league added football in 1991, leading to years of conflict between schools that played top-level football and those that did not. In July 2013, the original league split along football lines. The seven schools that did not play FBS (top-level) football—often called the "Catholic 7" because all are run by the Catholic Church—bought the "Big East" name and formed a new Big East. The FBS schools joined with several new members and stayed in the original Big East structure under the new name of American Athletic Conference (The American).

Although the current Big East was not founded until 2013, it claims the 1979 founding date of the original Big East. Both the current Big East and The American claim the pre-split history of the old Big East.

[[Boston College]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Coast Conference, Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, Colleges and universities in Massachusetts, Hockey East, 1859 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Massachusetts

Boston College is a private university in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. It is also known for its sports teams.

[[Clemson University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Coast Conference, Colleges and universities in South Carolina, 1889 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in South Carolina

Clemson University ˈ is a public university in Clemson, South Carolina. Clemson's athletics teams are called the Tigers.

[[Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Coast Conference, Colleges and universities in Virginia, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, 1872 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Virginia

Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (or Virginia Tech) is a public land-grant university in Blacksburg, Virginia. The campus was first opened in 1872 as a farming and mechanical college and covers 2,600 acres. It is also one of only a few public universities in the United States to have a corps of cadets.

The Virginia Tech massacre, which happened on the 16th of April 2007, was a tragedy in the history of the University. A student of the university named Cho Seung-Hui killed 32 people before killing himself. This became the worst school-related massacre in United States history.

[[University of Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Atlantic Coast Conference, Colleges and universities in Virginia, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, World Heritage Sites in the United States, 1819 establishments in the United States, 1810s establishments in Virginia

The University of Virginia  is a public research university in Charlottesville, Virginia, United States. 

The buildings designed by Jefferson are a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

[[North Carolina State University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Coast Conference, Colleges and universities in North Carolina, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Raleigh, North Carolina, 1887 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in North Carolina

North Carolina State University is a public university in Raleigh, North Carolina. It has about 31,000 students.

Many students who go to college here want to learn about math, science, technology, and agriculture, but they can also study other things, too.

[[University of Miami]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Coast Conference, Colleges and universities in Florida, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, 1925 establishments in Florida

This is the university in Florida. For the university in Ohio, see Miami University.

The University of Miami is a private university in Coral Gables, Florida. Some people call the university "Miami of Florida," or "UM."

[[Nagios]]

CATEGORIES: Network management

Nagios (ˈnɑːdʒioʊs) is a popular open source computer system and network monitoring application software. It watches hosts and services which the owner specifies, alerting the owner when things go bad and again when they get better.

Nagios, originally created under the name NetSaint https://web.archive.org/web/20080509094628/http://www.netsaint.org/, was written and is currently maintained by Ethan Galstad, along with a group of developers actively maintaining both official and unofficial plugins.

Nagios was originally designed to run under Linux, but also runs well on other Unix variants.

Nagios is free software licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as published by the Free Software Foundation.

[[Egyptian Arabic]]

CATEGORIES: Semitic languages

Egyptian Arabic (Maṣrī مصري) is a dialect of the Arabic language, one of the Semitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic language family. 

It came from the people living in the Nile Delta in Lower Egypt around the capital Cairo. It originates from the spoken Arabic brought to Egypt during the AD 7th-century Muslim conquest of North Africa.

Egyptian Arabic was formed also of Copto-Egyptian language of pre-Islamic Egypt, and other languages such as Italian and French. Egyptian Arabic is officially recognized as the national language of the Egyptian government. More than 76 million people in Egypt speak Egyptian Arabic. Also, many people in the Middle East can understand it.

[[Wenedyk]]

CATEGORIES: Constructed languages

Wenedyk (in English: Venedic) is a made-up language. Jan van Steenbergen, a linguist and translator from the Netherlands, made it in 2002. The idea behind it is this: what would have happened if the Polish language had developed from Latin instead of Old Slavic? Wenedyk is a possible answer to that question. It is a Romance language, so almost all words are family of words in French, Italian, Romanian, and so on. But they look very different and much more like Polish. The rules for spelling and pronunciation are completely based on Polish. Other parts of the language, like grammar and sentence structure, are a mixture of Polish and Romance.

Together with other made-up languages like Brithenig (which does the same thing with Welsh), Wenedyk is part of the group of so-called "alternative languages", languages that could have existed if history had been different. With Brithenig, it is the best known example of this sort of languages. Wenedyk became known in Poland after it was written about on the Internet and in the monthly paper Wiedza i Życie ("Knowledge and Life").

Wenedyk is used in Ill Bethisad, a made-up world in which the Roman Empire was stronger than in real history. It is the most important language of the Republic of the Two Crowns, a country similar to the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, but not broken up by partitions like Poland was.

[[Brithenig]]

CATEGORIES: Constructed languages

Brithenig is constructed language that was made up by Andrew Smith from New Zealand in 1996. The idea behind it is the question what the Welsh language would have looked like if it had been a Romance instead of a Celtic language: a sister language to French, Spanish and Italian, but one that looks much like Welsh. It plays a key-role in the made-up world of Ill Bethisad, where Latin took the place of Old Celtic as the spoken language of the people in Great Britain, thus giving way to the development of Brithenig.

Brithenig is the best known example of the so-called group of "alternative languages", languages that could have existed if history had been different. Another well-known example is Wenedyk, which does the same with Polish as Brithenig does with Welsh.

[[EastLink, Melbourne]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Australia

EastLink is a tollway (meaning people have to pay to drive on it) in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. It was opened on June 28, 2008. It links the Frankston Freeway to the Eastern Freeway, and includes two tunnels, the Mullum Mullum tunnel and the Melba tunnel.

The interchange with the Monash Freeway, the largest in Victoria, is known as the Tom Wills interchange. This was announced on February 27, 2008. This particular interchange was chosen because it was within a short distance from Waverely Park, and the home of the Hawthorn Football Club.

Tolls are paid by either a bill sent in the mail, buying a pass from a shop or creating an account and using an electronic Breeze tag or another tollways type of electronic tag in the car to keep track of tolls. The cost of the tolls is charged against the owner's account.

[[Transport for London]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in London, Transport in London

Transport for London (TfL) is an organisation that runs the public transport network in London. It is held with direct responsibility to the mayor of London.

[[Jules Joseph Lefebvre]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 births, 1911 deaths, French painters

Jules Joseph Lefebvre (Tournan-en-Brie, March 14, 1836 – Paris, February 24, 1911) was a French figure painter. 

Lefebvre went to the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts in 1852. He was a pupil of Léon Cogniet. He won the prestigious Prix de Rome in 1861. Between 1855 and 1898, he exhibited 72 portraits in the Paris Salon. In 1891, he became a member of the French Académie des Beaux-Arts.

He was a teacher at the Académie Julian in Paris. One of his famous students was the Scottish born landscape painter William Hart. Georges Rochegrosse, Félix Vallotton, the Americans Childe Hassam, John Henry Twachtman, John Noble Barlow, Augustus Kenderdine, and Charles A. Platt were also his pupils. He was a professor at the École des Beaux-Arts for a long time.

His paintings are usually single figures of beautiful women.

Among his best portraits were those of M. L. Reynaud and the Prince Imperial (1874). Among his many decorations were a first-class medal at the Paris Exhibition of 1878 and the medal of honor in 1886. He was a Commander of the Legion of Honor and a member of the Institut de France.

[[Louisiana State University and A&M College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Louisiana, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Southeastern Conference, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, 1860 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Louisiana

The Louisiana State University and A&M College is a public university in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; it belongs to the Louisiana State University System of higher education as a land-grant and sea-grant institution. Colloquially, most people call the university "Louisiana State University" or "LSU". In sports competitions, "LSU" is almost always associated with Louisiana State University and A&M College or the LSU Athletics Department.

[[University of Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Big 12 Conference, University of Kansas, 1866 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas, Buildings and structures in Lawrence, Kansas

The University of Kansas is a public university in Lawrence, a hilly city in northeastern Kansas. It is often abbreviated as "KU".

KU held its first classes in 1866. As of Spring 2011, over 30,000 students attended school there.

[[Kansas Jayhawks]]

CATEGORIES: University of Kansas

The Kansas Jayhawks, commonly referred to as KU, are the athletic teams that represent the University of Kansas. KU is one of three schools in the state of Kansas that are in the NCAA Division I. The Jayhawks are also a part of the Big 12 Conference. KU athletic teams have won eleven NCAA Division I championships: three in men's basketball, one in men's cross country, three in men's indoor track and field, three in men's outdoor track and field, and one in women's outdoor track and field.

The name "Jayhawks" comes from the Kansas Jayhawker freedom fighter and anti-slavery movement during the Bleeding Kansas era of the American Civil War.

[[University of Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Colleges and universities in Pennsylvania, Ivy League, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

The University of Pennsylvania is a private Ivy League university in West Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Many people call the university "Penn." It contains four undergraduate schools, which are for students without a college degree. These schools are nursing, arts and sciences, engineering, and Wharton, which is a famous business school. It had graduate schools-for those with a college degree- in medicine, business, law, dentistry, veterinary medicine, nursing, education, communication, design, and social policy. Their competitive teams are known as the Quakers. 

45th President of the United States Donald Trump graduated here with a Bachelor of Science.

[[Western Athletic Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Western Athletic Conference, 1962 establishments in the United States

The Western Athletic Conference (WAC) is a group of colleges and universities, mostly in the Western United States, that play NCAA Division I sports against one another each season.

The WAC currently has 10 member schools:

Its future is now in serious question due to a wave of departures set for July 2013.

[[Wilhelm Wundt]]

CATEGORIES: 1832 births, 1920 deaths, German doctors, German psychologists

Wilhelm Maximilian Wundt (August 16 1832– August 31 1920) was a German medical doctor, psychologist, physiologist, and professor. Together with William James, he is  regarded as the father of psychology. In 1879, Wundt founded the one of first formal laboratory for psychological research at the University of Leipzig, and the first journal for psychological research in 1881.

[[Bean machine]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

The bean machine, also known as the quincunx or Galton box, is a machine invented by Sir Francis Galton to demonstrate the law of error and the normal distribution.

The machine consists of a vertical board with interleaved rows of pins. Balls are dropped from the top, and bounce left and right as they hit the pins. Eventually, they are collected into one-ball-wide bins at the bottom. The height of ball columns in the bins approximates a bell curve.

Overlaying Pascal's triangle onto the pins shows the number of different paths that can be taken to get to each pin. 

A large-scale working model of this device can be seen at the Museum of Science, Boston.

[[Regression analysis]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics, Mathematical approximation

Regression analysis is a field of statistics. It is a tool to show the relationship between the inputs and the outputs of a system. There are different ways to do this. Better curve fitting usually needs more complex calculations. 

Data modeling can be used without knowing about the underlying processes that have generated the data; in this case the model is an empirical model. Moreover, in modelling, knowledge of the probability distribution of the errors is not required. Regression analysis requires assumptions to be made regarding probability distribution of the errors. Statistical tests are made on the basis of these assumptions. In regression analysis the term "model" embraces both the function used to model the data and the assumptions concerning probability distributions.

Regression can be used for prediction (including forecasting of time-series data), inference, hypothesis testing, and modeling of causal relationships. These uses of regression rely heavily on the underlying assumptions being satisfied. Regression analysis has been criticized as being misused for these purposes in many cases where the appropriate assumptions cannot be verified to hold.  One factor contributing to the misuse of regression is that it can take considerably more skill to critique a model than to fit a model.

The first type of regression analysis was linear regression. The method of least squares was first published by Legendre in 1805 and in 1809 by Gauß. Both used the method to predict the movement of planets around the sun. Gauss published an improved method in 1821.

[[Forensic science]]

CATEGORIES: Forensics

Forensic science (or forensics) is when different fields of science work together to answer the questions a lawyer would ask. Most often, forensics is about proving that someone was present at a place where a crime was committed. Specialists take samples which are later analyzed in a laboratory. Most forensic tests can take from 1 hour to one year, and investigators need to double (and triple) check the answer, so they know that the answer is the right answer. If a forensics team made a mistake the wrong person could be jailed, or they could get into trouble themselves.

Samples commonly taken include fingerprints. People also look for other things that could be used, for example a few hairs (or pieces of skin). Samples like hair or skin can be use for DNA testing, which allows to tell the gender of the person the hair is from, amongst others. 

When someone is accused of committing the crime, these pieces of evidence can then be matched up. Then, if they are correct, the person is charged.

[[Fingerprint]]

CATEGORIES: Criminal justice, Forensics, Computer security

A fingerprint is a trace of a human finger left on a surface. Human fingers have small structures on them (like mountains and valleys). These structures are unique in every human; they can be used as means of identification.

There are many different ways to take fingerprints. Forensic scientists use these techniques to identify a person.

Electronic fingerprint scanners became widespread in the early 21st century.

[[Physical cosmology]]

CATEGORIES: Cosmology

Physical cosmology is a branch of astronomy. It looks at large structures in the universe. It wants to explain how the universe came to be what it is today by using axioms of our current astronomy knowledge.

[[Ronald Fisher]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1962 deaths, English biologists, English mathematicians, English evolutionary biologists, Eugenics, Fellows of the Royal Society, English geneticists, Scientists from London

Sir Ronald Aylmer Fisher FRS (17 February 1890 – 29 July 1962) was an English statistician, evolutionary biologist, and geneticist. He was described as "a genius who almost single-handedly created the foundations for modern statistical science". Richard Dawkins described him as "the greatest of Darwin's successors".

[[Urla]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Urla is a seaside town in the İzmir Province in Turkey.

[[Monash Freeway]]

CATEGORIES: Melbourne, Roads in Australia

The Monash Freeway is a major freeway in Melbourne. It lets cars drive from the CBD to the south-eastern suburbs.

[[The Art of War]]

CATEGORIES: Non-fiction books, Sun Tzu

The Art of War (孫子兵法) is an ancient Chinese military text. It was written by Sun Tzu, a high-ranking military general, strategist and Taoist philosopher. The text contains 13 chapters. Each chapter covers one aspect of warfare. The book was written over 2,500 years ago. The Art of War was one of the earliest books on Chinese warfare. It remains one of the best known and most influential books ever written. The book was widely copied in the ancient world. At first it was written on bamboo slats that were sewn together. It was read by politicians, scholars and military leaders. Translations of the book were first read in Japan and Korea. The oldest copy from Japan dates to the 8th century. It was translated into French in 1772 by a Jesuit named Jean Joseph Marie Amiot. The first translation into English was published by Lionel Giles in 1910.  The Art of War was first translated into Russian in 1950. Due to the Russian knowledge of French culture is it probable they had copies in French much earlier. It is used today by business schools and militaries worldwide.

[[Princes Freeway]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Australia, Melbourne

The Princes Freeway is a freeway in Victoria, Australia. It links Geelong, Victoria to Traralgon, Victoria, via Melbourne, Victoria.

[[Conference USA]]

CATEGORIES: Conference USA, 1995 establishments in the United States

Conference USA, officially abbreviated C-USA, is a group of college sports teams that play each other on the NCAA Division I level.  It was formed in 1995 when the Great Midwest Conference and Metro Conference merged, and has added several members since then. Most of the new members have come from either the Western Athletic Conference or the Sun Belt Conference. From 2005 to 2014, it also lost many members, mostly to the original Big East Conference and its football-playing offshoot, the American Athletic Conference.

The conference sends several teams to bowl games every year, including the Liberty Bowl and New Orleans Bowl.

Memphis (now a member of The American) has been the most successful men's basketball team in the conference, reaching the national championship game in 2008. (However, the NCAA later took Memphis's wins from that season away because a Memphis player, namely Derrick Rose, had not been eligible to play.)

[[Sewall Wright]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1988 deaths, Scientists from Massachusetts, American evolutionary biologists, American geneticists

Sewall Green Wright (21 December 1889 – 3 March 1988) was an American geneticist. He was a founder of population genetics, and contributed to evolutionary theory. He also did original work in statistics in a field called path analysis. 

With R.A. Fisher and J.B.S. Haldane, he was a founder of theoretical population genetics. He is the discoverer of the inbreeding coefficient and of methods of computing it in pedigrees. He extended this work to populations, calculating the degree of inbreeding of members of populations as a result of random genetic drift. Together with Fisher, he pioneered methods for calculating the distribution of gene frequencies among  populations as a result of the interaction of natural selection, mutation, migration and genetic drift.  The work of Fisher, Wright, and Haldane on theoretical population genetics was a major step in the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis of genetics with evolution. Wright also made contributions to mammalian genetics and biochemical genetics.

[[Tartan]]

CATEGORIES: Cloth

[[Jeff Tesreau]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1946 deaths, New York Giants (NL) players, American baseball players, Sportspeople from Missouri

Charles Monroe "Jeff" Tesreau (March 5, 1888 - October 24, 1946) was an American baseball player. Tesreau signed with a Minor League Baseball team of the St. Louis Browns in 1909.  In 1910, his contract was bought by the New York Giants where he played Major League Baseball with.

[[Sun Belt Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Sun Belt Conference, 1976 establishments in the United States

The Sun Belt Conference is a group of college sports teams that play each other on the NCAA Division I level. The conference was formed in 1976, and started playing football in 2001. Of the current 12 full members (those playing most of their sports in the league), 10 play football in the top-level Division I FBS. The other two do not play football. The conference's full members are scattered through the southern United States.

[[Mountain West Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain West Conference, 1999 establishments in the United States

The Mountain West Conference (abbreviated as either "MW" or "MWC") is a group of colleges and universities in the Western United States, who play NCAA Division I sports against one another. In football, the MW plays in the top-level Division I FBS.

The league was formed in 1999 when eight schools split from the Western Athletic Conference (WAC). Most of the original members had been members of the WAC before it grew from 10 schools to 16 in 1996.

Due to a major realignment of Division I conferences, the MW and Conference USA announced plans to merge into one conference, possibly for the 2013–14 school year. However, because of money issues, the conferences backed away from a full merger. They planned to form an alliance for scheduling and television purposes. After both conferences added more schools, they backed out of the planned alliance. 

[[Super Punch-Out!! (Super NES)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 video games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games, Sports video games

Super Punch-Out!! is a boxing video game made by Nintendo for the Super NES game console.

[[Mid-American Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Mid-American Conference, 1946 establishments in the United States

The Mid-American Conference (MAC) is a college sports conference whose full members are located in the Great Lakes region of the United States. It sponsors 11 men's sports and 12 women's sports at the NCAA Division I level. In football, the MAC is one of 10 conferences that play in the top-level Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS).

The MAC was founded in 1946 by five schools in Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio, but only one of the founding members, Ohio University, is still in the conference. All but two of its current full members are in those three states.

[[Super Metroid]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 video games, Intelligent Systems games, Metroid, Nintendo Research & Development 1 games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games, Virtual Console games

Super Metroid is an adventure video game developed by R&D1 and Intelligent Systems and published by Nintendo for the Super NES game console. It's the third game released in the Metroid series.

[[University at Buffalo]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Colleges and universities in New York, Mid-American Conference, Buffalo, New York

The State University of New York at Buffalo is a public university in Buffalo, New York.  It is the largest university in a group called the "State University of New York" or "SUNY."

[[Rock Band (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Wii games, Rock Band series

Rock Band is a music video game developed by Harmonix Music Systems, published by MTV Games, and distributed by EA Distribution. It was released on the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PlayStation 2, and the Wii.

This game comes with a guitar controller, a drum set, and a microphone. Up to four people can play the game on the screen, playing drums, vocals, bass, and guitar.

[[Excelsior of Brooklyn]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball teams, Brooklyn, Sports in New York City, 1854 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in New York (state)

The Brooklyn Excelsiors were an amateur baseball team that played in Brooklyn, New York. They formed in 1854.

[[Association of American Universities]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities

The Association of American Universities (AAU) is a group of the leading research and education universities. Its members are 59 universities in the United States (both public and private) and two universities in Canada.

This is a list of colleges and universities in the Association of American Universities:

[[Charizard]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1996, Pokémon monsters, Fictional dragons

Charizard (known as Lizardon in Japan) is a character of the Pokémon anime and video game series. Ash, one of the main characters in the series, owns a Charizard. Known as the Flame Pokémon, Charizards are violent yet honorable creatures, flying proudly around the sky and always looking for powerful enemies to fight with. Charizard is also the version mascot of Pokémon Red and FireRed versions, and makes an appearance on the boxarts of many other Pokémon games. During an interview, Pokémon Company president Tsunekazu Ishihara said that they knew Charizard would be popular with North Americans, because they like strong, powerful characters.

[[Heiko Westermann]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Bavaria

Heiko Westermann (born August 14, 1983 in Wasserlos, Germany) is a German footballer of FC Schalke 04. On the German national football team, he made three matches and no goals.

[[Liz Shaw]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Jo Grant]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

[[Pope Pius XII]]

CATEGORIES: 1876 births, 1958 deaths, Italian popes, People from Rome, Venerated Catholics

Pope Pius XII (Pius PP. XII; Pio XII), born Eugenio Maria Giuseppe Giovanni Pacelli (March 2, 1876 – October 9, 1958), was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 261st Pope from 1939 to 1958.

[[Procyonidae]]

CATEGORIES: Procyonids

Procyonidae is a familiy of the order Carnivora. The Procyonids originally lived in the Americas.

[[Tamburello]]

CATEGORIES: Team sports

Tamburello or pallatamburello is a traditional sport of Italy since 16th century. It has this name because they play with a roundish and oval tool named tamburello or tambourine in English language. Various forms of tamburello are popular in several nations of the world currently.

[[Caniformia]]

CATEGORIES: Caniformia

Caniformia is a suborder of the order Carnivora. It contains all the dog-like mammals: Unlike the cat-like Feliformia, these animals have claws that are unable to contract. This group contains bears, seals, and true dogs, and more. 

The other suborder of Carnivora is the cat-like Feliformia.

[[Attribute-value system]]

CATEGORIES: Modeling

An attribute-value system is a basic knowledge representation framework comprising a table with columns designating "attributes" (also known as "properties", "predicates," "features," "dimensions," "characteristics" or "independent variables" depending on the context) and rows designating "objects" (also known as "entities," "instances," "exemplars," "elements" or "dependent variables.").  Each table cell therefore designates the value (also known as "state") of a particular attribute of a particular object.

[[Tim Henman]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, British male tennis players, British Olympic silver medalists, English sportspeople, Living people, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, People from Oxfordshire

Timothy Henry "Tim" Henman OBE (born 6 September 1974) is an English retired tennis player, born in Oxford.

He reached the semi finals of Wimbledon many times, the first British tennis player to do so since the 1970s. He reached six grand slam semi finals and won eleven titles in his career. He once was ranked number four in the world.

He was sponsored by Adidas and Slazenger. He retired in 2007 as England's most successful tennis player of the last twenty years.

[[Lasi]]

CATEGORIES: Sindh, Pakistani tribes

Lasi is the name of a tribe and a part of Sindh. It is in southeast Balochistan Province, Las Bela District, about 80 miles north northwest of Karachi. The population was 15,000 in 1998. Another name for this area is Saraiki.

[[Ormuri]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Pakistan, Languages of Afghanistan

Ormuri (ارموری) is an East Iranian language spoken in the city of Kaniguram in Pakistan. It may also be spoken by a few people in Logar, Afghanistan. It is notable for its unusual sound inventory. This includes a voiceless alveolar trill and voiced and unvoiced alveolo-palatal fricatives.

[[Sansi]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Pakistan, Languages of India, Indo-Aryan languages

Sansi is a language  spoken in Pakistan and the Republic of India.

[[Sindhi language]]

CATEGORIES: Indo-Aryan languages, Languages of Pakistan, Languages of India, Languages of Sindh

Sindhi ( سنڌي, Sindhī) is the language of the Sindh region of South Asia, which is a province of Pakistan. It is an Indo-Aryan language spoken by about 41 million people in Pakistan and 12 million in the Republic of India.

[[Burig]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani people

The Burig (or Purik), are a group of Tibetan Muslims, who live south of the Balti in Ladakh. Most of them live in Ladakh and Baltistan, mostly in Kargil, although many live in Leh.

[[West Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Pakistan, Former subdivisions of Pakistan, 1947 establishments in Asia, 1970 disestablishments, 1970s disestablishments in Asia

The province of West Pakistan was created on 14 October 1955 by the merger of the provinces, states and tribal areas of the western wing. The province was composed of twelve divisions and the provincial capital was established at Lahore. The province of East Bengal was renamed East Pakistan with the provincial capital at Dacca. The federal government moved in 1959 from Karachi to Rawalpindi (provisional capital until Islamabad was finished), whilst the federal legislature moved to DACCA.

West Pakistan formed a block whose people seemed homogeneous (similar to each other). However, the new region included people of different ethnicities and languages. The "One Unit Policy" was regarded as a rational administrative reform which would reduce spending and eliminate provincial prejudices. However with the military coup of 1958, trouble loomed for the province when the office of Chief Minister was abolished and the President took over executive powers for West Pakistan. The province of West Pakistan was dissolved in July 1970 by President Yahya Khan.

General elections held in December 1970 saw the Awami League under Mujibur Rahman win an overall majority of seats in parliament (all but two of the 162 seats allocated to East Pakistan). The Awami League advocated greater autonomy (or self-rule) for East Pakistan, but the military government did not permit Mujibur Rahman to form a government.

Stamp showing both the East and west divisions of Pakistan Before the secession of Bangladesh. On March 25th 1971, West Pakistan began a civil war to subdue the democratic victory of East Pakistanis. This began the war between the Pakistani military and the Mukhti Bahini. The resulting refugee crisis led to the intervention by India, eventually leading to the surrender of the Pakistani Army. East Pakistan suffered a genocide of its Bengali population. East Pakistan became the independent state of Bangladesh on December 16, 1971. The term West Pakistan became redundant.

[[Ferozpur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Punjab, India

Ferozepur (ضلع فیروزپور) founded by Firuz Shah Tughluq is a district in the Indian state of Punjab. The district is the oldest British district of Punjab. It was created in 1833 as district headquarters and was part of the earstwhile Lahore Division (now in Pakistan). 

Ferozepur has easy access by road and rail to other places such as Lahore, Okara, Kasur, Multan. The area is a center of many holy shrines and historic places. At the city of Zira, a Jain Swetambar Temple with very old brass icons and beautiful wall murals is located.

In addition to cotton and grain cultivation and agriculture-related services, Firozpur has some light manufacturing. Commercial progress is limited because it is very near the border between India and Pakistan. 

[[Pathankot]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Punjab, India, Cities in India

Pathankot (ਪਠਾਨਕੋਟ, پټان کوټ) is a city and a municipal committee in Gurdaspur district in the Punjab State of India. It is the fifth largest city in the state of Punjab in terms of population.

Pathankot is a meeting point of the Punjab region and considered a disputed territory by the United Nations. It is the last city in Punjab on the national highway that connects Jammu and Kashmir with the rest of Pakistan and India. This bestows strategic importance on the city. It is a major base for the defence forces, the Indian army and air force. It has the largest military base in the whole of Asia.May 2012

Due to its ideal location, Pathankot serves as a travel hub for the three northerly states. In the scenic foothills of Kangra and Dalhousie, with the river Chakki flowing close by, the city is often used as a rest-stop before heading into the Himalayan mountains of Kashmir, Dalhousie, Chamba, and Kangra.

[[Kori Creek]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Territorial disputes of India, Territorial disputes of Pakistan

The Kori Creek (કોરી ખાડી, کوری کریک) is a tidal creek and maritime Border dispute  between the Kutch region of the Indian state of Gujarat and the Kachchhi region of the Pakistani province of Sindh. It is in the Rann of Kutch marshland east of the Sir Creek, which is disputed between India and Pakistan. It is a 96 km (60 mi) strip of water disputed between the Republic of India and Pakistan, claimed by India as a part of the Indian Rann of Kutch marshlands. The creek, which opens up into the Arabian Sea, divides the Kutch region of the Indian state of Gujarat with the Sindh province of Pakistan. 

The long-standing dispute hinges in the actual demarcation "from the mouth of Kori Creek to the top of Kori Creek, and from the top of Kori Creek eastward to a point on the line designated on the Western Terminus". From this point onwards, the boundary is unambiguously fixed as defined by the Tribunal Award of 1968.

The creek itself is in the uninhabited marshlands. During the monsoon season between June and September, the creek floods its banks and envelops the low-lying salty mudflats around it. During the winter season, the area is home to flamingoes and other migratory birds.

[[Yonex]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Japan, Sports equipment, 1946 establishments in Asia, 1940s establishments in Japan

Yonex Co., Ltd. (7906) is a Japanese maker of  sporting equipment for badminton, golf and tennis, making racquets, clubs, shoes, shuttlecocks, and other equipment for those sports.

[[Bangladesh Liberation War]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladesh Liberation War, Wars involving India, Wars involving Pakistan, Wars of independence, 1971 in Bangladesh, 1971 in Pakistan

The Bangladesh Liberation War

This war is also called the Civil War in Pakistan

 (মুক্তিযুদ্ধ Muktijuddho) was a revolutionary war for independence that happened in 1971. It started the republic of Bangladesh. The war was between East Pakistan (later with India) and West Pakistan. It lasted nine months. There were large-scale atrocities. Ten million refugees left the country and 30 million people left their homes.

The war started on 26 March 1971 and finished on 16 December 1971. A category 3 cyclone also happened during the war.

Ghulam Azam and Motiur Rahman Nizami were convicted for war crimes as a result of the war. Azam died before a final hearing. Nizami was executed for his crimes in May 2016.

[[Toray Pan Pacific Open]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis tournaments

The Toray Pan Pacific Open (東レ・パン・パシフィック・テニス) is a WTA Tour of tennis tournaments for women. It is held every year since 1984 in Tokyo, Japan. 

[[Home City Ice]]

CATEGORIES: American food companies, 1896 establishments in the United States, Cincinnati, Ohio

Home City Ice is one of the largest packaged ice manufacturer in the United States, serving customers in Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Missouri, Arkansas, Wisconsin, Georgia, West Virginia, Illinois, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, New York, and Maryland.

[[Peter Potamus]]

CATEGORIES: Animated characters, Animated television series, 1964 television series debuts, 1966 television series endings

Peter Potamus is a cartoon made by Hanna-Barbera.  It was first shown on television on September 16, 1964. The main characters are a friendly purple hippopotamus called Peter Potamus and his friend So-So the monkey.  Together they explore the world in a time-traveling hot-air balloon.  Peter has a special "Hippo Hurricane Holler" that helps him blow away his enemies.

[[Muscovy duck]]

CATEGORIES: Ducks

The Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata) is a duck from Mexico. Its common name muscovy duck comes from commerce with Russia. It is related to Aix, a species of shelduck.

[[Soar]]

Soar could mean:

[[Soaring]]

Soaring might mean:

[[Hino]]

Hino could mean:

[[Feliformia]]

CATEGORIES: Feliformia

Feliformia is a suborder in the mammal order Carnivora. It contains all the Felidae, which are cat-like animals. The suborder also contains the relatives of the cats, which includes hyaenas, civets, and more. There are six families, twelve subfamilies, 56 genera and 114 species in the Feliformia suborder now.

Molecular phylogeny shows the Feliformia is monophyletic. The other suborder of Carnivora is the dog-like Caniformia.

[[Crack]]

Crack frequently refers to: 

[[Eared seal]]

CATEGORIES: Pinnipeds

An eared seal or otariid is Phocidae's family Otariidae.

[[Earless seal]]

CATEGORIES: Pinnipeds

The earless seals or true seals are Otariidae's family Phocidae, one of the three pinniped families.

[[Ernst Mayr]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 2005 deaths, American centenarians, American evolutionary biologists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, German centenarians, German evolutionary biologists, Ornithologists, People from Bavaria

Ernst Walter Mayr (5 July 1904, Kempten, Germany – 3 February 2005, Bedford, Massachusetts), was  a German American scientist. He was one of the 20th century's leading evolutionary biologists. He was also a well-known taxonomist, tropical explorer, ornithologist, historian of science, and naturalist. He was a leading contributor to the modern evolutionary synthesis. He was especially interested in how new species formed.

Mayr joined the faculty of Harvard University in 1953, where he also served as director of the Museum of Comparative Zoology from 1961 to 1970. He retired in 1975 as emeritus professor of zoology, showered with honors.

After his retirement, he went on to publish more than 200 articles, in a variety of journals—more than some reputable scientists publish in their entire careers; 14 of his 25 books were published after he was 65. Even as a centenarian, he continued to write books.

Mayr was awarded the Linnean Society's prestigious Darwin-Wallace Medal in 1958. He was never awarded a Nobel Prize, because there is no such prize for evolutionary biology. He commented that Darwin would not have received one, either. Mayr did win a 1999 Crafoord Prize. That prize honors basic research in fields that do not qualify for Nobel awards, and is administered by the same organization as the Nobel Prize.

[[Ovis]]

CATEGORIES: Caprids

Ovis is a genus of the subfamily Caprinae, of the family Bovidae. The wild sheep and domestic sheep and other animals like it belong to this genus. There are 5 or more animals in this genus. 

[[Aberdeen F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Premier League clubs, Aberdeen, 1903 establishments in Scotland

Aberdeen Football Club (also known as The Dons, The Reds and The Dandies) is a Scottish professional football club based in Aberdeen. They compete in the Scottish Premier League and are one of the most successful teams in their country, having won four league titles and seven Scottish Cups. They are also the only Scottish team to have won two European trophies, both in the same year.

Formed in 1903 as a result of the amalgamation of three clubs from Aberdeen, they rarely challenged for honours until the 1950s, when they won each of the major Scottish trophies under manager Dave Halliday. This level of success was surpassed in the 1980s, when, under the management of Alex Ferguson, they won three league titles, four Scottish Cups and a Scottish League Cup, alongside the European honours. Aberdeen were the last club outside of the Old Firm to win a league title, in 1984–85.

Aberdeen have played at Pittodrie Stadium since their inception. The ground currently has a capacity of 22,199 and was the first all-seated and all-covered stadium in the United Kingdom. Pittodrie was also the first football stadium to feature a dugout, an invention of player and coach Donald Colman. The club's colours have been primarily red and white since 1939; before this, they played in black and gold vertical stripes.

Aberdeen attract support from the city and surrounding areas, as they are the only senior team within a wide area. Aberdeen have no geographically close rivals; their nearest neighbours at the same level are in the city of Dundee, with Dundee United having been their principal rivals in the New Firm in the 1980s. Rangers supplanted Dundee United as rivals in the late 1980s, but the rivalry, while fierce, does not approach that of the Old Firm.

[[Gunnar Nordström]]

CATEGORIES: 1881 births, 1923 deaths, Finnish scientists, Physicists, People from Helsinki

Gunnar Nordström (12 March 1881, Helsinki – 24 December 1923, Helsinki) was a Finnish physicist. He is best known for his theory of gravitation, which was a competitor of Albert Einstein's general relativity. In 1914, Nordström added a space dimension to his theory. This described gravity and electromagnetism at the same time. Unluckily, Theodor Kaluza and Oskar Klein have got most attetion on this subject. Nordström is not well known in his own home country, but what he has done is known well in other countries. Some Finnish authors call Nordström as Finnish Einstein.

Nordström was born in Helsinki, the capital of Finland during the time when Finland was part of Russian Empire). He studied at University of Helsinki and completed his dissertation in 1908. Before this, he studied for some time in Göttingen where he met the world's best scientists. After this, he became a professor at the university. In 1910, he started his trip in Europe. He visited at Zürich, Berlin, Vienna, and Leyden. During his time in the Netherlands, he married Cornelia van Leeuwen. They had three children. 

Nordström was very close friend to Albert Einstein and Niels Bohr. He died at Helsinki in 1923 because of radioactivity. In that time, radioactivity was thought to have healing effects.

[[Pope Pius XI]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 births, 1939 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Italian popes

Pope Pius XI (Pius PP. XI; Pio XI, 31 May 1857–10 February 1939),  born Achille Ratti, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 260th Pope from 1922 to 1939.

[[Defender (football)]]

CATEGORIES: Football (soccer) terminology

A defender in football is a player, who plays in at the back of the formation. There are many positions classed as a defender, mainly:

The defenders are the first number when referring to formations, for example:

[[Defender]]

A defender is usually somebody who participates in a legal defense (legal).

Defender can also refer to:

[[Modern evolutionary synthesis]]

CATEGORIES: Evolution, History of science

The modern evolutionary synthesis is about evolution. It explained how the discoveries of Gregor Mendel fit with Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by means of natural selection. Mendel found out how we inherit our genes.

Key biologists who contributed work to the synthesis included: Julian Huxley, Theodosius Dobzhansky, Ernst Mayr, Ronald Fisher, J.B.S. Haldane, Sewall Wright, G.G. Simpson, E.B. Ford, Bernhard Rensch and G. Ledyard Stebbins.

[[Midfielder]]

CATEGORIES: Football (soccer) terminology

A midfielder in football is a player who usually plays in the centre of the field. There are usually a number of midfielders in each team of football, and are normally split into three: attacking; central; and defending.

The midfielders are always the middle parts of the formation numbers, for example:

[[Forward]]

CATEGORIES: Football (soccer) terminology

A Forward (or a Striker) is a football player who is the closest to the other team's goal. The forwards are the players that are known to score the most goals.

Ashik Mridha is famous Bangladeshi football player who plays as a forward.

Coaches usually send a forward that scores all the goals (the centre forward) and sends another forward that makes the assists (second striker).

The attackers are normally the last part of the formation numbers, for example:

==Famous strikers== 

[[Daniela Hantuchová]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Female tennis players, People from Poprad, Slovakian sportspeople

Daniela Hantuchová (born April 24,1983) is a former Slovak professional tennis player. As of May 2016, she was ranked World No. 170  in women's singles tennis and 179th in doubles.  In 2008, she reached the Australian Open semi-finals and has been ranked as World No. 5 for both women's singles and doubles. She played tennis for Slovakia in an international competition called the Fed Cup, and also in the Olympic Games.

As of her retirement from professional tennis in July, 2017, her winnings total more than million. She has worked with coaches from the Sanchez-Casal Academy, namely Angel Gimenez and Eduardo Nicolas. Her Women's Tennis Association (WTA) Tour mentor, Martina Navratilova, was also her doubles partner in early 2004.  Outside tennis, she has modeled clothes and has been in some television advertisements.

[[Lollywood]]

CATEGORIES: Lahore, Cinema of Pakistan

Lollywood (لالیوُڈ) is the name of Pakistani movie industry that is based in the city of Lahore. The name is a combination of the city's first letter with the name "Hollywood". The word "Lollywood" was first used in the summer of 1989.

[[Mugger crocodile]]

CATEGORIES: Crocodilia, Reptiles of Pakistan, National symbols of Pakistan

The mugger crocodile (Crocodylus palustris) is also known as the marsh crocodile, broad-snouted crocodile and mugger. 

It lives in the Indian subcontinent and nearby countries. In Pakistan's coastal regions of the Makran and delta marshlands of Sindh, it is known as the Indus crocodile.  The name "Mugger" is a corruption of the Urdu word magar which means "water monster".  It is one of three crocodilians in India, the others are the saltwater crocodile (C. porosus) and gharial (Gavialis gangeticus).

Mugger crocodile hatchlings are pale olive with black spots. Adults are dark olive to grey or brown. The head is rough without any ridges.

The mugger crocodile is a medium-sized crocodilian. It has a strong tail and webbed feet. It has good sense of smell, sight and hearing. Adult female muggers are 2 to 2.5 m (6 ft 7 in to 8 ft 2 in) on average. Adult male muggers are 3 to 3.5 m (9 ft 10 in to 11 ft 6 in). They rarely grow up to 5 m (16 ft 5 in). The largest known muggers measured 5.63 m (18 ft 6 in).

[[Sikhism in Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: religion in Pakistan, Sikhism

Sikhism is a very small minority religion in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan but has many cultural, historical and political ties to the country, and to the historical region of the Punjab.

Today, Pakistan, a nation of over 170 million, is 97% Muslim, with Christians and Hindus making up the largest minority faiths, each absorbing about 1.5% of the population. Sikhs, Zoroastrians, Buddhists, members of heterodox (according to Pakistani law) Islamic faiths and some adherents to animist religions make up the remainder. Information is scarce on minority adherents. According to the CIA Fact File, there are no more than 20,000 Sikhs in Pakistan now. To put this in perspective had there not been a partition in 1947 then the region that is called Pakistan to day would have had around 13 million Sikhs. 

[[Banbury]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oxfordshire

Banbury is a market town on the River Cherwell in northern Oxfordshire, England.  It had a population of 43,867 at the 2001 census. Although this figure has increased greatly in recent years.  Banbury is part of the Cherwell district. The Member of Parliament for Banbury is Victoria Prentis. Banbury played an important part in the English Civil War prior to the Battle of Edge Hill, as shown by The Reindeer inn (December 2005).

Heavy clay and Ironstone deposits surround Banbury. 

The Oxfordshire Ironstone Railway (the O.I.R.) was the local railway line from Banbury to the nearby ironstone quarry at Wroxton. It was open from 1917 to 1967.

[[Mecha]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction technology

Mecha (also known as meka or mechs) are walking vehicles run by a pilot, often shown in science fiction or fantasy with a futuristic element. Some stories, such as the Manga Patlabor and American miniatures game Battletech, also show mecha doing civilian purposes such as heavy construction work, police topics, or firefighting.

[[Tautology]]

Tautology could mean:

[[Kochi]]

Kochi could mean:

[[Glyph]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems, Typography

A glyph is an element of writing. Example: the ligature 'æ' in archæology represents a and e letters.

More exactly, a glyph is an element in an agreed set of symbols. A mark used in a language is a glyph, but in another language it may not be a glyph. For example, an 'n' with tilde, ñ, is used only in Spanish, as in piñata. It is not a glyph in English.

[[Tilde]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems, Alphabetic diacritics

The tilde ( ~ ) can be many things, such as a diacritic. Many languages use tildes. Two of these are Spanish and Portuguese.

In Spanish, the tilde, which is only put over the N ( Ñ ), makes it sound like ɲ (like 'ny' in canyon) instead of n.

The tilde also appears in Portuguese where it is used to nasalise (meaning to sound them through the nose) the vowels "a" (ã) and "o" (õ).

In UNIX operating systems, a tilde represents the user's "home" directory.

The tilde is also used to denote when something is an estimate, such as ~24 meaning approximately 24.

On most QWERTY keyboards, you can type a tilde by holding down the shift key and pressing the "`" (single back quote). This key is in the upper left corner of the keyboard, below the esc (escape) key and to the left of the key that you use to type the number 1 or an exclamation mark (!). 

Wikipedia editors sign their comments on Talk pages with four tildes (~~~~). 

[[Burlington, Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iowa, County seats in Iowa

Burlington is a city in Des Moines County, Iowa, United States. The population was 26,839 at the 2000 census. 

[[Regis High School (Cedar Rapids)]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in the United States, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, 1958 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Iowa, 1998 disestablishments in the United States

Regis Catholic High School was a Catholic high school in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. It is at 735 Prairie Drive NE. It merged with LaSalle High School to form Xavier High School in 1998.

[[Cedar Rapids, Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: Cedar Rapids, Iowa, County seats in Iowa

Cedar Rapids (ˌciːdɪrˈræpɨds) is the second largest city in the U.S. state of Iowa. It is the county seat of Linn County.

[[University of Northern Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Iowa, Missouri Valley Conference, Missouri Valley Football Conference, 1876 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Iowa

The University of Northern Iowa is a public university in Cedar Falls, Iowa.

[[Bowling]]

CATEGORIES: Sports, Hobbies

Bowling is a sport where people roll a heavy ball. It was invented centuries ago when grenades were heavy iron balls. Two main kinds of bowling arose. In one kind the bowler rolls a ball near a target and knocks away the ball of another bowler. This kind includes lawn bowling. 

In the more common kind nowadays, the bowler rolls the ball down a wooden bowling lane trying to knock down bowling pins. This kind includes ten-pin bowling, which is so commonplace that it is often simply called "bowling". Some people bowl at smaller pins, called "duck pins" or "candle pins" with slightly different rules.

[[Abbot Suger]]

CATEGORIES: 1081 births, 1151 deaths, French people

Abbot Suger (c. 1081 – January 13, 1151) was one of the last French abbot-statesmen. He was also a historian and the first patron of Gothic architecture.

[[Arch of Constantine]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Rome

The Arch of Constantine (Arco di Costantino) is an arch in Rome, found between the Colosseum and the Palatine Hill. It was built in honour of Constantine I's victory over Maxentius at the Battle of Milvian Bridge on October 28, 312. It is the latest of the triumphal arches in Rome.

[[Great hall]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Ages

A great hall was the main room of a royal palace, a nobleman's castle or a large manor house in the Middle Ages. At that time the word great meant big. Great halls were found in France, England and Scotland and some other European countries.

[[Louis VI of France]]

CATEGORIES: 1081 births, 1137 deaths, Kings and Queens of France, People from Paris

Louis VI (1 December 1081 – 1 August 1137), called the Fat (le Gros), was King of France from 1108 until his death (1137).

[[Louis VII of France]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens of France, 1120 births, 1180 deaths

Louis VII, called the Younger or the Young (Louis le Jeune; 1120 – 18 September 1180), was King of France from 1137 until his death. He was the son and successor of Louis VI.

[[Gatehouse]]

CATEGORIES: Fortification

A gatehouse is found on European castles, manor houses and mansions. A gatehouse was a strong building built over the gateway to a city or castle.

Sometimes gatehouses defended a town by being built across a bridge, a river or a moat, as in Monmouth.

[[Pittodrie Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland, Aberdeen

Pittodrie Stadium is a stadium in Aberdeen, Scotland. It is mostly used as a football stadium for Aberdeen F.C.

Aberdeen have played at Pittodrie Stadium throughout their existence. The ground was first used by the original Aberdeen F.C. in 1899, in a 7–1 win over Dumbarton; when they merged with two other teams in 1903, the new club took over the old Aberdeen ground. On August 15 1903, 8,000 spectators turned up to watch the new Aberdeen draw 1-1 against Stenhousemuir, the first game played at Pittodrie by its amalgamated tenants. The club initially rented the ground, but subsequently bought it in 1920. The stadium contains 21,600 seats, but due to the directors' boxes, some sources place this figure at 22,000.  The record attendance occurred on March 13 1954, when 45,061 spectators turned up for a Scottish Cup match between Aberdeen and Hearts.

The stadium consists of four stands. The Main Stand, which houses the club offices and players facilities, holds the majority of the supporters. The Merkland Road Stand is primarily for families. The South Stand is opposite the main stand and a quarter of this section is used to accommodate travelling supporters, except for Old Firm games, where half of this stand is given to the visiting fans. The newest element is the Richard Donald stand at the East, or Beach End, of the ground, and is named after former chairman Dick Donald. This is a modern, two–tier design, completed in 1993, containing hospitality suites which is significantly taller than the other structures at the ground. In 1978, Pittodrie became the first all covered, all-seater stadium in Britain.

The club are examining a move to a new stadium in Aberdeen.

[[Florence Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in Italy, Buildings and structures in Florence, 1296 establishments, 13th century establishments in Italy, 1290s establishments in Europe

One of the most amazing architecture made during the Renaissance was built in Italy by a man called Filippo Brunelleschi. Brunelleschi made the Santa Maria del Fiore cathedral in Florence, Italy. It took him 16 years to create and used mainly only two materials marble and brick. The cathedral finished its construction on the 9th of September 1296. Many experts do not understand the logic of how it was built. But what we do know is that Brunelleschi invented many new techniques to produce such an amazing cathedral. The Basilica di Santa Maria del Fiore or Florence Cathedral is the cathedral church of Florence, Italy. The basilica was designed by Arnolfo di Cambio with the dome by Filippo Brunelleschi. The bell tower was designed by Giotto. The outside is decorated with marble panels in green and pink bordered by white. The building was begun in 1296 and was finished in 1469, except for the decoration. The facade (the main front) was decorated between 1876 and 1903. The dome, which is built of bricks with stone ribs, is one of the biggest in the world.

[[Beauvais Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in France, Hauts-de-France, 13th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in France

Beauvais Cathedral (Cathédrale Saint-Pierre de Beauvais) is an unfinished cathedral in Beauvais, in northern France. It was started in the 13th century.

[[Orvieto Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in Italy, Umbria, 14th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Italy

The Duomo di Orvieto is a big 14th century Roman Catholic cathedral found in the town of Orvieto in Umbria in Italy.

[[Laon Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in France, Hauts-de-France

The cathedral of Notre-Dame of Laon is a cathedral in Laon, Hauts-de-France, France. The current gothic cathedral was built between 1135 and 1270, on the site of an romanesque church which had been destroyed by a fire. It is one of the most important examples of the Gothic architecture of the 12th and 13th centuries. It is also among the first gothic cathedrals built in France.  The cathedral has been compared to those of Saint-Étienne of Sens and Notre Dame of Paris.

[[Lincoln Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in England, Anglican Cathedrals, Lincolnshire

Lincoln Cathedral is an Anglican church in Lincoln, England. It was the tallest building in the world for over 200 years (1300–1549), but the central spire fell down in the sixteenth century and was not rebuilt. It owns one of the four surviving copies of the Magna Carta.

[[Milan Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in Italy, Milan, 1965 establishments in Europe, 1960s establishments in Italy

Milan Cathedral (Italian: Duomo di Milano) is the cathedral church of Milan found in Lombardy, northern Italy.  The cathedral where locate in Milan was built according to Italian style. Its construction was started in 1386 and was completed in 1965. The construction took 579 years. Capacity of the cathedral is 60000 people. It is one of the largest cathedral in the world and the largest in Italy. 

[[Sainte Chapelle]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Paris, Churches in France

La Sainte-Chapelle (The Holy Chapel) is a Gothic chapel found on the Île de la Cité in the heart of Paris, France. This chapel is a perfect example of the rayonnante period of Gothic architecture. The chapel was designed by architect, Pierre de Montereau.

La Sainte-Chapelle was built in six years (1242-1248). It was consecrated in 1248. The building was designed to house the relics of the Passion, especially the Crown of Thorns. King Louis IX had acquired this Crown from Emperor Baudouin II in 1239. The possession of this relic put France in the forefront of Latin Christendom.

Other relics were brought from Byzantium over the next two years. These relics were kept in the Saint-Nicholas Chapel until a more appropriate place could be prepared. During the French Revolution, the choir stalls and the rood screen of Sainte Chapelle were destroyed. The spire was torn down and the relics sent elsewhere. Restoration of the chapel was undertaken in 1846. The chapel was returned to its former splendor with this restoration. 

The stained glass windows of the chapel are its chief glory. They tell the story of humankind from the Creation to the Redemption of the world through Jesus Christ. These windows contain 6,458 sq. ft of glass. Two thirds of the glass are original. Each window is divided into lancets. These lancets must be read from left to right, working from the bottom up. They were restored in the 19th century.

[[Gloucester Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Anglican Cathedrals, Cathedrals in England, Gloucester

Gloucester Cathedral is an Anglican church in Gloucester, England. It is in the north of the city near the river. It started with the foundation of an Abbey built for Saint Peter in 678 or 679. Henry VIII ordered the monasteries to be dissolved and Gloucester Abbey surrendered in January 1540. The abbey buildings became Gloucester Cathedral, the seat of the Bishop of Gloucester in 1541. 

[[Legendary creature]]

CATEGORIES: Legendary creatures, Mythology, Folklore

A legendary, mythical and mythological creature, also called a fabulous creature and fabulous beast, is a supernatural animal, generally a hybrid, sometimes part human, whose existence has not or cannot be proved. Legendary creatures may be described in legends, fantasy, mythology, fables, folklore, poetry, fairy tales, novels, or other fiction but also in historical accounts before history became a science. Some examples are:

[[Uppsala Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden cathedrals, Uppsala

The Cathedral of Uppsala (Uppsala domkyrka), found in the city of Uppsala, Sweden, was built in the late 13th century. It is at a height and length of 118.7 m is the largest church building in Scandinavia.

[[Toledo Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in Spain, Toledo, Spain

The Cathedral of Saint Mary of Toledo (also called Primate Cathedral of Toledo, Spain) is one of the three 13th century High Gothic cathedrals in Spain.

The Toledo Cathedral was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Equilateral triangle]]

CATEGORIES: Polygons

In geometry, an equilateral triangle is a triangle where all three sides are the same length and all three angles are also the same and are each 60°.

If an altitude is drawn, it bisects the side to which it is drawn, in turn leaving two separate 30-60-90 triangles

[[Limoges Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in France, Limoges

Limoges Cathedral (Cathédrale Saint-Étienne de Limoges) is a Roman Catholic cathedral found in Limoges, France.

[[Rouen Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in France, Rouen

Rouen Cathedral (Cathédrale Notre-Dame de Rouen) is a Gothic cathedral in Rouen, in Normandy, northwestern France.

[[St Stephen's Cathedral, Vienna]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Austria, Christianity in Austria, Roman Catholic Cathedrals, 1140s establishments in Europe, Establishments in Austria, 1147 establishments

St. Stephen's Cathedral (Stephansdom) is found in Vienna, Austria. It has a clear Romanesque and Gothic form. The large place before it is called Stephansplatz (St. Stephen's place). It lies in the center of Vienna.

[[Carlisle Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Anglican Cathedrals, Cathedrals in England, Carlisle

Carlisle Cathedral is a Church of England cathedral in the city of Carlisle, in Cumbria, in northwest England. It is the seat of the bishop of the Church of England Diocese of Carlisle, 

[[Notre-Dame de Saint-Omer]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in France, Hauts-de-France

thumb|right|Notre-Dame de Saint-OmerNotre-Dame de Saint-Omer was a cathedral, in Saint-Omer, France. Today, it is an ordinary church. This is because after the French revolution, the seat of the bishop was moved to Arras. It is still a historical monument. There was a small chapel where the Cathedral stands today. The chapel was built in the 8th century. Around 1052, a church was built on the site. Around 1200, a fire greatly damaged the church. Reconstruction in Gothic style started around 1263. Since it was a major work, it took a long time. The main construction works were done form the 13th to the 16th century. By that time, there was a college associated with the church. 1714 saw the installation of the bishop's seat; in 1717 the last touch-ups were done to the pipe organ. The woodwork and the bishop's seat date from 1753. 

In 1792 there was the French Revolution. The Church was closed to worshippers. It was converted into a storage area. Unlike other churches, there was little vandalism done to it. The Concordat of 1801 saw the suppression of the diocese of Saint-Omer, it was moved to Arras.

[[Selby Abbey]]

CATEGORIES: Abbeys, Churches in England, North Yorkshire, Anglican churches

Selby Abbey is an Anglican parish church in the town of Selby, North Yorkshire. It was founded by Benedict in 1069 and built by the de Lacy family.

[[Rochester Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Anglican Cathedrals, Kent, Cathedrals in England

Rochester Cathedral is a Norman church in Rochester, Kent, and the cathedral of the Anglican diocese of Rochester. It was originally founded in 604 AD, and rebuilt by the Normans. The present church was consecrated in 1130. It became a place of pilgrimage after William of Perth was murdered nearby in 1201. 

[[Le Mans Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in France, Le Mans

The Cathedral of Le Mans is a cathedral built in the Gothic style in the town of Le Mans, France. It is dedicated to Saint Julien; he was the first bishop of Le Mans; he is also buried in the cathedral. It is somewhat unusual in the West. It is often compared to those of Reims and Chartres. Its building was influenced a lot by the cathedral of Bourges. It is also special because its nave is built in Romanesque style, but the choir is built in Gothic style.

[[Types of tennis match]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis

Traditionally, tennis is played between two people in a Singles match, or four players in a Doubles match. However, popular variations allowing play between three players (of which two or three are on the court at any one time) have emerged.

[[Love Street]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland, Sports buildings in the United Kingdom, 2009 disestablishments in the United Kingdom

Love Street was a Scottish football stadium in Paisley, Glasgow. It was owned by St Mirren F.C. who played their home games at the stadium. It closed in 2009.

[[Valdas Adamkus]]

CATEGORIES: People from Kaunas, Presidents of Lithuania, 1926 births, Living people, Civil servants

Valdas Adamkus (born 3 November 1926) is a Lithuanian politician and engineer. He was the President of the Republic of Lithuania. He was born on November 3, 1926 in Kaunas, Lithuania. His birth name was Valdemaras Adamkavičius.

First elected in 1998, he ended his term in office in 2003. When Rolandas Paksas, the new elected president, was impeached and removed by the Lithuanian Parliament in 2004, Adamkus was re-elected. He chose not to run for re-election during the Lithuanian presidential election in 2009.  He was succeeded on 12 July 2009 by Dalia Grybauskaitė.

In 1951, he married Alma Adamkienė.

Following the end of his term as president, Adamkus remained involved in international development, and a member of the European Academy of Diplomacy.

[[Islamic architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural styles, Islamic culture

Islamic architecture is a type of architecture. It has been used for many different kinds of buildings; many mosques were built based on old Egyptian style. It can be very varied. Decoration is often limited to calligraphy, as Muslims are forbidden to make images of god. They also make complicated tile artwork and decorate buildings, pottery and canvas with painted calligraphy looking beautiful. 

[[Easter Road]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland, Buildings and structures in Edinburgh

Easter Road is a Scottish football stadium in Edinburgh. It is owned by Hibernian F.C. who play their home games at the stadium.

[[New Douglas Park]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland

New Douglas Park is a Scottish football stadium. It is owned by Scottish Premier League team Hamilton Academical F.C. who play their home games at the stadium.

[[Falkirk Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland

Falkirk Stadium is a Scottish football stadium. It is owned by Falkirk F.C. who play their home games at the stadium.

[[Rugby Park]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland

Rugby Park is a Scottish football stadium. It is owned by Kilmarnock F.C. who play their home games at the stadium.

[[Tannadice]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland, Dundee

Tannadice is a Scottish football stadium. It is owned by Dundee United F.C. who play their home games at the stadium. Tannadice Stadium is on the same street as their Dundee rivals stadium, Dundee F.C.

[[Tynecastle]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland, Buildings and structures in Edinburgh

Tynecastle is a football stadium in Edinburgh, Scotland. It is owned by Hearts of Midlothian F.C. who play their home games at the stadium.

[[Ibrox]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland, Buildings and structures in Glasgow

Ibrox is a Scottish football stadium. It is owned by Rangers F.C. who play their home games at the stadium. The capacity is 50,987.

[[Caledonian Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland

Caledonian Stadium is a Scottish football stadium. It is owned by Inverness Caledonian Thistle F.C. who play their home games at the stadium.

[[Fir Park]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland, North Lanarkshire, 1895 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1890s establishments in Scotland

Fir Park is a football stadium in Motherwell, North Lanarkshire, Scotland. The stadium is the home of Scottish Premier League club Motherwell F.C.. The stadium is all seats with a capacity of 13,742. The highest attendance for the stadium is 35,632 against Rangers in a 1952 Scottish Cup match.

Today, the stadium has an unbalanced look, with one large stand and three smaller stands. The biggest stand at the ground is the two-tiered South Stand, which was built in 1993. Opposite is the small Davie Cooper Stand, named after the former player, which was built in 1995. These two stands have their advertising slogans changed whenever the club's sponsor changes.

Running along one side of the ground is the East Stand, which used to be a terrace until it was changed into a seating area. This stand had the legendary "KEEP CIGARETTES AWAY FROM THE MATCH" slogan displayed below the roof, facing the pitch. Since the smoking ban was put into place in 2006, slogans such as these were no longer needed, and in 2012, was changed to Cash Converters, the clubs main sponsor.  The East stand is the stand of choice for many of the younger and passionate fans of the club.

Opposite the East Stand is The Phil O'Donnell Stand, which was known as the Main Stand until 2008. The stand was renamed The Phil O'Donnell Stand in honour of the late Motherwell captain who died on the Fir Park pitch.

This is a strange-looking stand, as the steel girders run for the full length of the pitch, but the stand only runs for two thirds the length of the pitch. This was because, in 1962, a nearby houseowner complained about the building of the stand during construction. Both the club and the houseowner failed to work things out, so to this day, the stand has not been built the full length of the pitch.

[[Flag of Lithuania]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, Lithuania

The Flag of Lithuania is a tricolour flag currently used by Lithuania. The flag has three horizontal stripes. The yellow stripe on the top represents the sun, the green stripe in the middle represents forests, the red stripe on the bottom represents the blood of people who defended Lithuania's freedom. The flag's ratio is 3:5 (1:2 in 1989). The Council of Lithuania first adopted it in 1918. When the Soviets occupied Lithuania in 1940, they changed the flag to a Soviet one. When Lithuania gained independence in 1990, the flag was reintroduced. This newly introduced flag had a ratio of 1:2. In 2004, it was changed to 3:5. 

==Special days for the flag== 

The table below shows the dates when the flag should be flown: 

[[Wikiversity]]

CATEGORIES: Wikimedia, Wikis, Websites established in 2006

Wikiversity is a free wiki website, a sister project of Wikipedia, and run by the Wikimedia Foundation. It is used to help students learn, or teachers to teach. Wikiversity develops learning resources on every subject which users are interested in. It has many links to other wikis with educational material like Wikipedia and Wikibooks. 

Wikiversity started in 2006. Before that Wikiversity was a part of Wikibooks, the library of free textbooks. There are currently wikiversities in many different languages: Czech, English, French, German, Greek, Japanese, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish. 

Wikiversity is the best way to develop a small wiki resource to learn your favorite topic if the information is from Wikipedia or Wikibooks. It is also a good place to use the MediaWiki wiki tools. 

Wikiversity resources are different from Wikipedia because the user can begin research on the topic. Wikipedia uses materials that are notable and not original research. Wikiversity allows resources and articles developed among individual users. Wikiversity users don't have to share changes with other users. Userpages are used to write articles on your own.

Wikiversity Beta is used to make new Wikiversities. If users speak a language that needs a Wikiversity, then Wikiversity Beta is where they make their resources. 

[[Pollywood]]

CATEGORIES: Cinema of Pakistan, Peshawar

Pashto films industry or Pollywood (پالیوڈ) is the popular acronym for the Pashto language movie industry based in the city of Peshawar, the provincial capital of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Thomas Andrews]]

CATEGORIES: Irish businesspeople, Victims of the RMS Titanic, People from County Down, 1873 births, 1912 deaths

 Thomas Andrews  (7 February 1873 - 15 April 1912) was an Irish businessman. He designed the RMS Titanic. He was married and had a girl who was born in 1908. He died during the sinking of the Titanic in 1912. In the movie Titanic by James Cameron, he was portrayed by actor Victor Garber.

Mr. Thomas Andrews was enrolled into the Royal Belfast at age 11 and left at the age of 16 so that he could go and work for Harland and Wolf as a premium apprentice. At the end of his Apprentice he would be guaranteed a position at the shipyard. Mr. Andrews was made manager of the construction works in 1901; in 1901 he was awarded with the honor of being Manager Director. Andrews as a child had a rich home, good family and his parents were able to support him and his family very well.  His father was a distinguished local politician and his mother Eliza was Lord William parries sister, his uncle was a high court judge and his brother who was to become Northern Irelands Prime Minister.  Mr. Andrews was a first class passenger of the titanic and was born on February 7th 1873 and died on April 15th 1912 at sea. Mr. Andrews died while the ship was sinking; One of the most famous legends of the sinking of the Titanic is that he was last seen staring at the painting in the first class smoking room, making no attempt to save himself.  But this story, which was published in a 1912 book (Thomas Andrews: Shipbuilder) and therefore perpetuated, came from John Stewart, a steward on the ship who in fact did leave the ship in boat n. 15 at approximately 1:40 a.m.

There were testimonies of sightings of Andrews after that moment. It appears that Andrews stayed in the smoking room for some time to gather his thoughts, then he continued assisting with the evacuation. Another reported sighting was of Andrews frantically throwing deck chairs into the ocean for passengers to use as floating devices. Andrews was then seen making his way to the bridge while carrying a lifebelt, possibly the same lifebelt Andrews had draped over a chair in the Smoke Room. Andrews was last seen leaving the ship at the last moment; his body was never recovered.

Newspaper accounts of the disaster labeled Andrews a hero. Mary Sloan, a stewardess on the ship, whom Andrews persuaded to enter a lifeboat, later wrote in a letter: "Mr. Andrews met his fate like a true hero, realizing the great danger, and gave up his life to save the women and children of the Titanic.

In January 1914 The Thomas Andrews Jr. Memorial Hall was opened in honor of the Very loved Thomas Andrews.

==References== 

[[Poprad]]

CATEGORIES: Poprad

Poprad (Sk-Poprad.ogg; Poprád, Deutschendorf) is a city in northern Slovakia at the bottom of the High Tatra Mountains. It is the biggest town in the Spiš region and the tenth largest city in Slovakia. As of 2016, about 52,000 people live in Poprad.

The city has a historic centre, an international airport and is the starting point of the Tatranská elektrická železnica (Tatra Electric Railway) - a set of special narrow-gauge trains (trams) connecting the resorts in the High Tatra Mountains with each other and with Poprad.  Main line trains link Poprad to other destinations in Slovakia and beyond, through trains run to Prague in the Czech Republic.

[[Martina Navratilova]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, American autobiographers, American female tennis players, American LGBT people, American LGBT rights activists, Australian Open champions, Breast cancer survivors, Coaches, Czech tennis players, French Open champions, Lesbians, Living people, LGBT sportspeople, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Participants in American reality television series, Sportspeople from Prague, People with cancer, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players, BBC 100 Women

Martina Navratilova (Martina Navrátilová; born Martina Subertová on October 18, 1956, in Prague, Czechoslovakia) is a Czech-American retired tennis player who has been World No. 1.

Navratilova is openly lesbian. She married Julia Lemigova in December 2014.

In February 2010, she was diagnosed with breast cancer. The following month she had surgery to remove it.

[[Leoš Friedl]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Male tennis players, Czech tennis players

Leoš Friedl (born January 1 1977 in Jindřichův Hradec) is a Czech professional tennis player best known for his doubles play with František Čermák. He is coached by Lubomir Gerla. In his career, he has won 15 top-level doubles titles and $1,027,625 in prize money. Having turned professional in 1997, Friedl won the 2001 Wimbledon mixed doubles title with Daniela Hantuchová, where they beat Mike Bryan and Liezel Huber, 4–6, 6–3, 6–2.

[[Kevin Ullyett]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Male tennis players, Zimbabwean people

Kevin Ullyett (born May 23, 1972) is a tennis player from Harare, Zimbabwe. His success on the tour has come playing doubles.

In his career, he has won 24 doubles titles, including the 2001 US Open and the 2005 Australian Open, both with Wayne Black.

In Mixed Doubles, Ullyett won the 2002 Australian Open with Daniela Hantuchová. He reached the final of Wimbledon in 2002, with Hantuchová, and the semifinal of Wimbledon in 2003 and 2005 with Hantuchová and Liezel Huber respectively. He reached the 2005 Australian Open final, also with Huber.

Black, Ullyett's compatriot and long-time doubles partner, retired at the end of 2005. He now plays with Jonas Björkman.

[[Arantxa Sánchez Vicario]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Female tennis players, French Open champions, Living people, Medalists at the 1992 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Barcelona, Spanish sportspeople, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Aránzazu (Arantxa) Isabel Maria Sanchez Vicario (born 18 December 1971, in Barcelona, Spain) is a retired Spanish professional tennis player. During her career, she won 4 Grand Slam singles titles and 6 Grand Slam doubles titles.

A little bit about her ....... 

At the 1990 US Open, a reporter asked Arantxa Sánchez-Vicario what she kept in her oversized Reebok sports bag that she was toting around the grounds at Flushing Meadows. With a wide grin, and the exuberance of a teenager (Sánchez-Vicario was still four months away from turning 19), she explained that in addition to a half-dozen racquets, extra sets of strings, grips, socks, clothing, and assorted fruit, that she often carried her Pomeranian dog in the bag. It was good luck, she said with a bright smile, explaining how her dog traveled the globe with her.

[[Ai Sugiyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Female tennis players, French Open champions, Japanese tennis players, Living people, People from Kanagawa Prefecture

Ai Sugiyama is a Japanese professional tennis player. She turned professional in 1992. In her career so far, she has won 6 singles titles and 36 doubles titles, including three Grand Slam women's doubles titles (1 with Frenchwoman Julie Halard-Decugis and 2 partnering Belgian Kim Clijsters). Ai is coached by her mother and plays a game based on her fitness and speed, utilizing an aggressive serve and volley whenever feasible.

[[Patty Schnyder]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Female tennis players, Living people, Sportspeople from Basel, Swiss tennis players

Patty Schnyder (born 14 December 1978, Basel) is a retired professional female tennis player from Switzerland. She played on the WTA tour from 1993 to 2011 and is a former World No.7. She has had important wins over World No. 1's.

During her long career, she reached four Grand Slam quarterfinals, and one Grand Slam semifinal. She has won 10 WTA singles titles and 4 WTA doubles titles and has made over $6,906,000 in prize money.

[[Indian Wells, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Riverside County, California

Indian Wells is a city in Riverside County, California, in the Coachella Valley. It is in the Palm Springs area near Palm Desert, La Quinta, and Indio. For the United States 2000 Census, the city population was 3,816. 

It has the highest proportion of millionaires of any city in the United States.

The city hosts a tennis tournament called the Indian Wells Masters. (The Masters is also known by its current sponsorship name of Pacific Life Open.) The Indian Wells Masters is one of nine tournaments in the Tennis Masters Series. The Masters Series is a high-level event operated by the Association of Tennis Professionals. The event is held in the 16,100-seat stadium of the Indian Wells Tennis Garden.

[[Indian Wells Masters]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis tournaments, Sports in California

The Indian Wells Masters is an annual tennis tournament held in the small city of Indian Wells, California. The official sponsored name of the event is currently the Pacific Life Open. 

The event is part of the ATP Masters Series on the men's tour and is a Premier Mandatory event on the women's tour. The event, held in March, is one of two tour events (beside Miami Masters) in which main draw play extends beyond 8 days. The women's main draw usually starts on Wednesday and the men's main draw starts on Monday. Both finals are held on Sunday of the following week. Both singles main draws include 96 players. The 32 seeded players get a bye to the second round. 

The tournament is played on hard courts and is the best attended tennis tournament outside the four Grand Slam tournaments, with over 300,000 visitors during the event. It has the second largest stadium in the world.

[[Zeeshan]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Zeeshan (Zîşan) is a Arabic name which comes from the words "Zee"  (someone who has) and "Shan" (splendor). It means a high-resolve (high standard of following what one plans to do) or a standard of high-status.

It may be written in Arabic as ذيشان or ذي شان. Both are valid forms. The first one is a compound word Zeeshan, and the second one is two words Zee and Shan.

The word 'Zeeshan' in Arabic is often used in poetry as an adjective, usually suggesting a meaning of magnificent, or possessor of high status. This name is often given to males in Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan, Bangladesh,

Pakistan, Kashmir, Iran, and among the Indian Muslims, & other Asian countries of the Greater Middle East region.

[[Mahmood]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Mahmud (also spelled Mahmood, Mahmoud, Mahmut, Mehmood, Mahmoed or Mehmud) is the main transliteration of the Arabic given name (محمود, Maḥmūd) that comes from the Arabic triconsonantal root of Ḥ-M-D "Praise".

Despite sharing the same triconsonantal root, this name is distinct from the name Muhammad. One of the Islamic prophet Muhammad's many names is Mahmud.July 2010

The name is common in most parts of the Islamic world; it is used as a given name for males, while the variant Mahmuda is given to females.July 2010

[[Kite]]

CATEGORIES: Toys, Sports equipment

A kite is a flying object that is attached to the ground by a rope, or ropes. Kites can be flown for fun, or in competitions. In India, people fly kites on Makar Sankranti.

[[University of Portsmouth]]

CATEGORIES: Universities in England, Portsmouth

The University of Portsmouth is a university in Portsmouth. It was started as the Portsmouth and Gosport School of Science and the Arts in 1869, and gained university status in 1992.

Portsmouth has been rated as the 5th best modern university in the UK by The Times Good University Guide.

[[Winchester Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in England, Anglican Cathedrals, Winchester

Winchester Cathedral is a mediaeval Anglican church in Winchester, Hampshire. It is the seat of the Bishop of Winchester.

The cathedral has the longest nave and overall length of any Gothic cathedral in Europe.  By contrast, the interior height of the nave vault at 78 feet is about half that of Beauvais Cathedral in France.

[[Vertical]]

An object is in a vertical position when it goes in an "up-down" direction, also perpendicular to the horizon or horizontal plane.

In science, it could also mean:

In mathematics:

In music:

In business:

In networking:

In furnishings:

In athletics:

In  a Vertical wine tasting different vintages of the same wine type from the same winery are tasted.

[[Racing Stripes]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, American comedy movies, American adventure movies, American animated movies, Movies about animals, 2000s adventure movies, Movies composed by Ennio Morricone

Racing Stripes is a 2005 animated adventure and comedy movie. It stars Frankie Muniz and Hayden Panettiere. The movie was  directed by Frederik Du Chau. 

[[Forehand]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis

The forehand in tennis is a shot made by swinging the racquet across one's body in the direction of where the player wants to place the shot. For a right-handed player, the forehand is a stroke that begins on the right side of his body, continues across his body as contact is made with the ball, and ends on the left side of his body. It is considered the easiest shot to master, perhaps because it is the most natural stroke. Beginners and advanced players often have better forehands than any other shots and use it as a weapon.

[[Vogue (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 establishments in New York (state), Fashion magazines, Monthly magazines

Vogue is a fashion and lifestyle magazine published in nine countries by a company called Condé Nast Publications. The American version of Vogue is edited by Anna Wintour, an English woman who has lived in New York City for a long time. Each month, Vogue publishes a magazine based entirely on fashion, life and design. It was founded in 1892.

[[Sponsor]]

CATEGORIES: Culture, Economics

To sponsor something is to support an event, activity, person, or organization. The support can be with money or giving something else useful, such as advertising, or time. A sponsor is the individual or group that gives the support, similar to a benefactor. A sponsor may also be a personal sponsor, a political sponsor or a state sponsor. There are many different kinds of sponsors.

[[Texas Rangers (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: Texas Rangers (baseball), 1961 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Washington, D.C., 1960s establishments in Texas

The Texas Rangers are an American Major League Baseball team from Arlington, Texas. The team plays in Arlington, but it also represents the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth and the surrounding area. The Rangers are part of the Western Division of Major League Baseball's American League.

Their first home field in Texas was Arlington Stadium. They built Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, later known as Globe Life Park in Arlington, next door, and tore down Arlington Stadium when they moved in to the new stadium. After the 2019 season, they left Globe Life Park for the new Globe Life Field, located across the street. Globe Life Park was then rebuilt into a football and soccer stadium.

The team began in 1961 as the Washington Senators. The Senators played poorly and had too few fans to support them. The team moved to Arlington, Texas, in 1972. They were renamed in honor of the famous state police force called the Texas Rangers. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, there had also been a minor league baseball team called the Dallas Rangers.

[[Texas Rangers]]

Texas Rangers may mean:

[[Office suite]]

CATEGORIES: Office suites

In computing, an office suite, sometimes called an office software suite or productivity suite is a software suite for use by workers. The parts of an office suite are usually come together, have a standard user interface and usually can interact with each other, sometimes in ways operating systems would not normally allow.

20th century office suites operated offline, not using the Internet. Examples that are still widely used include Microsoft Office and LibreOffice. Some can operate online, including Microsoft Office Online, Google Docs, and LibreOffice Online.

[[The Rake's Progress]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Igor Stravinsky, 1950s operas, 1951

The Rake's Progress is an opera by Igor Stravinsky.  The libretto written by W. H. Auden and Chester Kallman is based loosely on the eight paintings and engravings from the 18th century by William Hogarth called A Rake's Progress.  Stravinsky had seen these paintings in 1947 at an exhibition in Chicago.

The Rake’s Progress tells the story of a man called Tom Rakewell.  The word “rake” in this sense means “someone (usually a man) who behaves in an immoral way: a man who has relationships with lots of women. 

The word “progress” in the title is ironic because Tom does not really make progress:  he does not become a better man.  In a sense he progresses backwards, because he starts off in a state of blissful innocence, i.e. he does not understand anything about his life, he does not know about good and bad.   At the end of the opera he also does not

understand anything about his life, but that is because he has gone mad.  

Tom is like Faust because he sells his soul to the devil.  In this opera the character Nick Shadow represents the devil.  Tom leaves his lover Anne Trulove and goes to find lots of other women in London.  He has several adventures, which are all arranged by Nick who is helping him to have a good time.  In the end Tom finds himself in Bedlam which was a horrible building where mad people were sent in the 18th century.

[[Serial]]

Serial may refer to the presentation of works in sequential segments, e.g.:

[[Port of Karachi]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Pakistan

The Port of Karachi (بندر گاہ كراچى) is Pakistan's largest and busiest seaport. It handles about 60% of the nation's cargo (25 million tons per year). The port is located between the towns of Kiamari and Saddar. It is close to the center of old Karachi, the main business district, and several industrial areas. The geographic position of Karachi places the port near major shipping routes such as the Strait of Hormuz. The administration of the port is carried out by the Karachi Port Trust which was created in the nineteenth century.

[[Sonmiani Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Pakistan, Bays

Sonmiani Bay is found on the Arabian Sea in Lasbela District, Balochistan, Pakistan.

[[Churma Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Pakistan

Churma Island or Churna Island (جزیرہ  چرما) is a small island in the Arabian Sea off the coast of Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Clifton Oyster Rocks]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Pakistan

The Clifton Oyster Rocks are islands off the coast of the Clifton neighbourhood of Karachi, Pakistan. The islands were controlled by the Pakistani Navy until 2006, when the Karachi city government decided to make island as part of its plans to renovate the city. As part of these plans, the Port Fountain was constructed at the base of the northern island. It shoots water up to 620 feet in the air, and is the second-tallest fountain in the world.

[[Khiprianwala Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Pakistan

Khiprianwala Island is a small island in the Arabian Sea. It is off the coast of Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Malan Island]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Asia, Islands of Pakistan, Mountains of Pakistan

Malan Island is a mud volcano that is found in the Arabian Sea. It is three kilometers off the coast of Balochistan, Pakistan. It ran out of water in March of 1999.

[[Manora Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Pakistan

Manora or Manoro (جزیرہ منوڑا) is a small island just south of the Port of Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. It has an area of 2.5.  The island is connected to the mainland by a 12 long causeway called the "Sandspit". Manora and other islands close to it create a protective barrier between Karachi harbor to the north and the Arabian Sea to the south. The western bay of the harbor has endangered mangrove forests which border the Sandspit and Manora island. To the east is Karachi Bay and the beach towns of Kiamari and Clifton. The island is located at 24. Manora is overlooked by the Manora Point Lighthouse, the fourth tallest in Pakistan at 38. 

[[Trillian]]

CATEGORIES: Instant messaging software

Trillian is an instant messaging program made by Cerulean Studios. It can be used with many different chat services.  The newest version works with AIM, ICQ, MSN, Yahoo Messenger, and IRC.

[[Frankie Muniz]]

CATEGORIES: People from Ridgewood, New Jersey, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Actors from New Jersey, Actors from North Carolina, American child actors, American movie actors, American racecar drivers, American television actors, American voice actors, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, Sportspeople from New Jersey, Sportspeople from Raleigh, North Carolina, 1985 births, Living people, Actors from Raleigh, North Carolina

Francisco "Frankie" Muniz IV (born December 5, 1985) is an American actor. He was born in Ridgewood, New Jersey and grew up in Wood-Ridge, New Jersey, Raleigh, North Carolina and Burbank, Los Angeles. He is best known for his role as Malcolm in the television sitcom Malcolm in the Middle.

[[Wendee Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, American voice actors, Vegetarians, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Wendee Lee (born February 20, 1960 in Los Angeles, California) is an American voice actress. She is best known for voicing, or speaking, in many different video games, Power Rangers episodes, ADR voiceover of The Powerpuff Girls series, and dubbing, or film making, in anime. She is also a vegetarian.

[[Weilheim-Schongau]]

CATEGORIES: Weilheim-Schongau

Weilheim-Schongau (German: Landkreis Weilheim-Schongau, Bavarian: Landkroas Weilheim-Schogau) is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in the south of Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Landsberg (district), Starnberg Rural District, Bad Tölz-Wolfratshausen, Garmisch-Partenkirchen (district) and Ostallgäu; Weilheim i.OB is the capital of the district Weilheim-Schongau.

[[El Muerto]]

CATEGORIES: Comics characters, Comic books

El Muerto (in English, "The Dead One") is a superhero from a self-published comic book series made by Javier Hernandez. His real name is Juan Diego de la Muerte, or simply "Diego". Some of El Muerto's powers include super-strength, near-immortality, and the power to resurrect the dead. He got his powers after being kidnapped by the Aztec gods of death and destiny and being sacrificed in an ancient ritual. 

[[Bill]]

Bill is a male name.

It may also refer to:

[[El Muerto (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, American superhero movies, American independent movies

El Muerto (also called The Dead One, El Muerto: The Dead One, The Dead One: El Muerto, or The Dead One: An American Legend) is a 2007 movie. It was made from the story of the comic book superhero El Muerto. It was written and directedby Brian Cox (director). Wilmer Valderrama starred as the main character, El Muerto/Diego de la Muerte. Also starring were Angie Cepeda as Diego's girlfriend, Joel David Moore as Diego's best friend, and Billy Drago played as the bad guy. The movie tells the story of Diego de la Muerte, a 21-year-old Mexican-American who is sacrificed by the Aztec gods of death and destiny to fulfill an ancient prophecy. The movie is rated PG-13 for violence and some disturbing images. The movie premiered on March 1, 2007 and was released on DVD September 18, 2007. It won the Best Feature Film Award at the first Whittier Film Festival in 2008.

[[Thomas Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: Australian explorers, Scottish people, Exploration of Australia, 1792 births, 1855 deaths

[[Wagga Wagga]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New South Wales

Wagga Wagga is a small city on the banks of the Murrumbidgee River in New South Wales. The name Wagga Wagga is a Wiradjuri Indigenous Australian word. In 2019 the English translation of Wagga Wagga was changed from the widely accepted place of many crows to place of many dances and celebrations.

Wagga Wagga has a humid subtropical climate (Cfa in the Koeppen climate classification).

[[Low Countries]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Europe

The Low Countries is a term used to refer to a geographical region, especially during the Middle Ages. This region is around the deltas of the Rhine, the Scheldt and the Meuse (Maas). Today,  the Low Countries consists of the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and the parts of Lower-Saxony (in Germany) that are in the region. Sometimes, the French Netherlands (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) are included as well.

The Dutch name of the Netherlands is Nederland, which literally means low country. The region was usually referred to as de Nederlanden.

[[Palestine Liberation Organization]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Palestine, Nationalist organizations in Palestine, 1964 establishments in Asia, Arab–Israeli conflict

The Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) is a group that works to create a state for Palestinians. The group was created in 1964. It represents Palestinians in diplomatic relations to other countries. It has held observer status at the United Nations since 1974.

The PLO used violence to try and get what they wanted, which was land from the Israelis that they lost in the Arab-Israeli War in 1948. The PLO wants the right of return for Palestinian refugees. There were many cases of fighting between the PLO and the Israeli army. 

There are two factions in the organization: Fatah and Hamas. From 1993 to 1998, the PLO made agreements with Israel that created the Palestinian National Authority (PNA). The PNA is in charge of governing Gaza and the West Bank. The leader of the PLO at the time was Yasser Arafat. He signed a series of peace treaties called the Oslo Accords with Yitzhak Rabin who was the Prime Minister of Israel at the time. Many politicians in the PLO and Israel did not agree with the Accords. Far right Israeli Yigal Amir who disagreed very much with the agreements killed Israeli prime minister Rabin.

Mahmoud Abbas has been leading the PLO as successor of Arafat since 29 October 2004 (acting until 11 November 2004).

[[Dome of the Rock]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Jerusalem, Holy places in Islam, Religion in Israel, Temple Mount

The Dome of the Rock (مسجد قبة الصخرة, transliteration: Masjid Qubbat As-Sakhrah) is a Islamic colonial occupation building in East Jerusalem. It is on the stolen Temple Mount of the indigenous Jews in the Old City.

It was built from 691 from 692 by Caliph Abd al-Malik. It is built on the spot where the  is believed to have been, and where Muslims believe Muhammad went up to heaven. The rock on which the building stands is believed by Jews to be the holiest place on Earth

[[Illegal prime]]

CATEGORIES: Prime numbers, Computers

An illegal prime is a special prime number.  Such prime numbers are called illegal, because there is a way to change them, so that they yield something illegal: a program to circumvent the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. One of the first people to find such a prime was Phil Camody. In 2001, he found a prime that contains the gzip compressed source code for a program that can circumvent the Content Scrambling System.  The Content Scrambling System is used as a way to prevent DVDs from being copied. Later, other primes were found that resulted in directly runnable programs.

The United States and other countries made it illegal to publish or circulate computer programs that can circumvent copy protection. Since prime numbers are a concept from mathematics, their knowledge cannot be made illegal easily. 

Any information that can be represented in binary form can be represented as a number.

[[Temple Mount]]

CATEGORIES: Temple Mount, Holy places in Islam, Judaism in Israel

The Temple Mount is a religious site in the Old City of Jerusalem. It is a holy place in Judaism and Islam.

In Judaism it is the location of the two Jewish Temples, and is believed to be the place where Adam was born, where Adam built an altar for God, where Cain and Abel offer their sacrifices, and where Abraham offered Isaac as a sacrifice. In Hebrew it is called he (הַר הַבַּיִת) or he (הַר הַמוריה).

In Islam, the Temple Mount is believed to be the place where Muhammad ascended to Heaven. It Arabic it is known as the Haram (الحرم الشريف, al-Ḥaram al-Šarīf), which means "Noble Sanctuary".

It is also associated with Biblical prophets who are venerated in Judaism, Christianity and Islam.

[[Content Scramble System]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography, DVD

The Content Scrambling System (or Content Scramble System) is a system to encrypt and copy-protect DVDs. Such systems are generally called Digital Rights Management (or DRM) systems. CSS uses symmetric cryptography. It was introduced in 1996; today, it is considered ineffective.

In October 1999, Jon Lech Johansen and two other people (who remained anonymous) broke the system. CSS uses 40-bit cryptographic keys; because of different design problems, the effective key length is only about 16 bits. A 450 MHz processor, current at the time could brute force crack this in less than a minute. A modern processor such as the Core i7 or Athlon 64 can crack it in a few seconds.

CSS requires special information in the lead-in (a special area) of the disc. Since the lead-in cannot be changed on recordable DVDs these cannot have CSS protection (with a few exceptions, some professional drives allow writing CSS keys to recordable discs).

[[1986-87 NHL season]]

The 1986–87 NHL season was the 70th season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-one teams each played 80 games. The Edmonton Oilers won the Stanley Cup by beating the Philadelphia Flyers four games to three in the Cup finals.

[[1985-86 NHL season]]

The 1985–86 NHL season was the 69th season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-one teams each played 80 games. This season saw the league's Board of Governors introduce the Presidents' Trophy, which would go to the team with the best overall record in the NHL regular season. The Edmonton Oilers would be the first winners of this award.

The Montreal Canadiens defeated the Calgary Flames four games to one in the final series to win the Stanley Cup.

[[Rangers F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football clubs, Glasgow, 1872 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1870s establishments in Scotland

Rangers Football Club are an association football team based in Glasgow, Scotland, who currently play in the Scottish Professional Football League, in the Scottish Premiership. They have won 55 league titles, a world record, plus the Scottish Third Division, Scottish League One and Scottish Championship league titles and have won more major trophies than any football club in the world. The club are nicknamed The Teddy Bears, from the rhyming slang for Gers, which in turn is short for Rangers, and the fans are known to each other as "Bluenoses". The club's correct name is simply Rangers F.C., although they are sometimes referred to as Glasgow Rangers for European matches to avoid confusion.

For most of their history, Rangers have enjoyed a fierce rivalry with their cross-city opponents Celtic, and the two are collectively known as the Old Firm.

The club's home, the all-seated 50,817-capacity Ibrox Stadium in south-west Glasgow, has been accredited as one of UEFA's five-star stadia. The stadium was the first one in Scotland to be granted this accolade, which it now shares with Hampden Park, Scotland's national stadium.

In February 2012 Rangers entered administration because of a problem with tax with HM Revenue and Customs. On 14 June 2012, the parent company that owned the club was forced into liquidation following the rejection of a proposed Company Voluntary Arrangement, and the club's assets, including Ibrox Stadium and Murray Park, were bought by The Rangers Football Club Ltd - a consortium led by Charles Green, a former chief executive of Sheffield United. The club applied to register with the Scottish Football Association and to participate in the Scottish Premier League. The new company's application to join the SPL was rejected in a vote by the other members of the league. In a separate vote by the members of the Scottish Football League, they were invited to play in the Third Division of the Scottish Football League structure. Since then, they have been promoted back to the top division.

[[Yahya Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1980 deaths, Pakistani politicians

Agha Muhammad Yahya Khan (February 4, 1917 – August 10, 1980) was the final President of United Pakistan from 1969 to 1971, following the resignation of Ayub Khan. He has one son, Ali Yahya and one daughter, Yasmeen Khan.

[[Pakistan Peoples Party]]

CATEGORIES: Socialist International, Social democratic parties, Political parties in Pakistan

The Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP, پاکستان پیپلز پارٹی)  is a centre-left Islamic Socialist political party in Pakistan affiliated to the Socialist International. To date, its leader has always been a member of the Bhutto family. The Pakistan Peoples Party Parliamentarians (PPPP) is a party formed in 2002 by the PPP for the purpose of complying with electoral rules governing Pakistani parties.

The party was founded on November 30 1967 by Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto who was also its first chairman. The party creed is: "Islam is our faith; democracy is our politics; socialism is our economy; all power to the people."

Although its center lies in the southern province of Sindh, it also has considerable support in the more densely populated province of Punjab and even Azad Jammu and Kashmir as Azad Kashmir People's Party (Pakistan People's Party Jammu and Kashmir). It is currently in power and has been running the government since 2008; this is the 4th time the party has been in power since the Partition of Pakistan.

[[Aksai Chin]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of China, Territorial disputes of India, Territorial disputes of China

Aksai Chin (اکسای  چن, 阿克赛钦, Ākèsàiqīn) is a region  37,555 km² (16,481 sq mi) which lies at the juncture of China, Pakistan, and India. It consists of about one fifth of Kashmir and one of the driest place and true desert in the world that receive less rain than the Polar desert.

It is ruled by China but claimed by the Republic of India. Aksai Chin is one of the two main border disputes between India and China. The other is the dispute over Arunachal Pradesh. Aksai Chin (the name literally means "Chin's desert of white stones") is a very large high-altitude hot desert of salt with sand dunes and yareta (a type of cushioned plants)  that reaches heights up to 4,500 metres. It covers an area of 37,555 km² (16,481 sq mi) of the disputed territory. Geographically part of the Tibetan Plateau, Aksai Chin itself is a plateau and  it is often called the "Soda Plain". The region is almost uninhabited, has no permanent settlements, and receives no rain or snow as the Himalayan and other mountains block the rains from the Indian monsoon. Pakistan recognizes it as part of China, however India has objected to this and claims all the territory. In boundary talks in 1960 Chinese officials shown a map drawn by General Staff of the Chinese Army in 1918 shows the territory as part of China. However the map was not published hence it's authenticity is doubtful although another document in 1943 created by Bureau of Survey of Chinese Ministry of National Defence shows all of the territory as part of China.

[[Bury St Edmunds]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk

Bury St Edmunds is a town in the county of Suffolk, England.  It is the main town in the borough of St. Edmundsbury and known for the ruined abbey near the town centre. The town linked to the Magna Carta; in 1214 the barons of England are believed to have met in the Abbey Church and promised to force King John to accept the Charter of Liberties, the document which influenced the creation of the Magna Carta. It was also the setting for two witch trials. one of which was used as a reference in the Salem Witch Trials.  During the Second World War, the USAAF operated an airfield outside the town. It is also called 'Suffolk's Floral Town' due to the abbey gardens and amounts of rural land.

[[Muhammad bin Qasim al-Thaqafi]]

CATEGORIES: 695 births, 715 deaths, Generals, Muslims, National symbols of Pakistan, Syrian military people

Muhammad bin Qasim Al-Thaqafi (محمد بن قاسم, c. 31 December, 695 - 18 July, 715), born Imád-uddín Muhammad bin Qasim bin Yusuf Sakifi, was a Syrian general who attacked  the Sindh and Punjab regions along the Indus river (now a part of Pakistan). The conquest of Sindh and Punjab began the Islamic era in South Asia and continues to lend the Sindh province of Pakistan the name Bab-e-Islam (The Gateway of Islam).

[[United States Army Air Force]]

CATEGORIES: United States Air Force, 1941 establishments in the United States, 1947 disestablishments in the United States

The United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) was the military aviation arm of the United States of America during and immediately after World War II. It was the direct precursor to the United States Air Force, established in 1947. At its peak strength in 1944, the USAAF had over 2.4 million men and women in service, nearly 80,000 aircraft and 783 permanent bases, and operated from more than 2,000 airfields worldwide.

[[Salem Witch Trials]]

CATEGORIES: Salem Witch Trials, 17th century in Massachusetts, 1692, 1693

The Salem Witch Trials were a series of county court trials which accused people of being witches. The Salem Witch Trials involved two kinds of trials. First, court hearings were held before local magistrates; then trials were held in county court.  The witch trials were held in Essex, Suffolk and Middlesex  Counties of colonial Massachusetts, between February 1692 and May 1693.

A physician had said that witches have invaded Salem Village.  Young girls, Betty Parris and Abigail Williams, blamed people they didn’t like and thought were suspicious devil worshippers.  Betty and Abigail began to twist themselves into weird looking shapes and saying words that made no sense.  The father of Betty called the doctor and the doctor gave a diagnosis and that they had been bewitched.

During the Trials, over 150 people were arrested and put in jail after being accused of practicing witchcraft. Even more people were accused, but were never formally charged by the authorities. Twenty-nine people were convicted (or found guilty) of witchcraft, which was a capital felony. Nineteen of these people - fourteen women and five men - were hanged on Gallows Hill Giles Corey, a man who refused to enter a plea, was crushed to death under heavy stones to try to force him to confess or plead. At least five more of the accused died in prison.

The trials were held in Salem, though people from all surrounding areas were brought to Salem to be tried for witchcraft. The best-known trials were held by the Court of Oyer and Terminer in 1692 in Salem Town. All twenty-six people who went to trial before this court were convicted. There were also four sessions of the Superior Court of Judicature in 1693, held in Salem , Massachusetts. Thirty-one accused witches were tried in these courts, but only three were convicted.

A much later Ipswich Witch Trial was held in 1878, and called the second Salem witch trial.

[[Baron]]

CATEGORIES: Nobility

Baron is a title of honour in many European peerage systems. It is often a hereditary title that ranks as the one of the lower titles in a peerage. In the UK peerage system, the five peerage titles from highest to lowest are duke, marquess, earl, viscount and baron. Baronets and knights are not members of the peerage although a baron may also be a knight. In the feudalism of medieval England a baron was a tenant-in-chief who held his lands directly from the king. During the 13th century barons were summoned by royal writ to attend Parliament.

The word baron comes from Old French baron, itself from Frankish baro meaning "freeman, warrior". It later merged with Old English beorn meaning "nobleman." The lands of a baron are called a barony. The female title for a baron is baroness. The form of address for a baron is "Lord" and for a baroness "Lady".

[[Telephone box]]

CATEGORIES: Street furniture, Telephone

A telephone box or phone booth is a public kiosk enclosing a payphone. It is usually an item of street furniture, though some may be inside a building.

United Kingdom telephone boxes were designed by Sir Giles Gilbert Scott and were common in the UK, Malta and Gibraltar. The colour red was chosen to make them easy to spot. Because of the growth of mobile phones, telephone boxes are steadily being removed.

[[Running gag]]

CATEGORIES: Humor

A running gag is an humorous joke or reference that is used several times in a work or series of works. A famous example of a running gag is the Couch gag in the opening of The Simpsons.

[[Harran]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey, Assyria

Harran, also known as Carrhae, is a district of Şanlıurfa Province in the southeast of Turkey.

A very  ancient city which was a major Mesopotamian commercial, cultural, and religious center, Harran is a valuable archaeological site. It is often identified as the place in which Abraham lived before he reached Canaan.

The city was the chief home of the Mesopotamian moon-god Sin, under the Babylonians and even into Roman times.

Carrhae is an ancient town on the site that doesn't exist anymore. It gave its name to the Battle of Carrhae (53 BC), fought between the Roman Republic and the Parthian Empire.

Harran's ruins are from Roman, Sabian, and Islamic times. T. E. Lawrence surveyed the site, and an Anglo-Turkish excavation was begun in 1951.

[[Phil O'Donnell]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish footballers, 1972 births, 2007 deaths

Phillip "Phil" O'Donnell (25 March 1972 – 29 December 2007) was a Scottish football player. O'Donnell played for Motherwell, Celtic and Sheffield Wednesday over the course of his career. He died from a cardiac arrest after collapsing on the pitch on 29 December 2007.

[[Toronto Blue Jays]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 establishments in North America, Toronto Blue Jays, 1970s establishments in Canada

The Toronto Blue Jays (nicknamed the Jays) is a Major League Baseball team in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. They are part of the Eastern Division of Major League Baseball's American League. This means that they use the designated hitter rule in most of their games. Its president & CEO is Mark Shapiro, its general manager is Ross Atkins, and its coach and manager is John Gibbons. The team plays 162 games every year, which can be seen on television and heard on radio all across Canada.

The Blue Jays were founded in 1977 and are the only MLB team from Canada or anywhere outside of the United States, but they have not been the only one or even the first. There were also the Montreal Expos, which was formed in 1969, eight years before the Jays. However, the Expos moved to Washington, D.C. in 2004 (becoming the Washington Nationals). As part of the National League, which does not use the designated hitter rule, the Expos became rivals to the Blue Jays. People loved to see the two teams play against each other, since they were the only two MLB teams from Canada.

The first stadium used by the Blue Jays was Exhibition Stadium, part of Exhibition Place, in Downtown Toronto, near the waterfront. The team became popular, and in 1989 they moved to a larger stadium to the east, the "SkyDome". It was the first in the world to have a retractable roof, and is just a few blocks away from the Air Canada Centre and Union Station. The SkyDome hosted the Major League Baseball All-Star Game in 1991. It is now called Rogers Centre, taking its name from Rogers Communications, a telecommunications company who owns the team.

The Blue Jays won the World Series twice, first in 1992 against the Atlanta Braves and again the next year, in 1993. They won their second World Series on Joe Carter's walk-off home run against the Philadelphia Phillies in the last inning of Game 6 on October 23, 1993, for a final score of 7-6. In both of those years, the team won American League East division titles (having the best win-loss record in their division). Others years in which the Jays won division titles were in 1985, 1989, 1991, and most recently in 2015. They also went to the playoffs as a wild card team in 2016.

[[Toronto Raptors]]

CATEGORIES: Toronto Raptors, 1995 establishments in Canada

The Toronto Raptors are a Canadian professional basketball team in the National Basketball Association (NBA). They are based in Toronto. They were started in 1995. They play their home games at Scotiabank Arena. They are the only NBA team currently playing in Canada.

For the 2019 season, the Raptors won the Eastern Conference finals for the first time in the team's history. Because of this, they also got the chance to play in the NBA Finals for the first time in their history. They won the NBA Finals against the two-time defending champion Golden State Warriors in six games and became the first Canadian team to win an NBA Final. Kawhi Leonard was named the Finals MVP for the second time in his career.

[[Toronto Argonauts]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian football clubs, Sport in Toronto, 1873 establishments in Canada

The Toronto Argonauts are the Canadian Football League team in Toronto. The team was started in 1873 by the Argonaut Rowing Club.

[[TD Canada Trust]]

CATEGORIES: Banks, Companies listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange

TD Canada Trust is the personal, small business and commercial banking operation of The Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) in Canada. It was created when two banks merged, Toronto Dominion and Canada Trust in 2000.

[[Pocoyo]]

CATEGORIES: Children's television series, Animated television series

Pocoyo is a children's television series. Pocoyo does not talk very much. He has a few friends, including an elephant named Elly, a bird named Sleepy Bird and a duck named Pato.

[[Potato chip]]

CATEGORIES: Snack foods, Potatoes

Potato chips (also called potato crisps in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland) are thin slices of potato that have been baked or fried and lightly salted or seasoned. Some popular flavours of potato chips are: salt and vinegar, ketchup, sour cream and onion. They are one of the most important snack foods in Western nations. In England, they are called "Crisps", In America, they are called "Potato chips". 

In the 1790s, Thomas Jefferson brought thick french fries to the United States from France. However, a customer at a restaurant at the Moon Lake Lodge in Saratoga Springs, New York, was making the chef, George Crum, angry by saying that the fries were not thin enough. Finally, George Crum became so angry he decided to exaggerate. He sliced the potatoes so thinly they could not even be pierced with a fork. Then he put them in ice water for 30 minutes. After he fried and salted them, he gave them to the customer - who, to his surprise, loved them. First named "Saratoga chips" in 1835, it later became well known as "potato chips". George Crum later opened his own restaurant that served his special potato chips.

[[York University]]

CATEGORIES: Toronto, Colleges and universities in Canada

York University (French: Université York), is a Canadian university in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. York University is Canada's third largest university. It first opened in 1959. 

[[University of Toronto]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Colleges and universities in Canada, Toronto

The University of Toronto is a university in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It was created by the King of the United Kingdom in 1827, many years before Canada became a country. The university is made up of 12 different colleges where students live and study. These colleges all have their own buildings, dining halls and libraries. Some colleges relate to Christian churches, but other colleges are not religious. The university also has hospitals and many places for research.

In teaching, the University of Toronto is known for its ideas about literature and communication. It is also the place where insulin and stem cells were first found. Its people built the first electron microscope, found the first black hole, and began a touchscreen technology called multi-touch. It is the university that has the most money and research work in Canada. The university's sports teams are called the Varsity Blues, and they have very long histories in American football and ice hockey. The University of Toronto has been ranked as one of the top universities in the worldSeptember 2015.

[[Brampton, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ontario

Brampton (ˈ or ˈ) is the third-largest city in the Greater Toronto Area of Ontario, Canada. It is in the Peel Region. At the time of the 2006 Canadian census, Brampton's population was 433,806 people. Brampton is now the 11th largest city in Canada.

Brampton was made into a village in 1853. It took its name from the town of Brampton, England. Brampton was once known as The Flower Town of Canada. It was called this because of the city's large greenhouse industry. Today, the city is the home of the national headquarters of Loblaw Companies, HBC/Zellers, Brita, Clorox and other companies. The city is also home to Canadian Forces Army Reserve unit The Lorne Scots (Peel, Dufferin and Halton Regiment).

[[Greater Toronto Area]]

CATEGORIES: Toronto, Metropolitan areas

The Greater Toronto Area (GTA) is the metropolitan area that includes Toronto and the surrounding cities such as Mississauga, Brampton, Markham and Vaughan.

[[GTA]]

GTA may refer to:

[[James Cameron]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Academy Award winning directors, Canadian movie directors, Oceanographers, Golden Globe Award winning directors

James Cameron (born August 16, 1954) is an Academy and Golden Globe Award winning Canadian movie director. He is also an oceanographer. He is best known for his hit movies The Terminator, Aliens, Titanic and Avatar.

[[The World Ends with You]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games, Role-playing video games

The World Ends with You, released in Japan as It's a Wonderful World is an action role-playing game made by Square Enix and Jupiter for the Nintendo DS game console.

[[Stroller]]

CATEGORIES: Children, Human-powered vehicles, Safety

A stroller (Canada & U.S.A.)  or pram (U.K) is a hand-pushed vehicle to carry babies and young infants. More general terms include child carrier, baby transport or baby carrier.

[[Bomberman Land Touch!]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, Atlus, Bomberman, Online games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games

Bomberman Land Touch! (Touch! Bomberman Land DS in Japan) is a Puzzle/Mini-game collection video game made by Hudson Soft and published by Hudson Soft, Atlus, Rising Star Games, Red Ant Enterprises, and Nintendo in many different places for the Nintendo DS game console.

[[Bomberman]]

CATEGORIES: Bomberman

Bomberman is a series of video games that first appeared on the Nintendo Entertainment System and still has many games released to this day.

[[Prince Sports]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States

Prince Sports, Inc. is an American manufacturer of equipment for racquet sports. It is based in Bordentown, New Jersey.

[[Dustin Pedroia]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball players from California, Boston Red Sox players, 1983 births, Living people

Dustin Luis Pedroia (born August 17, 1983 in Woodland, California) is a Major League Baseball player for the Boston Red Sox. He played college baseball at Arizona State University.  He is 5 and 180. He won the 2007 American League Rookie of the Year award.

[[Apollo 11]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 in the United States, Apollo program

Apollo 11 was the first flight to send people to the moon. It was done by NASA, the American space group.

It went up to space on July 16, 1969, carrying three astronauts: Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins. On July 20, 1969, Armstrong and Aldrin became the first humans to land on the moon, while Collins stayed in orbit around the Moon.

The flight was part of the Space Race. It finished the plan set by John F. Kennedy in 1961 to "land a man on the moon, and return him safely to the Earth", before the 1960s ended.

[[Roger Clemens]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, American baseball players, American League All-Stars, Boston Red Sox players, Houston Astros players, Living people, National League All-Stars, New York Yankees players, Sportspeople from Dayton, Ohio, Toronto Blue Jays players

William Roger Clemens (born August 4, 1962 in Dayton, Ohio) was an American starting pitcher in Major League Baseball.  Clemens played in the major leagues for 24 seasons for the Boston Red Sox, Toronto Blue Jays, New York Yankees, and Houston Astros, from 1984 to 2007.  Clemens has won seven Cy Young Awards, two more than any other pitcher.

[[Universal Music Group]]

CATEGORIES: Universal Music Group, 1934 establishments in California, American companies established in 1934, Companies based in Santa Monica, California, Companies listed on NASDAQ, Corporate spin-offs, Entertainment companies based in California, Entertainment companies established in 1934, IFPI members, Record label distributors, Recording Industry Association of America, Comcast, NBCUniversal subsidiaries

Universal Music Group is a company that runs four record labels in the music industry. It is the largest grunge music of record labels in the world. It started in 1990 as "A&M Records, DGC Records, Capitol Records and Republic Records" and had some other names, before it became "Universal Music Group" in 1996. The company is based in Santa Monica, California.

UMG controls 25.5% of the market share. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of American film studio Universal Studios, the movie studio, was sold in part to NBC, which itself is part of GE. UMG owns the largest music publishing business in the world, Universal Music Publishing Group, following the acquisition of BMG Music Publishing in May 2007. Comcast's headquarters are in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. In the United States, UMG is in Santa Monica, California, Universal City, New York City and Orlando along with Universal Music Group Nashville; in the UK the group has a number of offices in London and Romford.

[[Dundee United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Premier League clubs, Dundee, 1909 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in Scotland

Dundee United Football Club is a professional football club from Dundee, Scotland. They currently play in the Scottish Championship. The manager is Micky Mellon. In the 2018-19 season, they finished 2nd in the Championship behind Ross County. The club failed to regain promotion to the Premiership after losing the Premiership play-off against St. Mirren 2-0 on penalties. Dundee United won the 1982-83 Scottish Premier Division, and the Scottish Cup in 1994 and 2010.

[[Two Hands]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 movies, English-language movies, Australian crime movies

Two Hands is a movie released on 29 July 1999. It was made in Australia by director Gregor Jordan. The movie was the debut for actor Heath Ledger. It won the Australian Film Institute Award for Best Film in 1999. The movie was played at the Sundance Film Festival in the United States.

[[Paisley]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Scotland

Paisley (Pàislig) is a town near Glasgow, Scotland. It is home to the Scottish Premier League association football team, St Mirren F.C.

Paisley is the largest town and fifth largest settlement in Scotland.

[[Daniel Gonzales Guiza]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, People from Jerez de la Frontera

Daniel Gonzalez Güiza (born August 17 1980, Jerez de la Frontera, Cádiz) is a Spanish football player.

He started his football career at Xerez CD in 1999.  He scored 27 goals and he became a top scorer when he was at Mallorca in 2007/2008 season.  He was then transferred to Fenerbahçe.  He was called for the first time to Spanish National Football Team in 2008; in Euro 2008 he scored 2 goals.

[[Kilmarnock]]

CATEGORIES: Ayrshire, Towns in Scotland

Kilmarnock (Cill Mheàrnaig; locally known as Killie) is a large burgh in East Ayrshire, Scotland, with 44,170 people. It is roughly between Glasgow and Ayr, and is the second largest town in Ayrshire. The River Irvine runs through its eastern section, and the Kilmarnock Water passes through it, giving rise to the name 'Bank Street'.

[[Falkirk]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Falkirk council area

Falkirk is a town in Scotland. It is home to Scottish Premier League football club Falkirk F.C.

[[The Scotsman]]

CATEGORIES: Media in Scotland, Newspapers published in the United Kingdom

The Scotsman is a daily newspaper from Scotland, United Kingdom. It has recently been changed to a compact form, but the Sunday version remains a broadsheet

[[BBC Sport]]

CATEGORIES: BBC Online, Sports media

BBC Sport is part of the bbc.co.uk website run by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). It covers all sports from football and rugby to less high-profile sports such as hockey or badminton. The site includes an discussion board called 606 to allow fans to discuss events and sports-related news. BBC Sport also covers sporting events on BBC Radio 5 Live and BBC television, e.g. The Olympics.

[[Turkey national football team]]

CATEGORIES: Turkey national football team

The Turkish national football team is the national football team of the Republic of Turkey and is worked by the Turkish Football Federation. They are in association with UEFA.

Turkey has a footballing tradition that has been  bad. In World Cup competition Turkey has qualified three times for the 1950, 1954, and 2002 editions. Turkey failed to make an appearance for the 1950 World Cup because they withdrew.

Turkey made it to the semi-finals during the UEFA Euro 2008, but then lost to Germany.

[[Falkirk F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football clubs, Falkirk council area, 1876 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1870s establishments in Scotland

Falkirk Football Club is a Scottish professional football club currently playing in the Scottish Premier League.

[[Hampden Park]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland, 1903 establishments in Scotland

Hampden Park in Glasgow is Scotland's national football stadium. Its primary use is the home of Queen's Park F.C. and the Scotland national football team. It is also used for pop concerts and other sporting events.

Hampden was built in 1903, though all signs of the original stadium are long gone. It is known throughout the world as an iconic home of football and celebrated its centenary on October 31 2003. The stadium also houses the offices of the Scottish Football Association and the Scottish Professional Football League. During the 2012 Olympics it also hosted matches during the early stages of the Olympic football tournament. It has also hosted prestigious sporting events such as the finals of the European Cup (now the UEFA Champions League) and the UEFA Cup.

Hampden was the key stadium of the 2014 Commonwealth Games. It hosted the athletics during the tournament, Glasgow having been announced as the host city on 9 November 2007.

[[Feodor III of Russia]]

CATEGORIES: 1661 births, 1682 deaths, Russian tsars, Emperors and empresses, House of Romanov

Feodor (Theodore) III Alexeevich of Russia was born on June 9, 1661, and died on May 7, 1682. He was the Tsar of all Russia between 1676 and 1682.

[[Lengnau, Berne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Lengnau is a municipality in the administrative district of Biel/Bienne in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.

[[Sivasspor]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish football clubs

Sivasspor is a Turkish football club founded in 1967. Its stadium, the Sivas 4 Eylül Stadium is in Sivas city. Sivasspor's colours are red and white. It is called "Yiğidolar" in Turkey. Sivasspor became fourth in the Turkey Turkcell Super League 2007/2008 season. Sivasspor will play first match in Europe with Grbalj team to join Uefa Cup.

[[Otto Abetz]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1958 deaths, Ambassadors of Germany, German prisoners, German war criminals, Holocaust perpetrators, People from Baden-Württemberg, Road accident deaths, SS officers

Otto Abetz (3 March 1903 in Schwetzingen, Germany – 5 May 1958) was a German diplomat. In 1931, he became a member of the NSDAP and worked until 1934 as Reichsjugendführer. Starting in 1935, he worked for Joachim von Ribbentrop as expert for French. He was German ambassador for the Vichy-Government from 1940 to 1944.

After the War he went to prison for 20 years. He was released from prison in 1954. He died on 5 May 1958 in an auto accident near Langenfeld, North Rhine-Westphalia, on the Cologne-Ruhr autobahn.

[[Statute of Labourers 1351]]

CATEGORIES: 1350s in England, Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, 1351

The Statute of Labourers was a law created by the English parliament under King Edward III in 1351 about labour shortage. It was first made known by Sir John Halles.

[[Christine de Pizan]]

CATEGORIES: 1364 births, 1420s deaths, French writers

Christine de Pizan, sometimes known as de Pisan, (Venice 1364 – about 1430) was  an Italian French late mediaeval author. She spent most of her childhood and all of her adult life in Paris and then the abbey at Poissy. She wrote only in her adopted language, Middle French. She challenged the male-dominated realm of the arts. She is known as Europe’s first professional woman writer. 

She wrote both poetry and prose works. There were biographies and books of practical advice for women. She wrote 41 works in her 30-year career from 1399–1429.  She married in 1380 at the age of 15, and was widowed 10 years later.

Her influence spread through all of Europe. It affected the social life of many Europeans because she gave confidence to women that they could rise beyond what men told them to do. Some  scholars think this is misreading her intentions.

[[Danse Macabre]]

CATEGORIES: Death customs, Middle Ages, Horror

Dance of Death (Danse Macabre; Danza Macabra; Totentanz) is a late-medieval allegory on death: no matter who a person is, the dance of death unites all. 

[[Patrick Poivre d'Arvor]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, French journalists, People from Reims

Patrick Poivre d'Arvor (born 20 September, 1947 in Reims; known in France as PPDA) is a French journalist. He has presented the main evening news on French Television since 1987. He studied political sciences and Slavic languages in Paris. He is married, and has 5 children; 3 daughters and one son with his wife Véronique, and a son with Claire Chazal. He had an affair with Chazal (who is also a well-known news presenter in France) in the 1990s.

One of his daughters was anorexic. She committed suicide, aged 19, in 1995. She jumped in front of a metro train in Paris. She left a note: "Thank you for everything, but I do not like life. I want to be incinerated, and kept in a small box, but not thrown to the sea."

[[Marcus Davis]]

CATEGORIES: American mixed martial artists, 1973 births, Living people

Marcus Paul Davis (born August 24, 1973), nicknamed "The Irish Hand Grenade" (and "The Celtic Warrior" when fighting in Ireland), is an American mixed martial arts (MMA) fighter. He fights as a welterweight in the UFC and in independent MMA promotions in the United States. He was a contestant on the Ultimate Fighter 2 on Spike TV.

Marcus David went pro in MMA on August 22, 2003 with a first round TKO of Shaun Gay. In 2005, Marcus was a contestant on The Ultimate Fighter 2. Coming in with his boxing skills.

[[Kalamazoo, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan, County seats in Michigan, 1831 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Michigan Territory

Kalamazoo is a large city in the U.S. state of Michigan. It is the county seat of Kalamazoo County. As of 2017, the city had a total population of 75,807.

Kalamazoo is home to Western Michigan University, Haworth College of Business, and Kalamazoo College.

On May 13, 1980, a F3 tornado tore through Kalamazoo, killing 5 people, injuring 79, and causing $50 million in damage.

[[El Gato Negro]]

CATEGORIES: Comics characters, Comic books

El Gato Negro (in English “The Black Cat”) is the name of two fictional superheroes that appear in comic books published by Azteca Productions. Created by Richard Dominguez, both characters made their first appearance in El Gato Negro #1.

The first El Gato Negro was Agustin Guerrero, a former luchador from South Texas who decided to use his skills to fight crime during the early '50s and late '60s.  

The current El Gato Negro is Francisco Guerrero, grandson to the original El Gato Negro. He adopted the superhero identity after his best friend was killed in a brutal murder.

Each El Gato Negro adopts a cat-like emblem, which they display in their costume designs or equipment. Although Agustin is not from the Silver Age of comics, he is sometimes referred to as “Silver Age El Gato Negro”, because the comic book’s timeline would place him in that era.

[[Richard Dominguez]]

CATEGORIES: People from Dallas, Texas, 1960 births, American comics artists, Living people

Richard Dominguez (born Eufrancio Ricardo Dominguez September 22, 1960 in Dallas, Texas) is an American comic book creator. He is best known for making the comic book El Gato Negro.

[[Jan Gotlib Bloch]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 births, 1902 deaths, Polish writers, Polish Jews

Ivan Bloch (July 24, 1836, Radom – December 25, 1902/1901, Warsaw) (Jan Gotlib Bloch, Иван Станиславович Блиох, Ivan Bliokh, Johann von Bloch, Jean de Bloch) was a banker from Poland. He donated money to help railways, and studied industrial warfare. Bloch published a collection of writings called La Guerre Future, translated to Is War Now Impossible?, in 1898.

[[McDonnell Douglas DC-10]]

CATEGORIES: Civil aircraft

The McDonnell Douglas DC-10 is an American three-engine medium- to long-range widebody airliner, with two engines mounted on underwing pylons and a third engine at the base of the vertical stabilizer. The model was a successor to the company's DC-8 for long-range operations, and competed in the same markets as the Airbus A300, Boeing 747, and Lockheed L-1011 Tristar, which has a similar layout to the DC-10.

Production of the DC-10 ended in December 1988 with 386 delivered to airlines and 60 to the U.S. Air Force as air-to-air refueling tankers, designated the KC-10 Extender.  The DC-10 was succeeded by the related McDonnell Douglas MD-11 which entered service in 1990.

[[Ocean liner]]

CATEGORIES: Ship types

Ocean liner is the name given to (usually large) ships that are used to transport people or goods. These ships travel along given routes; they usually have a schedule. Usually, ocean liners travel long distances. The ships used for short distances, for example across a channel,  a lake, or between an island and the coast close by, are called ferries. Ocean liners are used for transportation. Cruise ships are different, they are used for pleasure. 

The “golden Age” of the ocean liner was the first half of the 20th Century, when ocean liners commonly carried hundreds upon thousands of poor immigrants from Europe to North America, the United States especially. Hundreds of ocean liners were built during this period.  

When WW2 started in 1939, many ocean liners were turned into troop ships, to transport soldiers to Europe and Asia, by both sides. After the war, most remaining ocean liners were returned to their original owners. 

In the second half of the 20th century, ocean liners have been replaced by aircraft more and more. In the 1950’s, as airplanes like the De Havilland Comet and Boeing 707 were built, ocean liners seemed redundant as jet liners were faster and easier to build than ocean liners. By the 1980’s, most ocean liners had been retired with only a few outliers staying in service.

[[Akakor]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South America, Fictional locations

Akakor is a fictional ancient underground city somewhere between Brazil and Peru. 

The German journalist Karl Brugger described the city in his book The Chronicle of Akakor (1976). Information about the city is from an interview with Tatunca Nara, a Brazilian Indian. Tantunca Nara speaks about possible contact with extraterrestrials in the ancient past. He says these extraterrestrials are believed to have built this mysterious city. Two similar cities are mentioned in this book - Akanis and Akahim. 

Later Rüdiger Nehberg showed that Tatunca Nara was actually a German named Günther Hauck.

Parts of the story from The Chronicle of Akakor were used in the movie Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.

[[Gutenberg Bible]]

CATEGORIES: Bibles, Christianity in Germany, History of Germany, Mainz, 15th century books

The Gutenberg Bible (also known as the 42-line Bible or the Mazarin Bible) is a printed version of the Latin Vulgate translation of the Bible that was printed by Johannes Gutenberg, in Mainz, Germany in the 15th century. Although it is not the first book to be printed by Gutenberg's new movable type system, it is his major work, and of central importance for the start of the "Gutenberg Revolution" and the "Age of the Printed Book".  It is a very rare and expensive book. Fewer than 200 were made, and 49 complete or nearly complete ones are known. It has 1286 pages.

The earliest known book with movable type was published 78 years before in Korea and is known as the Jikji.

[[Dancing with the Stars (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, Dancing with the Stars, PlayStation 2 games, Wii games, Video games based on television shows

Dancing with the Stars is a rhythm game based on the show Dancing with the Stars. It was released on October 23, 2007 in the United States. It was later released for Windows computers and mobile phones. It was made by Zoë Mode with other help from Activision.

[[Fight song]]

CATEGORIES: Songs, Sports words

A fight song is a song that sports fans sing when supporting their favorite team. They are very popular in the United States.  Many colleges and universities there have fight songs. In other countries they are sometimes called team songs or team anthems.

[[World Draughts Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Draughts, Sports organizations, 1947 establishments

The World Draughts Federation (WDF) is the organisation which administers draughts throughout the world.  

It was created in 1947.Better source  In the French language it is called Fédération Mondiale du Jeu de Dames (FMJD).

The WDF has organised the world draughts championships since 1948.

== Other websites == 

[[Kenny Florian]]

CATEGORIES: American mixed martial artists, 1976 births, Living people

Kenny Florian is an American mixed martial artist with training in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu and Muay Thai. He was in the first season of The Ultimate Fighter reality show. He fights as a lightweight for the UFC.

[[Phoenix]]

Phoenix (pronounce: "FEE-niks") most often refers to:

Phoenix may also refer to:

[[Sophie Germain]]

CATEGORIES: 1776 births, 1831 deaths, French mathematicians

This article is about the mathematician Marie-Sophie Germain. For the number theory (set, or predicate), see Sophie Germain prime.

Marie-Sophie Germain (April 1, 1776 – June 27, 1831) was a French mathematician, physicist, and philosopher who made important contributions to differential geometry and number theory. She was born in 1776 in an era of revolution. In the year of her birth, 1776, the American Revolution began. In many ways Sophie embodied the spirit of revolution into which she was born. She was a middle-class female who went against the wishes of her family and the social prejudices of the time to become a highly recognized mathematician. Like the member of a revolution, her life was full of perseverance and hard work. It took a long time for her to be recognized and appreciated for her contributions to the field of mathematics, but she did not give up. Even today, it is felt that she was never given as much credit as she was due for the contributions she made in number theory and mathematical physics because she was a woman.

[[Ingrid Betancourt]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, French politicians, Colombian politicians, Kidnapped people, People from Bogotá, BBC 100 Women

Íngrid Betancourt Pulecio (born December 25 1961) is a Colombian-French politician. She ran for President of Colombia in 2002. While campaigning in the jungle she was kidnapped and taken by armed rebels named FARC-EP. In July of 2008, she and 14 other hostages were rescued by the Colombian military. Her kidnapping got the world's attention because of her French citizenship.

[[Cutting board]]

CATEGORIES: Kitchenware

A cutting board or chopping board is a strong board used to chop food on. It may also be used to cut raw materials such as leather or plastic. Kitchen cutting boards are often made of wood or plastic. There are also cutting boards made of glass, steel, marble or corian. These kinds of cutting boards are easier to clean than wooden or plastic ones. On the down side, they normally damage knives.

[[Measuring cup]]

CATEGORIES: Kitchenware

A measuring cup is a cup used to measure liquids or other ingredients, such as sugar or flour.

[[Simple English Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias, Websites established in 2001

The Simple English Wikipedia is an English-language version of Wikipedia, an online encyclopedia, that is written at a basic level of English. It was created on September 18, 2001. All of the articles in the Simple English Wikipedia use shorter sentences and easier words and grammar than the regular English Wikipedia.

People with different needs use the Simple English Wikipedia. They include:

Other people use the Simple English Wikipedia because the basic language helps them understand hard ideas or topics they do not know about.

Many articles are shorter than the same articles in the English Wikipedia. Technical subjects use some terms that are not simple. Editors try to explain these terms in a simple way. This makes Simple English articles a good way to understand difficult articles from the ordinary English Wikipedia. If someone cannot understand an idea in complex English, they can read the Simple English article.

When the Simple English Wikipedia started creation of pages and allowing changes in 2003, the ordinary English Wikipedia already had 150,000 articles. Seven other Wikipedias in other languages also had over 15,000 articles. Since the other Wikipedias already have so many articles, most Simple English articles take articles from other Wikipedias and make them simple; they are usually not new articles. Right now, the Simple English Wikipedia has NUMBEROFARTICLES articles. Simple English Wikipedia is the 50th largest Wikipedia as of December 2020.

[[Missouri Valley Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Missouri Valley Conference

The Missouri Valley Conference (MVC) is a college sports conference in the United States that sponsors many sports, but has not played football since the 1984 season.

The MVC has its roots in the Missouri Valley Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MVIAA), a league formed in 1907 by several schools in the Midwestern United States. The MVIAA split into two leagues in 1928. One league, made up mostly of large schools, kept the MVIAA name and years later became the Big Eight Conference. The smaller schools formed the MVC. Both groups claimed a 1907 founding date, and the same history up to the 1928 split. However, the Big Eight merged in 1996 with several schools from the collapsing Southwest Conference to form today's Big 12 Conference, which does not claim any of the Big Eight's history. Because of this, only the MVC now has a claim to any of the MVIAA's history.

[[Missouri Valley Football Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Missouri Valley Football Conference

The Missouri Valley Football Conference (MVFC) is a group of 11 colleges and universities in the Midwestern United States who play football against one another. Each school plays the others every season, and the conference champion earns a place in the NCAA Division I Football Championship, the postseason tournament of the second-level Football Championship Subdivision (FCS).

The MVFC has a confusing history that is closely tied to that of two other existing conferences: the Missouri Valley Conference (MVC) and the Association of Mid-Continent Universities (AMCU), now known as The Summit League. In the 1984 season, the last in which both of these conferences played football, all of the AMCU football schools were members of NCAA Division I-AA, now known as FCS. The MVC had schools that played in both DIvision I-A (today's Football Bowl Subdivision) and Division I-AA. The AMCU dropped football after the 1984 season, and the MVC announced it would do the same after the 1985 season. Beginning with the 1985 season, all of the remaining AMCU football teams, plus the MVC's I-AA teams, joined the Gateway Collegiate Athletic Conference (Gateway), which had sponsored only women's sports. Most of the schools in the Gateway were also MVC members. The MVC's I-AA football teams had membership in the MVC and Gateway in the 1985 season.

In 1992, the women's portion of the Gateway merged into the MVC. At that time, the Gateway became a football-only conference, changing its name to Gateway Football Conference. In 2008, the Gateway (which now had five MVC members) changed its name to the current Missouri Valley Football Conference. The MVFC and MVC are still legally separate, but operate out of the same offices in St. Louis.

[[Rights]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights

A right is something a person has which people think should not be taken away. It is a rule about what a person is allowed to do or have. A right is different from a privilege, which is something that must be earned.

Rights may be put into laws, so they have legal protection. But a right can exist where most people think it is good (just). 

[[AU (disambiguation)]]

AU can mean these things: 

[[UA]]

UA may mean:

[[FSU]]

The abbreviation FSU can mean:

[[Ohio State University]]

CATEGORIES: American Lacrosse Conference, Association of American Universities, Big Ten Conference, Colleges and universities in Ohio, Columbus, Ohio, ECAC Lacrosse, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Western Collegiate Hockey Association, 1870 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Ohio

Ohio State University (OSU) is a public university in Columbus, Ohio, USA. Ohio State was founded in 1870. Ohio State University has been noted by multiple publications as one of the highest ranked universities in the United States and in the world.

[[UM]]

UM can stand for:

[[VT]]

VT can stand for:

[[BC (disambiguation)]]

BC can stand for:

[[Pinoy Idol]]

CATEGORIES: Reality television series

Pinoy Idol is a popular TV show in the Philippines that lets anyone sing to people watching the show on television while they are being judged. The singers can be anyone between the age of 16 and 29 years. The show is now current programming in GMA Network.

[[Hulagu Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1217 births, 1265 deaths, Emperors and empresses, Mongol Empire

Hulagu Khan, also known as Hulagu, Hülegü or Hulegu (Хүлэгү, Khülegü; Chagatai/ہلاکو - Halaku; Arabic:هولاكو; c. 1217 – 8 February 1265), was a Mongol ruler who conquered much of Southwest Asia.

Son of Tolui and the Kerait princess Sorghaghtani Beki, he was a grandson of Genghis Khan, and the brother of Arik Boke, Mongke and Kublai Khan. He was also the step-father of Absh Khatun. Hulagu's army greatly expanded the southwestern portion of the Mongol Empire, founding the Ilkhanate of Persia. Under his leadership, the Mongols destroyed the two greatest centers of Islamic power, Baghdad in the year 1258, and Damascus, causing a shift of Islamic influence to the Mamluks in Cairo.

[[Dalgety Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fife

Dalgety Bay is a coastal town in Fife, Scotland. It is on the north shore of the Firth of Forth. 

[[Elena Bovina]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Australian Open champions, Female tennis players, Living people, Russian tennis players, Sportspeople from Moscow

 Elena Olegovna Bovina  (born March 10, 1983, Moscow, RSFR, Soviet Union) is a Russian retired professional female tennis player. She turned pro in 1998. In 2004, she won the Australian Open mixed doubles. On April 4, 2005, Bovina reached her career-high singles ranking was world no. 14. She retired in 2012. She lives in Quebec City, Canada.

[[Anastasia Myskina]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Female tennis players, French Open champions, Living people, Russian tennis players, Sportspeople from Moscow

Anastasia Andreyevna Myskina (Анастасия Мыскина; ʌnəstʌˈsʲijə ˈmɨskʲɪnə) (born July 8, 1981, Moscow, Russia) is a professional tennis player from Russia.

[[WTA Awards]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis

This is a list with all the Sony Ericsson WTA Tour Awards given by the WTA Tour to players who have done or achieved something remarkable during the season or their career.

[[Hopman Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis tournaments in Australia, Perth, Western Australia, 1989 establishments in Australia

The Hopman Cup is an yearly international team tennis tournament played in Perth, Western Australia in January each year.

[[Wells Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in England, Anglican Cathedrals, Somerset

Wells Cathedral is an Anglican church in Wells, Somerset, England. It is the seat of the Bishop of Bath and Wells. Its construction started in 1170 and the Cathedral was dedicated in 1239. 

Wells Cathedral has been described as “the most poetic of the English Cathedrals”. 

Much of the structure is in Early English architecture. Many mouldings look almost like sculptures. The carved capitals are done in a foliate style known as “stiff leaf”. This adds to their lively view. The eastern end has kept much original glass, which is rare in England. The exterior has a splendid Early English façade (~front) and a large central tower.

The first church was established on the site in 705. Construction of the present building began in the 10th century under Anglo-Saxon rule, but was later transformed under the Normans. It was largely complete at the time of its dedication in 1239. It has been expanded and renovated several times since then and has been designated by English Heritage as a grade I listed building.

[[Santa Maria Assunta (Siena)]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in Italy, Tuscany, 1263 establishments, 13th century establishments in Italy, 1260s establishments in Europe

Siena Cathedral (Italian Duomo di Siena, officially Santa Maria Assunta) is a Cathedral in Siena, Italy. It is the seat of the archbishop of Siena. The cathedral was built between 1215 and 1263. The was another church there beforehand.  The Cathedral is known all over Italy for its stripes. These were made by using different kinds of stone. It is also a unfinished building as well.

[[Caen]]

CATEGORIES: Caen, Departmental capitals in France, Former regional capitals in France

Caen ( pronounced can (/kɑ̃/);) is a city in France. It is the capital city of Basse-Normandie and Calvados. The river Orne flows through it. Today, about 110,000 people live there (intra muros, inside the city); the urban area has about 370,000 people. The city has a very long history; the name probably has Gaulish origins (from cato Military activity; and mago field; probably something like place where the troops exercised). A campus of the École de management de Normandie is in the city.

[[St. Michael and Gudula Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Buildings and structures in Belgium, Brussels

St. Michael and Gudula Cathedral is the Cathedral in Brussels. It is named in honour of St. Michael and St. Gudula. In Dutch it is called Sint-Michiels- en Sint-Goedelekathedraal, usually shortened to "Sint-Goedele". In French it is called Cathédrale Saints-Michel-et-Gudule.It is the main church of the bishop of Brussels and Mechelen. 

There already was a shrine (or chapel) to Saint Michael there in the 8th century. The Cathedral was begun in 1226. Building finished when the belltower (or belfry) was done, at the end of the 15th century. The cathedral is built in Gothic style. As it is the main Church of the Kingom of Belgium, there are often royal ceremonies (marriages, funerals) there.

[[Strasbourg Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in France, Strasbourg

Strasbourg Cathedral (official French: Notre-Dame de Strasbourg,German: Liebfrauenmünster zu Straßburg,  Our Lady of Strasbourg) is the Cathedral in Strasbourg. The cathedral was built in Gothic style. The belltower is 142 m high. It was the highest building in the world from 1647 to 1874. It is currently the second-highest cathedral in France, after Rouen Cathedral, which is 9m higher, at 151m. In 1880, Cologne Cathedral was finished (157m), and later Ulm minster (at 161m), the highest Cathedral in the World. 

Considerable parts of it are still in Romanesque architecture. Nevertheless, it is widely considered to be among the finest examples of high, or late, Gothic architecture. Erwin von Steinbach is credited for major contributions from 1277 to his death in 1318.

Victor Hugo described it as a "gigantic and delicate marvel". The cathedral is visible far across the plains of Alsace and can be seen from as far off as the Vosges mountains or the Black Forest on the other side of the Rhine.

An Al-Qaeda plot to bomb the adjacent Christmas market was prevented in 2000 by French and German police.

[[Ely Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in England, Anglican Cathedrals, Cambridgeshire

Ely Cathedral is an Anglican church in Ely, Cambridgeshire. It is the main church of the diocese of Ely, and the seat of the Bishop of Ely. The city of Ely is about 20 km north of Cambridge.

The Cathedral is known locally as "the Ship of the Fens", because of its prominent shape which towers above the surrounding flat landscape. The fens were once wet and marshy: a wetland habitat. The Fenland in East Anglia includes Ely, but is today mainly drained. It is now low-lying farmland.

[[Exeter Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in England, Anglican Cathedrals

[[Lasbela District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Lasbela district is a coastal district of Balochistan province, Pakistan. It became a separate district in the Kalat division on 30 June 1954. The name is derived from the words Las which signifies a plain, the greater part of the area being a flat plain, and Bela which means "jungle" and is also the name of the principal town of the district. Uthal is the district headquarters. The district is divided into 9 tehsils and 21 union councils.

[[Awaran District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Awaran (آواران) is a district in the south of the Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Coutances Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in France, Normandy

Coutances Cathedral is the Cathedral in the town of Coutances in Normandy. It is built in Gothic style. Standing 80m tall it dominates the city and the surrounding landscape. Its use of long straight vertical lines is typical for many churches in Normandy. The cathedral was started in Romanesque style. It was consecrated in 1056.

[[Kalat District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Kalat or Qalat (قلات)  is a district in Balochistan, Pakistan. It has a population of 412,232

[[Regensburg Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Bavaria, Cathedrals in Germany, Regensburg, Roman Catholic Cathedrals

The Regensburg Cathedral (Dom St. Peter or Regensburger Dom) is dedicated to St. Peter. It is the most important church and landmark of the city of Regensburg, and the cathedral of the Catholic Diocese of Regensburg. The church is a very good  example of Gothic architecture in southern Germany.

The first church at the site was built around the year 700, but it burnt down around 1156. The current cathedral was started in the year 1273, and it took until 1872 to complete. In the 15th century, the sale of indulgences was used to finance the construction.

[[Kharan District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Kharan (خاران) is a district in the north-west of Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Khuzdar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Khuzdar (خضدار) district is in the centre of Balochistan province of Pakistan. Khuzdar is the capital of Khuzdar district.

[[Barcelona Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in Spain, Buildings and structures in Barcelona

The Cathedral of Santa Eulalia (also called La Seu) the Gothic cathedral seat of the Archbishop of Barcelona, Spain. The famous Sagrada Família currently being built is not a cathedral. The cathedral was constructed from the 13th to the 15th century. There was a Visigothic church there before. The Gothic-like façade is from the 19th century.

The cathedral is dedicated to Eulalia of Barcelona, co-patron saint of Barcelona. According to Catholic tradition, Eulalia was a young virgin who suffered martyrdom during Roman times in Barcelona. The body of Saint Eulalia is entombed in the cathedral's crypt.

One side chapel is dedicated to "Christ of Lepanto", and contains a cross from a ship that fought at the Battle of Lepanto (1571). The body of the cross is shifted to the right. Catalan legend says that the body swerved to avoid getting hit by a cannonball.

The cathedral has a secluded Gothic cloister where thirteen white geese are kept (it is said that Eulalia was 13 when she was murdered).

[[Mastung District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Mastung District (ضلع مستونگ) is a district in the northwest of Balochistan province. Pakistan. Prior to 1991 Mastung was part of Kalat District. For administrative purposes Mastung was separated from Kalat and made a new district in 1991.

[[Gwadar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Gwadar was notified as a district on July 1, 1977 when Makran Division was created and divided into three districts. Gwadar is the headquarters of Gwadar District. Previously it was one of 3 tehsils of Makran District before the district was upgraded to a division. For administrative purposes, the district is divided into two sub-divisions, namely Gwadar and Pasni. These sub-divisions are further divided into tehsils and sub-tehsils. Gwadar sub-division comprises two tehsils, named Gwadar and Jiwani, and one sub-tehsil named Suntsar. Pasni sub-division is divided into Pasni and Ormara tehsils. Gwadar district, with its 600 kilometres long coast line and un-irrigated tracts of Kulanch and Dasht valleys, has always been an important chapter of Makran’s history.

[[Panjgur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Panjgur (پنجگور) is a district in the west of Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Kech District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Kech (کیچ)  or Turbat district is in the south west of Balochistan, province of Pakistan.

[[Valencia Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Valencia, Cathedrals in Spain

The Cathedral of Valencia (Metropolitan Basilica Cathedral) is dedicated to Saint Mary. The church was started in 1238 by the first bishop of Valencia Pere d'Albalat. It was built on a mosque. The mosque had been built where the former Visigothic cathedral had stood. A Mediterranean version of Gothic architecture is the main style of this cathedral. The cathedral also contains Romanesque, French Gothic, Renaissance art, Baroque and neoclassical elements.

There are several chalices that are claimed to be the Holy Grail spread over the world. One of them is in a chapel of the Cathedral. Several Christian historians claim that the one in the chapel is most likely the authentic cup used at the Last Supper. It was the official papal chalice for many popes, and has been used by many others, most recently by Pope Benedict XVI, on July 9, 2006. This chalice dates from the 1st century. It was given to the cathedral by king Alfons el Magnànim in 1436.

The cathedral also contains examples of some of the earliest and best Quattrocento paintings of the Iberian Peninsula. These were brought from Rome via artists commissioned by the Valencian Pope Alexander VI. Alexander VI made the request to make Valencia the seat of an archbishop when he was still a cardinal. This was granted by Pope Innocent VIII in 1492.

[[Dera Bughti District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Dera Bugti is a district in the southwest of Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Jaffarabad District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Jafarabad or Jaffarabad (جعفر آباد) district is in the southeast of the Pakistani province of Balochistan.

[[Nasirabad District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Nasirabad (ناصر آباد) is a district in the centre-west of Balochistan, Pakistan.

[[Bad Doberan Minster]]

CATEGORIES: Abbeys, Buildings and structures in Germany, Christianity in Germany, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern

Along the "European street of Gothic brick architecture" in north eastern Germany, close to the old Hanse city of Rostock, is the Minster of Bad Doberan, the Ex-Cistercian abbey dedicated in 1368. 

The first abbey in Mecklenburg, founded in 1171, which was also used as the burial site for the regional rulers, became important both politically and historically.  

Through the activities of its inhabitants, the abbey greatly contributed to the cultural and economic development of Mecklenburg and became the centre of Christianity in this region.

No other Cistercian abbey in Europe can lay claim to such a large amount of the original interior remaining intact. Among the treasures are the main altar which is the oldest wing-altar in art history, the monumental cross altar and the sculpted tomb of Danish Queen Margarete Sambiria.  

Even after the reformation and the dissolution of the abbey in 1552, the church continued to serve as the main burial place for the ruling Mecklenburg nobility as well as the place of worship for the Evangelical-Lutheran congregation.

The Minster in Bad Doberan is said to be the most important medieval building in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, the best example of medieval creativity put in practice and it is a building of the highest technical and artistic perfection. The furnishings on display are of highest artistic quality. No other church in northern Germany has such complete and historically important liturgical furnishings. The mostly well preserved Cistercian furnishings are unique. The abbey is a unique and precious artistic monument in the coastal region of the Baltic Sea. 

Today the Bad Doberan Minster is the main Lutheran Church of Bad Doberan in Germany.

[[Sibi District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Sibi (سبی) is a district in the Baluchistan province of Pakistan. The hottest place in Pakistan, in the summer with temperatures reaching 52.6.

[[Kohlu District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

The Kohlu District is an administrative division in the Balochistan province in Pakistan.

[[Ziarat District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Ziarat is a district in the north of Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Hammerbeam roof]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements

Hammerbeam roof is a type of wooden roof. It was used in the gothic architecture.

[[Quetta District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan), Quetta

Quetta is a district in the north-west of Balochistan province of Pakistan. It was part of Quetta Division until the year 2000 when divisions were abolished.

[[Pishin District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Pishin (پشین) is a district in the north west of Balochistan province of Pakistan. 

[[Purbeck marble]]

CATEGORIES: Carbonate rocks, Dorset

Purbeck marble is a fossiliferous limestone found in the Isle of Purbeck, a peninsula in south-east Dorset, England. It has been quarried since at least Roman times as a decorative building stone. This industry is no longer active.

[[Chagai District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Chagai is the largest district of Pakistan and is on the northwest corner of Balochistan, Pakistan. It forms a triangular internationalised border with Afghanistan and Iran.

[[Qilla Abdullah District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Killa Abdullah or Qilla Abdullah or Abdullah Qilla (قلعہ عبد الله) is a district in the northwest of the Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Barkhan District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Barkhan (بارکھان) a district in the north-west of the Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Holy Grail]]

CATEGORIES: Containers, Christian religious objects, Christian symbols

The Holy Grail is an artifact from Christians beliefs. According to a story, it is the cup or plate used by Jesus at the Last Supper. It was later used to catch his blood when he had to die on the cross.

According to the story, it has special powers. Many stories of the Arthurian Legend are about the Holy Grail. The first to write about it was Chrétien de Troyes. The legend may combine Christian lore with a Celtic myth of a cauldron which has special powers.

The connection of Joseph of Arimathea with the Grail legend dates from Robert de Boron's Joseph d'Arimathie. In the story, Joseph receives the Grail from an apparition of Jesus Christ, and sends it with his followers to Great Britain; building upon this theme, later writers told how Joseph used the Grail to catch Christ's blood while burying him and that in Britain he founded a line of guardians to keep it safe.

A cup that could have been the Holy Grail can be seen in  Valencia Cathedral.

The term "Holy Grail" is often used as a metaphor for something very important or special.

[[St. George's Chapel at Windsor Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in England, Buildings and structures in England, Berkshire, Royal Victorian Order

St George's Chapel is the church at Windsor Castle in England. The chapel is governed by the Dean and Canons of Windsor and is found in the Lower Ward of the castle.

The status of the Abbey is that of a Royal Peculiar. This means it is place of worship that falls directly under the jurisdiction of the British monarch, rather than under a bishop. The concept dates from Anglo-Saxon times, when a church could ally itself with the monarch and therefore not be subject to the bishop of the area. Technically speaking, it is not a cathedral, though it has a similar status. Many Royal weddings and other ceremonies with the British Crown have taken place there. 

[[Henry VII Lady Chapel]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in England

The Henry VII Lady Chapel is a Lady chapel at the far eastern end of Westminster Abbey built in the Gothic style. 

The Chapel was built in 1503 by the architect Sir Reginald Bray. Henry VII was buried in the Chapel on his death in 1509 in a tomb designed by the Italian artist Torrigiani.

[[Bath Abbey]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in England, Abbeys, Bath, Somerset, Anglican churches, 7th-century establishments, Establishments in England

Bath Abbey, is an Anglican parish church and an old monastery in Bath, Somerset. Its full name is

the Abbey Church of Saint Peter and Saint Paul, Bath. It was founded in the 7th century, reorganised in the 10th century, and rebuilt in the 12th and 16th centuries. It is one of the finest and largest examples of Gothic architecture (Perpendicular style) in the West of England.

The church is a former Benedictine monastery, and a former cathedral.

[[Qilla Saifullah District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Qilla Saifullah, Killa Saifullah or Saifullah Qilla (fort of Saifullah Khan) is a district in the northwest of Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Loralai District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Loralai is a district in the centre of Balochistan province of Pakistan. Loralai district was created on October, 1903. Loralai town is the district headquarters. Loralai was further partitioned in 1992 when Musakhel and Barkhan were given the status of separate administrative districts.

[[Musakhel District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Musakhel is a district in the northwest of Balochistan province of Pakistan. The Jafri dialect of the Punjabi language is spoken here.

[[Zhob District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Zhob (ژوب) is a district in the northwest of Balochistan province of Pakistan. The Zhob district is a Provincially Administered Tribal Area (PATA). The Zhob district is subdivided into three subdistricts: Zhob, Kakkar and Sherani. The population of Zhob district was estimated to be over 500,000 in 2005. The Zhob River is used for irrigation in the Zhob district.

[[Jhal Magsi District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Jhal Magsi district is in the centre of Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Nushki District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Nushki District is one of the  districts of Balochistan province, Pakistan.

[[Kathua District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

Kathua district (ضلع کاتھئا) is one of 14 administrative districts in the disputed state of Jammu and Kashmir.  It is surrounded by Jammu to the northwest, the Doda District and Udhampur District districts to the north, the state of Himachal Pradesh to the east, Punjab to the south in the Republic of India. Its terrain is diverse, consisting of rich agricultural areas along the Pakistani border, plains sweeping eastward to the foothills of the Himalaya, and a mountainous Pahari region in the east.

Kathua district is divided into 8 blocks:Bani, Barnoti, Basholi, Billawar, Duggan, Ghagwal, Hiranagar, Kathua and Lohai Malhar. It has approximately 587 villages.

The traditional language of Kathua is Dogri.  The Pahari language is prevalent in the mountainous area of the east.  The principal media of education are English, Hindi, and Urdu.

In a Muslim majority state, Kathua, like the Jammu region, is overwhelmingly Hindu, the religion practiced by 91% of its district population.  Another 7% is Muslim, and 2% Sikh.

A relatively safe regional pocket, Kathua was spared the decade-long insurrection sparked by the Khalistan separatist movement in Punjab that ended in the early 1990s, just to its south, and the ongoing Freedom movement in Kashmir Valley farther to the north, beginning in the 1980s.

[[South Tibet]]

CATEGORIES: Territorial disputes of China, Arunachal Pradesh, Occupied territories

South Tibet (Zàngnán, 藏南) is what the Chinese government names a geographic area that is the focus of border dispute between the Government of India and the China. The area, most of which lies within the Indian region recognised as Arunachal Pradesh, is claimed by both China and India. The people of South Tibet have Tibetan cultural, Tibetan languages/linguistic, and the ethnic ties to the Tibet Autonomous Region.

[[Manorialism]]

CATEGORIES: Feudalism, Economic systems

Manorialism (Seigneurialism) is the name for the organization of the economy in the Middle Ages in Europe.  The economy relied mainly on agriculture. Manorialism describes how land was distributed and who profited from the land.

A lord received a piece of land, usually from a higher nobleman, or from the king. When he received the land, he also received all that was on it. That means that most of the people that lived on the land also belonged to the nobleman. The people, called peasants, had to pay to the lord, or they had to work for him. This way, the nobleman could live and support his family from what he received from the peasants. He had also certain legal powers, like that of a police force. The peasants were commoners or subjects and had to pay tribute to the lord. In return they received protection.  

The tribute the subjects had to pay varied.  It could be money but subsistence farming meant most had no money.  They could pay by doing work for their lord, or pay a certain part of what they earned (like one tenth).  That meant that if they grew a crop such as some form of corn, the lord got a tenth of their earnings in corn.  This is also called payment in nature or sharecropping.

[[Badin District]]

CATEGORIES: Badin District

Badin District (ضلع بدین) is a district in the Sindh province of Pakistan.

[[Dadu District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Dadu District, Districts of Sindh

Dadu (ضلع دادو) is a district of Sindh Province, Pakistan. The district was created in 1933 during British rule.

[[Hyderabad District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Hyderabad District, Districts of Sindh

Hyderābād District (ضلع حیدر آباد), is a district of Sindh, Pakistan. It used to be an administrative division of Sindh (known as Hyderabad Division) until the year 2000 when divisions were abolished. The capital is the city of Hyderabad.  The Kirthar National Park is in Hyderabad district. According to the 1998 census of Pakistan. it had a population of 4,339,445 of which 50.07% were urban, making it the second-most urbanised district of Sindh.

[[Thatta District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India

Thatta District (ضلع ٹھٹہ, ضلع ٺٽو) is in the province of Sindh, Pakistan. According to the 1998 census of Pakistan, it had a population of 1,113,194 of which 11.21% were urban.

[[Karachi District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sindh

Karachi District (ضلع کراچی) Largest city and chief port of Pakistan, lying on the Arabian Sea, northwest of the Indus River Delta; population (1998 est) 9,269,300; 4 million live in makeshift settlements. It is the capital of Sindh province, and Pakistan's leading centre for commerce, finance, industry, and transport. Its port handles most of the international trade of the country, as well as of the neighbouring landlocked state of Afghanistan. It is also served by a major international airport. Industries include shipbuilding, engineering, chemicals, plastics and textiles, including the manufacture of cotton and jute. It was the capital of Pakistan 1947-59, when it was replaced by Islamabad.

[[Jacobabad District]]

CATEGORIES: Jacobabad District, Districts of Sindh

Jacobabad District (ضلع جیکب آباد) is a district of Sindh, Pakistan. According to the 1998 census, 1,425,572 people lived there, of which 24.10% were urban. The city of Jacobabad is the capital of the District.

[[Kirby Super Star]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 video games, Cooperative video games, Kirby, Nintendo DS games, Video game remakes, Virtual Console games, Platform games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games

Kirby Super Star, known in Europe as Kirby's Fun Pak and in Japan as Hoshi no Kirby Super Deluxe is a platform video game made by HAL Laboratory and published by Nintendo for the Super NES game console. 

A remake called Kirby Super Star Ultra was released for the Nintendo DS in 2008 and 2009.

[[Larkana District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Larkana District, Districts of Sindh

Larkana or Larkano (لاڙڪاڻو, ضلع لاڑکانہ) is a district of Sindh province of Pakistan.

[[Mirpur Khas District]]

CATEGORIES: Mirpur Khas District

Mirpur Khas District (ضلع میرپور خاص) is one of the districts in the province of  Sindh, Pakistan. According to the 1998 census of Pakistan, it had a population of 1,569,030 of which 18.60%

[[Sanghar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Sanghar District

Sanghar District (ضلع سانگھڑ) is one of the largest districts of Sindh province, Pakistan. 

[[Tharparkar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India

Tharparkar (ٿرپارڪر, ضلع تھرپارکر) district is in Sindh, Pakistan. 

[[Umerkot District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sindh

Umerkot or Umarkot (ضلع عمرکوٹ) is a district of Sindh province, Pakistan.

[[Ghotki District]]

CATEGORIES: Ghotki District, Districts of Sindh

Ghotki District (گھوٽڪي, ضلع گھوٹکی) is a district of Sindh Province, Pakistan.

[[Khairpur District]]

CATEGORIES: Khairpur District, Districts of Sindh

Khairpur District (ضلع خیر پور) is a district in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The district has an area of 15,910 square kilometres and is headquartered at the city of Khairpur.

[[Masahiro Sakurai]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Kirby, Living people, People from Tokyo, Japanese video game designers, Nintendo people

Masahiro Sakurai is a video game designer who worked at HAL Laboratory from 1991 to 2003. His single game for Nintendo 3DS, Kid Icarus: Uprising was released in 2012. Sakurai is the creator of game franchises, Kirby and Super Smash Bros. He founded Sora Ltd in 2005.

[[Naushahro Feroze District]]

CATEGORIES: Naushahro Feroze District

Naushahro Feroze District (ضلع نوشہرو فیروزے) is a district in the province of  Sindh,  Pakistan.

[[Nawabshah District]]

CATEGORIES: Nawabshah District

Nawabshah District (ضلع نوابشاہ) (or Nawab Shah) is one of the  districts in the province of Sindh, Pakistan, named after Syed Nawab Shah. The Syed family is a political power in local politics. The city's airport has one of the largest runways in Pakistan. The climate is dry and hot but sometimes falls to 0 degrees Celsius in winter.

[[Shikarpur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sindh

Shikarpur district (ضلع شڪارپور) is a district in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city of Shikarpur is the capital.

[[Sukkur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sindh

Sukkur district (ضلع سککر) (talqa) in Sindh Province in Pakistan is divided into 5 administrative areas (tehsils), namely; Sukkur City, New Sukkur Tehsil, Rohri Tehsil, Saleh Pat Tehsil and Pano Akil Tehsil. Among them Sukkur city and new Sukkur are urban centre while Pano Akil is famous for having one of largest military cantonment of the country. Rohri is the smallest tehsil of the Sukkur district, both in area and population but is has one of ancient and important railway junction.

[[Qambar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sindh

The official name of Qambar District is Qamber-Shahdad Kot District (ضلع قمبر). This name was chosen by much conflict between the people of Qambar Ali Khan City and Shahdad Kot City in the days of Chief Minister of Sindh Arbab Ghulam Rahim in 2004. This district of Sindh province, Pakistan was originally part of Larkana District, which was later divided into two districts. At first its name was Shahdad Kot District but after much protests by Qambar City it was renamed to Qambar Shahdad Kot District.

[[Kashmore District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sindh

Kashmor District (ضلع کشمور) is a district in the Sindh province of Pakistan, the city of Kashmore is the capital. Because of its location and its roads connecting borders with 3 provinces Kashmore has a unique identity. Kashmore has always been a hub of trade for its agricultural produce. The main tribes of Kashmore are the Mazari, Bajikani, Banglani, Dahani, Nindwani, Bahalkani, Bijarani, khoso and the Domki etc.

[[Matiari District]]

CATEGORIES: Matiari District

Matiari District (ضلع مٹیاری) is in Sindh, Pakistan. The city of Matyari is the capital. The district is administratively subdivided into three talukhas:

[[Jamshoro District]]

CATEGORIES: Jamshoro District, Districts of Sindh

Jamshoro District (ڄام شورو, ضلع جامشورو) is a district of Sindh province, Pakistan. Jamshoro is the capital of Jamshoro District.

[[Tando Muhammad Khan District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sindh

Tando Muhammad Khan (ضلع تندو محمّد خان) is one of the districts in the province of Sindh province, Pakistan. 

[[Tando Allahyar District]]

CATEGORIES: Tando Allahyar District

Tando Allah Yar District (ضلع ٹنڈو اللہ یار, ٽنڊوالهيار) is a district of Sindh province, Pakistan, the city of Tando Allahyar is the capital. 

The district is divided into two talukas these are:

[[Keyshia Cole]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Singers from California

Keyshia Miesha Cole (born October 15, 1981) is an R&B singer-songwriter, and  record producer known for her soulful voice. She released her platinum selling debut album The Way It Is in 2005, and her second album Just like You in 2007. She is currently in the process of making a third album entitled "A Different Me" coming out in December 2008.

[[Western Collegiate Hockey Association]]

CATEGORIES: Western Collegiate Hockey Association

The Western Collegiate Hockey Association (WCHA) is a group of colleges and universities, spanning a wide area of the Midwestern and Western  United States, who play NCAA Division I hockey against one another every season. The champions are automatically invited to the NCAA Division I men's and women's hockey tournaments.

In all, 13 schools are members of the WCHA. Seven of these have men's and women's teams that both play in the conference. Five do not have a women's team at all. One school has its women's team only in the WCHA, with its men's team in another conference.

The current members are listed below. Unless otherwise noted, these schools have both men's and women's teams in the conference.

The membership of the men's side of the WCHA will change greatly in July 2013:

[[Atlantic Hockey]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Hockey

This is a list of colleges and universities who play hockey in Atlantic Hockey:

UConn will leave the conference in July 2014 to join Hockey East. Its women's hockey  team is already a member of that conference.

[[Central Collegiate Hockey Association]]

CATEGORIES: Central Collegiate Hockey Association, 1971 establishments in the United States, 2013 disestablishments in the United States, 2020 establishments

The Central Collegiate Hockey Association (CCHA) is the name of two groups of colleges and universities, mostly in the Midwestern United States, that have organized for NCAA Division I hockey against one another every season. The first CCHA, formed in 1971, folded after the 2012–13 season. In February 2020, seven schools within the original CCHA's Midwestern footprint announced they would start play in a new CCHA in the 2021–22 season. Another Midwestern school joined the new CCHA in July 2020. 

[[College Hockey America]]

CATEGORIES: College Hockey America, 1999 establishments in the United States

College Hockey America (CHA) is a group of American colleges and universities who play NCAA Division I women's ice hockey against one another every season. It was founded in 1999 as a men's hockey conference, with women's teams joining in 2002. The men's side of CHA folded after the 2009–10 season. As of the current 2013–14 season, CHA has six members, which is the minimum needed to earn an automatic place in the NCAA women's tournament. However, because three of these schools only joined in July 2012, CHA will not get an automatic tournament place until at least the 2014–15 season.

CHA has close ties with Atlantic Hockey, a men's hockey-only conference. Although the conferences do not share offices, they have the same commissioner, and three current CHA members are also in Atlantic Hockey.

[[ECAC Hockey]]

CATEGORIES: ECAC Hockey

ECAC Hockey is a group of colleges and universities in the Northeastern United States who play NCAA Division I hockey against one another every season.. It is the only NCAA Division I hockey conference whose members all have varsity men's and women's teams. The league's champions are automatically invited to the NCAA Division I men's and women's hockey tournaments.

Another unique feature of the conference is its unofficial relationship with another conference, the Ivy League. Six of the Ivy league's eight schools have both men's and women's hockey teams; all six are members of ECAC Hockey. Although the Ivy League does not officially sponsor hockey, it still has a conference hockey champion—it uses the results of its members in ECAC Hockey to determine a winner.

During the major hockey conference realignment of 2011 and 2012 triggered by the decision of the Big Ten Conference to start a men's hockey league in 2013, the ECAC was the only Division I men's hockey conference that neither gained nor lost a member.

Current members are:

[[Hockey East]]

CATEGORIES: Hockey East, 1984 establishments in the United States

Hockey East is a group of American colleges and universities who play NCAA Division I hockey against one another every season. Before the Notre Dame men's hockey team (in Indiana) joined in 2013, all of the members were in New England. The champions are automatically invited to the NCAA Division I men's and women's hockey tournaments.

In all, 12 schools are members of Hockey East. Seven of these have men's and women's teams that both play in the conference. Four do not have a women's team playing at the NCAA level, although one of these four will move its women's club team to the NCAA level in 2015. One school has its women's team only in Hockey East, with its men's team in another conference.

The current members are listed below. Unless otherwise noted, these schools have both men's and women's teams in the conference.

In July 2014, Connecticut, now a member only for women's hockey, will move its men's team into Hockey East. One year later, Merrimack, a member in men's hockey only, will upgrade its women's team from club to full varsity status and move that team into the conference. 

[[Mezquita de Córdoba]]

CATEGORIES: 12 Treasures of Spain, Cathedrals in Spain, Córdoba, Andalusia, Roman Catholic Cathedrals

The Mezquita (Spanish for "mosque") of Cordoba is a Roman Catholic cathedral. It used to be a mosque  in the Andalusian city of Córdoba, Spain.  At first the site had been used for a temple, then a Christian cathedral. Under the rule of Islam, it was built as the second-largest mosque in the world. It is perhaps the most accomplished monument of the Umayyad dynasty of Cordoba. It changed into mosque in Middle Ages. After the Spanish Reconquista, it was changed back into a church, and some of the Islamic columns and arcs were replaced by a basilica in early Baroque style. Today it houses the main church of the diocese of Cordoba in Spain.

[[Chris Parks]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, TNA wrestlers, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C.

Christopher J. "Chris" Parks (born 4 October 1973), better known by his ring name Abyss, is an American professional wrestler currently working for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).

[[American Lacrosse Conference]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in the United States, 2014 disestablishments in the United States, American Lacrosse Conference

The American Lacrosse Conference (ALC) was a group of colleges and universities in the eastern half of the United States that played NCAA Division I women's lacrosse against one another each season. Women's lacrosse was the only sport that this conference ever played—all members were (and still are) in other conferences for other sports. The conference champion earned a spot in the NCAA Division I women's lacrosse tournament.

The ALC was founded in 2001 by seven schools, with play starting in 2002. Nine schools were members at one time or another, but no more than seven played in any season. The conference folded after the 2014 season, mainly because the Big Ten Conference, home to four of the ALC's final seven members, planned to start a women's lacrosse league in the 2015 season.

[[Dante Gabriel Rossetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1828 births, 1882 deaths, English writers, English poets, English painters, Artists from London, Writers from London, Translators, British illustrators

Dante Gabriel Rossetti (12 May 1828 – 9 April 1882) was an English poet, illustrator, painter and translator. His sister was the poet Christina Rossetti. He was a leading light of the Pre-Raphaelite brotherhood.

[[Mediterranean Ridge]]

CATEGORIES: Plate tectonics, Oceanography

The Mediterranean Ridge is a wide ridge in the floor of the Mediterranean Sea. It is next to a rough quarter circle from Calabria, south of Crete, to the southwest corner of Turkey, and from there eastwards south of Turkey, with Cyprus. 

From what tectonic theory says, it is caused by the African Plate subducting under the Eurasian and Anatolian plates. As the African Plate moves slowly north-northeastward, it plows up the floor of the Mediterranean, lifting it from the seabed, and then above sea level, making the island of Cyprus.

If the northward movement of Africa continues, the Ridge might grow into a long and high mountain range and destroy the Mediterranean Sea.

[[Kirby's Adventure]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 video games, Kirby, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Virtual Console games, Platform games

Kirby's Adventure, called Hoshi no Kabi: Yume no Izumi no Monogatari in Japan, is a platform video game made by HAL Laboratory and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo Entertainment System game console. It was remade for the Game Boy Advance as Kirby: Nightmare in Dream Land.

[[Freshly-Picked Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games, The Legend of Zelda games, Video game spin-offs

Freshly-Picked Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland is an action role-playing video game made by Vanpool for the Nintendo DS game console. It is the first game starring Tingle and the first The Legend of Zelda spin-off.

[[Link's Crossbow Training]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games, The Legend of Zelda games, Video game spin-offs, Wii games, Wii-only games

Link's Crossbow Training is a shooter video game made by Nintendo for the Wii game console. It is a spin-off video game in The Legend of Zelda series. It uses the Wii Zapper, which is included with the game.

[[Princess Zelda]]

CATEGORIES: The Legend of Zelda characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1986, Fictional princesses

Princess Zelda is a character in The Legend of Zelda video games. She often gets captured by Ganon and has to be saved by Link.

[[Free Bird]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 songs, Rock songs

"Free Bird" is a rock anthem by the American rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd.

[[Ganon]]

CATEGORIES: The Legend of Zelda characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1986

Ganon, also known as Ganondorf is a character in The Legend of Zelda video games. He is the most common villain of the series, and often kidnaps Princess Zelda and battles with Link. He has been revived from the dead several times, and has two forms - Ganondorf, his humanoid form, and Ganon, his pig form.

Ganon also appears in the Super Smash Bros. series as a playable character. He first appeared as an unlockable character in Super Smash Bros. Melee and returned in both Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U. His design in Brawl and the 3DS and Wii U versions are based on his Twilight Princess design.

In 2013, he was ranked #1 on GamesRadar's list of 100 best villains in video games.

[[Tingle]]

CATEGORIES: The Legend of Zelda characters

Tingle, known as Tincle is a character in The Legend of Zelda video games. He first appeared in The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask. He has his own series, starting with Freshly-Picked Tingle's Rosy Rupeeland.

[[Born again (Christianity)]]

CATEGORIES: Protestant theology, Evangelicalism

In Christianity, the words born again, regenerated or transformed are synonymous with spiritual rebirth and sometimes salvation from the Holy Spirit. It means having a "personal" faith in Jesus Christ. The term is most often used by Evangelical, Fundamentalists, Pentecostal and some Mainline branches of Protestant Christianity. 

The term came to be in the New Testament, where: "Jesus replied, “Very truly I tell you, no one can see the kingdom of God unless they are born again."John 

[[Kirby's Dream Land 3]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 video games, Kirby, Virtual Console games, Nintendo DS games, Platform games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games

Kirby's Dream Land 3, known in Japan as Hoshi no Kirby 3, is a platform video game made by HAL Laboratory and published by Nintendo for the Super NES game console.

[[Australian Bureau of Statistics]]

CATEGORIES: Government agencies of Australia

The Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) is Australia's national census and statistical office. It was first called the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, and began on December 8 1905. The Australian Constitution gave the government the power to collect census and statistical information. Since 1975, the person in charge of the ABS has been called the Australian Statistician.

The job of the ABS is to help the Australian government make the right decisions based on the right information. The ABS holds a census every 5 years and collects information about every person in Australia. The last census was held on August 8 2006. Results from the 2006 Census are available on the ABS web site.

[[Record chart]]

CATEGORIES: Record charts

A record chart (sometimes called a music chart) is a way of giving music a rank. The rank comes from the popularity of the music. The Billboard Hot 100 is a popular chart. The information on charts comes from some different sources, like the number of objects sold, the number of times a song was played on radio, the number of times a song or album was downloaded, and other criteria. Charts are sometimes made for a special genre, for example "Top 10 Rock Songs".

[[Getica]]

CATEGORIES: 6th century, Non-fiction books, Germanic peoples

Getica (original title: De origine actibusque Getarum, about the origins and deeds of the Getae (the Goths)) is the main work of Jordanes. It was written in 551. He made a summary of a larger work by Cassiodoriius called Libri XII De Rebus Gestis Gothorum (Twelve books about the things the Goths did, commonly known as Libri XII). As the Libri XII have not survived, his work is the only surviving account that was written when there were still Goths. 

According to the Getica, the Goths immigrated form Scandinavia and settled around what is the city Danzig today. This has been identified with the Wielbark culture. 

[[Ned Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: Australian murderers, Australian prisoners, Ned Kelly, People executed by hanging, People from Victoria (Australia), 1855 births, 1880 deaths

Edward "Ned" Kelly (June 1855 – 11 November 1880) is Australia's most famous bushranger. He has become a symbolic figure in Australian history, folklore, books, art and movies. As a national icon, his image was used during the opening ceremony of the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney. He is remembered in the saying "... as game as Ned Kelly"; the word game in this case meaning brave.

While he was growing up, his family was often in trouble with the police. After fighting a policeman at his home in 1878, Kelly went to the bush to hide. He murdered three policemen who were searching for him. The government made Ned, his brother, and two friends outlaws. They became known as the Kelly Gang. Ned Kelly led the gang to rob a number of banks, and even capture a whole town. A final violent fight with police took place at Glenrowan. Kelly, dressed in home-made metal armour and helmet, was captured and sent to trial. Found guilty, he was hanged at the Melbourne Gaol in 1880.

A painting of Kelly by Australian artist Sidney Nolan was sold in 2010 for AU$5.4 million, the highest price ever paid for an Australian painting.

[[Ben Hall]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1865 deaths, Australian criminals, Bushrangers, Deaths by firearm, People from New South Wales

Ben Hall (9 May 1837 — 5 May 1865) was an Australian bushranger. A bushranger is a thief who roamed the countryside and country towns of Australia, usually escaping on horseback, like a highwayman. Most bushrangers were simply criminals and thieves. Ben Hall is one of the few bushrangers, like Ned Kelly, who were thought of as outlaw heroes.

Ben Hall lived at a time when gold had been discovered in New South Wales and Victoria. Thousands of people went out to the places where gold had been discovered to "seek their fortunes" and hoping to get rich. Like many bushrangers, Ben Hall and his gang robbed coaches that were carrying gold from the goldfields. Ben Hall was able to avoid being arrested by the police for many years because he had many friends and relatives to help him.

[[Ride the Lightning]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 albums, Metallica albums, Heavy metal albums

Ride the Lightning is the second album released by the thrash metal band Metallica. It was released on 19 November 1984. It got good reviews. It has sold over six million copies in the US.

[[Text file]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats

A text file is a computer file structured as a sequence of lines of electronic text. Each line is a sequence of printable characters.

They can be opened and edited with Wordpad, Notepad, and other text editors. Text files usually contain plain text and not binary data. Whether it be a story, recipe, or even directions to Grandma's house, you can put it in a text file.

When text is stored with Microsoft Word or OpenOffice.org the file is no more called a text file, but a word processor file or document file.

Text files are commonly encountered with an extension of .doc, .txt, and many others, depending on the software and hardware you choose. 

[[Virtual Console]]

CATEGORIES: Wii, Nintendo 3DS

Virtual Console (VC) is a service on Wii, Nintendo 3DS, and Wii U that lets users download older  video games for Wii Points or real money. The games are from the Nintendo Entertainment System, Super NES, Game Boy, Game Boy Color, Nintendo 64, Sega Master System, Sega Mega Drive, TurboGrafx-16, TurboGrafx-CD, Neo Geo AES, Commodore 64, and MSX (Japan only). The service is available in Europe, North America, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and South Korea.

[[Provincially Administered Tribal Area]]

CATEGORIES: Territories of Pakistan

The Provincially Administered Tribal Areas (PATA) are administrative subdivisions in the Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provinces of Pakistan. 

[[Local government in Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Local government of Pakistan

The 2001 Local Government Ordinance provides for devolution of government to district administrations. (Districts are the third tier of government, being sub-divisions of provinces. Prior to the Local Government Ordnance they were known as sub-divisions.) Each district administration is headed by a District Coordinating Officer (DCO] and a Zila Nazim. 

The District Coordination Officer is the administrative head of the District Administration. They have wide-ranging responsibility for overseeing, improving and directing the approved plans of the District Government.

The Zila Nazim is the executive head of the District Administration. Their role is similar to district governor or prefect, with responsibility for implementing government strategy and developing initiatives arising out of it.

[[Federally Administered Tribal Areas]]

CATEGORIES: Federally Administered Tribal Areas, Territories of Pakistan

The Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) (قبائلی علاقہ جات) in Pakistan are areas of Pakistan outside the four provinces, comprising a region of some 27,220 km² (10,507 mi²). Miran Shah is the tribal capital. There are seven areas known as Agencies and six areas known as Frontier Regions.

[[Azrael]]

CATEGORIES: Angels, Islam

Azrael is the archangel of death. It is an English form of the Arabic name Azra'il or Azra'eil (عزرایل), the name traditionally attributed to the angel of death in Islam and some Hebrew lore. The Qur'an never uses this name, referring instead to Malaikat al-Maut (which translates directly as angels of death; not one angel). Since it is not mentioned either in the Qur'an nor Hadith, it is not part of the religion. It is thought by some to be legendary or adapted from other religions. It is also spelled Izrail, Izrael, Azrail, Ezraeil, Azraille, or Ozryel. Chambers English dictionary uses the spelling Azrael. The name means Whom God Helps. 

[[Mangla Dam]]

CATEGORIES: Dams, Buildings and structures in Pakistan, Hydropower, 1967 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Pakistan

The Mangla Dam (منگلا بند) in Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan is the twelfth largest dam in the world. It is the second largest earth filled dam after Tarbela Dam. The dam was built in 1967 with funding from the World Bank.

[[Exhibition game]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words

An exhibition game (also known as simply exhibition, or a demonstration event, a friendly, a preparation match, a warm-up game) is a sporting event in which there is no competitive value of any real kind to any competitor (such as tournament or season rankings, or prize money) regardless of the outcome of the competition. The types of matches are usually played before a season so the coach can try a new formation or select players from the bench, like in Association football.  

Some sports have an all-star game. This means that the best players are picked from that league and they play against another all-star team or a better team from another country. These matches are usually friendlies, but have a little more competition. An example is the MLS All-Stars against Real Madrid CF. 

[[Enrique Iglesias]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, Latin singers, Musicians from Madrid, Pop musicians, Singer-songwriters, Spanish movie actors, Spanish singers, Spanish television actors, 1975 births, Living people, Latin Grammy Award winners, American Music Awards

Enrique Miguel Iglesias Preysler (born 8 May 1975) is a Spanish pop singer-songwriter. He was born in Madrid. His parents are Spanish singer Julio Iglesias (born 1943) and Filipina journalist Isabel Preysler (born 1951).

His career started on Mexican label Fonovisa. They helped turn him into one of the most popular artists in Latin America and in the Latin market in the United States. He sold more Spanish albums than any other artists in the 1990s. Before 2000, he made a crossover into the mainstream English market.  He signed a unique multi-album deal with Universal Music for $48,000,000. Universal Music Latino would release his Spanish albums and Interscope would release English albums. In 2010 he signed to Universal Republic and released his first full bilingual album.

Enrique Iglesias has sold over 100 million records worldwide and has had two Billboard Hot 100 #1s and one #3. He holds the record for producing twenty-two number #1 Spanish language singles on the Billboard's Hot Latin Tracks. Altogether, Iglesias has 69 number-one rankings on the various Billboard charts.

He is dating tennis player Anna Kournikova.

[[Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Types of educational institutions

An academy (Greek ἀκαδημία) is an institution of higher learning, research, or honorary membership.

The name traces back to Plato's school of philosophy, founded about 385 BC at Akademia, a sanctuary of Athena, the goddess of wisdom, north of Athens, Greece.

[[Sergei Fedorov]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Detroit Red Wings players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Mighty Ducks of Anaheim players, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Stanley Cup champions, Washington Capitals players, Ice hockey centres

Sergei Viktorovich Fedorov (Russian:Сергей Викторович Фёдоров, Sergey Viktorovich Fyodorov; born December 13 1969 in Pskov, Soviet Union) is a Russian retired professional ice hockey forward and occasional defenseman who plays for the Washington Capitals of the National Hockey League. He gained fame playing for the Detroit Red Wings before tenures with the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim and Columbus Blue Jackets.

[[Spartak Tennis Club]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis, Sport in Russia

The Spartak Tennis Club is a tennis training ground near Sokolniki Park in Moscow, Russia. It has 15 outdoor clay courts, which remain closed for half of the year, and only one indoor court. Although the facilties are getting old, many top Russian tennis players trained there. These include Yevgeny Kafelnikov, Marat Safin, Elena Dementieva, Dinara Safina, Anastasia Myskina, and Anna Kournikova are all graduates of Spartak.

[[Pavel Bure]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Calder Trophy winners, Florida Panthers players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Living people, New York Rangers players, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Rocket Richard Trophy winners, Russian ice hockey players, Soviet sportspeople, Sportspeople from Moscow, Vancouver Canucks players

Pavel Vladimirovich Bure (Павел Владимирович Буре; born on March 31, 1971 in Moscow, Russian SFSR) is a Russian retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played a career total of 12 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Vancouver Canucks, Florida Panthers and New York Rangers. He was nicknamed "The Russian Rocket" because of his speed. He began his hockey training in the Soviet Union, where he was known as "Pasha".

In a press conference in Moscow on November 1, 2005, Bure announced that he was retiring from professional hockey because of complications with his chronically injured knee. On June 27, 2012, Bure was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame along with Joe Sakic, Adam Oates and Mats Sundin.

On November 2, 2013, the Canucks retired Bure's #10 jersey.

[[FHM]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines of the United Kingdom

FHM or For Him Magazine is an international monthly magazine. The magazine began publication in 1985 in the United Kingdom under the name For Him and changed its title to FHM in 1994, although the full For Him Magazine continues to be printed on the spine of each issue. Founded by Chris Astridge, the magazine was a predominantly fashion-based publication distributed through high street men's fashion outlets. Circulation expanded to newsagents as a quarterly by the spring of 1987. FHM was sold from EMAP to Bauer in December 2007. 

[[Monica Seles]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis players, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), 1973 births

Monica Seles is a retired professional tennis player. She is a member of the International Tennis Hall of Fame. She represented the United States as well as Yugoslavia.

[[Lindsay Davenport]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, American female tennis players, American Olympic gold medalists, Australian Open champions, French Open champions, Living people, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Los Angeles County, California, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Lindsay Ann Davenport (born June 8, 1976 in Palos Verdes, California) is a former World No. 1 American professional tennis player. She has won three Grand Slam singles tournaments, three Grand Slam doubles tournaments and, in 1996, an Olympic gold medal in singles. She is one of only four women (the others being Steffi Graf, Martina Navratilova, and Chris Evert) since 1975 who has been the year-end World No. 1 at least four times. Davenport finished 1998, 2001, 2004, and 2005 as the top ranked player.

She is a daughter of Wink Davenport.

[[Natasha Zvereva]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Belarusian tennis players, Female tennis players, French Open champions, Living people, Medalists at the 1992 Summer Olympics, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions

Natalya "Natasha" Zvereva (Наташа Зверева; born April 16, 1971) is a retired tennis player from Belarus.  Playing initially for the Soviet Union, Zvereva won many doubles titles during the late 1980s and throughout the 1990s.

[[Max Mirnyi]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Belarusian tennis players, Male tennis players, People from Minsk

Max Mirnyi (born July 6, 1977, in Minsk) is a tennis player from Belarus. A doubles specialist, he holds seven Grand Slam titles: men's doubles in the 2000 and 2002 US Open and 2005 and 2006 French Open; and mixed doubles in the 1998 and 2007 U.S. Opens and 1998 Wimbledon.

[[Filderstadt]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Baden-Württemberg, Esslingen (district)

Filderstadt (Alemannic German: Fildorsdadd) is a town in the district of Esslingen, in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is about 13 km south of Stuttgart.

Filderstadt is next to the Stuttgart Airport and the new land fair.

Filderstadt was created in 1975 from five smaller towns called Bernhausen, Bonlanden, Plattenhardt, Sielmingen and Harthausen.

From 1978-2005, it played host to the Porsche Tennis Grand Prix, a WTA Tier II event.

[[Berlei]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Australia, 1917 establishments, 1910s establishments in Australia

Berlei is a brand of women's underwear and in particular bras and girdles

. 

The brand started in Australia in 1917

. 

Berlei bras are now sold in Australia by Pacific Brands and in the United Kingdom by Courtaulds Textiles.

The name came from that of the firm's founder, Frederick R. Burley, who felt that his name as normally spelled was not appropriate to his products.

Berlei Limited was one of the first Australian companies to expand outside Australia. Berlei (New Zealand) Limited was incorporated in 1923 and Berlei (U.K.) Limited was organised in 1930.

[[Lycos]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

Lycos is a search engine and web portal centered around broadband entertainment content.

[[K-Swiss]]

CATEGORIES: American clothing companies, Companies based in Los Angeles, 1966 establishments in California

K-Swiss, Inc. is an American footwear company. It is based in Westlake Village, California. It designs, develops, and markets a range of athletic shoes under the K-Swiss brand and its wholly owned subsidiary Royal Elastics, Inc.

K-Swiss was founded in 1966 in Los Angeles, California, by two Swiss brothers who became interested in tennis after emigrating to the United States, where they introduced the first leather tennis shoes.

[[Gwadar City]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Gwadar is on the southwestern coast of Pakistan, on the Sea of Oman. It is between three increasingly important regions: the oil-rich Middle East, heavily populated South Asia and the economically emerging and resource-laden region of Central Asia. The Gwadar Port is expected to generate billions of dollars in revenues and create at least two million jobs. In 2007, the government of Pakistan handed over port operations to PSA Singapore for 25 years, and gave it the status of a Tax Free Port for the following 40 years. There is also money invested into the port by the People's Republic of China. The strategic PRC plan to be engaged in many places along oil and gas roads is evident.

[[Syed Ahmed Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1817 births, 1898 deaths, People of British India, Indian politicians, Knights Companion of the Order of the Star of India, Teachers

'''Sir Syed Ahmed Khan. (October 17, 1817– 27 March 1898) was a teacher and politician. He was a philospher as well. He was also a social reformer. He founded the school that would later become Aligarh Muslim University. 

In 1857 there was a rebellion in India. This is known as the First Indian War of Independence. During this time, Sir Syed kept loyal to the British; He also saved many European lives. After the rebellion he wrote a book where he said the British were in fact those who caused the rebellion. In order to settle the question of whether Sir Syed was a communitarian or a communalist, we need to assess the speeches and articles which he wrote. One such speech of Sir Syed which he gave in Meerut in the year 1888 clearly shows that Sir Syed turned to arguments fielded by religious fanatics in order to develop a communal alliance between Indian Muslims and British Christian.He was the one to motivate the people of that time who was totally illitterade . He was the one who makes the school for the indians muslims . 

He was unhappy about the position of Muslims in India as their social and economic status was declining. According to Sir Syed, Muslims had to bring a positive approach to the British and accept their ways of education. He wanted the Muslims to benefit from the British. To achieve this task he had to bring about cooperation between the Muslims and the British. To do this he did the following things:

Sir Syed played a vital role in the educational uplift of the Muslims in India. He did the following things to improve the educational standards:

Sir Syed also increased the political awareness of Muslims in the Sub-continent. At first he believed in Hindu-Muslim unity but later resolved to the two-nation theory. In 1885 the Indian National Congress was set up. It claimed to be the body of every Indian regardless of religion. However it later proved to be functioning only for the Hindus and tried to eradicate the Muslims. The Congress made three demands:

Sir Syed Ahmed Khan played a vital role in improving the Muslim status. He worked tirelessly to restore relations between the Muslims and the British. He brought the Muslim revival through the Aligarh movement and showed the importance of education. He brought an idea about the Two-nation theory and is hence known as "The Father of The Pakistan Movement"  

[[United Airlines Flight 93]]

CATEGORIES: September 11 attacks, 2001 aviation disasters

United Airlines Flight 93 was an airline flight that, on September 11, 2001, was hijacked and crashed on purpose. On that day, the flight was to fly from Newark International Airport (later renamed Newark Liberty International Airport), in Newark, New Jersey, USA to San Francisco International Airport.

The aircraft was hijacked by four men as part of the al-Qaeda organized attack on the United States on September 11, 2001. Soon after the flight took off, the hijackers entered the cockpit and overpowered the pilots. They took control of the aircraft and flew it toward Washington, D.C. Several passengers and crew members made telephone calls aboard the flight and learned about the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The passengers then decided to attack the hijackers and retake the aircraft.

The hijackers crashed the plane in a field to prevent the passengers from succeeding in breaching the cockpit door just outside Shanksville, Pennsylvania, about 150 northwest of Washington, D.C., killing all crew members and passengers. An investigation determined that the actions of the passengers on board had prevented the hijackers from reaching Washington, D.C.

[[Mirza Ghalib]]

CATEGORIES: 1796 births, 1869 deaths, Indian poets, Urdu poets

Dabeer-ul-Mulk, Najm-ud-daulah Mirza Asadullah Beg Khan (غاؔلب; ग़ालिब) born Mirza Asadullah Baig Khan (Urdu: مرزا اسد اللہ بیگ خان; मिर्ज़ा असदुल्लाह् बेग ख़ान), pen-name Ghalib (Urdu: غالب, ġhālib means "dominant") and  Asad (Urdu: اسد, Asad means "lion")  (27 December 1796 — 15 February 1869), was a great classical Urdu and Persian poet of the Indian subcontinent. Most notably, he wrote several ghazals during his life, which have since been interpreted and sung in many different ways by different people. He is considered to be the most popular and influential poet of the Urdu language.

[[Saare Jahan se Achcha]]

CATEGORIES: Poems, British India

Saare Jahan se Achcha is a poem. It was re-written in 1931. It became a symbol of resistance to the English rule of British-occupied India. The poem exists in different versions. Saare Jahan Se Achchha (سارے جہاں سے اچھا) is one of the enduring patriotic poems of the Urdu language. Written originally for children in the ghazal style of Urdu poetry by poet Muhammad Iqbal, the poem was published in the weekly journal Ittehad on 14 August 1931. Recited by Iqbal the following year at Government College, Lahore, now in Pakistan, it quickly became an anthem of opposition to the British rule in India.

Urdu text

Roman Transliteration

sāre jahāñ se achchā hindustan  hamārā

ham bulbuleñ haiñ us kī vuh gulsitāñ hamārā

ġhurbat meñ hoñ agar ham, rahtā hai dil vat̤an meñ

samjho vuhīñ hameñ bhī dil ho jahāñ hamārā

parbat vuh sab se ūñchā, hamsāyah āsmāñ kā

vuh santarī hamārā, vuh pāsbāñ hamārā

godī meñ kheltī haiñ jis kī hazāroñ nadiyāñ

gulshan hai jin ke dam se rashk-e janāñ hamārā

ay āb-rūd-e Ganga! vuh din haiñ yād tujh ko?

utarā tire kināre jab kāravāñ hamārā

mażhab nahīñ sikhātā āpas meñ bair rakhnā

Hindi haiñ ham, vat̤an hai hindustāñ hamārā

yūnān-o-miṣr-o-rumā sab miṭ gaʾe jahāñ se

ab tak magar hai bāqī nām-o-nishāñ hamārā

kuchh bāt hai kih hastī miṭtī nahīñ hamārī

sadiyoñ rahā hai dushman daur-e zamāñ hamārā

iqbāl! koʾī maḥram apnā nahīñ jahāñ meñ

maʿlūm kyā kisī ko dard-e nihāñ hamārā!

Translation

Better than the entire world, is our Hindustan,

We are its nightingales, and it (is) our garden abode

If we are in an alien place, the heart remains in the homeland,

Know us to be only there where our heart is.

That tallest mountain, that shade-sharer of the sky,

(It) is our sentry, (it) is our watchman

In its lap frolic those thousands of rivers,

Whose vitality makes our garden the envy of Paradise.

O the flowing waters of the Ganges, do you remember that day

When our caravan first disembarked on your waterfront?

Religion does not teach us to bear ill-will among ourselves

We are of Hindi, our homeland is Hindustan.

In a world in which ancient Yunan, Misr, and Roma have all vanished without trace

Our own attributes (name and sign) live on today.

Such is our existence that it cannot be erased 

Even though, for centuries, the cycle of time has been our enemy.

Iqbal! We have no confidant in this world

What does any one know of our hidden pain?

[[Atlantic Soccer Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Soccer Conference

This is a list of colleges and universities who play soccer in the Atlantic Soccer Conference:

[[United Soccer Conference]]

CATEGORIES: United Soccer Conference

This is a list of colleges and universities who play soccer in the United Soccer Conference:

[[Collegiate Water Polo Association]]

CATEGORIES: Collegiate Water Polo Association, Water polo

This is a list of colleges and universities who play water polo in the Collegiate Water Polo Association:

[[Western Water Polo Association]]

CATEGORIES: NCAA Division I athletics conferences, Water polo

This is a list of colleges and universities who play water polo in the Western Water Polo Association:

[[ECAC Lacrosse]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in the United States, 2014 disestablishments in the United States, ECAC Lacrosse

ECAC Lacrosse, in full the ECAC Lacrosse League, was an American college sports conference that only played men's lacrosse. The conference, a member of NCAA Division I, was founded in 1999 with play beginning in 2000 (both events were in the same school year).

The conference started with six members, and grew to as many as 10 schools. In its final years, it went through many membership changes; the biggest ones were:

ECAC Lacrosse disbanded after the 2014 season. This came after the Big Ten Conference, home to two of the final five members, said it would start a men's lacrosse league in the 2015 season. Two of the other three final members soon announced moves to other conferences.

[[Great Western Lacrosse League]]

CATEGORIES: Lacrosse, NCAA Division I athletics conferences, 1984 establishments in the United States, 2009 disestablishments in the United States

The Great Western Lacrosse League was a group of colleges and universities that played men's lacrosse against one another from 1984 to 2009. The conference disbanded after Notre Dame left when its main conference, the Big East, started a men's lacrosse league. The remaining five members joined ECAC Lacrosse.

The final membership was:

[[Nightingale]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes

The nightingale (Luscinia megarhynchos) is a small bird. It used to be put in the thrush family Turdidae. Now it is put on the Old World flycatchers, a group often called the chats or chat-thrushes. Its resemblance to thrushes is an example of convergent evolution.

It is a migratory insectivorous species. It breeds in forests and scrubs in Europe and south-west Asia. The distribution is more southerly than the very closely related thrush nightingale Luscinia luscinia. It nests on the ground in or next to dense bushes. It passes the winter southern Africa. Studies have shown that nightingales seem to choose places to breed that meet certain criteria (Wink 1973):

The Nightingale is slightly larger than the robin, at around 15-16.5 cm length. It is plain brown above except for the reddish tail. It is buff to white below. Sexes are similar.

Nightingales are named so because they frequently sing at night as well as during the day. The name has been used for well over 1,000 years, being highly recognizable even in its Anglo-Saxon form - 'nihtingale'. It means 'night songstress'. Early writers assumed the female sang; in fact, it is the male.  

The song is loud, with an impressive range of whistles, trills and gurgles.  Its song is particularly noticeable at night because few other birds are singing.  This is why its name (in several languages) includes "night".  Only unpaired males sing regularly at night, and nocturnal song is likely to serve attracting a mate.  Singing at dawn, during the hour before sunrise, is assumed to be important in defending the bird's territory.  Nightingales sing even more loudly in urban or near-urban environments, in order to overcome the background noise.  The most characteristic feature of the song is a loud whistling crescendo, absent from the song of thrush nightingale. It has a frog-like alarm call.

[[We Are the Champions]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 songs, Queen songs, Rock ballads

"We Are the Champions" is a power ballad by Queen for the album News of the World. It was written by Freddie Mercury.

[[British Invasion]]

CATEGORIES: American music history, British music

The British Invasion was an event where many rock and roll, beat, and pop bands from the United Kingdom became very popular in the United States, Australia, and Canada. The term was created by the news media.

[[Pokémon]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon, Anime

 

is a media franchise owned by The Pokémon Company. It is based on the concept of hatching, catching, playing with, staying with, befriending, defending, raising, trading, training and battling with hundreds of different creatures. The concept was made by Satoshi Tajiri, Pokémon's creator. It is represented in many types of media, most famously video games, a still-running anime series, manga, and a trading card game. There are eight regions in these games. Although there are 898 different types of Pokémon, most people will know of the mascot of the company, an electric mouse Pokémon known as Pikachu.

The video games have sold more copies than every other series except Nintendo's Mario series.

[[Pokémon (anime)]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon, Anime, Animated television series, Kids WB series, First run syndicated television programs

Pokémon (abbreviated from Pocket Monsters) is a Japanese anime series. It is part of the Pokémon media franchise which is owned by Nintendo. It has been brought to many other places, including North America, Europe, and Australia. The United States dub was originally made by 4Kids Entertainment; starting in 2006 the dub has been made by Pokémon USA.

Pokemon is shown in Australia on 9go every day at 10:30am it used to be shown at 3pm but was moved due to another program taking its spot.

Not long after Pokémon Red and Blue (the first Pokémon video games outside of Japan) were released, the anime was created. It was first broadcast in Japan in early 1997, and in the United States in late 1998. The anime started what has been called "Pokémania", which meant that after the anime came out, it became very popular among children, and many parents assumed it was a fad and no one would care about it in a couple years. However, it was never cancelled, and it is still running, and continues to maintain a fanbase consisting of people of all ages.

The anime shows the adventures of Ash Ketchum, a 10-year-old Pokémon trainer who has many adventures, meeting many new people and Pokémon.

A number of Pokémon films have also been made that relate to the anime. The first one was Pokémon: The First Movie (released on 1998 in Japan and on 1999 in North America). They are still being made.

[[Donkey Kong (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Donkey Kong, Video game spin-offs

Donkey Kong is a video game series made by Shigeru Miyamoto and owned by Nintendo. It stars a gorilla called Donkey Kong.

[[Kirby (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Kirby

Kirby is a fantasy video game series made by HAL Laboratory and Nintendo. It was created by Masahiro Sakurai.

[[Ace Attorney]]

CATEGORIES: Ace Attorney

Ace Attorney, known as Gyakuten Saiban in Japan, is a video game series made by Capcom, with games released on the Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS, and Nintendo 3DS. The series is a visual novel style courtroom drama where a rookie defense attorney must get their falsely accused client a not guilty verdict and find the true culprit.

[[Oruchuban Ebichu]]

CATEGORIES: Comics, Anime, Animation, Drama television series

Oruchuban Ebichu (also known as Ebichu Minds the House) is an anime made by Gainax who is also the director of Makoto Moriwaki. It's based on the manga by Risa Itō (伊藤理佐) in 1990.

In 1990 to 2007, publish serially of magazine Giga&chan (ギガ/Shan), publication of Shufutoseikatsusha (主婦と生活社) and 2007 to 2008, publish serially of magazine ACTION PIZAZZ (アクションピザッツ), publication of Futabasha (双葉社). after 1999, 15curtain in book form Futabasha. In 1999, was organization of 10acts and screened of Television in DirecTV (ディレクTV).

[[Excel Saga]]

CATEGORIES: Anime

Excel Saga is a comedy manga made by Koushi Rikudou. There's also an anime.

[[Haré+Guu]]

CATEGORIES: Anime, Manga

Haré+Guu is an anime made by AN Entertainment.

[[Kirby Super Star Ultra]]

CATEGORIES: Video game remakes, Kirby, Nintendo DS games, 2008 video games

Kirby Super Star Ultra is a remake of Kirby Super Star, a video game for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. It was released for the Nintendo DS in 2008.

Kirby Super Star Ultra has every game that the original Kirby Super Star has, along with new games. The new games are:

[[SummerSlam (2008)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in professional wrestling, SummerSlam, History of Indianapolis, Indiana, 2008 in American television

SummerSlam was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), which took place on August 17, 2008 at Conseco Fieldhouse in Indianapolis, Indiana. It was the 21st annual SummerSlam event and starred wrestlers from the Raw, SmackDown and ECW brands.

[[HAL Laboratory]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies, Kirby, 1980 establishments

HAL Laboratory is a video game developer and a second party to Nintendo. They are best known for developing the Kirby series and the Super Smash Bros. series.

[[Rosario Dawson]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, American musical theatre actors, American comics writers, American political activists, LGBT writers, LGBT actors, LGBT singers, Singers from New York City, LGBT people from New York City, Actors from New York City, Writers from New York City, American voice actors, American stage actors

Rosario Isabel Dawson (born May 9, 1979) is an American actress and singer. Her first movie was Kids in 1995. Since then, she has become known for her roles in Men in Black II (2002), 25th Hour (2002), The Rundown (2003), Alexander (2004), Sin City (2005), Death Proof (2007), Eagle Eye (2008), Unstoppable (2010), César Chávez (2013), Trance (2013), The Lego Batman Movie (2017).

Dawson endorsed Barack Obama for re-election in 2012, and Bernie Sanders for the Democratic nomination in the 2016 Democratic Party primaries. 

She has been dating Senator Cory Booker since 2019.

In February 2020, Dawson publicly came out as a member of the LGBT community.

[[The Age]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Australia, Melbourne, 1854 establishments, 1850s establishments in Australia

The Age is a newspaper made in Melbourne, Australia. It is owned by an Australian company called Fairfax, and its first edition was on 17 October 1854.

The newspaper was first made by John and Henry Cooke. They also had a merchant business called Francis Cooke and Co.. They said they would use the newspaper to help miners in the Australian Gold Rush. The newspaper has become very popular since then. According to its website, it gets up to 957,000 on Saturdays. The editor is Andrew Jaspan, who got the job in 2004. He got in trouble in 2008 when The Age journalists agreed that he had been making it hard for them to make news reports independently.

[[MINIX]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

MINIX is a Unix-like computer operating system based on a microkernel architecture. Andrew S. Tanenbaum wrote the operating system so it could be used for educational purposes; MINIX also helped Linus Torvalds design the Linux kernel. Its name comes from the words minimal and Unix.

Released under the BSD license, MINIX is free and open source.

[[Causality]]

CATEGORIES: Logic, Causality

Causality is a way to describe how different events relate to one another. Suppose there are two events A and B. If B happens because A happened, then people say that A is the cause of B, or that B is the effect of A.

What looks very simple, is in fact a difficult problem. Many people have tried to solve it, they have come up with different solutions

[[Wildhaus]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of St. Gallen, Villages in St. Gallen

Wildhaus is a village and municipality near St. Gallen in the canton of St. Gallen in Switzerland. About 1,200 people live there. Huldrych Zwingli was born there in 1484. With 9658, Wildhaus has the highest zip code in Switzerland. On 1 January 2010 the former municipalities of Wildhaus and Alt St. Johann merged into the new municipality of Wildhaus-Alt St. Johann.

[[Muhammad Iqbal]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1938 deaths, People of British India, Indian poets, Indian politicians, Pakistani culture, National symbols of Pakistan, Urdu poets

Sir Muhammad Iqbal (November 9, 1877 – April 21, 1938),  widely known as Allama Iqbal,  was a Muslim poet and philosopher. Allama Iqbal gave the idea of Pakistan. He became the national poet of Pakistan. He is also known as the poet of East. He wrote poetry in Urdu and Persian. His poetry is considered to be revolutionary.  His vision of an independent state for the Muslims of British India was a starting point for the creation of Pakistan. He is commonly referred to as Dr Allama Muhammad Iqbal.

[[1984–85 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 in the United States, 1985 in Canada, 1985 in the United States, National Hockey League seasons

The 1984–85 NHL season was the 68th season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-one teams each played 80 games. The Edmonton Oilers won their second straight Stanley Cup by beating the Philadelphia Flyers four games to one in the final series.

This was the first year since they began broadcasting that CBC was not the lone network broadcaster in Canada.  While Molson continued to present Hockey Night in Canada on Saturday nights, rival brewery Carling O'Keefe began airing Friday night games on CTV.  The two networks split the playoffs and finals.

[[Grant Fuhr]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, American Hockey League players, Buffalo Sabres players, Calgary Flames players, Canadian adoptees, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Edmonton Oilers players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, St. Louis Blues players, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners, Victoria Cougars (1971–94) players

Grant S. Fuhr (born September 28, 1962), is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender. He played in the National Hockey League. In 2003, he was added into the Hockey Hall of Fame. Born of biracial parents, Fuhr was adopted as a baby and raised in Spruce Grove, Alberta.

[[Ron Hextall]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, American Hockey League players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, New York Islanders players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Quebec Nordiques players, Vezina Trophy winners, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Ron Hextall (born May 3, 1964 in Brandon, Manitoba) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender most often associated with the Philadelphia Flyers of the National Hockey League. He is the grandson of Hall-of-Famer Bryan Hextall, the son of former NHL player Bryan Hextall Jr. and nephew of former NHL player Dennis Hextall.

[[Brandon Wheat Kings]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 establishments in North America, Canadian Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in Canada, Western Hockey League, 1960s establishments in Sweden

The Brandon Wheat Kings are a Canadian junior ice hockey team based in Brandon, Manitoba. They compete in the Western Hockey League, and joined the league in the 1967–68 season. Prior to that they played in the Manitoba Junior Hockey League and were known as the Brandon Elks for a short time in the 1940s. They won 8 Turnbull Cup Championships as Manitoba Junior Champions, 1939, 1947, 1949, 1950, 1960, 1962, 1963,  & 1964 and appeared in the Memorial Cup five times: in 1949 (as an MJHL team), 1979, 1995, 1996 and 2010, losing each time.  The team plays its home games in Westman Communications Group Place (Keystone Centre). They also played at Wheat City Arena until 1969, and the Manex Arena from 1969 to 1972. Starting in 1973, the Wheat Kings owned and operated a farm team in the MJHL, called the Travellers.

An earlier incarnation of the Wheat Kings played for the Stanley Cup in 1904, but lost to the Ottawa Senators.

The 1949 Brandon Wheat Kings won the Abbott Cup defeating the Calgary Buffaloes. They went on to lose the Memorial Cup to the Montreal Royals. The 1949 Brandon Wheat Kings were inducted into the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame in the team category. 

The Wheat Kings hold the CHL record for most points (125) in a single season, setting the mark in 1978–79.

The Western Hockey League announced on October 16, 2008, that the Wheat Kings were chosen to host the 2010 Memorial Cup championship at the Keystone Centre. They reached the final game, losing to the Windsor Spitfires.

[[William Riker]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: The Next Generation characters

William Thomas Riker is a Star Trek: The Next Generation character. He is played by Jonathan Frakes. He is first officer on the starship Enterprise. This means that he is second in command of the starship and can give orders if the Captain is away.

[[Hall church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches, Architecture

A hall church is a type of church building. The term "hall church" is about the architecture of the building. Most very large churches and cathedrals are built with a long part where people sit, called the "nave". On each side of the nave is a lower "aisle". Between the nave and the aisles are rows of columns. Above the columns are windows which let light into the nave. In a hall church, there are no windows above the columns. The nave and the aisles are about the same height. 

Famous cathedrals which are hall churches are Milan Cathedral in Italy, St. Stephen's Cathedral, Vienna and Bristol Cathedral in England. 

The term was first used in the mid-19th century by the German art historian Wilhelm Lübke.

[[Saint Thomas Church (Strasbourg)]]

CATEGORIES: Gothic architecture, Strasbourg, 1521 establishments, 16th century establishments in France

Saint Thomas Church in Strasbourg is a Protestant church today. It is very important for Strasbourg, from a cultural and historic perspective. Strasbourg Cathedral had to be given to the Catholics when the French occupied Strasbourg in 1681. Since then, this church is the main Protestant church in the region. 

The veneration of St. Thomas at this particular spot was already present in the 6th century. A church and a school were built there in the 9th century. They burned down because lightning struck them in 1007 and again in 1144. A very large church built like a fortress to resist fires better was started in the year of 1196. Building works were interrupted several times, until they finished with building side-chapels in Gothic style. In 1524 the church became Lutheran. Today, it is in charge of several schools. There is also a seminary (A special school for priests) in the baroque building next to it. 

There are 5 naves in the church. It is the oldest such church in southwest Germany, and the only "hall church" in Alsace. The church is also known for its organs. One of them was built by Johann Andreas Silbermann in 1741. The family Silbermann (father and sons) were the most important German organ-builders of the 18th century. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart played on this organ several times during the three weeks he spent in Strasbourg in 1778 and wrote in a letter to his father Leopold Mozart about it. The other organ (built for the choir) was designed by Albert Schweitzer and built in 1906. 

There is a gothic fresco of Saint Michael in the church. This is the largest of its kind in France after that of St. Christopher in Wissembourg, which is ten meters high.

There are also many notable tombs and tombstones in the church, the oldest is a romanesque masterwork from the 11th century, and the largest a baroque monument to field-marchal Maurice of Saxony that fills up the entire rear wall of the choir. Maurice could not be buried in Paris because he was Protestant, and since he was German by birth, Strasbourg was a fitting place.

The Saint Thomas church also houses medieval stained glass in its windows, although Protestants destroyed parts of it in the early years of the Reformation.

[[Aircraft hijacking]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation safety, Types of crime, Terrorist attacks

Aircraft hijacking (also known as skyjacking and aircraft piracy) is the takeover of an aircraft, by a person or group, usually armed. In most cases the pilot is forced to fly according to the orders of the hijackers. Sometimes, the hijackers fly the planes themselves, as believed to have occurred in the September 11, 2001 attacks. In one case the official pilot hijacked the plane, when he diverted his internal Air China flight to Taiwan.

[[Logan International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Massachusetts, Buildings and structures in Boston, Massachusetts, Airports in the United States

General Edward Lawrence Logan International Airport BOS in the East Boston neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts, United States (and partly in the Town of Winthrop, Massachusetts), is one of the 20 busiest airports in the U.S., with over 27 million passengers a year. The airport serves as a focus city for American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, US Airways, and JetBlue Airways.

It covers 2,400 acres (10 km²), has six runways, and employs an estimated 16,000 people. The airport has service to destinations in the United States, as well as Canada, the Cape Verde Islands, the Caribbean, Europe, and Mexico. The distinctive central control tower, nearly a dozen stories high, is a local landmark with its pair of segmented elliptical pylons and a six-story platform trussed between them.

Boston serves as a focus city for JetBlue Airways. Delta Air Lines and US Airways also carries out many operations from the airport, and all major airlines fly to Boston from all or the majority of their primary and secondary hubs. It is also a destination of many major European airlines, such as Lufthansa, British Airways, Norwegian Air Shuttle and Air France. The airport is a hub for regional airline Cape Air. The airport has service to destinations in the United States, as well as Africa, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, Mexico, and South America. Japan Airlines plans to inaugurate service to Tokyo in 2012, which would add the first service to Asia since 2001. As of July 2013, the service continues to operate with great success.

In 2010, it was the world's 28th busiest airport in terms of aircraft movements. The airport is also the 12th busiest airport in the U.S. based on international traffic. In 2010, it handled 3,681,739 international passengers. Logan Airport stimulates the New England regional economy by over $7 billion each year. It generates $559.4 million in state and local taxes.

[[NHL Entry Draft]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League

The NHL Entry Draft is an event in which the teams of the National Hockey League (NHL) systematically select the rights to available amateur players who meet the requirements to play professional hockey in the NHL.

[[Los Angeles International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in California, Buildings and structures in Los Angeles, California

Los Angeles International Airport LAX is the airport which serves Los Angeles, California, United States. It is often called LAX, its airport code. The letters usually said by themselves. LAX is in southwestern Los Angeles in the neighborhood of Westchester, 16 from the downtown core.

With 61,895,548 passengers in 2007, LAX was the fifth busiest airport in the world and is served by direct flights to North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, and the Middle East. The airport is a small hub for American Airlines and United Airlines and a focus city for Alaska Airlines, Delta Air Lines, and Southwest Airlines.

[[Cockpit]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft

A cockpit is the open space, normally near the front of an aircraft, where a pilot controls the aircraft. A different name for the cockpit is the flight deck, flight deck can also refer to the flight deck on an aircraft carrier. Current cockpits have walls on all sides, this may not be the same for some small aircraft, and cockpits on aircraft with passengers have the cockpit separated from the passenger area of the aircraft. Motorboats also have cockpits.

Cockpit as a term for the pilot's space in an aircraft first appeared in 1914. From about 1935 cockpit also came to be used informally to refer to the driver's seat of a car, especially a high performance one, and this is official terminology in Formula One. The term is most likely related to the sailing term for the coxswain's station in a Royal Navy ship, and later the location of the ship's rudder controls.

[[List of defunct and relocated National Hockey League teams]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, Ice hockey related lists

This is a list of teams that once played in the National Hockey League but no longer exist.  This includes franchises which have moved to different cities.  The years of operation only reflect the time in which that team was in the NHL; it does not take into account any time in which the franchise operated in another league (such as the World Hockey Association).

[[First officer]]

CATEGORIES: Titles

In commercial aviation, the first officer is the second pilot (sometimes referred to as the "co-pilot") of an aircraft. The first officer is second-in-command of the aircraft, to the Captain who is the legal commander. In the event of incapacitation of the captain, the first officer will assume command of the aircraft.

Control of the aircraft is normally shared equally between the first officer and the captain, with one pilot normally designated the "Pilot Flying" (PF) and the other the "Pilot Not Flying" (PNF) for each flight. Even when the first officer is the flying pilot, however, the captain remains ultimately responsible for the aircraft, its passengers, and the crew. In typical day-to-day operations, the essential job tasks remain fairly equal.

The pilot is seated in the left seat of the cockpit, and the co-pilot is positioned in the right seat.

Generally one of the two will fly the airplane, while the other navigates and is in charge of radio communication.

[[Flight attendant]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations in aviation, Aircraft

In aviation, flight attendants — also known as cabin crew, stewards, air hosts/hostesses, or stewardesses, — are members of a cabin crew employed by airlines. They make sure that the passengers on commercial flights (or, sometimes, business jets) are safe and comfortable during the flight.

[[Western Conference (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League

The Western Conference (Conférence de l'Ouest) is one of two conferences in the National Hockey League (NHL) used to divide teams.  Its counterpart is the Eastern Conference.

[[Mohamed Atta]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2001 deaths, Al-Qaeda people, Egyptian Muslims, September 11 attacks

Mohamed Atta (محمد عطا السيد (September 1, 1968 – September 11, 2001 was a known associate of al-Qaeda and the leader of the nineteen hijackers who carried out the September 11, 2001 attacks. He personally participated in the hijacking of American Airlines Flight 11, the first plane to crash into the World Trade Center during the September 11, 2001 attacks. He was said to be 'the best candidate for the job'

[[Abdulaziz al-Omari]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2001 deaths, Al-Qaeda people, Saudi Arabian people, September 11 attacks

Abdulaziz al-Omari (عبدالعزيزالعمري, also transliterated Abdul Aziz Alomari May 28, 1979 – September 11, 2001) was named by the FBI as one of the hijackers of the first plane which was crashed into the World Trade Center in the September 11, 2001 attacks.

[[Waleed al-Shehri]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2001 deaths, Al-Qaeda people, Saudi Arabian people, September 11 attacks

Waleed M. al-Shehri (Arabic: الشهري, also transliterated Alshehri December 20, 1978 – September 11, 2001) was named by the FBI as a hijacker of American Airlines Flight 11 from Boston to Los Angeles that crashed into the World Trade Center as part of the September 11, 2001 attacks. His brother, Wail al-Shehri, is also a suspected 9/11 hijacker.  The following birthdates have been associated with al-Shehri: September 13, 1974; November 5, 1975; January 1, 1976; March 3, 1976; July 8, 1977; December 20, 1978; and May 11, 1979.

[[Wail al-Shehri]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2001 deaths, Al-Qaeda people, Saudi Arabian people, September 11 attacks

Wail al-Shehri (وائل الشهري, also transliterated Alshehri) was named by the FBI as one of the hijackers of American Airlines Flight 11 from Boston to Los Angeles that crashed into the World Trade Center as part of the September 11, 2001 attacks. His brother, Waleed al-Shehri, is also a suspected 9/11 hijacker.

[[Satam al-Suqami]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2001 deaths, Al-Qaeda people, People from Riyadh, September 11 attacks

Satam M. A. al-Suqami (سطام السقامي) (born June 28, 1976; died September 11, 2001), was one of five men named by the FBI as hijackers of American Airlines Flight 11 in the September 11, 2001 attacks.

[[List of Stanley Cup champions]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey related lists, Stanley Cup champions

This is a list of Stanley Cup champions, including finalists and challengers. The Stanley Cup, donated by former Governor General of Canada Lord Stanley of Preston in 1892, is the oldest professional sports trophy in North America. Originally inscribed the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup, the trophy started out as an award for Canada's top-ranking amateur ice hockey club. Today, it is awarded to the top team in the National Hockey League, a professional ice hockey league.

[[First class (aviation)]]

CATEGORIES: Air travel

First class, sometimes called A1, is a luxury travel class on some airliners that exceeds "Business Class", "Premium Economy Class" and "Economy Class". On a passenger jetliner first class refers to a limited number (rarely more than 16) of seats or cabins located in the front of the aircraft which are notable for their comfort, service and privacy. Propeller airliners occasionally have first class in the rear.

[[List of NHL players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players

This list of National Hockey League (NHL) players is divided into the following lists:

[[History of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: History of Pakistan

Pakistanis are a blend of their Harappan, Vedic, Iranic, Dardic and other heritage. Waves of invaders and migrants settled down in Pakistan throughout the centuries, influencing the locals and being absorbed among them.The founder of Pakistan is Quaid-e-Azam.

[[Business class]]

CATEGORIES: Travel

Business class (also known as executive class or upper class) is a high quality second-tier travel class available on some commercial airlines and rail lines. Its level of accommodation is higher than economy class and domestic first class but lower than international first class. However, many airlines offer only business class as the highest level of international service.

[[Runway]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation infrastructure

A runway (also abbreviated to RWY) is a strip of land on an airport, on which aircraft can take off and land. Runways may be a man-made surface (often asphalt, concrete, or a mixture of both) or a natural surface (grass, dirt, or gravel).

[[Air traffic control]]

CATEGORIES: Air traffic control

Air traffic control (ATC) is a service provided by ground-based controllers who direct aircraft on the ground and in the air.  The main job of ATC is to separate aircraft to prevent crashes and to make sure aircraft are running on time and as fast as possible. In some countries, ATC may also play a security or defense role (as in the United States), or actually be run entirely by the military (as in Brazil). Air traffic control was first introduced at London's Croydon Airport in 1921. Archie League, who controlled aircraft using colored flags at what is today Lambert-St. Louis International Airport, is often considered the first air traffic controller.

Preventing crashes is done by what is called separation. This means that the aircraft are kept apart by a minimum distance at all times. Modern aircraft also have collision avoidance systems that see nearby aircraft and warn pilots if other planes are too close. This system is a backup for when air traffic control is not available or if something goes wrong with ATC. Air traffic controllers also can provide information to pilots. But pilots do not have to follow commands of ATC. They can make changes in order to keep plane safe.

Air traffic control service is not provided in uncontrolled airspace. Uncontrolled airspace is usually between ground and 1000 feet except areas near airports. These areas are part of controlled airspace.

[[Federal Aviation Administration]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation authorities, United States Department of Transportation, United States government agencies

The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is an agency of the United States Department of Transportation with authority to regulate and oversee all aspects of civil aviation in the U.S. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958 created the group under the name "Federal Aviation Agency", and adopted its current name in 1967 when it became a part of the United States Department of Transportation. The FAA is the single most influential governmentally-run aviation agency in the world, with the European Aviation Safety Agency in a close second.

[[North American Aerospace Defense Command]]

CATEGORIES: Military

North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) is a joint organization of Canada and the United States that provides aerospace warning and defense for North America. It was founded on May 12, 1958, as the North American Air Defense Command. Its main technical facility has been the Cheyenne Mountain Operations Center in Colorado, and for this reason NORAD is sometimes unofficially referred to as Cheyenne Mountain.

[[Lower Manhattan]]

CATEGORIES: Manhattan, Neighborhoods of New York City

Lower Manhattan (or downtown Manhattan) is the southernmost part of the island of Manhattan, the main island and center of business and government of the City of New York. Lower Manhattan or "downtown" is defined most commonly as the area delineated on the north by 14th Street, on the west by the Hudson River, on the east by the East River, and on the south by New York Harbor (also known as Upper New York Bay). 

When referring specifically to the lower Manhattan business district such as Wall Street and its immediate environs, the northern border is commonly designated by thoroughfares approximately a mile-and-a-half (3 km) south of 14th Street and a mile (2 km) north of the island's southern tip: Chambers Street from near the Hudson east to the Brooklyn Bridge entrances and overpass. Two other major arteries are also sometimes identified as lower Manhattan's northern border: Canal Street, half a mile north of Chambers Street, and 23rd Street,  half a mile north of 14th Street.

[[Jules and Gedeon Naudet]]

CATEGORIES: French entertainers, French screenwriters, American screenwriters, French movie producers, French movie directors, American movie directors

Jules Clément Naudet (born Paris, France, April 26, 1973) and Thomas Gédéon Naudet (born Paris, France, March 27, 1970) are French directors, screenwriters and producers. The brothers, residents of the United States since 1989, were in New York City at the time of the September 11 attacks. Jules captured footage of the first plane flying into the North tower of the World Trade Center. Jules is married to Jacqueline Longa, with two children.

The brothers graduated from Tisch School of the Arts in 1995. Their first film, "Hope, Gloves and Redemption," (2000) on boxers in the Bronx, included coverage of the 1998 New York Daily News Golden Gloves tournament.

[[Flight recorder]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation

A flight recorder is a recorder placed in an aircraft to help with investigating an aircraft accident or incident. For this reason, they have to be capable of surviving extremely rough treatment. They are usually built to withstand an impact of 3600 g and temperatures of over 1,000 °C (as required by EUROCAE ED-112), because a powerful impact followed by a very hot fire is what often happens in a plane crash. 

There are two types of protected Flight Recorder, Flight data recorder (FDR) and Cockpit voice recorder (CVR). In some cases, the two recorders may be combined in a single FDR/CVR unit. The first combined flight recorder was invented by Australian scientist, David Warren.

These recorders are often called "black boxes". They can be used in other vehicles including trains and cars. The car's recorder can monitor the speed of the car or the sharpness of turns. The train's recorder can be used to upgrade after a crash to reduce the chance of another crash. 

[[Flight number]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation

A flight number, when combined with the name of the airline and the date, identifies a particular flight. This callsign should not be confused with the tail number of the aircraft, although both can be used as a call-sign as used in general aviation. A particular aircraft may fly several different flights in one day, and different aircraft may be used for the same flight number on successive days.

Sometimes when an airplane has an accident, the airline will retire the flight number and replace it with a new number.

[[Boeing 757]]

CATEGORIES: Boeing aircraft

The Boeing 757 is a short to medium range narrow-body commercial passenger aircraft manufactured by Boeing Commercial Airplanes. It was launched by Eastern Air Lines and British Airways to replace the Boeing 727 and entered service in 1983.  Production of the 757 ended on October 28, 2004 after 1,050 had been built. The final aircraft was delivered to Shanghai Airlines on November 28, 2005. As of July 2007, a total of 1,019 Boeing 757 aircraft were in airline service.

[[List of National Hockey League arenas]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League lists, Indoor arenas

The following is a list of National Hockey League arenas including past, present, and future arenas:

[[DGamer]]

CATEGORIES: Disney video games, DGamer

DGamer (Disney Gamer) is an online service made by Disney for use with Nintendo DS games. DGamer can be seen via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection or computer via Disney.com. The service is implemented by Disney Interactive.

It was started in North America on May 15, 2008, at the same time as the release of the DS-version of The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian. All future Disney Interactive Studios games will include DGamer features.

[[Eastern Conference (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League

The Eastern Conference (Conférence de l'Est) is one of two conferences in the National Hockey League (NHL) used to divide teams.  Its counterpart is the Western Conference.

[[Undrafted sportsperson]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words, Lists of sportspeople

An undrafted sportsperson or undrafted free agent is a type of sportsperson who plays, or tries to play, in a professional sports league. Every eligible player who is not chosen in their league's draft is an undrafted sportsperson. 

[[John Vanbiesbrouck]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Central Professional Hockey League players, Florida Panthers players, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, New York Rangers players, Ontario Hockey League players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Sportspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Vezina Trophy winners, American ice hockey goaltenders

John Vanbiesbrouck (born September 4, 1963 in Detroit, Michigan) is a American retired professional ice hockey goaltender, who was inducted into the United States Hockey Hall of Fame in 2007. He's played for the New York Rangers, Florida Panthers, Philadelphia Flyers, New York Islanders, and New Jersey Devils.

[[Pelle Lindbergh]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 1985 deaths, American Hockey League players, Olympic bronze medalists, Philadelphia Flyers players, Road accident deaths in New Jersey, Sportspeople from Stockholm, Swedish Hockey League players, Vezina Trophy winners, Swedish ice hockey goaltenders

Per-Erik "Pelle" Lindbergh ('pɛlɛ ˈlindbærj, May 24, 1959 – November 11, 1985) was a Swedish professional ice hockey goaltender who played parts of five seasons in the NHL for the Philadelphia Flyers.

[[Wernher von Braun]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1977 deaths, Scientists from Virginia, Cancer deaths in Virginia, Deaths from colorectal cancer, German scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Spaceflight, SS officers, Wernher von Braun

Wernher Magnus Maximilian Freiherr von Braun (23 March 1912–16 June 1977) was a German engineer and scientist. He worked as a rocket designer between the 1930s and 1970s. Some people say he was the most important rocket engineer of the 20th century.  He worked for the Nazis during World War II. After World War II, he went to the United States. There, he worked for NASA. In 1955, ten years after entering the country, von Braun became a US citizen.

He was one of the developers of the V-2 rocket, the first rocket to fly up to outer space. He also developed the Saturn V rocket, which took people to the moon in 1969.

[[Pete Peeters]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Living people, Medicine Hat Tigers players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Vezina Trophy winners, Washington Capitals players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Peter H. Peeters (born 1 August, 1957 in Edmonton, Alberta) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender who was one of the NHL's most colourful characters in the 1980s.

Peeters was drafted 135th overall by the Philadelphia Flyers in the 1977 NHL Amateur Draft after playing for the Medicine Hat Tigers of the WCHL. Peeters played in 489 career NHL games, with a record of 246 wins, 155 losses and 51 ties. He also registered 21 shutouts and a 3.08 Goals Against Average. Peeters also played several years for the Washington Capitals.

[[National Football League Most Valuable Player Award]]

CATEGORIES: American football awards, Most valuable player awards

The National Football League Most Valuable Player Award is an award by different entities, most notably the Associated Press, to the player who is thought to be the most valuable player in the league.

[[List of NHL statistical leaders]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League lists, Lists of sportspeople

This is a list of National Hockey League (NHL) statistical leaders through the end of the 2006–07 season.  Statistics from the 2007–08 season will be included after that season is completed.

Most of these records are held by Canadian players, due to the traditional popularity of ice hockey in Canada. In the past, most NHL players were from Canada, and even today roughly half of all NHL players are born in Canada (52.0% in the 2007–08 season). To distinguish players of different nations, a flag is placed beside players born outside of Canada; the Canadian flag (Canada) will not be shown next to Canadian players in order to avoid clutter.

[[Trent Green]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, American football quarterbacks, Kansas City Chiefs players, Living people, Miami Dolphins players, People from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, San Diego Chargers players, Sportspeople from Iowa, Washington Redskins players, St. Louis Rams players

Trent Jason Green (born July 9, 1970 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa) is a retired American football quarterback that played for the San Diego Chargers, Washington Redskins, St. Louis Rams, Kansas City Chiefs and Miami Dolphins of the National Football League. He was first drafted by the San Diego Chargers in the eighth round of the 1993 NFL Draft. He played college football at Indiana.

Green has also played for has also played for the British Columbia Lions, Washington Redskins, Kansas City Chiefs and Miami Dolphins. He earned a Super Bowl ring during his first stint with the Rams and was selected to two Pro Bowls with the Chiefs. He retired on June 12, 2009 and is currently serving as a color analyst on the regional NFL games for the Fox network and also as a studio analyst for the NFL Total Access show on the NFL Network.

[[Toy Story 3]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 comedy movies, 2010 animated movies, 2010 3D movies, Academy Award winning movies, American comedy movies, American sequel movies, Buddy movies, Computer-animated movies, Disney animated movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies composed by Randy Newman, Movies that won the Best Animated Feature Academy Award, Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award, Pixar movies, Toy Story

Toy Story 3 is a 2010 American 3-D computer-animated movie. It was released by Pixar Animation Studios on June 18, 2010. It is a sequel to Toy Story and Toy Story 2. as well of the live-action third fan film adapted in 2019 as, Mason and Morgan McGrew's Live Action Toy Story 3 or Toy Story 3 In Real life released in January 25, 2020 on YouTube. no Inside Out.

[[Walt Disney Studios]]

The name Walt Disney Studios could mean:

[[Cars (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 comedy movies, 2006 computer-animated movies, Cars (franchise), Pixar movies, American comedy movies, American family movies, English-language movies, Buena Vista International movies, Movies composed by Randy Newman, Movies set in deserts, Movies directed by John Lasseter

 

Cars is a 2006 movie made by Pixar. In it, cars are living beings and there are no humans. The movie is about Lightning McQueen, a race car who is on his way to California where he is scheduled to race for the Piston Cup. He gets lost on the way and finds himself in Radiator Springs, a fictional town on Route 66. There, he makes new friends who help him get to his Piston Cup race.

[[A Bug's Life]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 animated movies, 1990s computer-animated movies, Pixar movies, Family movies, Movies about animals, Movies composed by Randy Newman, Movies directed by John Lasseter, Movies directed by Andrew Stanton

A Bug's Life is a 1998 movie made by Pixar. It follows the conflict between ants and grasshoppers in the world of insects. It is a retelling of a fable by Aesop, The Ant and the Grasshopper.

[[No Country for Old Men (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, English-language movies, Best Picture Oscar, Miramax movies, American movies, Academy Award winning movies, Movies based on books, Multilingual movies, Movies about the illegal drug trade

No Country for Old Men is a 2007 movie made by the Coen Brothers. It won "Best Picture", "Best Director", and "Best Adapted Screenplay" at the 2007 Academy Awards.

[[Council for Christian Colleges and Universities]]

CATEGORIES: Council for Christian Colleges and Universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities:

[[Oak Ridge Associated Universities]]

CATEGORIES: Oak Ridge Associated Universities

Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU) is a group of colleges and universities which work with the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. ORAU manages the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) for the United States Department of Energy. ORAU is made up of the following :

[[Indiana University Bloomington]]

CATEGORIES: Big Ten Conference, Colleges and universities in Indiana, Collegiate Water Polo Association, Oak Ridge Associated Universities

Indiana University Bloomington is a public university in Bloomington, Indiana.  It is the largest university in a group also called "Indiana University."

[[Afonso Pena International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in South America, Buildings and structures in Brazil, Curitiba

The Afonso Pena International Airport CWB is a Brazilian airport. It is the most important airport in the southern region of the country. It is Curitiba's major airport. The airport is located 18km  southeast from the downtown, in the city of São José dos Pinhais. The airport includes a small museum, a playcenter and a small shopping center with 60 stores inside the main terminal.

[[Universidade Federal do Paraná]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Brazil, Paraná State, 1912 establishments in Brazil

The Universidade Federal do Paraná - UFPR (Federal University of Paraná) is the oldest Brazilian university. It is located in the Southern Brazilian state of Paraná. The university was created on December 19, 1912. Its facilities are scattered over the capital Curitiba and other cities of the state.

[[Twelfth grade]]

CATEGORIES: Education

Twelfth grade (called Grade 12 in some places, also known as senior year in the United States and Australia) is the last year of secondary education in the United States, as well as many other nations. Students are usually 17 when they start and are 18 years old at the end.

[[Depth chart]]

CATEGORIES: Diagrams, Team sports

In sports, a depth chart is a chart used to show the lineup of the starting players and the secondary players. Most often a starting player will be listed first or on top, while a back-up player will be listed below.

[[Stepfamily]]

CATEGORIES: Family

A stepfamily is a family that gets a parent through a new marriage, whether the parent was widowed or divorced, or had not married his child's other parent. For example, if a girl's mother dies and her father marries another woman, the woman is her stepmother. 

[[Breeches]]

CATEGORIES: Trousers and shorts

Breeches (pronounced ˈbritʃɪz or ˈbrɪtʃɪz) is a type of clothing that males wear that covers the body from the waist down, with different coverings for each leg, usually stopping just below the knee, though sometimes reaching to the ankles. The breeching of a young boy, at an age somewhere between six and eight, was a completion in his childhood. 

[[Waist]]

CATEGORIES: Torso

The waist is the part of the abdomen between the rib cage and hips that humans have.

[[Aircraft registration]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation licenses and certifications

An aircraft registration is a unique alphanumeric string that identifies an aircraft, in similar fashion to a licence plate on an automobile. In accordance with the Convention on International Civil Aviation all aircraft must be registered with a national authority (such as the Federal Aviation Administration or Transport Canada), and furthermore, they must carry proof of this registration in the form of a legal document called a Certificate of Registration at all times when in operation. Most countries also require the aircraft registration to be imprinted on a permanent fireproof plate mounted on the fuselage for the purposes of post-fire/post-crash aircraft accident investigation.

[[List of medical abbreviations]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine, Science-related lists, Glossaries

Medical abbreviations are a shorthand way of writing and talking by medical professionals (people who work to help sick people) to hurry explanation of diseases (sickness), patients, or medicines (drugs).

This shorthand can include shortening (making less lengthy) of longer disease names, by cutting the word down to its base (the Latin or Greek part that makes it). Medical professionals also create (make) words that mean something. An example of this is "stat", used to indicate (show) that something needs to be hurried (done faster). It is from the Latin "base word" statim, meaning quick. A very commonly (often) used shorthand is shortening things on order forms for patients. An example is, "pre-op" meaning |pre-operation| (patient who is being prepared for surgery). These can be very complicated and extensive (meaning there is a lot of them).

Despite the fact that this shorthand might make it difficult for new Interns (new doctors) or recently trained nurses to get used to this unofficial language, it has been shown to improve (make better) the speed of treatment in hospitals.

Medical authorities in the United Kingdom and elsewhere have questioned the use of medical shorthand; believing that it can lead to mistakes being made due to less clear communication and have advised doctors to avoid its use.

[[Paternoster]]

CATEGORIES: Elevators

A Paternoster is a type of elevator. Its design is different from that of other elevators. It has several cabins that constantly move up and down. They are linked on a chain. People can stop on or off at any floor they like.

Paternosters have advantages and disadvantages. As an advantage, it is always possible to take them in either direction. Since the elevator moves at a slow speed, it is slower than a modern elevator. It takes longer to get to distant floors. Also, using a paternoaster takes some training. Paternosters are nearly impossible to use for disabled people.

[[Maremma]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Italy

Maremma is an area in Italy, consisting of part of southern Tuscany and some part of northern Lazio.

[[Hurtova Lhota]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Hurtova Lhota is a village in the Havlíčkův Brod District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 224 people live there. It covers 2.98. Hurtova Lhota was first documented in 1436.

[[Nová Ves u Světlé]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Nová Ves u Světlé is a village in the Havlíčkův Brod District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 467 people live there. It covers 7,58 km². Nová Ves u Světlé was first documented in 1378.

[[Hamilton Academical F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football clubs

Hamilton Academical is a football team from Hamilton, Lanarkshire in Scotland. They were first set up in 1874 from Hamilton Academy. More commonly known as "Hamilton Accies" the team won promotion from SFL Division 2 to SFL Division 1 in the 2003-04 season. This was followed up by promotion to the Scottish Premier League in the 2007-08 season. The club have played at New Douglas Park from 2001, having previously played at Douglas Park.

[[Worf]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: The Next Generation characters

Worf is a Star Trek: The Next Generation and Star Trek: Deep Space Nine character. He is played by Michael Dorn. He serves on the starship Enterprise as Lieutenant Junior Grade. Worf is the first Klingon main character to appear in Star Trek, and has appeared in more Star Trek episodes than any other character.

[[Azmi Bishara]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Christians, Former Members of Knesset, Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni, Israeli-Palestinian people, People from Nazareth, Social democrats, Socialist politicians

Azmi Bishara (عزمي بشارة, עזמי בשארה, born July 22, 1956), was an Arab Israeli politician. He is a Palestinian and an Israeli citizen. Bishara was a member of the Israeli Knesset (MK) as a member of the Balad party from 1996 until resigning (stopped being a member) in April 2007. He is also the leader of that political party.

His resignation happened during news that the Israeli security services said he had committed many crimes. The news at that time did not say what the crimes were. It was later said that the crimes were treason and espionage. Because he resigned, Bishara lost his parliamentary immunity. He was not in Israel when this happened and chose not to go back to Israel at that time. He has said that he does want to return.

[[Peterhead F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Second Division clubs

Peterhead Football Club is a professional football club from Peterhead, Scotland. Peterhead FC is currently playing in the Scottish Second Division.

[[1983–84 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 in the United States, 1984 in the United States

The 1983–84 NHL season was the 67th season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-one teams each played 80 games. The Edmonton Oilers beat the four-time defending Stanley Cup champion New York Islanders four games to one in the Cup finals.

[[Northeast Division (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League, 1993 establishments in North America

The NHL's Northeast Division was formed in 1993 as part of the Eastern Conference in a league adjustment, the predecessor of which was the Adams Division. Although none of its members have won the Stanley Cup since the adjustment, its members account for a combined 42 Stanley Cup championships (24 by Montreal, 13 by Toronto, and 5 by Boston), which is the most championships of any division in the NHL.

[[Northwest Division (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League

The NHL's Northwest Division was formed in 1998 as part of the Western Conference due to expansion.

[[Pacific Division (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League

The National Hockey League's Pacific Division is one of two divisions that make up the Western Conference. It was formed in 1993 as part of league realignment. The Pacific Division is the surviving successor of the Smythe Division; the now-defunct Northwest Division was the other successor. Of Pacific Division teams that existed in 1993, only the Anaheim Ducks never played in the Smythe Division (the Arizona Coyotes played in the Smythe when they were the original Winnipeg Jets).

The Pacific Division is centered around the Southwestern United States and Western Canada, with three teams based in California, two in Alberta, and one each in Arizona, British Columbia, and Nevada.

The San Jose Sharks have the most Pacific Division titles, with six. Five Stanley Cup winners have come from the Pacific Division: the Stars in 1999, the Colorado Avalanche in 1996, the Anaheim Ducks in 2007, and the Los Angeles Kings in 2012 and 2014.

[[Atlantic Division (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League, 1993 establishments in North America

The NHL's Atlantic Division was formed in 1993 as part of the Eastern Conference in a league realignment, the predecessor of which was the Patrick Division. It was changed in 2013 with the league's realignment. 

[[Central Division (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League, 1993 establishments in North America

The NHL's Central Division was formed in 1993 as part of the Western Conference in a league realignment, the predecessor of which was the Norris Division. It is the only division with 7 teams, the other 3 in the league having 8.

[[Southeast Division (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League

The NHL's Southeast Division was formed in 1998 as part of the Eastern Conference due to expansion.  

[[List of members of the Hockey Hall of Fame]]

CATEGORIES: Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Lists of ice hockey players

This is a list of members of the Hockey Hall of Fame. The Hockey Hall of Fame was established in 1943 and located in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is a hall of fame and museum dedicated to the history of ice hockey. Originally, there were two categories for induction, players and builders, and in 1961, a third category for on-ice officials was introduced. In 1988, a "veteran player category" was established in order to "provide a vehicle for players who may have been overlooked and whose chances for election would be limited when placed on the same ballot with contemporary players." Eleven players were added into the category, but in 2000 the board of directors eliminated it and those inductees are now considered to be in the player category.

As of 2017, there are 271 players, 105 builders and 16 on-ice officials in the Hall of Fame. Eleven of the honourees have been added after their death.

[[The Magic Roundabout (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, 2000s adventure movies, 2000s fantasy movies, Animated movies, British adventure movies, British family movies, French-language movies, French movies, Multilingual movies

The Magic Roundabout (released in France as Pollux, le manège enchanté and in North America with a shortened form, Doogal) is an Anglo-French animated movie based on the television series of the same name. The movie was released on February 11, 2005 in the United Kingdom and France, and on February 24, 2006 in North America. The story is about a dog named Dougal (Doogal in North America) who has to save his best friend, Florence, as well as the whole world, from being frozen by an evil spring named ZeeBad.

[[Female ejaculation]]

CATEGORIES: Female reproductive system

Female ejaculation, also known as gushing or squirting, happens when a woman has an orgasm and clear fluid comes out of her. Scientists are not sure how the fluid is produced, but think it is produced by the Skene's glands (also called the paraurethral glands or female prostate). Female ejaculation was mentioned in ancient times by the Greek philosopher Aristotle (384–322 B.C.), and by doctors and people who study anatomy. However, in much of the 20th century there were people who did not believe that female ejaculation existed, and it was not studied in detail. More people found out about the matter after a book called The G Spot came out in 1982 and became popular. After that, more research was done on female ejaculation.

[[SummerSlam]]

CATEGORIES: SummerSlam

SummerSlam is a yearly professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event held in August by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). The event is often called "The Biggest Party of the Summer." Along with WrestleMania, Royal Rumble and Survivor Series, SummerSlam is one of the "Big Four" pay-per-views and was one of the original four yearly WWE pay-per-views.

[[Suina]]

CATEGORIES: Even-toed ungulates

The suborder Suina (also known Suiformes) contains perhaps the earliest and most archaic even-toed ungulates.

[[Ruminantia]]

CATEGORIES: Even-toed ungulates

The biological suborder Ruminantia this majority of the Artiodactyla including sheep, goats, camels, and other forms which have a complex stomach and ruminate their food.

[[White Oleander (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 drama movies, American teen drama movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in California

White Oleander is a 2002 American drama movie set in California. It stars Alison Lohman, Michelle Pfeiffer, Robin Wright Penn and Renee Zellweger. It was directed by Peter Kosminsky and is based on the novel of the same name.

[[Five Colleges (Massachusetts)]]

CATEGORIES: Five Colleges, Incorporated

This is a list of colleges and universities which are the Five Colleges, Incorporated:

[[Five Colleges of Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Five Colleges of Ohio

This is a list of colleges and universities which are the Five Colleges of Ohio:

[[Claremont Colleges]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in California

The Claremont Colleges are a group of private colleges and universities in Claremont, California, near Los Angeles. They include:

Put together, they have about 8500 students.

[[Great Lakes Colleges Association]]

CATEGORIES: Great Lakes Colleges Association

This is a list of colleges and universities in the Great Lakes Colleges Association:

[[Beverly Crusher]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: The Next Generation characters

Doctor Beverly Crusher is a fictional character from the American science fiction television series Star Trek: The Next Generation The character is played by actress Gates McFadden. Crusher was born as Beverly Howard. She is a human medical doctor working for Starfleet. Crusher was the chief medical officer on the starships USS Enterprise-D and USS Enterprise-E. She had the military rank of Commander. Crusher had a husband, Jack Crusher (now dead), and one son, Wesley Crusher. 

[[Chakswari Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir

Chakswari (تحصیل چکسواری) is a town in the Mirpur District, Azad Kashmir, containing about 25 villages including the New Town of Islaamgarh, about 20 km from Mirpur city. It is quickly becoming a commercial area of the district.

The majority of the people speak Pahari (also known as Pothowari or Mirpuri), the second most spoken language of Kashmir after Kashmiri. A large number of people emigrated to the United Kingdom during the 1950s and 1980s.

Chakswari has plains and hills. It has a generally dry climate, with hot summers and cool winters. There is not much rain. The people of this area are agriculturalists belonging to the Jatt, Rajput & Moochi castes, with strong cultural links to the Pothwar region of Pakistan.

Chakswari is divided into two parts. There is the historic old town which houses the majority of the wholesale shops for which the town is known and the newer part. It is called Chakswari Colony and was built for the families who lost their homes following the construction of Mangla Dam. The town is modern and around twenty thousand people live there. Chakswari boasts the biggest house-building boom after Mirpur. Chakswari is known for its excellent shopping areas and its large shopping plazas where most of the wholesale shops are. There are many stores, plazas, shopping malls & markets in these areas, and they are known for their different types of items sold there.

Chakswari is well known for the existence of The Holy Pir. It is most commonly known as Noshahi pir who were part of The Muhammad family tree. The Noshahi Haji pir Ganj Baksh tomb is in Ralmal Sharif in Gujrat. In the '90s, they were known for helping the people of Chakswari with things like poverty.

[[Mirpur, Kashmir]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir, Cities in Pakistan, Cities in Jammu and Kashmir

Mirpur (مِيرپُور) is a city in Pakistan administered Jammu and Kashmir, and the headquarter of Mirpur District and formerly the Mirpur Division. Although it is now part of Jammu and Kashmir, up until the 1846 treaty of Amritsar Mirpur was part of the Punjab. The population are Pahari and the language they speak is Potowari . Mirpur is located at the South West of Jammu and Kashmir at a elevation of 459 metres (1509 ft), not far from Islamgarh. It is 323 kilometres (200 miles) from Srinagar, the capital of Jammu and Kashmir and 295 kilometres (183 miles) from Muzaffarabad.

[[Jalalabad, Punjab]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Punjab, India, Cities in India

Jalalabad (جلال آباد Jalālābād) is a city and a municipal council of Ferozpur District in the Punjab state of the Republic of India.

[[Kupferhof Bauschenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Germany, 17th century establishments in Germany

The Kupferhof Bauschenberg was a brass producing factory built in the 17th century in the German city of Stolberg. It had a great influence on the brass industry which made Stolberg world leader in brass production for more than a century.

Due to the excellent conditions for the production of the alloy brass there could hardly be a better place to choose than Stolberg. Located near the small river Vichtbach the water wheels could easily be powerded. Calamine was delivered by the oar mines from nearby Breinigerberg and wood for firing the furnaces had been available in adequate quantities in the forests of the Eifel. This must be the reason why Gottfried Schardinel, one of the richest persons at that time in the region of Stolberg built the Kupferhof Bauschenberg. 

Later the three factories Kupferhof Bauschenberg, Dollartshammer as well as Straßburger Hof fusionated to create the company Prym.

[[Zira Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Punjab, India

Zira (تحصیل زرا) was one of the two tehsils of the Punjab, (the other one being Ferozpur), that was part of a controversy during the Partition of India. Sir Cyril Radcliffe created the boundary between India and Pakistan just days before the partition. A draft of the Award was supposedly sent to Evan Jenkins, the provincial governor of Punjab by George Abell, Lord Mountbatten’s private secretary, with a preliminary description of the Punjab boundary. This draft showed the Ferozepur and Zira tehsils being allotted to Pakistan.

The final version of the boundary however awarded the areas to India. This led Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, to proclaim that the Award of the Boundary Commission was unjust, incomprehensible and perverse. He, however, agreed to abide by it. The dispute was settled in 1960 as part of an agreement between the governments of India and Pakistan.

[[Sturgeon]]

CATEGORIES: Edible fish, Ray-finned fish, Living fossils

Sturgeon is the common name for 26 species of fish in the family Acipenseridae.

[[WWE The Great American Bash]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment pay-per-view events

The Great American Bash is an yearly summer professional wrestling pay-per-view made by World Wrestling Entertainment. It was originally made by the National Wrestling Alliance and then by World Championship Wrestling. However, according to Ric Flair in his autobiography, Dusty Rhodes invented The Great American Bash.April 2009

After the last Great American Bash by World Championship Wrestling in 2000, The Great American Bash did not happen again until 2004 and only Smackdown! superstars were on it until the 2007 event when Raw and ECW superstars joined. Something special about this pay-per-view is that anyone in the American military can see The Great American Bash for free.

[[Ness]]

Ness may refer to:

[[Hy-Vee]]

CATEGORIES: Supermarkets of the United States, 1930 establishments in the United States

Hy-Vee is an employee owned chain of supermarkets in the Midwestern United States. As of January 2008, Hy-Vee runs 197 supermarkets and 26 Drugstores in seven states. Over 100 of its supermarkets are in Iowa, but it also has stores in Illinois, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, and South Dakota. Hy-Vee is known for its longtime advertising slogan, "Where there's a helpful smile in every aisle."

Two-time National Football League MVP Kurt Warner once worked at a Hy-Vee Store in Cedar Falls, Iowa.  After he was cut by the Green Bay Packers at age 24, he thought his football career might be over, so he worked there to play for his bills.

[[Mézeray]]

Mézeray may mean:

[[Liger]]

CATEGORIES: Panthera, Animal hybrids

A liger is a mix between a male lion (Panthera leo) and a female tiger (Panthera tigris). It is different from a similar mix called a tigon and is the biggest of all known extant cats.

[[White Oleander]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 books, 20th century American novels, English-language novels, Los Angeles, California in fiction

White Oleander is a 1999 novel set in Los Angeles. It was written by Janet Fitch.  It was later made into a movie in 2002 titled White Oleander.

[[Cold Mountain (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 drama movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, 2000s war movies, Italian drama movies, Romanian movies, American Civil War, American romantic drama movies, American war movies, English-language movies, Historical movies, Movies set in North Carolina, Buena Vista International movies, Miramax movies, Movies directed by Anthony Minghella

Cold Mountain is a 2003 American drama movie set in North Carolina. It was directed by Anthony Minghella. The main actors in the movie are Jude Law, Nicole Kidman, and Renee Zellweger. It was nominated for seven Academy Awards and won one, for Zellweger as Best Supporting Actress.

[[Environment (disambiguation)]]

Environment may mean:

In computing:

[[AT&T]]

CATEGORIES: Telephone companies, American technology companies, 1983 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Texas

AT&T Inc. (used to be called American Telegraph & Telephone) is the largest provider of both local and long distance fixed telephone services and Internet access in the United States with 71.4 million customers. It is the second largest wireless service provider in the country.

AT&T has been publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange since 1984. It was one of the 30 companies that made up the Dow Jones Industrial Average until 2013, when it was replaced by Apple Inc.

[[Air-ground radiotelephone service]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation, Communication

Air-ground radiotelephone service is a method of telephone communications used by aircraft pilots and passengers of commercial airline jets flying over the United States.

[[Heart of Midlothian F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Premier League clubs, Edinburgh, 1874 establishments in Scotland

Heart of Midlothian Football Club (commonly known as Hearts) is a professional football club based at Tynecastle Stadium in Edinburgh, Scotland. They play in the Scottish Premier League along with their city rivals Hibernian. Hearts were one of the teams invited to join the Scottish Football League when it first started in 1890. Hearts have won the Scottish Cup on 8 occasions, the League title 4 times and the League Cup 4 times.

[[Abbey library of St. Gallen]]

CATEGORIES: Libraries in Europe, St. Gallen

The Abbey library of St. Galllen (German: Stiftsbiblothek St.Gallen) is a library in St. Gallen, Switzerland. It was attached to the abbey of St. Gallen. This abbey had a great importance in the Middle Ages. Today, there are about 2,100 manuscripts from the Middle Ages, about 1 650 Inucabula (books and sheets printed before 1501) and early printings before 1520, as well as about 160,000 books. The library is the oldest library in Switzerland. The manuscript B of the Nibelungenlied is kept here.

[[Pohleď]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Pohleď is a village in the Havlíčkův Brod District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 80 people live there. The village has an area of 4.34 km². It was first documented in 1400.

[[Hibernian F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Premier League clubs, Edinburgh, 1875 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1870s establishments in Scotland

update

Hibernian Football Club is a professional football club based at Easter Road in Edinburgh, Scotland. Hibernian Football Club commonly known as Hibs. They play in the Scottish Premiership. Their city rivals are Hearts. It is one of three SPFL clubs in the city, the others being their Edinburgh derby rivals Hearts and Edinburgh City. Hibernian was founded in 1875 by Irish immigrants, but support for the club is now based on geography rather than ethnicity or religion. The Irish heritage of Hibernian is still reflected, however, in its name, colours and badge.

In 1887 Hibernian defeated Preston North End in a match nicknamed the Association Football Championship of the World decider, because of the two teams’ achievements in their domestic cup trophies. Hibs enjoyed enormous success throughout the 1940s and 50s where they won the 1947/8, 1950/1 and 1951/2 League Competitions. Their not-so-secret weapon was the attacking formation known as ‘The Famous Five’ consisting of Bobby Johnstone, Willie Ormond, Lawrie Reilly, Gordon Smith and Eddie Turnbull. 

Hibs became the first British team to enter European competition in 1955.  They competed in the Champions Cup and gave a fantastic performance against the German club, Rot Weiss Essen, winning 4-1 and drawing 1-1 on the return match in Scotland.

Hibernian F.C. was in grave danger of being closed down at the beginning of the 1990s when Wallace Mercer of rivals, Hearts of Midlothian, decided he wanted just one main club in Edinburgh.  However, the club was saved in 1991 by Sir Tom Farmer CBE.

[[Inverness Caledonian Thistle F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Inverness, Scottish Premier League clubs, 1994 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s establishments in Scotland

Inverness Caledonian Thistle Football Club is a professional football club based at Caledonian Stadium in Inverness, Scotland. They play in the Scottish Championship and are currently managed by John Robertson.

[[Kilmarnock F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Premier League clubs, 1869 establishments in the United Kingdom, 19th century establishments in Scotland

Kilmarnock Football Club is a professional football club based at Rugby Park in Kilmarnock, Scotland. They were founded in 1869, and are the oldest professional club in Scotland. They currently play in the Scottish Premier League and are managed by Angelo Alessio.

[[Higher education]]

CATEGORIES: Education

Higher education is after secondary education. Through attending college a higher degree (or title) can be gained. Generally, people must be 18 years old or over to enter higher education. They also need to have completed primary school and secondary education. Usually some kind of selection is used.  Exams can be of state, local or university level. Sometimes no selection exists. Some open universities encourage older adults to apply, whether they were good at school or not.

[[Aeronautics]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation, Science

Aeronautics is the study of how to make and use flying machines like aeroplanes or helicopters. The name comes from the Ancient Greek language.  It means "Air Navigating". 

Part of aeronautics is Aerodynamics, how air moves around things.  Many books are available on these topics.  Aeronautics is related to transport and engineering, and aerodynamics is science. 

[[Rawalpindi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan, Former national capitals, Capital of Pakistan

{

}

Rawalpindi (راولپنڈی, Rāwalpindī) is a city in the Pothohar Plateau near Pakistan's capital city of Islamabad, in the province of Punjab. It is home to the headquarters of the Pakistan Army and also served as the nation's capital while Islamabad was being constructed during the 1960s. The city is home to many industries and factories. Benazir Bhutto International Airport is actually in Rawalpindi, formerly known as the "Chaklala Airport", serving the city along with the capital. Rawalpindi is in the Punjab province, 275 km (171 miles) to the north-west of Lahore. It is the administrative seat of the Rawalpindi District. About 3,363,911 people lived in Rawalpindi in the year 1998.

[[Kachhi District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)

Kachhi (formerly named Bolan District) is a district of Balochistan, Pakistan.

[[Sopore Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Sopore (تحصیل سہپہرع) is a town in Baramulla district.

[[Josip Broz Tito]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1980 deaths, Deaths from gangrene, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from peripheral artery disease, Former dictatorships, Honorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Presidents of Yugoslavia, Recipients of the Decoration for Services to the Republic of Austria, People excommunicated by the Catholic Church

Josip Broz Tito, nicknamed Tito, (May 7, 1892 – May 4, 1980) was the dictatorial leader of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, from 1945 until his death. From 1945 to 1953 he was Prime Minister, and from 1953 to 1980 he was the President. His funeral on May 4, 1980, was the largest state funeral in Yugoslavia. Tito was a controversial person, with people having strong and differing views about his leadership.

[[Wienerwald]]

CATEGORIES: Alps, Forests of Europe, Mountains of Austria, Regions of Austria, Lower Austria, Vienna

The Wienerwald (East Central Bavarian: Weanawoid, lit.'Vienna Woods') is a large forest of over 1,000 square kilometers. It lies southwest of Vienna in Lower Austria. It covers the start of the Alps. It is about 45 km long, and between 20 and 30 km wide.

[[Wienerwald, Austria]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Lower Austria

Wienerwald is an Austrian municipality in the Mödling District, Lower Austria. 

It lies in the forest of the Vienna Woods (Wienerwald). About 2,600 people live there. 

Parts of the municipality (which has only existed since 1972) have been mentioned as early as 1114. 

[[Wienerwald (restaurant)]]

CATEGORIES: European restaurants, 1955 establishments in Europe

Wienerwald is a chain of franchise restaurants. They are mainly in Germany and Austria. They specialize in chicken-based products. It was founded in 1955. It went bankrupt several times. Today the two chains in Austria and Germany are independent of each other.

[[Barracuda]]

CATEGORIES: Perciformes

A barracuda is a ray finned-fish that is about 6 feet in length. It is found in tropical and subtropical oceans worldwide. It is of the genus Sphyraena, the only genus in the family Sphyraenidae. Infamous for its intimidating and ferocious behavior, it is the reason that divers take off any shiny or glittery bracelets in the water. They eat fish that are silver in color, which may cause them to attack someone if they are wearing any shimmering objects. These fish usually stay near the top of the water around sea grass and coral reefs. 

[[Pomona, California]]

CATEGORIES: Pomona, California

Pomona is a city in Los Angeles County, California. As of the 2000 census, the city population was 149,473.

[[Sin City (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, 2000s crime thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Dark Horse Comics movies, Film noir, Movies directed by Robert Rodriguez

Sin City is a 2005 American crime thriller movie written, produced and directed by Frank Miller and Robert Rodriguez. It is based on Miller's graphic novel series of the same name.

The main actors in it are Jessica Alba, Brittany Murphy, Benicio Del Toro, Clive Owen, Mickey Rourke, Bruce Willis and Elijah Wood. Sin City received mostly positive reviews.

This movie has a sequel called Sin City: A Dame to Kill For.

[[Fantastic Four (2005 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 science fiction movies, 2000s superhero movies, Fantastic Four (movie series), American action movies, American fantasy movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Movies based on comic book characters, Movies composed by John Ottman, Movies directed by Tim Story, Movies produced by Avi Arad, Superhero comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies

Fantastic Four is a 2005 American superhero movie based on the Marvel Comics comic Fantastic Four.  The movie was released in the United States on July 8, 2005.

[[Dark Angel (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 American television series debuts, 2002 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, American LGBT television programs, American science fiction television series, Eugenics, Fox television series, Television series set in Seattle, Washington, Television series set in the future, English-language television programs

Dark Angel is an American science fiction television series created by James Cameron and Charles H. Eglee, which ran from 2000 to 2002 on the FOX network. Dark Angel tells the story of the character of "Max Guevara" (X5-452), a genetically enhanced super-soldier, portrayed by Jessica Alba as an adult, and Geneva Locke as a child.

The program is set in 2019 in Seattle, Washington, but was filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada at Lions Gate Studios.

[[The Ultimate Fighter]]

CATEGORIES: Ultimate Fighting Championship, American reality television series

The Ultimate Fighter is a reality television series and mixed martial arts (MMA) contest, in the United States, and made by Spike TV and the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). On this show, professional MMA fighters that have yet to make a big name for themselves are placed in a house outside of Las Vegas, Nevada and they go against each other for the title of The Ultimate Fighter, winning a six-figure, multi-fight contract with the UFC.

[[Good Luck Chuck]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 comedy movies, 2007 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s sex comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American sex comedy movies, English-language movies, Lionsgate movies, Movies about dentistry

Good Luck Chuck is a 2007 romantic comedy movie starring Jessica Alba and Dane Cook. The story of the movie is Chuck is a "good luck charm" lover. That is, women will find their "one true love" after having sex with him. He then meets a girl who he thinks is his true love.

[[Maxim (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines of the United Kingdom

Maxim is an international men's magazine based in the United Kingdom and known for its revealing pictorials featuring popular actresses, singers, and female models, none of which are nudes.

In the United States, Maxim is an industry leader, reporting a circulation of 2.5 million readers which they claim is enough to outsell leading competitors GQ, Esquire, and Details combined.

[[Camp Nowhere]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 movies, English-language movies

Camp Nowhere is a 1994 movie directed by Jonathan Prince, written by Andrew Kurtzman and Eliot Wald, and starring Jonathan Jackson, Christopher Lloyd, Melody Kay, Andrew Keegan, and Marne Patterson. The movie also features Jessica Alba in one of her first movie roles.

[[Honey (2003 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, English-language movies

Honey is a 2003 movie released by Universal Pictures. Featuring music produced by Rodney Jerkins, the movie stars Jessica Alba, Mekhi Phifer, Lil' Romeo,Zachary Isaiah Williams Joy Bryant, Missy Elliott and David Moscow. A number of popular hip hop and R&B musicians make cameos in the movie, including Jerkins, Jadakiss and Sheek Louch of The Lox, Tweet, and Ginuwine. Canadian R&B artist Shawn Desman was also featured. R&B and hip-hop singer Aaliyah, a close friend of Missy Elliott, was originally cast as the star of the movie before her death.

The movie grossed $27 million at the US box office, and was released on DVD and VHS on March 23, 2004.

[[The Secret World of Alex Mack]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 American television series debuts, Nickelodeon television series, 1998 American television series endings, English-language television programs

The Secret World of Alex Mack was an American television series that ran on Nickelodeon from October 8, 1994 to January 15, 1998, replacing Clarissa Explains It All on the SNICK line-up. Repeats of the series aired in 2003 on The N, but it was soon replaced there. The show is currently not on the air in the U.S.

[[Atlantic Theater Company]]

CATEGORIES: Theater, Companies based in New York City

The Atlantic Theater Company runs an off-Broadway theater in a converted church in the Chelsea neighborhood of New York City.

[[Beverly Hills, 90210]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 American television series debuts, 2000 American television series endings, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, American drama television series, American teen television series, Beverly Hills, California in fiction, Fox television series, Television series set in Los Angeles County, California, English-language television programs

Beverly Hills, 90210 is an American primetime television drama series that aired from October 4, 1990, to May 17, 2000 on FOX in the United States and subsequently on various networks around the world. The show followed the lives of a group of teenagers living in the upscale, star-studded community of Beverly Hills, California and attending the fictitious West Beverly Hills High School and then-fictitious California University. The show was created by Darren Star and produced by Aaron Spelling and Spelling Television. The "90210" in the title refers to one of the suburb's postal ZIP codes.

The original premise of the show was based around the adjustment and culture shock that twins Brandon (played by Jason Priestley) and Brenda Walsh (played by Shannen Doherty) had after they and their parents, Jim and Cindy moved from Minneapolis, Minnesota to Beverly Hills. The show addressed several topical issues, including: date rape, alcoholism, domestic violence, gay rights, drug abuse, teenage suicide, AIDS, and teenage pregnancy.

The show gained popularity during the summer of 1991, when FOX aired a special "summer season" of the show while most other series were in reruns. The series became one of FOX's top shows when it began its next season that fall. Viewership increased dramatically and the cast members, particularly Jason Priestley and Luke Perry, became teen idols, while the series would make actresses Shannen Doherty, Jennie Garth and Tori Spelling household names.

[[Teen Choice Awards]]

CATEGORIES: Fox Broadcasting Company, Entertainment awards

The Teen Choice Awards is an awards show presented annually by FOX. The program honors the year's biggest achievements in music, movies, sports, and television, as voted on by teens aged 12–19. The program usually features a high number of celebrities and musical performers. The winners are awarded with lifesize surfboards, to fit the summertime theme. The ceremony has also created spin-off teen awards on YouTube.

Starting in 1999, the Teen Choice Awards were presented weeks prior to the televised event up through 2005. Since 2006, the program has been televised live.

[[French Canadians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Canada

French Canadian (Canadien or Canadien français in French) refers to a nation or ethnic group that comes from Canada in the period of French colonization in the 1600s. They are the main French-speaking population of Canada. It may also refer to people of French descent living in Canada, or native speakers of French in Canada.

[[Mexican Americans]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United States, Mexican people

Mexican Americans are Americans of Mexican ancestry. They account for 9% of the country's population: about 28.3 million Americans listed their ancestry as Mexican as of 2006. They form the largest Hispanic or Latino group in the United States and contain the largest group of White Hispanics. Mexican Americans trace their ancestry to the modern day country of Mexico or the Southwestern United States.

Most Mexican Americans live in the four states that border Mexico, California, Texas, Arizona and New Mexico. The areas in and around Los Angeles is home to over six million Mexican Americans. There are also a number of large Mexican American communities in other areas of the Western and Southwestern United States. Though Chicago is not in the Western or Southwestern United States, it has 1.4 million Mexican Americans, more Mexican Americans than any city except Los Angeles. The metro areas of Dallas, Houston, and Phoenix each have more than one million Mexicans.  There are a growing number of Mexican Americans in the Midwest and South.  

Most Mexican Americans are "mestizos", or of more than one ethnicity. Most of their heritage is the indigenous indios of Mexico, but it often contains other groups, such as Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, Irish and Native American tribes from the U.S. such as Apache.

[[Saturn Award]]

CATEGORIES: Television, Science fiction awards, Movie awards

The Saturn Award is an award presented every year by the Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films to honor the top works in science fiction, fantasy, and horror in movie, television, and home video. The prestigious Saturn Awards were devised by Dr. Donald A. Reed, who felt that movies within those genres were never given the appreciation they deserved. The physical award is a representation of the planet Saturn, surrounded with a ring of film. The award was initially, and is still sometimes loosely referred to as a Golden Scroll.

Similar to other awards, like the Oscars, the Emmys and the Grammys, the Saturn Awards are voted on by members of the presenting Academy. There are also special awards for lifetime achievement in the field.

The awards were first presented in 1972. 

[[Del Rio, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Del Rio is a border city in and the county seat of Val Verde County, Texas, United States. It is near the Laughlin Air Force Base.

[[Tonsil]]

CATEGORIES: Head (body part)

The tonsils are areas of lymphoid tissue on either side of the throat. An infection of the tonsils is called tonsillitis or tonsilitis. Most commonly, the term "tonsils" refers to the palatine tonsils that can be seen in the back of the throat. 

Like other organs of the lymphatic system, the tonsils act as part of the immune system to help protect against infection. In particular, they are believed to be involved in helping fight off pharyngeal and upper respiratory tract infections.

[[J.C. Penney]]

CATEGORIES: American department stores, Companies based in Texas, Plano, Texas

J. C. Penney Company, Inc (most commonly known today by the name JCPenney or simply Penneys) is a mid-range chain of American department stores based in Plano, Texas, a suburb north of Dallas. The company operates 1,067 stores in 49 of the 50 U.S. states (except Hawaii) and Puerto Rico, and the largest general merchandise catalog business in the United States. In addition to sale of conventional merchandise, JCPenney stores are often home to several leased departments such as Optical, Portrait Studios, Jewelry & Watch repair, etc.

[[Flipper (1995 TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 American television series debuts, English-language television programs

Flipper (1995), is an American television series, also known as The New Adventures of Flipper.  It is a remake of the 1964 Flipper television series.  The first two seasons appeared first in syndication; seasons 3 and 4 appeared on the PAX network.

The 1995 version brought back Bud Ricks as a scientist doing marine research in Florida.  The dolphin Flipper was one with whom Dr. Ricks was working.  Jessica Alba was in the show.

[[Orient]]

CATEGORIES: Asia

Orient is a term meaning "the east". It is from the Latin word oriens. Ancient Rome sometimes used it to mean the area east of Rome. Later the dividing line moved farther east, to the Adriatic or the Aegean or the Indus River. This term is in contrast to the "Occident", which is a term meaning "the west".

[[Console role-playing game]]

CATEGORIES: Role-playing video games, Video game genres

A console role-playing game is a video game genre that resembles traditional role-playing games. Many console role-playing games use common features like turn-based battles, random battles, stats, and leveling up.

[[Drew Barrymore]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Actors from Culver City, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Barrymore family, Bisexual people, Golden Globe Award winning actors, LGBT actors, LGBT people from California, Saturn Award winners, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Drew Blyth Barrymore (born February 22, 1975) is an American actress and film producer. Born in Culver City, California, she is the youngest member of the Barrymore family. Lionel Barrymore was her great-uncle and John Barrymore was her grandfather. Barrymore made a breakout role in E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial. She starred with Adam Sandler in The Wedding Singer, 50 First Dates and Blended. She starred in the Netflix series Santa Clarita Diet.

[[Brooklyn South]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 American television series debuts, Drama television series, CBS network shows, 1998 American television series endings, English-language television programs

Brooklyn South is a short-lived American television police drama.  It aired from 1997-1998 on CBS for only one season. It was cancelled due to poor ratings.

One of the producers of the series was Steven Bochco, creator of many well-known police dramas such as Hill Street Blues and NYPD Blue. Brooklyn South was also created and produced by David Milch. The series tried to create a setting of a gritty, realistic police station similar to that of NYPD Blue, but differed by focusing on the uniformed police officers rather than the detectives. The pilot of Brooklyn South was noted as the first TV-MA rated episode on broadcast television.

[[Never Been Kissed]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 comedy movies, 1999 romance movies, 1990s high school movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s teen comedy movies, 1990s teen romance movies, American high school movies, American romantic comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, American teen romance movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Raja Gosnell, Movies set in Chicago, Illinois, Movies shot in Chicago, Illinois, Proms in movies

Never Been Kissed is a 1999 American comedy movie directed by Raja Gosnell. It follows a journalist pretending to be high school student. It stars Drew Barrymore, David Arquette, Michael Vartan, Molly Shannon, Leelee Sobieski, John C. Reilly, Jessica Alba, Marley Shelton and Garry Marshall. It marked the first movie produced by Flower Films and James Franco's film debut.

[[Idle Hands]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 comedy movies, 1999 horror movies, 1990s black comedy movies, Supernatural horror movies, 1990s teen comedy movies, 1990s teen horror movies, American black comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, American teen horror movies, Body horror movies, Comedy horror movies, English-language movies, Impact of the Columbine High School massacre

Idle Hands is a 1999 American comedy-horror movie starring Devon Sawa, Seth Green, and Jessica Alba with Elden Henson and Vivica A. Fox. It follows the life of a teen whose hand becomes possessed and goes on a killing spree, even after being cut off from his arm. The film was delayed in its release because of the Columbine massacre.

[[Panic attack]]

CATEGORIES: Anxiety disorders

Panic attacks are sudden periods of very bad anxiety. Along with feeling very scared, people with panic attacks usually have physical symptoms.  These symptoms are not dangerous.  However, they can make a person feel terrible for a short time.  Having a panic attack is often terrifying and very upsetting.  Many people who have a panic attack for the first time call the emergency services because they think they are having a heart attack or a nervous breakdown.

Though panic attacks make people feel terrible, they are not dangerous. Usually, the worst symptoms are over in ten minutes or less. However, some panic attacks can be as short as one to five minutes.

Panic attacks can happen in people with all kinds of mental illnesses.  They can also happen in people who do not have mental illness, but have just had something very bad happen to them. 

A panic attack is sometimes confused with anxiety. Anxiety is progressive, when we think of negative thoughts, the anxiety becomes worse when we do not try to relax and it reaches to a point when we're out of control. A panic attack is not progressive, when we think of negative thoughts, a panic attack goes straight to us feeling out of control and people would often think they're having a heart attack because an anxious heart feels very similar to a heart attack. A panic attack is far worse than an anxiety attack, though both attacks require the person to learn how to calm down or get professional help if it becomes a problem in their daily lives.   

[[Telepathy]]

CATEGORIES: Parapsychology, Pseudoscience

Telepathy  is the hypothesis that some people can communicate to others by thought, instead of through the known senses.

The term was coined by classics scholar and psychologist Frederic William Henry Myers in 1882. Sigmund Freud did experiments with his daughter Anna where he attempted to communicate with her telepathically. In 1930 Upton Sinclair wrote a book about his experiments with his wife in telepathic communication entitled Mental Radio.

[[Megabit]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

A megabit is a unit of information or computer storage that means one million bits, or one thousand kilobits. It is abbreviated Mbit or Mb.

[[Invisible Woman]]

CATEGORIES: Characters created by Stan Lee, Fantastic Four, Fictional characters introduced in 1961, Marvel Comics characters, Marvel Comics mutates

Susan Storm Richards (also known as Invisible Girl and later, Invisible Woman) is a fictional character, a Marvel Comics superheroine created by writer Stan Lee and artist/co-writer Jack Kirby. The character first appeared in Fantastic Four #1 in November 1961. Like the other founding members of the Fantastic Four, Sue received her powers after being exposed to a cosmic storm. Her primary power deals with light waves, allowing her to render herself and others invisible. However, she can also project powerful fields of invisible energy which she uses for a variety of offensive and defensive effects. Sue plays a central role in the lives of her brother, her husband, her children (Franklin Richards and Val Richards), and her friend, Ben Grimm. She has been adapted into motion puctures and is played by Rebecca Stabb, Jessica Alba and Kate Mara.

[[Shigesato Itoi]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Mother series, Japanese voice actors, Japanese video game designers, Living people, People from Gunma Prefecture

Shigesato Itoi (糸井重里 Itoi Shigesato, born November 10, 1948 in Gumna) is a famous Japanese copywriter, essayist, and game designer. In his video game career, his most well-known works have been games in the EarthBound series.

[[The Eye (2008 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, English-language movies, Lionsgate movies

The Eye is a 2008 movie starring Jessica Alba. It is a remake of the 2002 Hong Kong-Thai-Singaporean movie of the same name. The movie was rated PG-13 by the MPAA for "violence/terror and disturbing content." It was directed by David Moreau and Xavier Palud. It is the story of a young blind girl who has her sight restored. She is able to see dead people, and sets out to find the history of her new eyes.

[[Creatures Inc.]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Japan

Creatures Incorporated is a Japanese video game company. It used to be called Ape, Inc. It's most well known for the Pokémon video game series, trading cards, and toys, as well as the EarthBound series while they were Ape, Inc.

[[Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences]]

CATEGORIES: Movie organizations, 1927 establishments in the United States

The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) is a professional honorary group meant for the advancement of the arts and sciences of motion pictures.

The Academy has over 6,000 motion picture professionals as members. While the most of its members are in the United States, membership is open to filmmakers around the world. As of 2004, it had members from 36 countries. It is known around the world for its yearly Academy Awards, known to most people as the "Oscars." 

Also, the Academy gives Student Academy Awards to filmmakers at the undergraduate and graduate level each year; awards up to five Nicholl Fellowships in Screenwriting each year; and runs the Margaret Herrick Library in Beverly Hills, California and the Pickford Center for Motion Picture Study in Hollywood, California, which will grow to include Academy Museum of Motion Pictures, to open as a tourist site in 2017.

The president of the Academy has been Cheryl Boone Issacs since 2013. 

[[The Love Guru]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 comedy movies, 2008 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s sports comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American sports comedy movies, English-language movies, Paramount movies, Screenplays by Mike Myers, Toronto

The Love Guru is an 2008 American romantic sports comedy movie set in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It was directed by Marco Schnabel and starring Mike Myers. Romany Malco, Jessica Alba and Justin Timberlake co-star. In addition to starring in the movie, Myers wrote The Love Guru with Graham Gordy and produced it with Gary Barber. The movie was released by Paramount Pictures on June 20, 2008 and was rated PG-13.

[[GQ]]

CATEGORIES: Monthly magazines, American men's magazines

GQ (originally Gentlemen's Quarterly) is a monthly men's magazine focusing upon fashion, style, and culture for men, through articles on food, movies, physical fitness, sex, music, travel, sports, technology, and books. It is generally thought of as being more sophisticated than magazines, such as Maxim or FHM. 

[[Big Cartoon DataBase]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 establishments, Entertainment websites

The Big Cartoon DataBase (BCDB) is an online database of information about cartoons, animated movies, and animated television shows.

[[InStyle]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines

InStyle is a monthly women’s magazine, published by Time Inc., which is about the private side of public faces. It started in 1995. It has a circulation of about 1.7 million.April 2009

[[MTV Movie Awards]]

CATEGORIES: Movie awards, MTV

The MTV Movie Awards is a movie awards show presented annually on MTV (Music Television). It also contains movie parodies that used official movie footage with hosts and other celebrities and music performances. The nominees are decided by a special panel at Tenth Planet Productions, the production company headed by Joel Gallen, who also created the MTV Movie Awards. Winners are decided by the general public. Presently voting is done through MTV's official website through a special Movie Awards link.

[[Awake (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s crime thriller movies, 2000s psychological movies, American crime thriller movies, American psychological movies, English-language movies, Multilingual movies, Suicide in movies

Awake is a 2007 American crime thriller movie. It was written and directed by Joby Harold. It stars Hayden Christensen, Jessica Alba, Lena Olin, and Terrence Howard. The movie was rated R by the MPAA for language, an intense disturbing situation, and brief drug use.

The movie was released in the United States and Canada on November 30, 2007.

[[Tiger shark]]

CATEGORIES: Sharks

The tiger shark (Galeocerdo cuvier) is a species of requiem shark, and is the only member of the genus Galeocerdo. This is one of the largest known species of shark. It reaches lengths of up to 5.5 metres (18 feet), and weighs over 900 kg (2000 pounds). The tiger shark is found throughout the world's coastal temperate and tropical waters, with the exception of the Mediterranean Sea, and have been known to swim to depths of up to 350 metres (1150 feet). Tiger sharks feed mainly on bony fish, rays, squid, crustaceans, seals, and dolphins. The tiger shark is the only species in its family which is ovoviviparous, giving birth to 10-82 pups at a time.

[[Frank Miller (comics)]]

CATEGORIES: American movie directors, American comics artists, American comics writers, Writers from Maryland, Writers from Vermont, 1957 births, Living people

Frank Miller (born January 27, 1957) is an American writer, artist and movie director. He best known for his film noir-style comic book stories including Ronin, Daredevil: Born Again, The Dark Knight Returns, Sin City, and 300. 

He is one of the most widely-recognized and popular creators in comics, and is one of the most influential comics creators of his generation.

[[Robert Rodriguez]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American movie directors, American screenwriters, American movie producers, American cinematographers, American editors, Writers from San Antonio, Texas, Musicians from San Antonio, Texas

Robert Anthony Rodriguez (born June 20 1968) is an American director, screenwriter, producer, cinematographer, editor and musician perhaps best known for making profitable, crowd-pleasing independent and studio movies with fairly low budgets and fast schedules by Hollywood standards. He shoots and produces many of his movies in Texas and Mexico.

[[Michael Weatherly]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from New York City, 1968 births, Living people

Michael Manning Weatherly, Jr. (born July 8, 1968 in New York City) is an American actor. He is best known for his role as Special Agent Anthony DiNozzo on the television series NCIS. After being in over 300 episodes he is leaving NCIS at the end of the 2016 season. He also plays Dr. Jason Bull in the CBS drama series Bull.

[[Telegraphy]]

CATEGORIES: Postal history, History of technology, Telecommunications

Telegraphy (from the Greek words tele (τηλε) = far and graphein (γραφειν) = write) is the long-distance transmission of written messages without physical transport of letters.

A telegraph sends electric pulses in a special code, composed from short and large marks. Usually, amateur radio operators use Morse code. 

[[Rheumatism]]

CATEGORIES: Rheumatology, Diseases

Rheumatism or Rheumatic disorder is a general term for medical problems that can hurt the heart, bones, joints, kidney, skin and lungs. The study of these problems is called rheumatology.

[[Gout]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Rheumatology

Gout is a very painful medical condition. It is a red, tender, hot, swollen joint. The attacks happen most often in the joint at the base of the big toe. It is caused by crystals getting deposited from the blood. This happens when the level of uric acid in the blood is too high. The crystals then stay in joints, tendons, and surrounding tissues.

Inflammatory arthritis happens in about 50% of all cases of gout. The disease may also appear as kidney disease due to urate crystals. People with gout often have more than one attack of gout.

Doctors decide a patient has gout if they find crystals in the joint fluid. Treatment with anti-inflammatory drugs, steroids, or colchicine improves symptoms. Once an attack goes away, the patient can change his or her lifestyle to reduce levels of uric acid. People who have gout attacks often may take allopurinol or probenecid to prevent symptoms later.

Gout has become more common. It affects approximately one to two percent of people in the West during their lifetimes. Risk factors have been increasing and may be causing the increase in gout. Metabolic syndrome, longer life expectancy, and changes in diet are the most common risk factors.  Gout was historically known as “the disease of kings” or “the disease of rich men".

[[Bright's disease]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Bright's disease is a historical classification of kidney diseases that are now called acute or chronic nephritis. The main symptom is  the presence of serum albumin (blood plasma protein) in the urine, and frequently accompanied by oedema and hypertension.

The term is no longer used, as the disease is now classified by its better known causes.

[[Night shift]]

A night shift is either a group of workers who work during the night, or the time that they work. See shift work or graveyard shift.

Night Shift (with capital initial letters) could mean:

[[National Football League Training Camp]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League

In the National Football League, NFL Training Camp is the time before the season starts. During this time, teams will work hard at an special place, often a university. This is almost the same as baseball's spring training.

[[Training camp]]

CATEGORIES: Training

A training camp is a place where soldiers or sports players go to learn skills. Often, they go there to learn physical action, rather than book subjects they would learn at a school. In major sports like the National Football League, training camp refers to the time before the season starts. 

In the military, Recruit training (also called "basic training" or "boot camp") helps new military personnel get the mental and physical fitnesss they need for their military career. Each military branch in a country usually has its own training program. There are also civilian boot camps for those who want to experience military training without joining the military.

[[Sperm whale]]

CATEGORIES: Toothed whales

The sperm whale (Physeter catodon), also known as the cachalot, is the largest toothed whale. It has the biggest head of any animal. The head can be about 20 long, and is about one-third of the whale's body. Its lower jaw is small and contains its huge, conical teeth (which fit into sockets in the upper jaw).

[[Camp Rock]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 comedy movies, 2000s musical movies, 2000s teen comedy movies, 2000s television movies, American musical movies, American teen comedy movies, American television movies, Camp Rock, Disney movies, English-language movies, Movies about vacationing

Camp Rock is a 2008 American musical comedy movie made by the Disney Channel.

[[Amani Toomer]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Kansas City Chiefs players, New York Giants players, Sportspeople from Berkeley, California

Amani Toomer (ah-MAHN-ee) (born September 8, 1974 in Berkeley, California) is a retired American football wide receiver that played for the New York Giants and Kansas City Chiefs of the National Football League. He won Super Bowl XLII with the Giants on February 3, 2008.

[[Mega Man 9]]

CATEGORIES: Mega Man games, Wii-only games, Capcom games, Video game sequels

Mega Man 9, known in Japan as Rockman 9: The Ambition's Revival!!, is a platform video game made by Capcom for the Wii's WiiWare service, PlayStation Network, and Xbox Live Arcade. It is the first game in the original Mega Man series to be made since the release of Mega Man 8 for the PlayStation in 1996. It has the same graphics as the NES Mega Mans.

[[Mega Man 8]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 video games, 1997 video games, Mega Man games, PlayStation games, Sega Saturn games, Video games developed in Japan, Capcom games, Video game sequels

Mega Man 8, known in Japan as Rockman 8 Metal Heroes, is a platform video game made by Capcom for the PlayStation and Sega Saturn game consoles. It stars the character Mega Man, the mascot of the franchise.

[[Mega Man 7]]

CATEGORIES: Mega Man games, 1995 video games, Video games developed in Japan, Capcom games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games

Mega Man 7, known in Japan as Rockman 7 Shukumei no Taiketsu, is a platform video game made by Capcom for the Super NES game console.

[[Mega Man 6]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 video games, Mega Man games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Video games developed in Japan, Capcom games, Video game sequels

Mega Man 6, known in Japan as Rockman 6 Shijō Saidai no Tatakai!!, is a platform video game for the Nintendo Entertainment System game console.

[[Mega Man 5]]

CATEGORIES: Mega Man games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, 1992 video games, Video games developed in Japan, Capcom games, Video game sequels

Mega Man 5, known in Japan as Rockman 5 Blues no Wana?!, is a platform video game made by Capcom for the Nintendo Entertainment System.

[[Mega Man 4]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 video games, Mega Man games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Video games developed in Japan, Capcom games, Video game sequels

Mega Man 4, known in Japan as Rockman 4 Arata Naru Yabō!!, is a platform video game made by Capcom for the Nintendo Entertainment System game console.

[[Touchdown]]

CATEGORIES: American football, Canadian football, Sports words

A touchdown is a common way of scoring in American and Canadian football.  A team gets a touchdown by the person with the ball running across the line of the goal, or catching the ball while past the line of the goal.  In American and Canadian football, a touchdown gives the team 6 points. The team also gets a chance to score 1 or 2 more points in what is called an extra point.

[[Eton, Berkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Windsor and Maidenhead, Towns in Berkshire

Eton is a town in Berkshire, England. It is next to the opposite bank of the River Thames to Windsor and is connected to the Windsor Bridge.

[[Eton]]

Eton could mean:

[[Naomi]]

Naomi may refer to: 

[[Mega Man 3]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 video games, Mega Man games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Video games developed in Japan, Capcom games

Mega Man 3, known in Japan as Rockman 3 Dr. Wily no Saigo!?, is a platform video game made by Capcom for the Nintendo Entertainment System game console.

[[Semitic languages]]

CATEGORIES: Semitic languages

The Semitic languages are a branch of Afroasiatic languages spoken in North Africa, Arabia, the Horn of Africa and the Middle East. 

The Semitic languages are a branch of the Afroasiatic language family, which originated in the Middle East. Semitic languages are spoken by more than 470 million people across much of Western Asia, North Africa and the Horn of Africa, as well as in large communities of people from different countries in North America and Europe. 

The name was taken from Shem, a son of Noah in Genesis (chapters 6-11).

Some examples of Semitic languages are Arabic, Aramaic, and Hebrew.

[[Mega Man 2]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 video games, Mega Man games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Video games developed in Japan, Virtual Console games, Capcom games, Video game sequels

Mega Man 2, known in Japan as Rockman 2: The Mystery of Dr. Wily, is a platform video game made by Capcom for the Nintendo Entertainment System game console.

[[Mega Man (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 video games, Mega Man games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Virtual Console games, Video games developed in Japan, Capcom games

Mega Man is also known as Rockman in Japan. It is a video game developed and published by Capcom for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES). It is the first game in the original Mega Man series. It was released in Japan on December 17, 1987. It was released in North America on December 1987 and Europe on May 1990.

[[Mario Kart 64]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 video games, Mario Kart games, Nintendo 64 games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games, Virtual Console games, Virtual Console games for Wii U

Mario Kart 64 is a Nintendo 64 racing game and the second main installment for the Mario Kart series made by Nintendo. It was later released for the Wii's Virtual Console in January 2007, and for the Wii U in January 2016, and is one of the launch titles for the Nintendo Switch Online. It features Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, Toad, Yoshi, Donkey Kong, Wario, and Bowser as playable characters. This game marks the first appearance of Luigi, Wario, and Donkey Kong in a Nintendo 64 game.

[[Super Mario Kart]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 video games, Mario Kart games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games

Super Mario Kart is a Super Nintendo Entertainment System racing game released first in 1992 and the first main installment for the Mario Kart series, made by Nintendo. It has eight playable characters from the Mario series.

[[Isaac]]

CATEGORIES: Patriarchs, Old Testament people, Ancient Israeli people

Isaac is a figure in Abrahamic religions, one of the three Patriarchs. He is described in the Bible, in the Book of Genesis (chapters 18-27). He was the son of Abraham and Sarah. God tells them they will have a child but they think they are too old and they laugh. They name the boy Isaac after their laughter.  Isaac marries Rebecca, and is the father of Esau and Jacob.

[[Sarah]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament people, Ancient Israeli people

Sarah or Sara was the wife and half-sister of Abraham in the Old Testament book of Genesis (Chapters 12-23). They got married in Haran. She was barren for a long period.She had a child with Avraham named Isaac when she was 90. She lived until she was 127, and was buried by Abraham in Hebron in what is now the West Bank. Her name was Sarai but God changed it to Sarah.

Sarah (also spelled Sara) is also a popular Hebrew female name in English. It means 'princess'. If you lived in Spain, the name would mean, "Fairy".

[[Saul]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament people, Kings of ancient Judah

Saul (s;, meaning "asked for, prayed for"; Saul; طالوت, Ṭālūt or شاؤل, Ša'ūl) is a King in the Books of Samuel, 1 Chronicles and the Qur'an. He was the first king of the ancient Israel. He reigned from 1047 BC to 1007 BC.

In the Bible, Saul loves and obeys God, until he stops listening to God and becomes slightly greedy, losing God's whole interest for him. Samuel, the prophet, comes and gives him a warning that God is not with him anymore. When turning to leave, Saul grabs Samuel's robe, and it tears. Samuel says (1Samuel15:28~29), "The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today and has given it to one of your neighbors - to one better than you. He who is the Glory of Israel does not lie or change his mind; for he is not a man, that he should change his mind."

Then the spirit of the Lord departs from Saul, and an evil spirit torments him.  Saul takes David the shepherd, and the youngest son of Jesse, into his service to play a harp for him and so that he would be soothed when the evil spirit rests upon him. Later he gets jealous of David, and begins to suspect David as the 'one of your neighbors' that Samuel had mentioned. He grows afraid of David, and finally his jealousy turns to hatred, and he wishes to kill him. But Saul's son Jonathan is bound to David in friendship,which makes his anger fume on Jonathan as well.

Later, Saul dies at the battle against the Philistines, and falls on his own sword because he does not want to be abused by the 'uncircumcised' Philistines.1 Samuel and 2 Samuel give conflicting accounts of Saul's death. In 1 Samuel, and in a parallel account in 1 Chronicles 10, as the defeated Israelites flee, Saul asks his armour bearer to kill him, but he refuses, and so Saul falls upon his own sword. In 2 Samuel, an Amalekite tells David he found Saul leaning on his spear after the battle and delivered the coup de grâce. David has the Amalekite put to death for accusing himself of killing the anointed king. Saul's three sons, Jonathan, Abinadab, and Melchishua were also killed in the battle (1 Samuel 31:1-4). King David, who hears about the tragedy after the battle, curses the mountain:

The victorious Philistines recover Saul's body as well as those of his three sons who also died in the battle, decapitated them and displayed them on the wall of Beth-shan. They display Saul's armour in the temple of Ashtaroth (an Ascalonian temple of the Canaanites). But at night the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead retrieve the bodies for cremation and burial (1 Samuel 31:8–13, 1 Chronicles 10:12). Later on, David takes the bones of Saul and of his son Jonathan and buries them in Zela, in the tomb of his father (2 Samuel 21:12–14). The account in 1 Chronicles summarises by stating that:

[[Ecclesiastes]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books

Ecclesiastes is a book in the Old Testament of the Bible. It is described as "the words of the Philosopher, David's son, who was King in Jerusalem" (verse 1). This is probably Solomon.  The book talks about the meaning of life and the best way to live.

People disagree about what the Book of Ecclesiastes means.  Some people think the book is very pessimistic, saying "all is vain", "there is nothing new under the sun."(Chapter I), and "I looked again at all the injustice that goes on in this world. The oppressed were weeping but no one would help them. No one would help them, because their oppressors had power on their side. I envy those who are dead and gone; they are better off than those who are still alive. But better off than either are those who have never been born." (Chapter 4)  Other people think the book says that even though life is hard and we will all die someday, we should just enjoy God's gifts.

The book finishes by saying: ""Fear God, and keep his commandments; for that is the whole duty of everyone" (12:13).

[[Slim]]

Slim may mean to:

Slim may also mean:

SLIM may mean:

[[Judas Iscariot]]

CATEGORIES: Twelve Apostles, Jews who committed suicide, Suicides by hanging

Judas Iscariot (last name means man of Kerioth) was one of the original disciples of Jesus. He is found in all four gospels of the New Testament. He is described as having betrayed Jesus for money, then killing himself. He is said to have been the treasurer for the apostles.

Even though he was one of Jesus' disciples, he helped the chief priests arrest Jesus. Then those priests told the Roman governor to kill Jesus. The priests paid Judas thirty pieces of silver for his help. Later; due to great sense of guilt for betraying Jesus, Judas tried to give back the silver. When he was unable to undo when he had done, he committed suicide.

At the Last Supper, Jesus told his disciples that one of them would betray him. Matthew and Luke wrote that Jesus implied that it was Judas.

While Jesus was praying on the Mount of Olives, Judas brought the priests and their men to him. Then he kissed Jesus, so that the priests could know who he was. Then the priests took Jesus away to be killed. The priests gave Judas money for helping them.

The Gospel of Matthew states that Judas felt guilty that he helped kill Jesus. He tried to give the money back to the priests, but they said it was illegal. So Judas threw the money into the temple, and then hanged himself. Then the priests used the money to buy a graveyard for strangers.

In the book of Acts, Judas used the money to buy a field for himself, but died there a while after. After Judas died, the other disciples chose a man named Matthias to take his place as a new disciple in the group of 12.

[[Pin stripes]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing

Pin stripes are a pattern of very thin stripes running in parallel found in cloth. 

Although pin stripes are found in mostly in men's suits, any type of fabric can be pin striped. In baseball, the Chicago Cubs baseball uniforms have had pin stripes since 1907 and they are recognized as the first Major League Baseball team to have pin striping onto a baseball uniform. Many other Major League Baseball teams like the Montreal Expos and New York Yankees later put pin stripes on their own uniforms.

[[Stripe]]

A stripe is a long, straight line of a single color, may mean:

In entertainment:

In animals:

[[Baseball park]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball stadiums

A baseball park, baseball stadium, or ball park / ballpark is a place where baseball is played. It refers to the field of play, seating areas (if any) and any other things added to it. 

The flexible rules about baseball fields (aside from the rigid rules of sizes of basepaths and pitcher's mound) allow ballparks to have their own character and quirks. This happens at all levels of baseball, amateur and especially professional. This makes each stadium interesting and unique. 

[[Venus Rising]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 movies, English-language movies

Venus Rising was a 1995 movie starring Jessica Alba, Henry Bean and Morgan Fairchild.

[[Child soldier]]

CATEGORIES: Army, Childhood, Child labour

thumb|right|A child soldier in the Iraq-Iran warA child soldier is a child that takes part to actively fight in a war. There is no official definition. The Coalition to stop the use of Child Soldiers says that no one less than 18 years old should be recruited by regular or auxiliary troops. The age limit of 18 years is taken from the Convention on the Rights of the Child. 

UNICEF, terre des hommes and Amnesty International see all the combatants and their helpers that are below 18 years of age as child soldiers. 

There is a problem, however. If such children were classified as Combatants, this would permit to fight against children in wars. On the other hand, if such children were captured, they would then have to be treated according to the Geneva Conventions as prisoners of war.

The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court says that recruiting people below the age of 15 is a war crime, and must be prosecuted. Thomas Lubanga is currently being tried for this crime at the court in Den Haag. 

According to an UN source, 300.000 children were actively participating in armed conflicts, in 1996.

[[Paranoid (2000 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 movies, English-language movies

Paranoid is a 2000 Indie film, directed by John Duigan, which was made for theatrical release but was later released directly to video. It stars Jessica Alba and Iain Glen.

[[The Sleeping Dictionary]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, English-language movies

The Sleeping Dictionary is a 2003 movie by Guy Jenkin.  It was filmed in Sarawak and is set during the British colonial rule in the 1930s.  Jessica Alba and Hugh Dancy were in the movie.

[[DVD Exclusive Awards]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment awards

The DVD Exclusive Awards is an award that honors direct to video productions.  The awards were first held in 2001. They are awarded by online periodical Video Business and The Digital Entertainment Group. http://www.videobusiness.com/article/CA6323919.html?text=dvd+exclusive+awards

[[Mekhi Phifer]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City

Mekhi Thira Phifer (born December 29, 1974) is an American actor. He was born in Harlem, New York. He played Greg Pratt on NBC's television series ER. He won season four of Bravo's Celebrity Poker Showdown. He had a recurring role in Curb Your Enthusiasm.

[[Imagen Awards]]

CATEGORIES: Movie awards, 1985 establishments in the United States

The Imagen Awards are awards given to Latin Americans in the movie industry. They are held by the Imagen Foundation. This organization is dedicated to recognizing the role of Latin American people in the entertainment industry.

Awards have been made to movie stars like Jessica Alba.

[[The Ten]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 comedy movies, 2007 movies, English-language movies, Spanish-language movies, Multilingual movies

The Ten is a comedy movie directed by David Wain and cowritten by Ken Marino through ThinkFilm. The movie was released on August 3, 2007. The DVD was released on January 15, 2008.  It stars Jessica Alba.

[[Meet Bill]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, 2008 comedy movies, English-language movies

Meet Bill (formerly known as Bill) is a 2008 comedy movie written and directed by Bernie Goldmann and Melisa Wallick and starring Aaron Eckhart and Jessica Alba.

[[Chicago Hope]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 American television series debuts, 2000 American television series endings, 1990s American drama television series, 1990s medical television series, 2000s American drama television series, 2000s medical television series, American medical television series, CBS network shows, Television series set in Chicago, Illinois, English-language television programs

Chicago Hope is a CBS Medical drama series created by David E. Kelley that ran from September 18, 1994, to May 4, 2000. It took place in a fictional private charity hospital in Chicago.

[[After school special]]

CATEGORIES: Television programs

An after school special is a type of American television program intended to be viewed by adolescents when they return home from school, usually at about 4:00 pm.  It was started by the American Broadcasting Company in 1972.  Its rival, CBS, also put out an after school special show titled Schoolbreak Specials in 1984.

[[ALMA Award]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment awards

The American Latino Media Arts Award, or ALMA Award is an award given to Latino performers (actors, film and television directors, and musicians) who promote positive portrayals of Latinos in the entertainment field. In Spanish, alma means spirit or soul.

[[Entourage (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 American television series debuts, 2011 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American comedy-drama television series, HBO television series, Emmy Award winning programs, Television series set in Los Angeles, California, English-language television programs

Entourage is an Emmy Award-winning HBO original series created by Doug Ellin. It was shown from 2004-2011. It chronicles the rise of Vincent Chase and his childhood friends from Queens, New York City as they navigate the unfamiliar terrain of Hollywood, California. Doug Ellin, Mark Wahlberg, and Stephen Levinson serve as the show's executive producers, and the show's premise is loosely based on Wahlberg's experiences as an up-and-coming movie star.

[[Young Artist Award]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment awards

The Young Artist Award (first known as the Youth In Film Award) is an award given by the Young Artist Foundation.  The foundation was started in 1978 to award child actors and singers under the age of 21 for their work in film, TV, theater and music, and to raise money for talented children to go to school.

The 1st Youth In Film Awards were given in October 1979, at the Sheraton Universal Hotel in Hollywood for child actors' and singers' work during the years 1978 and 1979.  The 35th Young Artist Awards will be given on May 4, 2014 at the Sportsmen's Lodge in Southern California for child actors' work during the year 2013.

[[The Sydney Morning Herald]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Australia

The Sydney Morning Herald is a newspaper made in Sydney, Australia. It is made by an Australian company called Fairfax, and started on 18 April 1831.http://www.smh.com.au/aboutsmh//ref

[[Sandpit]]

CATEGORIES: Toys

A sandbox or sandpit is a small area filled with sand made for children to play in. Sandboxes are often rectangular with wooden sides. They can be found in many playgrounds, and can also be installed in the gardens of homes. Sandpits are also very popular for making sandcastles. However, some animals use them for litter trays. Sandboxes can be found in most elementary schoolsApril 2012. They can also be made of plastic, and in different shapes. They are mostly made for the purpose of entertaining young children.

[[Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.]]

CATEGORIES: Encyclopædia Britannica, Book publishing companies, 1768 establishments, Publishing companies of the United States, 1760s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies

Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. is an American company known for publishing the Encyclopædia Britannica, the world's oldest encyclopedia, and also the second largest.

[[Brooklyn Dodgers]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in New York (state), 1959 disestablishments, 20th-century disestablishments in New York (state), 1950s disestablishments in the United States

[[Batting order (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball, Sports words

The batting order, or batting lineup, in baseball is an when nine members of the offense take their turns in batting against the pitcher in an order.  The batting order is decided by the manager before the game begins, although sometimes during games, a player substitutes with another player which makes the take the original player's spoy. If a team bats out of order, it is a violation of baseball's rules and subject to penalty.  When the whole batting order makes plate appearances (bats against the pitcher) in a single inning, it is called "batting around."

In modern American baseball, some batting positions have nicknames:  "leadoff" for first, "cleanup" for fourth, and "last" for ninth. Others are known only by the ordinal numbers.

[[Hammerhead shark]]

CATEGORIES: Sharks

The Hammerhead sharks are a group of sharks which make up the family Sphyrnidae. Their unusual head looks like a hammer. This "hammer" on its head is also known as the "cephalofoil".

Of the nine species of the Hammerhead sharks, the Winghead shark is in the genus Eusphyra, and the other eight are in the genus Sphyrna.

[[Faline]]

CATEGORIES: Bambi characters

Faline is a fictional female roe deer in Felix Salten's novel Bambi, A Life in the Woods and its sequel, Bambi's Children. She is Bambi's mate.

She also appeared in the Walt Disney movies Bambi and Bambi II based on the book. Her mother is Ena. First shown as a fawn and later as an adult doe, Faline's role is Bambi's friend and later mate. Faline was featured as a guest in House of Mouse.

She was voiced by Cammie King and Ann Gillis in the original film, and Andrea Bowen in Bambi II.

[[1982–83 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 in the United States, 1983 in the United States

The 1982–83 NHL season was the 66th season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-one teams each played 80 games. Before the start of the season, the Colorado Rockies moved to East Rutherford, New Jersey where they were renamed New Jersey Devils. They were also moved to the Patrick Division, making the unwilling Winnipeg Jets to leave the Norris Division and take Colorado's place in the Smythe Division.  This would be the last time an NHL team moved until 1993.

The last remaining players from the Original Six era, (Carol Vadnais, Serge Savard, and Wayne Cashman) all retired after this season. Cashman was the last to play, losing in the Wales Conference Finals as a player for the Bruins.

The New York Islanders won their fourth Stanley Cup in a row by beating the Edmonton Oilers four games to none. No team in any major professional North American sport has won four championships in a row since the Islanders.

[[Aladdin (movie)]]

Aladdin is the name of several movies.

[[Horní Rápotice]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Horní Rápotice is a village in the Pelhřimov District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 157 people live there and it has 3.98 km². It was first documented in 1352.

[[Krásná Hora]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Krásná Hora is a village in the Havlíčkův Brod District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 524 people live there. It covers 22.21 km². It was first documented in 1379.

[[Telegram]]

CATEGORIES: Postal service

A telegram (Greek tele: distant and gramma: letter) is a written message transmitted by using an electric device. The message was carried along wires, and the text written or printed and delivered by hand or teleprinter. 

Telegrams were very widely used, because private telephones were not usual. Nowadays they are not useful because most people have private telephones and the use of e-mail. The idea was developed by the British Post Office as a service for urgent letters.

[[Mladé Bříště]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Mladé Bříště is a village in the Pelhřimov District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 245 people live there. It covers 5.33 km². It was first documented in 1226.

[[Beluga whale]]

CATEGORIES: Toothed whales

The beluga whale (Delphinapterus leucas) is a small, toothed whale that is white as an adult. They are found in coastal areas of the Arctic Ocean, and travel south when the sea ice forms.

[[Beluga]]

Beluga may mean:

[[All-Star Cheer Squad]]

CATEGORIES: Music video games, 2008 video games, 2009 video games, Nintendo DS games, Wii games, THQ games

All-Star Cheer Squad is a rhythm video game by Gorilla Systems Corp. It is made for Wii and Nintendo DS. It is one of several Wii games to use the Wii Balance Board. It is about cheerleading.

The game is THQ's "first original property created specifically for girls".

[[David]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament people, Kings of ancient Israel, Kings of ancient Judah, People from Bethlehem

David (meaning favorite) was an important King of Israel. He is described in the Qu'ran, Bahá'í scripture and the Old Testament books of 1 Samuel and 2 Samuel. He was the father of King Solomon, and an ancestor of Jesus.

[[Crank That (Soulja Boy)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs

Crank That (Soulja Boy) is a song by Soulja Boy (also known as Soulja Boy Tell 'em ). The song has reached number one (meaning it is the most popular song in the country) in the United States  and has entered the top 10 (meaning it is popular, but not popular enough to get to number 1) in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom.

[[ARIA Charts]]

CATEGORIES: Record charts, Australian music

The ARIA Charts are the charts that measure how popular music is in Australia. The charts are created by the Australian Recording Industry Association.

[[Golden Rooster Awards]]

CATEGORIES: Movie awards, Chinese movies, 1981 establishments in Asia, 1980s establishments in China

The Golden Rooster Awards (金雞獎/金鸡奖; pinyin: Jīn Jī Jiăng) are movie awards given in mainland China.  They are similar to the Academy Awards.  It is called the Golden Rooster Awards because it was the Year of the Rooster in 1981. 

The people who get the award receive a statuette in the shape of a golden Rooster. They are picked by a group of movie makers, movie experts, and movie historians. The awards are given by the China Film Association.

At first the movie festival had two events - the Golden Rooster festival and the Hundred Flowers Awards. The two festivals were combined in 1992. Now the Golden Rooster is awarded on odd years and the Hundred Flowers is awarded on even years.

[[David (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

There are many people with a name David:

[[Viva la Vida]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Coldplay songs

"Viva la Vida" is a song by the English band Coldplay from their album, Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends. The album was released on 7 May 2008.  It was the band's first number one single in both the United Kingdom and the United States.

Coldplay sung the song on The Simpsons episode, "Million Dollar Maybe".

[[The Curse of Curves]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs

[[Klaxons]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands, English punk bands, Musical groups from London, Musical groups established in 2005, 2005 establishments in England

Klaxons are an English dance/punk band, based in London. Their name comes from the word klaxon which is a type of alarm. 

[[Ecumenical Patriarch]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Orthodox Church

thumb|right|The current Ecumenical Patriarch, Bartholomew I.The Ecumenical Patriarch is the Patriarch of Constantinople. Today, Constantinople is called Istanbul. He is regarded to be the leader of the Eastern Orthodox Church. He has been generally known as the Greek Patriarch of Constantinople. There is also an Armenian Patriarch of Constantinople (which is different). The older of the office is the Archbishop of Constantinople. The office should also not be taken for the Latin Patriarch of Constantinople, which no longer exists.

The current Ecumenical Patriarch is Bartholomew I

Orthodox Churches are autocephalous. This means there is a Patriarch for each Church, and there is usually one Church per country. For this reason, the Ecumenical patriarch is primus inter pares (First among equals). 

[[Assyrian Church of the East]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Christian denominations

The Assyrian Church of the East also called Holy Apostolic Catholic Assyrian Church of the East is a Christian church.  It is one of the earliest churches to separate from the larger Church. It traces its origins to the See of Seleucia-Ctesiphon, started by Saint Thomas the Apostle as well as Saint Mari and Addai as shown in the Doctrine of Addai. This church is sometimes known as the "Nestorian Church", the "Syrian Church" or the "Persian Church." The church is currently headed by Mar Dinkha IV. 

Other names have been given as well, but they are not accurate. One of these names is Assyrian Orthodox Church, which has led some people to believe that it is part of the Oriental Orthodox community. The church itself does not use the word "Orthodox" in any of its service books or in any of its official correspondence, nor does it use any word which can be translated as "correct faith" or "correct doctrine", the rough translation of the word Orthodox. In India, it is known as the Chaldean Syrian Church. In the West it is often known as the Nestorian Church. The Church itself believes that the term 'Nestorian Church' is chosen badly. 

The Assyrian Church is the original Christian church in what was once Parthia; eastern Iraq and Iran. Geographically its influence stretched to China and India in the Middle Ages: a monument found in Xi'an (Hsi-an), the Tang-period capital of China (originally Chang'an), in Chinese and Syriac described the activities of the church in the 7th and 8th century, while half a millennium later a Chinese monk went from Beijing to Paris and Rome to call for an alliance with the Mongols against the Mamelukes.  Before the Portuguese arrival in India in 1498, it provided "East Syrian" bishops to the Saint Thomas Christians.  Patriarch Timothy I (727–823) wrote of the large Christian community in Tibet.

The creators of Assyrian theology are Diodorus of Tarsus and Theodore of Mopsuestia. Both taught at Antioch. The normative Christology of the Assyrian church was written by Babai the Great (551–628) and is clearly different from the accusations of dualism directed toward Nestorius: his main christological work is called the 'Book of the Union', and in it Babai teaches that the two qnome (essences) are unmingled but everlastingly united in the one parsopa (personality) of Christ.

[[Main Page/Introduction]]

This is the front page of the Simple English Wikipedia. Wikipedias are places where people work together to write encyclopedias in different languages. We use Simple English words and grammar here. The Simple English Wikipedia is for everyone! That includes children and adults who are learning English.

There are NUMBEROFARTICLES articles on the Simple English Wikipedia. All of the pages are free to use. They have all been published under both the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License 3.0 and the GNU Free Documentation License. You can help here! You may change these pages and make new pages. Read the help pages and other good pages to learn how to write pages here. If you need help, you may ask questions at Simple talk.

[[Chaldean Catholic Church]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Catholicism

The Chaldean Catholic Church or the Chaldean Church of Babylon (الكنيسة الكلدانية, ar) is an Eastern particular church of the Catholic Church, maintaining full communion with the Bishop of Rome and the rest of the Catholic Church. The Chaldean Catholic Church presently has an estimated 600,000 - 700,000 Chaldean Christians.

[[Chaldean Christians]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Catholics, Iraqi people

Chaldean Christians (ܟܲܠܕܵܝܹܐ, Keldayee; الكلدانيون) are adherents of the Chaldean Catholic Church. Chaldeans are the largest Christian community in Iraq, estimated at between 400,000–600,000. Chaldeans have generally been well integrated into Iraqi society. They have not actively sought establishment of a separate state. Many of their members are businessmen and technocrats, and a few have held high government positions. Chaldeans have always been an important part of Iraqi society. In addition to Iraq, migrant Chaldean communities are found in the United States, Turkey, Syria, Iran, and Lebanon.

[[Status asthmaticus]]

CATEGORIES: Autoimmune diseases, Pulmonology

Status astmathicus is a severe form of asthma bronchiale that does not respond to the usual treatments.

[[Milwaukee Bucks]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 1968 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Wisconsin

The Milwaukee Bucks are an American professional basketball team in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. They play in the National Basketball Association. The current franchise owner is a group led by hedge fund managers Wesley Edens and Marc Lasry. They play their home games at the Fiserv Forum, which replaces their home of the last 30 seasons, BMO Harris Bradley Center, for 2018–19 and beyond. They won two NBA championships in 1971 and 2021.

[[Pidgin (software)]]

CATEGORIES: Linux, Software, Instant messaging software

Pidgin (also known as Gaim) is a instant messaging client that can work on Linux, Mac OS X and Windows. The software can use most instant messaging protocols, which will let the user log into different instant messaging services from one program.

The number of Pidgin users is thought to be more than 3 million in 2007.

Released under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Pidgin is free software.

[[San Diego Padres]]

CATEGORIES: San Diego Padres

The San Diego Padres are a Major League Baseball team in San Diego, California. The Padres play their home games in a stadium called Petco Park. They have won the National League Pennant twice, in 1984 and 1998. They lost the World Series both times.

[[Drew Carey]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, American game show hosts, American television actors, Comedians from Ohio, Living people, WWE Hall of Fame

Drew Allison Carey (born May 23, 1958) is an American actor, comedian and game show host. He gained fame when staring at his own sitcom, The Drew Carey Show. He is the current host of the game show The Price is Right. He is an owner of Seattle Sounders FC, a professional soccer team.

[[Books of Samuel]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books, Old Testament people, Ancient Israeli people

The Books of Samuel (ספר שמואל, Sefer Shmuw'el) are part of the Tanakh (part of the Hebrew Bible) and also of the Christian Old Testament.

[[Genesis (disambiguation)]]

Genesis could mean:

[[Sacrilege]]

CATEGORIES: Theology

Sacrilege involves doing or saying something that goes against something sacred. This does not just apply to religious things, but any person, place, or thing which is considered too important to be criticised. 

[[Psychotherapy]]

Psychotherapy describes the way specially skilled people called psychotherapists help people who have problems and unhappiness in their lives or who want to improve the quality of their lives and relationships with others.

Psychotherapy means treatment of the mind. It aims to help the person feel better, be braver, happier and more in control of their lives. The main way they do this is by talking to the person who has the problems in a way that they begin to be able to understand themselves better. Some psychotherapists may work with a group of people such as a family who have problems and are unhappy.

[[Christian (disambiguation)]]

A Christian is person who believes in Christianity.

Christian may also mean:

[[Trousers]]

CATEGORIES: Trousers and shorts

Trousers (or pants in Canada, South Africa and the United States), are a kind of clothing. They are worn on the lower part of the body, to cover both legs apart (instead of cloth stretching across both as in skirts and dresses).  

Historically, in the West, trousers have been the lower-body clothing item for men since the 16th century; by the late 20th century, they were used sometimes by women as well. Trousers are worn at the hips or waist, and may be held up by their own by a belt, or braces (suspenders). 

[[Bibliography]]

CATEGORIES: Book terminology, Literature

Bibliography (Greek βίβλος = book γραφή = write) is the arrangement of printed books and articles according to author or subject, and the publication of lists of titles. Bibliographies are of many different kinds and may be annotated with information about their contents. Bibliographies may be organized in various ways, such as by authors, subjects or date of publication. Bibliographies without annotations are sometimes given the modest title of checklists.

Another meaning of Bibliography is the academic study of books as physical and cultural objects; in this sense, it is also known as bibliology. This kind of bibliography is not concerned with the written content of books, but rather the "bookness" of books-–how they were designed, edited, printed, circulated, reprinted and collected. 

[[Epistle to the Philippians]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament books

The Epistle (or letter) to the Philippians is a short book in the New Testament. It is a letter to the church at Philippi in Macedonia from Saint Paul. It was written while Paul was in jail for telling people about Jesus.

[[Synoptic]]

Synoptic is from the Greek words συν (syn = together) and οψις (opsis = seeing), and tells about studies that tells about something of a certain kind.  It also has other meanings:

[[Julio Lugo]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Atlanta Braves players, Baltimore Orioles players, Boston Red Sox players, Dominican Republic sportspeople, Houston Astros players, Living people, Los Angeles Dodgers players, Major League Baseball shortstops, St. Louis Cardinals players, Tampa Bay Devil Rays players

Julio Cesar Lugo is a former Major League Baseball shortstop. He played for the Houston Astros, Tampa Bay Devil Rays, Los Angeles Dodgers, Boston Red Sox, St. Louis Cardinals, Baltimore Orioles, and Atlanta Braves. He batted and threw right-handed.  

He was born on November 16, 1975, in  Barahona, Dominican Republic. Julio Lugo is also the older brother of baseball pitcher Ruddy Lugo. 

[[Requiem (Mozart)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Masses (music)

The Requiem Mass in D minor K626 is a famous piece of music by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart which he composed in 1791.  This requiem (a 'requiem' is a mass (church service) to remember people who have died), was Mozart's last composition. He wrote it as he lay dying himself.  It seems that he did not manage to finish it before he died, and that it was finished by another musician called Franz Xaver Süssmayr.  We do not know exactly how much of the music is by Mozart, and how much Süssmayr had to add.  There have been lots of stories and ideas about how the Requiem was composed, and it is still a problem that is often discussed by musicians.

[[Maria Theresia]]

Maria Theresia may mean:

[[Gregorio Allegri]]

CATEGORIES: 1582 births, 1652 deaths, Baroque composers, Italian composers, Musicians from Rome, Roman Catholic priests

Gregorio Allegri (1582 – February 7, 1652),  was an Italian composer and priest. He wrote a large number of religious pieces, including motets and several settings of the Mass. His best known compositions is the Miserere mei Deus.

From 1591 to 1596 Allegri was employed in a church choir in Rome. In 1601 he became a tenor in the choir. He studied music and composing with the director of the choir, G. B. Nannio. He moved around to a number of different churches in Rome, before joining the choir at the Vatican in 1629. This was the choir that performed in the Sistine Chapel for the pope. he was made the director of the choir in 1650. Pope Urban VIII had rewritten some of the texts used in the religious services. Allegri was given the job of editing Giovanni da Palestrina's music so that it would fit with the new words. He was seen as an expert in the old style, even though some of his music was written in the new baroque style.

[[Chronology]]

CATEGORIES: Chronology

Chronology is a word meaning 'the study of time'. It comes from the Greek words chronos (time) and logos (word). The adjective is chronological.

Putting events in chronological order means: listing them in the order in which they happened.

There are many sciences which deal in different ways with chronology. General is sometimes called "periodization". Historical chronology can deal with history or with the geological history of the earth.

When things are put in chronological order it can sometimes be called a "timeline".  Adjective- (of a record of events) following the order in which they occurred (kind of like a timeline)

[[Indre River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Centre-Val de Loire

The Indre is a river in central France, left tributary to the Loire River. The Indre and Indre-et-Loire departments are named after this river.

[[Oberlin Group of Libraries]]

CATEGORIES: Oberlin Group of Libraries

This is a list of colleges and universities in the Oberlin Group of Libraries:

[[Kurds]]

CATEGORIES: Kurds

[[Pontus (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses, Greek mythology

In Greek mythology, Pontus or Pontos (Πόντος, Póntos - "Sea") was one of the primordial deities, the personification of the sea. He was a son of Gaia (the Earth), by whom he is the father of Nereus and Phorcys. 

[[Pontus]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Places of Ancient Rome

Pontus (Πόντος) is a region on the southern coast of the Black Sea.

[[Homo floresiensis]]

CATEGORIES: Hominins

Homo floresiensis ("Flores Man", also called "hobbit") is a probable species in the genus Homo, to which humans belong.

The remains were found in 2004 on the island of Flores in Indonesia. Parts of the skeletons of nine individuals were found, including one complete cranium (the head). The most important and obvious identifying features of H. floresiensis are its small body, and small size of the space for the brain inside the skull. This is why the discoverers have called members of the species "hobbits", after J.R.R. Tolkien's fictional race of roughly the same height.

[[Goran Ivanišević]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Croatian sportspeople, Living people, Male tennis players, Medalists at the 1992 Summer Olympics, Wimbledon champions

Goran Ivanišević is a retired professional tennis player from Croatia. He is most famous for winning Wimbledon in 2001.

[[Pete Sampras]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, American Jews, American male tennis players, Australian Open champions, Living people, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C., US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Pete Sampras (born August 12, 1971) is an American retired professional tennis player. He has won the Wimbledon Championships seven times and has won 14 Grand Slams overall, which was a record until Roger Federer broke it in 2009. He is said to be one of the greatest tennis players of all time.

[[Andre Agassi]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, American autobiographers, American male tennis players, American philanthropists, Australian Open champions, French Open champions, Living people, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Nevada, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players, Writers from Nevada

Andre Kirk Agassi (born April 29, 1970) is a retired professional tennis player from the United States. He was the first tennis player to have won all Grand Slam tournaments on four different surfaces. Later, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal did the same. He is one of the most successful tennis players in history and was formerly ranked number 1 in the world. He is married to former women's number one tennis player Steffi Graf.

[[Narcissus (genus)]]

CATEGORIES: Asparagales

Italictitle

See text.

Narcissus (Narcissi) (often called a daffodil) is the botanic name for a genus of mainly hardy, mostly spring-flowering, bulbs in the Amaryllidaceae family. They are native to Europe, North Africa, and Asia.

[[Dajabón Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Dominican Republic, 1938 establishments in the Dominican Republic

Dajabón is a Dominican province; it is in the northwestern part of the country, on the border with Haiti. Its capital city has the same name, Dajabón.

It was created on 1938 with the name Province Libertador. It got its present name in 1961. It was part of the Monte Cristi province before being elevated to the category of province

[[First baseman]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball positions

First base, or 1B, is the first of four positions on a baseball diamond, in baseball.

[[Outfielder]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball positions

Outfielder is a position in baseball. Three players play this position. They are the farthest from the batter. 

[[Sobekhotep VIII]]

CATEGORIES: Pharaohs

Sobekhotep VIII was a Pharaoh of northern Egypt during the 16th Egyptian dynasty. He was one of the ancient Egyptian kings people have little knowledge about. Historians estimate that Sobekhotep VIII was their sovereign leader for 16 years.

It is most likely that Sobekhotep VIII. was the successor of Djehuti and followed by Neferhotep III.

[[Albert Spalding]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century baseball players, Baseball executives, Major League Baseball players, Sports in Chicago, Illinois, 1850 births, 1915 deaths

Albert Goodwill Spalding (born September 2, 1850 in Byron, Illinois – September 9, 1915 in Point Loma, California) was a professional baseball player, manager and co-founder of A.G. Spalding sporting goods company.

[[Charlie Waitt]]

CATEGORIES: American baseball players, Sportspeople from Maine, 1853 births, 1912 deaths

Charlie Waitt (born October 14, 1853 in Hallowell, Maine – October 21, 1912) was a professional baseball player. He was teased, taunted and called a "sissy" for wearing what was one of the first baseball gloves ever worn.

[[Doug Allison]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century baseball players, American baseball players, Sportspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1846 births, 1916 deaths

Douglas L. Allison (born July 12, 1846 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, died December 19, 1916 in Washington, DC) was a professional baseball catcher for the Cincinnati Red Stockings, the first fully professional baseball team.  

[[Bill Doak]]

CATEGORIES: American baseball players, St. Louis Cardinals players, Cincinnati Reds players, Sportspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 1891 births, 1954 deaths

Bill Doak (born January 28, 1891, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) played 11 years with the St. Louis Cardinals. In 1914, he went 20-6 with a league leading 1.72 ERA. Doak won 20 games in 1920. Doak led the National League in ERA again in 1921.  Doak was traded to the Brooklyn Robins in mid-1924.  

[[Teasing]]

CATEGORIES: Bullying, Human behavior

Teasing is a word with different meanings. With humans, teasing usually means either playful and hurtful. Teasing is often unkind, and is sometimes a type of harassment. It can have a sexual contest as well, as in the sense of cause sexual arousal in someone, for example.

[[Pitcher]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball positions

In baseball, the pitcher is the player who throws

the baseball from the pitcher's mound to the catcher to begin each play, trying to retire a batter who tries to get on base, usually by hitting the ball with their bat or by taking a walk.

[[Patton (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 drama movies, 1970s war movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, American war movies, Best Picture Oscar, English-language movies, Movies set in the 1940s, United States National Film Registry movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Franklin J. Schaffner, 20th Century Fox movies

Patton (UK: Patton: Lust for Glory) is a 1970 movie about United States Army General George S. Patton, and his role in the Second World War. Patton starred George C. Scott in the title role, and it was released by 20th Century Fox.  The movie became very popular, and won an Academy Award for Best Picture in 1971. A sequel, The Last Days of Patton, appeared in 1986, also starring Scott.

[[Jafar (Disney)]]

CATEGORIES: Aladdin (Disney) characters, Fictional Arabs, Fictional demons and devils, Fictional characters introduced in 1992, Kingdom Hearts characters

Jafar is an evil character in Disney's Aladdin movies. He is played by Jonathan Freeman in the 1992 movie and musical.

[[The Australian]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Australia

The Australian is a newspaper made in Australia. It is made by an Australian company called News Limited, is published every day, and started in 1964.

[[Barbican Arts Centre]]

CATEGORIES: Concert halls in London

The Barbican Arts Centre is a large performing arts centre on the northern edge of the City of London. It is in the modern Barbican estate, near the Barbican Tube station.

[[Harry Morgan]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, Writers from Michigan, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, Emmy Award winning actors

Harry Morgan (born as Harry Bratsburg, April 10, 1915 – December 7, 2011) was an American actor. He was well known for his role in the M*A*S*H TV series as Colonel Sherman T. Potter and as Bill Gannon in the T.V. series Dragnet. He won an Emmy Award in 1980.

Morgan was born in Detroit, Michigan on April 10, 1915. He was raised in Muskegon, Michigan. Morgan studied at Muskegon High School and at the University of Chicago.

He was married to Eileen Detchon from 1940 until she died in 1985. Then he was married to Barbara Bushman from 1986 until his death in 2011. He had four children. In December 1987 he was arrested for abusing his wife. All charges were dropped.

Morgan died on December 7, 2011 in Los Angeles, California from pneumonia, aged 96. His body was later cremated.

[[Brisbane Times]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, Brisbane

Brisbane Times is a website that reports news for Brisbane, Australia, as well as Queensland, the state that Brisbane is in. It started on 7 March 2007 and is owned by a company called Fairfax.

[[District line]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground, London Underground lines, 1868 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1860s establishments in England

The District line is a railway line in the London Underground. It stretches from the London Borough of Havering in East London to Ealing and Richmond in West London.

[[Kensington]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea

Kensington is a district of West London, England in the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea. It is 2.8 west of Charing Cross.

[[Dew Process]]

CATEGORIES: Independent record labels

Dew Process is an independent record label from Brisbane, Australia. It was started by Paul Piticco, who still works for the company today. Dew Process is distributed by Universal Music Australia in Australia and New Zealand.

[[Books of Chronicles]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books

The First and Second Chronicles are history books in the Old Testament. They tell the history of Israel differently from the Books of Kings. Using Biblical books (like Samuel and Kings) and other sources, the "Chronicler" encourages the Jews who returned from exile in Babylon. It goes back over Israel's history to explain why they have had all their troubles and how they can live right to become better in the future. One major difference to the similar, earlier narrative is that unlike in 2 Samuel, David is presented as being good in Chronicles.

Originally, the First and Second Chronicles were one book. They were later split apart into two different books.

[[George Eliot]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1880 deaths, English novelists, Writers from Warwickshire, Pen names

Mary Ann (Marian) Evans (22 November 1819 – 22 December 1880), better known by her pen name George Eliot, was an English novelist. She was one of the leading writers of the Victorian era. Middlemarch is perhaps her most famous book.

She was born in Nuneaton, the youngest child of Robert and Christiana Evans. Mary Ann attended Miss Latham's boarding school and then Mrs Wallington's Boarding School in Nuneaton in 1828.

In 1850, Evans travelled the first time to the continent of Europe. There, she translated the book Essence of Christianity into English. This was the only book she published under her real name and not under her pseudonym George Eliot.

Evans became ill in on December 19 1880. Later, her kidney problem started again. Due to this illness, she died on 22 December 1880. 

[[Gerry Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2012 deaths, English movie directors, English movie producers, English screenwriters

Gerry Anderson MBE (14 April 1929 – 26 December 2012) was a British television and movie producer, director and writer of Jewish origin. He is famous for the science fiction television programmes he created. The most well known of these was Thunderbirds. Most of the programmes he created used marionettes. He also worked with puppeteer Christine Glanville. He was married to actress and producer Sylvia Anderson.

[[Sarah Chalke]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Canadian television actors, Actors from Ottawa, Living people, Canadian voice actors

Sarah Louise Christine Chalke (born August 27, 1976) is a Canadian-American actress most famous for her role as "Elliot Reid" on Scrubs and "Becky Conner" on Roseanne and in the CBS comedy How I Met Your Mother, and The Powerpuff Girls. 

She is engaged to lawyer Jamie Afifi, with whom she has a son, Charlie Rhodes Afifi, born December 24, 2009.

[[Scrubs]]

Scrub(s) may refer to:

[[AfterMASH]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American television series, American sitcoms, CBS network shows, Television spin-offs, English-language television programs

AfterMASH was an American TV series. It was a spin-off of the M*A*S*H TV series. It was not a successful series, and was canceled after two seasons.

[[M*A*S*H (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 television series debuts, 1983 disestablishments in the United States, 1970s American comedy television series, 1980s American comedy television series, American comedy-drama television series, American sitcoms, Black comedy, CBS network shows, Korean War, 1972 establishments in the United States, English-language television programs

M*A*S*H is an American television sitcom made by Larry Gelbart about doctors in a mobile . It was inspired by MASH: A Novel About Three Army Doctors. It stars Alan Alda as the main character. It was very popular, lasting 11 seasons, and having one of the most viewed series finales in television history.

[[Loretta Swit]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from New Jersey, People from Passaic, New Jersey, Emmy Award winners

Loretta Swit (born November 4, 1937) is an American actress. She is most famous for her role as Margaret Houlihan on the M*A*S*H TV series.

[[Larry Linville]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2000 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Ventura County, California

Lawrence Lavonne "Larry" Linville (September 29, 1939 – April 10, 2000) was an American actor. He was most famous for his role as Frank Burns on the M*A*S*H TV series. He died of pneumonia.

[[Katamari Damacy]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 2-only games, Namco video games, Video games developed in Japan

Katamari Damacy is a third person puzzle-action video game made by Namco for the PlayStation 2 game console. It has had many sequels, including We Love Katamari, Me & My Katamari, and Beautiful Katamari.

[[Beautiful Katamari]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, Namco video games, Xbox 360-only games, Video games developed in Japan

Beautiful Katamari, released in Japan as Beautiful Katamari Damacy is a third-person puzzle-action video game made by Namco Bandai for the Xbox 360 game console. Wii and PlayStation 3 versions have been talked about by Namco Bandai, but no release date has been set.

[[We Love Katamari]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 2-only games, Namco video games

We Love Katamari, known in Japan as Minna Daisuki Katamari Damacy, is a third-person puzzle-action video game made by Namco for the PlayStation 2 game console. It is the sequel to Katamari Damacy.

[[Me & My Katamari]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, PlayStation Portable games, Namco video games

Me & My Katamari is a third-person puzzle-action video game made by Namco for the PlayStation Portable game console. It is the first and only handheld Katamari game.

[[Namco]]

CATEGORIES: Namco, 1955 establishments, Video game companies, Santa Clara, California

Namco Limited is an Japanese amusement company. They make video games, and are famous for creating video games including Pac-Man, Galaga, Dig Dug and Xevious.

[[Nagoya]]

CATEGORIES: Nagoya

Nagoya is one of the largest cities in Japan, with over 2 and a quarter million people in 2010. It is in Aichi Prefecture. There are 16 wards in Nagoya.

[[Manglish]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Asia, English language

Manglish is a language that sounds almost the same as  English spoken by Malaysians.  It is a close cousin of Singlish.

[[The Story of the Kelly Gang]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 works, Australian biographical movies, Australian crime movies, Ned Kelly, Silent movies, 1900s movies, Movies set in Australia

The Story of the Kelly Gang is the world's first feature length movie. This 70 minute movie was made in 1906, nine years before D.W. Griffith's The Birth of a Nation made in 1915. The movie tells the story of the famous Australian bushranger, Ned Kelly (1855-1880). It was written and directed by Charles Tait. The movie's reel length is about 4,000 feet (1,200 metres). It was released in Australia on December 26, 1906 and in the UK in January 1908. The movie cost about $2,250 to make. It was filmed in Melbourne and nearby suburbs of St Kilda (indoor scenes), Eltham, Greensborough, Heidelberg, Mitcham and Rosanna. The train scene is filmed near the St. James Road crossing, near Rosanna Station, on the Hurstbridge line in Victoria. The lost scene inside the hotel has a small boy played by Frederick Crew. 

There are only about ten minutes of film left. Many rolls of damaged film were found in an old barn which was once the family home of the Crews in Yarraville, Victoria.  The rolls were sent to Canberra but they were unable to recover most of the footage. In November 2006 the National Film and Sound Archive made a new digital copy of the movie. This has 11 minutes of extra film which was discovered in the United Kingdom. The movie now is 17 minutes long. It has the main scene of the Kelly's fight with the police at Glenrowan (called the Kelly's Last Stand). A copy of the program book has also been found. It has stories from newspaper reports of the capture of the gang, and the story of the movie, in six 'scenes'. This told the audiences what was happening in the movie. The book and the little bit of film that is left can help people imagine what the whole movie may have been like.

In 2007 The Story of the Kelly Gang was added to the UNESCO Memory of the World Register  for being the world's first full-length feature movie.

[[Steffi Graf]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Australian Open champions, Female tennis players, French Open champions, German tennis players, People from Mannheim, Sportspeople from Baden-Württemberg, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Stefanie Maria "Steffi" Graf (born 14 June 1969) is a German retired professional women's tennis player. She was born in Mannheim, Baden-Württemberg. She was once ranked the best women's tennis player in the world. She is married to another retired tennis player Andre Agassi.

Steffi was the youngest player ranked in the WTA Tour ranking 124th.  

In her tennis career, she earned 4 Olympic medals, 22 Grand Slam titles and 107 other titles

[[Comeback]]

Comeback could mean:

The Comeback could also mean:

[[Sports Illustrated]]

CATEGORIES: Time Warner, 1954 establishments in the United States, Sports media, American magazines, Weekly magazines, Magazines published in New York City

Sports Illustrated is the largest weekly American sports magazine owned by media company Time Warner. It has over 3 million subscribers and is read by 23 million adults each week, with over 18 million of them are men, 19% of the adult males in the United States.

[[Christian music]]

CATEGORIES: Christian music

Christian music is music about God, Jesus Christ and Christianity. Worship songs are found in the Jewish Psalms in the Bible.

[[A. Q. Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Pakistani people, Nuclear physicists, Criminals, Bhopal

Abdul Qadeer Khan (عبدالقدیر خان; born April 1, 1936 in Bhopal) is a Pakistani scientist and metallurgical engineer. He is a controversial figure. He is thought by many people to be one of the pioneers of Pakistan's nuclear program. Others disagree and claim he is only an opportunist who abused his position to obtain personal benefits and make a lot of moneyNovember 2012. His middle name is occasionally spelt Quadeer, Qadir or Gadeer. His given names are usually abbreviated to A.Q.. 

Khan claims he has Pashtun ancestryNovember 2012. However, his ancestors supposedly immigrated to India, during the reign of Afghan Emperor Shahabuddin GhouriNovember 2012 from the district of Ghour of present AfghanistanSeptember 2014. He was born in Bhopal State in British India in 1936November 2012. His father Abdul Ghafoor Khan served in the Education Department, British IndiaNovember 2012, and after retirement, settled in BhopalNovember 2012.

He remained under arrest in Pakistan for quite some time, for Nuclear proliferation to the evil North Korean governmentSeptember 2014 and also to IranSeptember 2014. 

[[Interception (football)]]

CATEGORIES: American football, Rugby, Sports words

An interception or intercept is a move in football that happens when a player on the defensive team catches a ball from the quarterback instead of the intended receiver. When this is done, the player's team who had caught the ball, would gain possession of it. Many leagues use interceptions, some are Canadian football and American football, as well as rugby league, rugby union, Australian rules football and Gaelic football. The most common players to get interceptions are defensive backs.

[[Interception (disambiguation)]]

Interception could mean:

[[Load (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Metallica albums, 1996 albums

Load is an album by the heavy metal band Metallica. It was released in 1996. Four singles were released from it. It has sold over 5 million copies in the US. The album was disliked by some long time Metallica fans, as it had a lighter sound than anything before it.

[[The Greatest Show on Turf]]

CATEGORIES: St. Louis Rams, 1999 in sports, 2000 in sports, 2001 in sports

The Greatest Show on Turf was the nickname for the offense fielded by the St. Louis Rams offense during 1999, 2000, and 2001 National Football League seasons.

[[The Marriage of Figaro]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, 1780s operas, 1786

Le nozze di Figaro, ossia la folle giornata (The Marriage of Figaro, or The Day of Madness) is an opera buffa with music by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and an Italian libretto by Lorenzo Da Ponte. The opera premiered at the Burgtheater, Vienna on 1 May 1786. It was well received and nearly every scene received an encore, which made the performance so long that the Emperor did not like this and wanted it to stop.

The opera is based on the 1784 French play, ''La folle journée, ou le Mariage de Figaro by Pierre Beaumarchais. The play was very controversial in its day (and even banned briefly in France), but the play's questionable material was removed and Da Ponte's libretto passed the Viennese censors. 

[[EMT]]

EMT could mean:

In health and medicine:

In music:

In organizations:

In science and technology:

In transportation:

In other:

[[My Neighbor Totoro]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 movies, Japanese movies, Movies directed by Hayao Miyazaki

My Neighbor Totoro, or My Neighbour Totoro on UK DVD box titles, is a 1988 animated movie written and directed by Hayao Miyazaki and produced by Studio Ghibli. It won the Animage Anime Grand Prix prize in 1988. This movie was originally released in the United States in VHS format with the title, My Friend Totoro.

Troma Films, under their 50th St. Films banner, produced a 1993 dub of the movie co-produced by Jerry Beck. It was released on VHS and DVD by Fox Video. Troma's and Fox's rights to this version expired in 2004. The movie was re-released by Disney on March 7, 2006. It features a new dub cast. This DVD release is the first version of the movie in the United States to include both Japanese and English language tracks, as Fox did not have the rights to the Japanese audio track for their version.

[[Mnemonic (disambiguation)]]

A mnemonic is a memory aid.

Mnemonic may also refer to:

[[Mnemonic]]

CATEGORIES: Words

A mnemonic is a way for people to remember things more easily. For example the treble clef lines on a music staff are for the notes E G B D and F. Music students are taught to remember this with a mnemonic - Every Good Boy Does Fine. The first known mnemonics were used by the Ancient Greeks. Cicero said the poet Simonides (c.556-c.468 B.C) discovered the power of mnemonics to help him make visual images so he could remember things. The word mnemonic comes from the Greek words mnene, meaning memory and mnemon, meaning mindful.

[[Northrop Frye]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1991 deaths, Canadian writers, Order of Canada

'Herman Northrop Frye, CC, FRSC, usually called Northrop or Norrie, (July 14, 1912 – January 23, 1991) was a Canadian literary critic and literary theorist.  This means he wrote about books to help people understand them.  He is often said to be one of the most influential critics and theorists of the 20th century.

His most famous book is The Anatomy of Criticism (1957).

[[Throwback uniform]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words, Uniforms, Sports clothing

Throwback uniforms and jerseys are one-time or limited-time types of a sports team's uniforms that look the same way as uniforms from that team's past. Throwbacks are popular in Major League Baseball. Often, teams will wear throwbacks on "Turn Back The Clock Nights". 

[[Backlash (2009)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in professional wrestling, WWE Backlash, 2009 in the United States, 2000s in Rhode Island, April 2009 events, History of Providence, Rhode Island

Backlash (2009) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on April 26, 2009 at the Dunkin' Donuts Center in Providence, Rhode Island. It was the eleventh and last event with the "Backlash" name. Backlash would later be replaced by Extreme Rules in 2010.

[[Down with Love]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 comedy movies, 2003 romance movies, 2000s parody movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American parody movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in the 1960s

Down with Love is a 2003 American romantic comedy movie set in New York City in the early 1960s. It stars Ewan McGregor and Renée Zellweger. It was inspired by Pillow Talk (1959) and Lover Come Back (1961).

[[Celery]]

CATEGORIES: Vegetables, Agriculture, Apiaceae, Condiments, Herbs, Least concern species

Celery is a type of vegetable, often used in salad.

[[Kalasha]]

CATEGORIES: Containers, Hinduism, Jainism

Kalasha, also spelled as Kalash (Sanskrit: कलश, kalaśa; literally "pitcher, pot"), is a metal (brass, copper, silver or gold) pot with a large base and small mouth, large enough to hold a coconut. Sometimes "Kalasha" can mean a pot filled with water and topped with a coronet of mango leaves and a coconut.  This combination is often used in Hindu rites.

[[Pokémon Snap]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 video games, Nintendo 64 games, Pokémon video games, Virtual Console games

Pokémon Snap is a first person rail shooter made by HAL Laboratory and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo 64 game console. It is about a Pokémon photographer who has to take pictures of all the Pokémon on an island. It only features about 63 of the 151 Pokémon that existed at the time the game was made. Players could take their pictures to either Blockbuster (in North America) or Lawson (in Japan) to have them printed.

The game was released for the Wii's Virtual Console service in 2007. Players can send pictures taken in the game to the Wii's Message Board and share them with friends. 

[[Pokémon Channel]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 video games, Nintendo GameCube-only games, Pokémon video games

Pokémon Channel, released in Japan as Pokémon Channel ~Pikachu to Issho!~, is a virtual pet/puzzle video game made by Ambrella and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo GameCube game console.

[[Big Mac]]

CATEGORIES: McDonald's, American food, Sandwiches

The Big Mac is a kind of sandwich sold at the fast food-chain McDonald's. It is 550 calories, and is made using two beef patties, Big Mac Sauce, dehydrated onions, shredded lettuce, sliced pickles, and a slice of cheese. Also, the Big Mac Index is measured in how much a Big Mac costs in foreign currencies.

The Big Mac was created by Jim Delligatti, one of Ray Kroc's earliest franchisees, who was the owner of some restaurants in the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania area. It was designed to compete with a similar Big Boy sandwich. Customer response to the Big Mac was so good that it was begun to be made nationally in 1967. One of its well-known and unique features is a middle slice of bread ("club" layer) used to make sure the contents do not move about and to prevent spills.

[[Don Knotts]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2006 deaths, American television actors, American comedians, Emmy Award winners, American movie actors, Actors from West Virginia, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from pneumonia

Jesse Donald Knotts (July 21, 1924 – February 24, 2006) was an American actor. He played Deputy Barney Fife in the 1950s sitcom television series The Andy Griffith Show. He left the show after its fifth season to act in movies. Two of his movies are The Incredible Mr. Limpet and The Apple Dumpling Gang. He died from lung cancer-related pneumonia.

[[Stormbreaker (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, 2010s spy movies, British spy movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books

Stormbreaker is a 2005 British movie based on the Anthony Horowitz novel Stormbreaker, part of the Alex Rider series of books.

[[Serenade]]

CATEGORIES: Musical forms

In music, a serenade (or sometimes serenata) is a song or piece of music which is sung or played in someone’s honour. The word comes from the Latin "serenare" meaning: "to make calm".

In the Middle Ages and Renaissance a serenade was usually a song which was sung by a lover underneath the window of his sweetheart in a country such as Spain. The lover may accompany himself on a guitar. This kind of serenade is often seen in operas, e.g. Mozart’s Don Giovanni . There is also a verb: to serenade, e.g. “the lover was serenading his sweetheart”.

In the Baroque period a serenade was a type of cantata performed outdoors, in the evening, with singers and various musical instrumentas. Composers who wrote this kind of serenade include Alessandro Stradella and Alessandro Scarlatti.

In the Classical music period the serenade became a piece of music for a small orchestra or a group of several instruments. They are similar to a symphony but lighter in character. They are often the same as a divertimento. Mozart wrote several serenades of this type, e.g. his famous Eine kleine Nachtmusik. Later composers such as Brahms also wrote orchestral serenades. Other Romantic composers often wrote short instrumental works which they called “serenades”.

Also the word serenade is featured in the arctic monkey's song "reckless serenade". 

[[Divertimento]]

CATEGORIES: Musical forms

A divertimento is a piece of music which is lighthearted and easy to listen to.  It is often performed on social occasions, e.g. as music to be played while people eat, or as after-dinner music.

The divertimento became popular in the 18th century. They were played by a small group of instruments.  Mozart wrote several pieces called "divertimento".  They are similar to a serenade.  A divertimento often has several movements, e.g. six, seven or more.

There are a few examples from the 20th century of pieces called "divertimento", e.g. works by including works by Ferruccio Busoni, Béla Bartók, and Igor Stravinsky (from his ballet Le Baiser de la Fée).

[[Freemasonry]]

CATEGORIES: Freemasonry

Freemasonry is an organization of people who believe in brotherhood and helping others. Its members are known as "Freemasons" (in full: "Ancient Free and Accepted Masons", or simply "Masons"). Freemasons also help one another in times of hardship. Freemasonry can be found all over the world in various forms. About 6 million people are Freemasons.

The local groups in various countries are known as "lodges". At the State or National level are "Grand Lodges". These are independent of each other. "Regular" Freemasonry is only for men, but there are also co-ed Masonic lodges (and lodges for only Women) that are not recognized as legitimate by the "regular" groups. All of these lodges believe in "brotherly love, relief and truth". They do work for charities such as running schools for orphaned children. There is a Royal Masonic Hospital which is a home for old members and their families.

The word mason means a construction worker who works with stone. He is also called a "stonemason". Freemasonry grew from the groups (guilds) of stonemasons in the Middle Ages. These men were building cathedrals and other big buildings. They were called freemasons because they were free, they were not servants who belonged to a rich lord, like many workers were in those days. They often changed jobs and moved from one town to another. In this way they were different from other craftsmen who often worked in one place and had guilds in one town. The stonemasons tried to keep their skills secret so only they knew how to do their job. This is probably why the Freemasons have hand shakes and passwords that they swear to keep secret.

About 1650, Masons' guilds started to let people who were not masons into their guilds. In 1717, the first Grand Lodge (the Grand Lodge of England) was formed. It developed into the governing body of Freemasonry in England. In 1813, it merged with a rival and is now called the United Grand Lodge of England.

Freemasonry is controversial. It has been opposed. The Anti-Masonic Party (1827-34) was important in early American politics.  The Catholic Church opposes Freemasonry, although Freemasonry itself does not block Catholics. Political authorities also sometimes oppose it. Nazi Germany and Eastern Bloc nations outlawed freemasonry.

[[Australian Music Online]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment websites, Australian music

Australian Music Online is a website about music in Australia. It started in March 2003, but the people who looked after it, the Australian Government, stopped working on it on 31 March 2007.

[[Die Entführung aus dem Serail]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, 1780s operas, 1782

 Die Entführung aus dem Serail (in English: The Abduction from the Seraglio) is an opera with music by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. It is an example of a Singspiel: a type of German opera which had spoken dialogue as well as singing, and was often about magical stories. Mozart's opera The Magic Flute is also a Singspiel. 

The German libretto is by Christoph Friedrich Bretzner and was changed a bit, without Bretzner’s permission, by Gottlieb Stephanie. The story is about the hero Belmonte, helped by his servant Pedrillo, who tries to rescue his beloved Konstanze from the seraglio (palace) of the Pasha Selim.

The opera was first performed by the Nationalsingspiel ("national Singspiel") which was sponsored by the Austrian emperor Joseph II. Mozart arrived in Vienna in 1781 and was looking for an opportunity to get a commission for an opera. He showed one his operas (Zaide) to the manager of the Nationalsingspiel. He was impressed and asked Mozart to write an opera for the company.

The work is lighthearted and meant to be funny. Some of the characters in the story are Turkish. Turkish stories and music were very popular at that time in Europe, and Mozart writes some Turkish music (or what Europeans thought was Turkish music) in this opera. Some of the arias are very difficult to sing, especially the long "Martern aller Arten" ("Tortures of all kinds") sung by Konstanze, which is like a concerto movement. She is accompanied in this aria by an orchestra and four solo instruments.

The opera was a huge success and earned Mozart a good sum of money. However, he was not paid properly for later performances, so it did not make him rich.

When Joseph II heard it he said to Mozart that there were “too many notes”, to which Mozart replied: “There are just as many notes as there should be”.

[[Clydesdale Bank]]

CATEGORIES: Banks of the United Kingdom, 1838 establishments in the United Kingdom, 19th century establishments in Scotland

The Clydesdale Bank is a Scottish bank. Its headquarters are based in Glasgow, Scotland. It is currently the sponsor of the Scottish Premier League (now known as the Clydesdale Bank Premier League).

[[War of the Worlds (2005 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, 2000s science fiction movies, American science fiction movies, Movies directed by Steven Spielberg, Movies based on books, Movies set in New Jersey, Movies set in New York, Movies set in Boston, Massachusetts, English-language movies, Apocalyptic movies

War of the Worlds is a 2005 movie that has Tom Cruise and Dakota Fanning as the main people. It was directed by Steven Spielberg. It is based on the H. G. Wells novel The War of the Worlds.

[[Bank of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: 1695 establishments, Scotland, Banks of the United Kingdom, 1690s establishments in Europe, 17th century establishments in Scotland

The Bank of Scotland is a Scottish bank. Its headquarters are based in Edinburgh, Scotland. The company was previously the sponsor of the Scottish Premier League.

In 2001 the Bank of Scotland merged with Halifax to make HBOS (Halifax Bank of Scotland), this then merged with Lloyds TSB in 2009.

[[Jimmy Calderwood]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Scottish football managers, Scottish footballers, People with Alzheimer's disease

James "Jimmy" Calderwood (born 28 February 1955) is a former professional footballer and current manager of Scottish club Aberdeen F.C.

In August 2017, Calderwood revealed that he has had Alzheimer's disease.

[[Germany's Next Topmodel]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 television series debuts, 2000s television series, 2010s television series, German television series, Top Model television series, 2006 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Germany

Germany's Next Topmodel (also known as GNTM) is a television show hosted by supermodel Heidi Klum. The first cycle (season) was in 2006. The 8th cycle finished showing in May 2013. 

[[Kurume, Fukuoka]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Fukuoka Prefecture

Kurume is a city in Fukuoka Prefecture, northern Kyūshū, Japan.

It has been recognized as a core city since 2008.

[[Gordon Strachan]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, People from Edinburgh, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers

Gordon David Strachan OBE (born 9 February 1957 in Edinburgh) is a retired Scottish football player, and is now a football manager.

[[Craig Levein]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers, People from Dunfermline

Craig William Levein (born 22 October 1964 in Dunfermline) is a Scottish former professional footballer and current football manager. Levein currently manages Scottish Premier League club Hearts where he is also the Director of Football. During his playing career he played for Cowdenbeath F.C., Heart of Midlothian and won 16 caps for the Scotland national team.

[[John Hughes (footballer born 1964)]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Scottish football managers, Scottish footballers

John Hughes (born 9 September 1964 in Edinburgh) is a former Scottish professional football player. He is currently manager of Falkirk.

[[Jennifer Hof]]

CATEGORIES: German models, 1991 births, Living people

Jennifer Karin-Luise Hof (born May 15, 1991 in Langen, Germany) is a model. She is the winner of Germany's Next Topmodel, cycle (season) 3. Hof has 113 cm long legs.

[[Partick Thistle F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football clubs, 1876 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1870s establishments in Scotland

Partick Thistle Football Club is a professional football team based at Firhill Stadium in Glasgow, Scotland. Despite their name, the club are based in the Maryhill area of the city, and have not played in Partick since 1908.

Currently, the team play in the Scottish League One.

[[Airdrie United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish First Division clubs, North Lanarkshire, 2002 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2000s establishments in Scotland

Airdrieonians Football Club is a Scottish professional football team.  They are based in the town of Airdrie, North Lanarkshire. They are members of the Scottish Professional Football League.

[[Aalst, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Aalst is a municipality found in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, its population was 77,790.

It is found at 50° 56 North, 04° 02 East.

[[Aalter]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Aalter is a municipality found in the Belgian province of East Flanders. On 1 January 2019, the municipality of Knesselare was merged into Aalter.

In 2007, its population was 18,887.

It is found at 51° 05 North, 03° 26 East.

[[Aarschot]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Aarschot is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 28021 people lived there.

It is at 50° 59 North, 04° 49 East.

[[Aartselaar]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Aartselaar is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 14325 people lived there.

It is at 51° 08 North, 04° 23 East.

[[Affligem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Affligem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007 its population was 12,169.

It is at 50° 54 North, 04° 06 East.

[[Aiseau-Presles]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Aiseau-Presles is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 10696 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 04° 35 East.

[[Alken, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Alken is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 11090 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 05° 18 East.

[[Alveringem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Alveringem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007 its population was 4955.

[[Amay]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Amay is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007 its population was 13147.

It is at 50° 32 North, 05° 19 East.

[[Amel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Amel, or Amblève, is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007 its population was 5331.

It is at 50° 21 North, 06° 10 East.

[[Andenne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Andenne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007 its population was 24557.

It is at 50° 29 North, 05° 06 East.

[[Anderlecht]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Anderlecht is a municipality in the Belgian Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007 its population was 97601.

It is at 50° 50 North, 04° 18 East.

[[Anderlues]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Anderlues is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007 its population was 11651.

It is at 50° 24 North, 04° 16 East.

[[Anhée]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Anhée is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur. In 2007 its population was 6958. It is at 50° 18 North, 04° 52 East.

[[Ans]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Ans is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 27,416 people lived there.

It is at 50° 39 North, 05° 31 East.

[[Anthisnes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Anthisnes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 4,011 people lived there.

It is at 50° 28 North, 05° 31 East.

[[Antoing]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Antoing is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 7533 people lived there.

It is at 50° 34 North, 03° 27 East.

[[Anzegem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Anzegem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 14105 people lived there.

It is at 50° 49 North, 03° 28 East.

[[Ardooie]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Ardooie is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders. The municipality includes the towns of Ardooie and Koolskamp. In 2006, Ardooie had a total population of 9,147. The local people are called Ardooienaren.

It is at 50° 58 North, 03° 11 East.

[[Arendonk]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Arendonk is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 12329 people lived there.

It is at 51° 19 North, 05° 05 East.

[[Arlon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium), Provincial capitals of Belgium

Arlon is a city and municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg. Arlon is the capital of that province.

In 2007, 26548 people lived there.

It is at 49.

[[As, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

As is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 7579 people lived there.

It is at 51° 00 North, 05° 35 East.

[[Asse]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Asse is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 29334 people lived there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 04° 11 East.

[[Assenede]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Assenede is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 13584 people lived there.

It is at 51° 13 North, 03° 45 East.

[[Assesse]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Assesse is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 6334 people lived there.

It is at 50° 22 North, 05° 01 East.

[[Ath]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Ath is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 27141 people lived there.

It is at 50° 37 North, 03° 46 East.

[[Attert]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Attert is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 4802 people lived there.

It is at 49.

[[Aubange]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Aubange is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 15193 lived there.

It is at 49.

[[Aubel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Aubel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 4166 people lived there.

It is at 50° 42 North, 05° 51 East.

[[Avelgem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Avelgem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 9523 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 03° 26 East.

[[Awans]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Awans is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 8717 people lived there.

It is at 50° 39 North, 05° 27 East.

[[Aywaille]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Aywaille is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 11094 people lived there.

It is at 50° 28 North, 05° 40 East.

[[Baarle-Hertog]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp, Exclaves

Baarle-Hertog is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp. It is an Belgian exclave located in the Dutch province of North Brabant.

In 2007, 2337 people lived there.

It is at 51° 26 North, 04° 55 East.

[[Baelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Baelen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 4110 people lived there.

It is at 50° 37 North, 05° 58 East.

[[Balen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Balen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 20379 people lived there.

It is at 51° 10 North, 05° 10 East.

[[Bassenge]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Bassenge is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 8396 people lived there.

It is at 50° 45 North, 05° 36 East.

[[Bastogne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Bastogne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 14386 people lived there.

It is at 50.

In World War II, Bastogne was the site of the Battle of Bastogne.

[[Beaumont, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Beaumont is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 6696 people lived there.

It is at 50° 14 North, 04° 14 East.

[[Beauraing]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Beauraing is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 8449 people lived there.

It is at 50° 06 North, 04° 57 East.

[[Beauvechain]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Beauvechain is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 6596 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 04° 46 East.

[[Beernem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Beernem is a town in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 14,691 people lived there.

It is at 51° 08 North, 03° 20 East.

[[Beerse]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Beerse is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 16600 people lived there.

It is at 51° 19 North, 04° 51 East.

[[Beersel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Beersel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 23578 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 04° 18 East.

[[Begijnendijk]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Begijnendijk is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007 its population was 9468.

It is at 51° 01 North, 04° 46 East.

[[Bekkevoort]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Bekkevoort is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 5926 people lived there.

It is at 50° 56 North, 04° 58 East.

[[Belœil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Belœil is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 13446 people lived there.

It is at 50° 33 North, 03° 44 East.

[[Beringen, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Beringen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 41531 people lived there.

It is at 51° 02 North, 05° 13 East.

[[Berlaar]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Berlaar is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 10668 people lived there.

It is at 51° 07 North, 04° 39 East.

[[Berlare]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Berlare is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 14272 people lived there.

It is at 51° 01 North, 04° 00 East.

[[Berloz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Berloz is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 2813 people lived there.

It is at 50° 41 North, 05° 12 East.

[[Bernissart]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Bernissart is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 11513 people lived there.

It is at 50° 28 North, 03° 39 East.

[[Bertem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Bertem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 9296 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 04° 37 East.

[[Bertogne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Bertogne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 3002 people lived there.

It is at 50.

[[Bertrix]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Bertrix is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 8164 people lived there.

It is at 49.

[[Bever, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Bever is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 2048 people lived there.

It is at 50° 43 North, 03° 56 East.

[[Beveren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Beveren is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders. It is close to the city of Antwerp. It is at 51° 12 North, 04° 15 East.

In 2007, 45,771 people lived there.

[[Beyne-Heusay]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Beyne-Heusay is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 11739 people lived there.

It is at 50° 37 North, 05° 39 East.

[[Bierbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Bierbeek is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 9233 people lived there.

It is at 50° 49 North, 04° 45 East.

[[Bièvre]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Bièvre is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 3164 people lived there.

It is at 49° 56 North, 05° 01 East.

[[Bilzen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Bilzen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 30173 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 05° 31 East.

[[Binche]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Binche is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 32508 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 04° 09 East.

[[Blankenberge]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders, Port cities and towns of the North Sea

Blankenberge is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2014, 19.879 people lived there.

It is at 51° 18 North, 03° 07 East.

[[Blegny]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Blégny is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 12861 people lived there.

It is at 50° 40 North, 05° 43 East.

[[Bocholt, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Bocholt is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 12509 people lived there.

It is at 51° 10 North, 05° 34 East.

[[Boechout]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Boechout is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 12149 people lived there.

It is at 51° 09 North, 04° 29 East.

[[Bonheiden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Bonheiden is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 14499 people lived there.

It is at 51° 01 North, 04° 32 East.

[[Boom, Antwerp]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Boom is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 16326 people lived there.

It is at 51° 05 North, 04° 22 East.

[[Boortmeerbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Boortmeerbeek is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 11561 people lived there.

It is at 50° 58 North, 04° 34 East.

[[Borgloon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Borgloon is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 10206 people lived there.

It is at 50° 48 North, 05° 20 East.

[[Bornem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Bornem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp. It includes the towns of Hingene, Mariekerke, Weert and Bornem proper. There are also the hamlets of Branst, Buitenland, Eikevliet and Wintam.

In 2007, 20235 people lived there.

It is at 51° 05 North, 04° 14 East.

[[Borsbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Borsbeek is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 10224 people lived there.

It is at 51° 11 North, 04° 29 East.

[[John McEnroe]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, American game show hosts, American male tennis players, American television talk show hosts, French Open champions, Living people, People from Wiesbaden, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

John McEnroe (born February 16, 1959) is an American retired tennis player. He became a professional in 1978. From 1986 to 1994, he was married to actress Tatum O'Neal.

He grew up in Douglaston, Queens, New York City. He is thought of as one of the best tennis players of all time. He was once ranked number 1 in the world. He won three times at Wimbledon and four times at the U.S. Open. He is remembered for getting angry at the umpire very easily and his rivalries with players such Björn Borg. He is probably also famous for his "You cannot be serious!" rant directed to an umpire in 1981 at Wimbledon.

[[Bouillon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Bouillon is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 5477 people lived there.

It is at 49.

[[Boussu]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Boussu is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 20118 people lived there.

It is at 50° 26 North, 03° 47 East.

[[Boutersem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Boutersem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 7519 people lived there.

It is at 50° 50 North, 04° 49 East.

[[Braine-l'Alleud]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Braine-l'Alleud is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 37512 people lived there.

It is at 50° 40 North, 04° 22 East.

[[Braine-le-Château]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Braine-le-Château is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 9517 people lived there.

It is at 50° 40 North, 04° 16 East.

[[Braine-le-Comte]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Braine-le-Comte is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut. Maxime Daye is a mayor.

[[Braives]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Braives is a Walloon municipality in the Belgian province of Liège. On January 1, 2006 Braives had a total population of 5,579. The total area is 44.00 km² which gives a population density of 127 inhabitants per km².

It is at 50° 37 North, 05° 08 East.

[[Brakel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Brakel is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 13759 people lived there.

It is at 50° 48 North, 03° 45 East.

[[Brecht, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Brecht is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp. In 2007, 27,630 people were living in Brecht.

It is found at 51° 21 North, 04° 38 East.

[[Bredene]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Bredene is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 15343 people lived there.

It is at 51° 14 North, 02° 58 East.

[[Bree, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Bree is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 14515 people lived there.

It is at 51° 08 North, 05° 35 East.

[[Brugelette]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Brugelette is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 3336 people lived there.

It is at 50° 35 North, 03° 51 East.

[[Brunehaut]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Brunehaut is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 7712 people lived there.

It is at 50° 30 North, 03° 24 East.

[[Buggenhout]]

CATEGORIES: Spa towns in Belgium, Municipalities of East Flanders

Buggenhout is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2011, 14167 people lived there.

It is at 51° 00 North, 04° 12 East.

[[Büllingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Büllingen or Bullange is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 5453 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 06° 15 East.

[[Burdinne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Burdinne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège. In 2007, 2,845 people lived there. It is at 50° 35 North, 05° 04 East.

[[Burg-Reuland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Burg-Reuland is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 3957 people lived there.

It is at 50° 11 North, 06° 08 East.

[[Butgenbach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Bütgenbach or Butgenbach is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 5585 people lived there.

It is at 50° 25 North, 06° 12 East.

[[Celles]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Celles is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 5447 people lived there.

It is at 50° 42 North, 03° 27 East.

[[Cerfontaine]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Cerfontaine is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 4579 people lived there.

It is at 50° 10 North, 04° 24 East.

[[Chapelle-lez-Herlaimont]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Chapelle-lez-Herlaimont is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 14121 people lived there.

It is at 50° 28 North, 04° 17 East.

[[Charleroi]]

CATEGORIES: Charleroi

Charleroi is a municipality and city in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 201,550 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 04° 26 East.

[[Chastre]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Chastre is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 6819 people lived there.

It is at 50° 36 North, 04° 38 East.

[[Châtelet]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Châtelet is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut. It is on the river Sambre.

In 2007, 35813 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 04° 31 East.

[[Chaudfontaine]]

CATEGORIES: Spa towns in Belgium, Municipalities of Liège

Chaudfontaine is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège. In 2007, 20928 people lived there. It is at 50° 35 North, 05° 38 East.

[[Chaumont-Gistoux]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Chaumont-Gistoux is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 11043 people lived there.

It is at 50° 40 North, 04° 43 East.

[[Chièvres]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Chièvres is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 6330 people lived there.

It is at 50° 35 North, 03° 48 East.

[[Chimay]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Chimay is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 9852 people lived there.

It is at 50° 03 North, 04° 18 East.

[[Chiny]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Chiny is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 5021 people lived there.

It is at 49.

[[Ciney]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Ciney is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 15078 people lived there.

It is at 50° 17 North, 05° 06 East.

[[Clavier]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Clavier is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 4211 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 05° 21 East.

[[Colfontaine]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Colfontaine is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 19998 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 03° 51 East.

[[Comblain-au-Pont]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Comblain-au-Pont is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2013,  5359 people lived there (2603 men and 2756 women).

It is at 50° 28 North, 05° 34 East.

[[Comines-Warneton]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Comines-Warneton is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 17544 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 03° 00 East.

[[Courcelles]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

[[Court-Saint-Etienne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Court-Saint-Etienne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 9547 people lived there.

It is at 50° 38 North, 04° 34 East.

[[Couvin]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Couvin is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 13449 people lived there.

It is at 50° 03 North, 04° 29 East.

[[Crisnée]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Crisnée is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 2828 people lived there.

It is at 50° 43 North, 05° 23 East.

[[Björn Borg]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, French Open champions, Living people, Male tennis players, Swedish sportspeople, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Björn Borg (born June 6, 1956) is a retired professional tennis player from Sweden. He won Wimbledon five years in a row, more than any other player until Roger Federer did the same. Borg also won six French Open titles, which was later also done by Rafael Nadal, who in the 21st century won nine titles. He is seen as one of the best tennis players of all time.

Borg was famous for his unusual and exciting playing style. He also set many records.

Since retiring, Borg has run a clothing line. He has two sons, Robin (born 1985) and Leo (born 2003).

[[Josef Manner & Comp AG]]

CATEGORIES: Food companies of Europe, Vienna, Companies of Austria

Josef Manner & Comp AG is an Austrian company that is known for its sweets. It is the biggest Austrian producer of sweets. Today, they are present in over 60 countries. They are best known for their wafers filled with chocolate-hazelnut cream (called Manner-schnitten).

Its headquarters are in Vienna.

[[The Hours (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 drama movies, 2000s LGBT movies, Academy Award winning movies, American drama movies, American LGBT movies, Bipolar disorder in fiction, British drama movies, British LGBT movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, HIV/AIDS in movies, LGBT drama movies, Miramax movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in California, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in the 1920s, Movies set in the 1950s, Paramount movies, Suicide in movies

The Hours is a 2002 Anglo-American drama movie. It is based on Michael Cunningham's novel The Hours. Nicole Kidman, Julianne Moore, and Meryl Streep play the main characters.  It was picked for nine Academy Awards and won one, Best Actress for Kidman.

[[Linux distribution]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions

Linux distributions (often abbreviated as distros) are made of the Linux kernel and a collection of applications.  The operating system will be made up of the Linux kernel and, usually, a set of libraries and utilities from the GNU project, with graphics that come from the X Window System. Distributions that are made to be small may not contain big window systems full of features like KDE or GNOME, but use small window systems like busybox, uclibc or dietlibc. There are more than three hundred Linux distributions.  Most of those are in still in development, being improved and changed constantly.

[[Bajaur Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Agencies of Federally Administered Tribal Areas

Bajaur (باجوڑ) is an Agency (district) of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) of Pakistan. Smallest of the agencies in FATA, it has a hilly terrain. According to the 1998 census, 595,227 people lived there. It borders Afghanistan's Kunar Province.

Bajaur District is a district in Malakand Division of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in Pakistan. Until 2018, it was an agency of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, then during restructuring that merged FATA with Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, it became a district. According to the 2017 census, the population of the district is 1,093,684. It borders Afghanistan's Kunar Province with a 52 km border. The headquarters of the agency administration is located in the town of Khaar.

Bajaur is inhabited almost exclusively by Tarkani Pashtuns, and there are their main sub-tribes in Bajaur: Utmankhel, Tarkalanri as well as a small population of Safis. The Utmankhel are at the southeast of Bajaur, while Mamund are at the southwest, and the Tarkani are at the north of Bajaur. Its border with Afghanistan's Kunar province makes it of strategic importance to Pakistan and the region. Gujar are also present.

[[Khyber Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Khyber Agency

Khyber (خیبر) is a tribal area in Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) region of Pakistan.  It includes: 

[[Kurram Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Agencies of Federally Administered Tribal Areas

Kurram or Karam (کرم) tribal agency is in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) area of Pakistan. Until the year 2000, when divisions were abolished, Kurram District used to be part of the Peshawar Division of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

The Kurram River drains the southern flanks of the Safed Koh mountain range, and enters the Indus plains north of Bannu. It crosses the Afghan-Pakistan border about 80 km southwest of Jalalabad, and joins the Indus near Isa Khel after a course of more than 320 km (200 miles). The district has an area of 3,310 km² (1,278 sq. miles); the population according to the 1998 census was 448,310. It lies between the Miranzai Valley and the Afghan border, and is inhabited by the Bangash,Mangal para-Chamkani, orakzai and Turis, a tribe of Turki and Pathan origin. The language of the tribes is Pashto, the majority of the people is sunni but a minute number of Shia community are inhabited too

It is highly irrigated, well peopled, and crowded with small fortified villages, orchards and groves, to which a fine background is afforded by the dark pine forests and alpine snows of the Safed Koh. The beauty and climate of the valley attracted some of the Mogul emperors of Delhi, and the remains exist of a garden planted by Shah Jahan.

The Kurram River crosses the Afghan-Pakistan border about 80 km southwest of Jalalabad and in ancient times offered the most direct route to Kabul and Gardez, but the route crossed the Peiwar Pass 3,439 m (11,283 ft) high, just over 20 km west of Parachinar, which was blocked by snow for several months of the year.

[[Mohmand Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Agencies of Federally Administered Tribal Areas

The Mohmand Agency (مہمند) was created in 1951 before which the Mohmand Tribes were administered by the Deputy Commissioner based in Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. However it was not until 1973 that the headquarters of the Mohmand agency were moved from Peshawar to Ekkagund. Now, the permanent agency headquarters is at Ghalanai, deep in the Mohmand agency. There is scant rainfall and little irrigated land, a factor responsible for the large demographic movements of the Mohmands to the fertile lands of Charsadda and Mardan districts to the east.

Sher Alam Mahsud is the "political agent" (or governor) of Mohmand as of July 2007

[[Orakzai Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Agencies of Federally Administered Tribal Areas

Orakzai Agency is one of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of Pakistan. It has a population of 450,000 and an area of 700 square miles.

[[North Waziristan Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Agencies of Federally Administered Tribal Areas

North Waziristan (شمالی وزیرستان) is the northern part of Waziristan, a mountainous region of northwest Pakistan, bordering Afghanistan and covering some 11 585 km² (4,473 mi²). It comprises the area west and south-west of Peshawar between the Tochi river to the north and the Gomal river to the south, forming part of Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA). Miran Shah is capital of North Waziristan and (FATA). The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa lies immediately to the east. The region was an independent tribal territory from 1893, remaining outside of the British empire and Afghanistan. Tribal raiding into British territory was a constant problem for the British, requiring frequent punitive expeditions between 1860 and 1945. The region became part of Pakistan on independence in 1947.

[[Miran Shah]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Pakistan, Federally Administered Tribal Areas

Miranshah (میران شاہ) is a town in North Waziristan Agency and the capital city of Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA). in Pakistan. It houses a large refugee camp for displaced Afghans from the time of the Soviet war in Afghanistan. It is otherwise not  a very notable place, with few amenities or comforts.

[[South Waziristan]]

CATEGORIES: Agencies of Federally Administered Tribal Areas

South Waziristan (جنوبی وزیرستان) is the southern part of Waziristan, a mountainous region of northwest Pakistan, bordering Afghanistan and covering some 11,585 km² (4,473 mi²). It comprises the area west and southwest of Peshawar between the Tochi River to the north and the Gomal river to the south, forming part of Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA). The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province lies immediately to the east. The region was an independent tribal territory from 1893, remaining outside of British-ruled empire and Afghanistan. Tribal raiding into British-ruled territory was a constant problem for the British, requiring frequent punitive expeditions between 1860 and 1945. The region became part of Pakistan in 1947.

[[National Football League playoffs]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League

The National Football League (NFL) playoffs are a single-elimination tournament that happen at the end of the 16-game regular season. The team who  wins all these playoff games are the NFL champion.  

[[1981–82 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 in the United States, 1982 in the United States

The 1981–82 NHL season was the 65th season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-one teams each played 80 games. The William M. Jennings Trophy made its debut this year as the trophy for the goaltenders from the team with the fewest goals against. The New York Islanders won their third straight Stanley Cup by beating the Vancouver Canucks in four games.

Prior to the start of the season, the divisions of the league were re-aligned to better reflect the locations of the teams. The Patrick Division, which had been in the Clarence Campbell Conference, switched to the Prince of Wales Conference, while the Norris Division went the other way, going from the Wales Conference to the Campbell Conference. This divisional alignment existed until the 1993-94 season, at which point both the divisions and the conferences of the league were renamed to reflect geography.

[[List of NHL franchise post-season appearance streaks]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League lists

These are lists of active and all-time National Hockey League (NHL) franchise post-season appearance, post-season series win, Stanley Cup Final and Stanley Cup streaks up to and including the 2017–18 NHL season and subsequent 2018 Stanley Cup playoffs. These lists do not include the canceled 2004–05 NHL season.

[[Franz Xaver Süßmayr]]

CATEGORIES: 1766 births, 1803 deaths, Austrian composers, Classical era composers

Franz Xaver Süßmayr (also spelled Süssmayr, born Schwanenstadt, Austria, 1766; died Vienna,  17 September 1803) was an Austrian composer.  He is often remembered for finishing Mozart’s Requiem which Mozart had not finished when he died.

His father was a sacristan and teacher. His mother died when he was 6, and he left home at 13. He went to Kremsmünster to study in a Benedictine monastery. When his voice changed, he became a member of the orchestra as a violinist.

The abbey performed operas and Singspiele, so he had the opportunity to study the operas of Christoph Willibald Gluck and Antonio Salieri. He composed a number of stage works and a good deal of church music for the abbey.

After 1787 he became a student of Salieri in Vienna. In 1792 he also became the vice-director and composer at the Kärntnertortheater.

He helped Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart  by copying out the music for La clemenza di Tito and Die Zauberflöte in 1791.   In the same year Mozart died.  He had not finished composing his  Requiem.  Süssmayr finished composing it and handed the completed work to Constanze, Mozart’s widow.

He composed Singspiele (German operas with spoken dialogue), and became Kapellmeister at the National Theater  From this time until 1800, he was very successful and popular on the Viennese music scene. However, he became ill with tuberculosis and had to stop work.  He died three years later in 1803.

[[Catch Me If You Can]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 books, Autobiographies

Catch Me If You Can is a 1980 book by Frank Abagnale.  It talks about the four years that Abagnale was a con artist.  Abagnale sold the rights to make a movie before writing the book.  He wrote the book with a person named Stan Redding. The movie Catch Me If You Can was released in 2002.

[[Maronite Church]]

CATEGORIES: Lebanon, Eastern Catholicism

Maronites (الموارنة, transliterated: Mawārinah, ܡܪܘܢܝܐ, Ecclesia Maronitarum) are members of one of the Syriac Eastern Catholic Churches, with a heritage reaching back to Maron in the early 5th century. The first Maronite patriarch, John Maron, was appointed in the late 7th century. Although reduced in numbers and estimated to have lost their status as a majority in Lebanon itself. Today, Maronites remain one of the principal religious groups in the country.

Before the conquest by Arabian Muslims reached Lebanon, which resulted in the Arabization of both those who would become Islamized and those that would remain non-Islamized, the Lebanese people, including Maronites, spoke a dialect of Aramaic, but have been Arabic-speaking since at least the 15th century. Syriac however, still remains the liturgical language of the Maronite Church.

[[Pantomime]]

CATEGORIES: Mimes, Comedy

Pantomime (often called panto) is a kind of theatre entertainment usually performed around Christmas and the New Year in Britain and a few other English-speaking countries.  It must not be confused with mime (acting with gestures but no speech). It is known for its comedy and audience participation. Pantomimes are usually meant for children-however they can be directed at adults.

[[Michael Collins (astronaut)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Cancer deaths in Florida, American astronauts, American aviators, Apollo astronauts, Businesspeople from Washington, D.C., Scientists from Washington, D.C., Writers from Washington, D.C., American autobiographers

Michael Collins (October 31, 1930 – April 28, 2021) was an American astronaut and test pilot. He was the pilot of the Apollo 11 mission to the moon.

[[Saturn V]]

CATEGORIES: Apollo program, Rockets, Wernher von Braun

Saturn V was the kind of launch vehicle used by NASA in a space program named after a god that ancient people liked (the Apollo program).  The Saturn V carried Apollo 11 and the people in it to the Moon in 1969.  Much of the rocket was planned by German engineer and scientist Wernher von Braun.  32 Saturn rockets were sent up to space, and the Saturn V was the largest.  15 Saturn V rockets were made and 13 were sent up to space. There were two Saturn V launches with no people in them, and the first manned Apollo flight using a Saturn V was Apollo 8 sent around the Moon on December 21, 1968.The Saturn V rocket was a three part machine. It stood 363 high and weighed 2903020. The first rockets were able to carry  44600. This was went up to 46800 for the later Apollo flights. The first and second stages gave the power to lift the rocket off the Earth. The first and second stages each had five engines. The first stage burned kerosene and liquid oxygen together.  The other stages burned liquid oxygen with liquid hydrogen. 

The first stage engines burned for 168 seconds which was able to lift Apollo to a height of 67 and about 93 away from the launch pad.  The second stage burned for about 8 minutes to take Apollo through the upper atmosphere.  At this time it was going 25182.

The third stage was used for 2 minutes and 30 seconds to put Apollo into an Earth orbit. This was at a height of 191.2 above the Earth. The third stage was started again and burned for 6 minutes to make the speed go up to 40320 needed to send Apollo off to the Moon.

[[Kajaani]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Finland, Municipalities of Kainuu

Kajaani (Kajana) is a town in the region of Kainuu, Finland. In 2009, it had a population of about 38,000. It covers an area of 2000.

The forestry and lumber industries are important in Kajaani.

The former municipality of Vuolijoki was merged with Kajaani in 2007.

[[Michael Collins]]

There are several people named Michael Collins:

[[Michael Collins (Irish leader)]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1922 deaths, Assassinated people, Former members of Dáil Éireann, Government ministers of Ireland, Irish Free State, Irish republicanism, Murders by firearm, People from County Cork, Prisoners of war, Sinn Féin politicians

Michael "Mick" Collins (Míċeál Ó Coileáin; 16 October 1890 – 22 August 1922) was an Irish revolutionary leader. He was a Minister for Finance and Teachta Dála (TD member of parliament) for Cork South in the First Dáil of 1919. He was also the Director of Intelligence for the IRA, and member of the Irish delegation during the Anglo-Irish Treaty negotiations. After that he was both Chairman of the Provisional Government and Commander-in-chief of the National Army. Throughout this time, at least as of 1919, he was also President of the Irish Republican Brotherhood. Under the rules of the Brotherhood this meant that he was President of the Irish Republic. Collins was shot and killed in August 1922, during the Irish Civil War.

[[Sophora davidii]]

CATEGORIES: Faboideae, Shrubs

Sophora davidii  is a deciduous shrub from south-west China. It can grow up to 3 metres tall. It has blue and white pea flowers and is also known a David mountain laurel. It has been gathered in Texas.

[[School]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Schools

A school is an educational environment where children go to learn from a teacher. Topics such as reading, writing and mathematics are central to education. Most of a student's time is spent in a classroom. This is where 10 to 30 people sit to take part in educational discussion. In the United States, the average number of students per classroom in primary schools is 23.1. 

The term "school" is used for many educational environments--particularly in North America. There are different types of schools: elementary schools (primary in the UK), middle schools (secondary in the UK), and so on.

In many places around the world, children must go to school for a certain number of years. Learning may take place in the classroom, in outside environments or on visits to other places. Colleges and universities are places to learn for students over 17 or 18 years of age. Vocational schools teach skills people need for jobs.

Some people attend school longer than others. This is because some jobs require more training than others, like for example becoming a doctor takes about 10-14 years of education. For young children, one teacher may teach all subjects. Teachers for older students are more specialized, and they only teach a few subjects. Common subjects taught include science, arts such as music, humanities, like geography and history, and languages.

Children with mental health problems, and problems such as autism and other conditions, usually do not go to regular schools. These children are given other ways to get schooling, like special schools. There also are special schools which teach things which regular schools do not. 

Graduate schools are for students who have graduated with a degree from colleges and universities.

[[Worthing]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Sussex

Worthing is the largest town in West Sussex, England.

[[Super Bowl Most Valuable Player Award]]

CATEGORIES: Super Bowl, Most valuable player awards

The Super Bowl Most Valuable Player or Super Bowl MVP, is an award given at the end of the Super Bowl, the National Football League's championship game, to the player who was the best in the game.

[[Happy Meal]]

CATEGORIES: McDonald's

A Happy Meal is a meal made by McDonald's, and aimed at children. They come in a cardboard box, containing a main meal, usually a hamburger, cheeseburger, or McNuggets; french fries; a small drink; and a toy.  Sometimes the toy ties in with a movie release.

[[Dalhem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Dalhem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 6585 people lived there.

It is at 50° 42 North, 05° 43 East.

[[Daverdisse]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Daverdisse is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 1372 people lived there.

It is at 50° 01 North, 05° 07 East.

[[De Haan, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

De Haan is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 12177 people lived there.

It is at 51° 16 North, 03° 01 East.

[[De Panne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

De Panne is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 10153 people lived there.

It is at 51° 05 North, 02° 35 East.

[[De Pinte]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

De Pinte is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007 its population was 10273.

It is at 50° 59 North, 03° 39 East.

[[Deerlijk]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Deerlijk is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 11372 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 03° 21 East.

[[Deinze]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Deinze is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders. On 1 January 2019, the municipality of Nevele was merged into Deinze.

In 2007 its population was 28593.

[[Denderleeuw]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Denderleeuw is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 17493 people lived there.

It is at 50° 53 North, 04° 05 East.

[[Dendermonde]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Dendermonde is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 43521 people lived there.

It is at 51° 01 North, 04° 06 East.

[[Dentergem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Dentergem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 8,191 people lived there.

It is at 50° 57 North, 03° 25 East.

[[Dessel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Dessel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 8865 people lived there.

It is at 51° 14 North, 05° 06 East.

[[Destelbergen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Destelbergen is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007 its population was 17239.

It is at 51° 03 North, 03° 48 East.

[[Diepenbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Diepenbeek is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 17874 people lived there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 05° 25 East.

[[Diest]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Diest is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 22845 people lived there.

It is at 50° 59 North, 05° 03 East.

[[Diksmuide]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Diksmuide is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 15764 people lived there.

It is at 51° 02 North, 02° 51 East.

[[Dilbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Dilbeek is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 39585 people lived there.

It is at 50° 50 North, 04° 15 East.

[[Dilsen-Stokkem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Dilsen-Stokkem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 19,171 people lived there.

It is at 51° 02 North, 05° 43 East.

[[Dinant]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Dinant is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 13143 people lived there.

It is at 50° 15 North, 04° 54 East.

[[Dison]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Dison is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2018, 15,405 people lived there.

It is at 50° 36 North, 05° 51 East.

[[Doische]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Doische is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 2912 people lived there.

It is at 50° 08 North, 04° 44 East.

[[Donceel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Donceel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 2835 people lived there.

It is at 50° 38 North, 05° 19 East.

[[Dour]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Dour is a municipality found in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, its population was 16882.

It is found at 50° 23 North, 03° 46 East.

[[Drogenbos]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Drogenbos is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 4822 people lived there.

It is at 50° 47 North, 04° 19 East.

[[Duffel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Duffel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 16,140 people lived there.

It is at 51° 05 North, 04° 30 East.

[[Durbuy]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Durbuy is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 10633 people lived there.

It is at 50° 21 North, 05° 27 East.

[[Ecaussinnes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Ecaussinnes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 10042 people lived there.

It is at 50° 34 North, 04° 10 East.

[[Edegem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Edegem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 21616 people lived there.

It is at 51° 09 North, 04° 26 East.

[[Eeklo]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Eeklo is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 19645 people lived there.

It is at 51° 11 North, 03° 34 East.

[[Eghezée]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Eghezée is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 14619 people lived there.

It is at 50° 35 North, 04° 54 East.

[[Ellezelles]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Ellezelles is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 5711 people lived there.

It is at 50° 44 North, 03° 40 East.

[[Ixelles]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Ixelles (in French) or Elsene (in Dutch) is a municipality in the Belgian Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007, 78088 people lived there.

It is at 50° 49 North, 04° 22 East.

[[Enghien]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Enghien is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 12294 people lived there.

It is at 50° 41 North, 04° 02 East.

[[Engis]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Engis is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 5,715 people lived there.

It is at 50° 34 North, 05° 24 East.

[[Erezée]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Erezée is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 2968 people lived there.

It is at 50° 17 North, 05° 33 East.

[[Erpe-Mere]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Erpe-Mere is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007 its population was 19056.

It is at 50° 56 North, 03° 58 East.

[[Erquelinnes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Erquelinnes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 9570 people lived there.

It is at 50° 18 North, 04° 06 East.

[[Esneux]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Esneux is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 13073 people lived there.

It is at 50° 32 North, 05° 34 East.

[[Essen, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Essen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp. The municipality includes the towns of Essen Centrum, Heikant, Horendonk, Wildert, Statie en Hoek. On January 1, 2007 Essen had a total population of 17,143. The total area is 47.48 km² which gives a population density of 358 inhabitants per km².

The town is near the border with the Netherlands. Its train station is the last one in Belgium, the next station is Roosendaal, Noord-Brabant, Netherlands.

[[Estaimpuis]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Estaimpuis is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 9781 people lived there.

It is at 50° 42 North, 03° 15 East.

[[Estinnes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Estinnes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 7,408 people lived there.

It is at 50° 23 North, 04° 05 East.

[[Étalle]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Etalle is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 5389 people lived there.

It is at 49° 40 North, 05° 36 East.

[[Etterbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Etterbeek is a municipality in the Belgian Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007, 42342 people lived there.

It is at 50° 49 North, 04° 23 East.

[[Eupen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Eupen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège. The old French name of the town was Néau.

In 2007, 18,313 people lived there.

It is at 50° 37 North, 06° 02 East.

Eupen is a strange place in Belgium as most people do not speak either French or Dutch - they speak German instead.

[[Evere]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Evere is a municipality in the Belgian Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007, 34128 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 04° 24 East.

[[Evergem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Evergem is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 32,373 people lived there.

It is at 51° 06 North, 03° 42 East.

[[Isaac (disambiguation)]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames, Given names

Isaac is a person in the Abrahamic religions. He is described in the Bible.

It can also refer to other things:

[[Faimes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Faimes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 3541 people lived there.

It is at 50° 39 North, 05° 15 East.

[[Farciennes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Farciennes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 11071 people lived there.

It is at 50° 25 North, 04° 33 East.

[[Fauvillers]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Fauvillers is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 2071 people lived there.

It is at 49.

[[Fernelmont]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Fernelmont is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 6749 people lived there.

It is at 50° 32 North, 04° 58 East.

[[Ferrières]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Ferrières is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 4505 people lived there.

It is at 50° 23 North, 05° 36 East.

[[Fexhe-le-Haut-Clocher]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Fexhe-le-Haut-Clocher is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège. In 2007, 3066 people lived there.

It is at 50° 40 North, 05° 23 East.

[[Flémalle]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Flémalle is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 25021 people lived there.

It is at 50° 36 North, 05° 28 East.

[[Fléron]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Fléron is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 16139 people lived there.

It is at 50° 37 North, 05° 41 East.

[[Fleurus]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Fleurus is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 22272 people lived there.

It is at 50° 29 North, 04° 33 East.

[[Flobecq]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Flobecq is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 3270 people lived there.

It is at 50° 44 North, 03° 44 East.

[[Floreffe]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Floreffe is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 7506 people lived there.

It is at 50° 26 North, 04° 45 East.

[[Florennes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Florennes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 10825 people lived there.

It is at 50° 15 North, 04° 36 East.

[[Florenville]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Florenville is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 5448 people lived there.

It is at 49.

[[Fontaine-l'Evêque]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Fontaine-l'Evêque is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, it had 16754 people.

It is at 50° 24 North, 04° 19 East.

[[Fosses-la-Ville]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Fosses-la-Ville is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 9444 people lived there.

It is at 50° 23 North, 04° 41 East.

[[Frameries]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Frameries is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 20729 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 03° 53 East.

[[Frasnes-lez-Anvaing]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Frasnes-lez-Anvaing is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 11078 people lived there.

It is at 50° 40 North, 03° 37 East.

[[Froidchapelle]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Froidchapelle is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 3609 people lived there.

It is at 50° 09 North, 04° 19 East.

[[Galmaarden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Galmaarden is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 8158 people lived there.

It is at 50° 45 North, 03° 58 East.

[[Ganshoren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Ganshoren is a municipality in the Belgian Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007, 21395 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 04° 18 East.

[[Gavere]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Gavere is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 12179 people lived there.

It is at 50° 55 North, 03° 39 East.

[[Gedinne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Gedinne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 4445 people lived there.

It is at 49° 58 North, 04° 56 East.

[[Geel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Geel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp. In 2007, there were 35,502 living there.

It is at 51° 09 North, 04° 59 East.

[[Geer]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Geer is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 2946 people lived there.

It is at 50° 40 North, 05° 10 East.

[[Geetbets]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Geetbets is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 5786 people lived there.

It is at 50° 53 North, 05° 07 East.

[[Gembloux]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Gembloux is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 22074 people lived there.

It is at 50° 33 North, 04° 41 East.

[[Genappe]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Genappe is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 14277 people lived there.

It is at 50° 36 North, 04° 27 East.

[[Genk]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Genk is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg. It is known for its football club K.R.C. Genk.

In 2007, 64095 people lived there.

It is at 50° 57 North, 05° 30 East.

[[Ghent]]

CATEGORIES: Ghent

Ghent is a municipality and city in the Belgian province of East Flanders. In 2019, 262,219 people lived there.

It is at 51.

Ghent is known for its cultural landmarks and punk rock music industry. 

[[Geraardsbergen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Geraardsbergen is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 31543 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 03° 53 East.

[[Gerpinnes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Gerpinnes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 12064 people lived there.

It is at 50° 20 North, 04° 31 East.

[[Gesves]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Gesves is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 6441 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 05° 04 East.

[[Gingelom]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Gingelom is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 7879 people lived there.

It is at 50° 45 North, 05° 08 East.

[[Gistel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Gistel is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 11170 people lived there.

It is at 51° 09 North, 02° 58 East.

[[Glabbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Glabbeek is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 5216 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 04° 56 East.

[[Gooik]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Gooik is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 8879 people lived there.

It is at 50° 47 North, 04° 07 East.

[[Gouvy]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Gouvy is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 4780 people lived there.

It is at 50° 11 North, 05° 56 East.

[[Grâce-Hollogne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Grâce-Hollogne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 21854 people lived there.

It is at 50° 38 North, 05° 30 East.

[[Grez-Doiceau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Grez-Doiceau is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 12473 people lived there.

It is at 50° 44 North, 04° 41 East.

[[Grimbergen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Grimbergen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 34320 people lived there.

It is at 50° 56 North, 04° 22 East.

[[Grobbendonk]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Grobbendonk is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 10801 people lived there.

It is at 51° 11 North, 04° 44 East.

[[Haacht]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Haacht is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2018, 14,470 people lived there.

It is at 50° 58 North, 04° 38 East.

[[Wild card (sports)]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words

The word wild card mostly means a tournament or playoff berth given to a person or team that did not make that playoff or tournament through normal play.

[[Haaltert]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Haaltert is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 17442 people lived there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 04° 00 East.

[[Habay]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Habay is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 7903 people lived there.

It is at 49° 43 North, 05° 39 East.

[[Halen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Halen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 8678 people lived there.

It is at 50° 56 North, 05° 06 East.

[[Halle (Belgium)]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Halle is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 35108 people lived there.

It is at 50° 44 North, 04° 14 East.

[[Ham (Belgium)]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Ham is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 9824 people lived there.

It is at 51° 06 North, 05° 10 East.

[[Ham-sur-Heure-Nalinnes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Ham-sur-Heure-Nalinnes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 13383 people lived there.

It is at 50° 19 North, 04° 23 East.

[[Hamme]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Hamme is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 23368 people lived there.

It is at 51° 05 North, 04° 08 East.

[[Hamoir]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Hamoir is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 3616 people lived there.

It is at 50° 25 North, 05° 32 East.

[[Hamois]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Hamois is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 6692 people lived there.

It is at 50° 20 North, 05° 09 East.

[[Hamont-Achel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Hamont-Achel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 13863 people lived there.

It is at 51° 15 North, 05° 32 East.

[[Hannut]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Hannut is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 14468 people lived there.

It is at 50° 40 North, 05° 04 East.

[[Harelbeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Harelbeke is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 26294 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 03° 18 East.

[[Hastière]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Hastière is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur. The area has seven sub-municipalities. They are called Hastière-Lavaux, Hermeton-sur-Meuse, Waulsort, Hastière-par-delà, Blaimont, Heer, and Agimont.

In 2007, 5278 people lived there. This grew to 5979 by 2018.

It is at 50° 13 North, 04° 49 East.

Hastière is on the River Meuse, and its attractions include a church, gardens and the Castle of Freÿr.

[[Havelange]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Havelange is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 4926 people lived there.

It is at 50° 23 North, 05° 14 East.

[[Hechtel-Eksel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Hechtel-Eksel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 11517 people lived there.

It is at 51° 07 North, 05° 21 East.

[[Heers]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Heers is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 6812 people lived there.

It is at 50° 45 North, 05° 18 East.

[[Heist-op-den-Berg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Heist-op-den-Berg (ˌɦɛi̯st ɔb dɛm ˈbɛrx) is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 38721 people lived there.

It is at 51° 04 North, 04° 43 East.

[[Hélécine]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Hélécine is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 3109 people lived there.

It is at 50° 45 North, 04° 59 East.

[[Hemiksem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Hemiksem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 9755 people lived there.

It is at 51° 08 North, 04° 20 East.

[[Hensies]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Hensies is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 6731 people lived there.

It is at 50° 26 North, 03° 40 East.

[[Herbeumont]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Herbeumont is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 1536 people lived there.

It is at 49° 46 North, 05° 14 East.

[[Herent]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Herent is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 19395 people lived there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 04° 40 East.

[[Herentals]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Herentals is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 26152 people lived there.

It is at 51° 10 North, 04° 50 East.

[[Herenthout]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Herenthout is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 8462 people lived there.

It is at 51° 08 North, 04° 45 East.

[[Herk-de-Stad]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Herk-de-Stad is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 11874 people lived there.

It is at 50° 56 North, 05° 10 East.

[[Herne (Belgium)]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Herne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 6483 people lived there.

It is at 50° 43 North, 04° 01 East.

[[Héron]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Héron is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 4530 people lived there.

It is at 50° 33 North, 05° 05 East.

[[Herselt]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Herselt is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 13929 people lived there.

It is at 51° 03 North, 04° 52 East.

[[Herstal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Herstal is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 37720 people lived there.

It is at 50° 39 North, 05° 37 East.

[[Herstappe]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Herstappe is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 85 people lived there.

It is at 50° 43 North, 05° 25 East.

[[Herve]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Herve is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 16740 people lived there.

It is at 50° 38 North, 05° 47 East.

[[Herzele]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Herzele is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 16822 people lived there.

It is at 50° 53 North, 03° 53 East.

[[Heusden-Zolder]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Heusden-Zolder is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 31017 people lived there.

It is at 51° 02 North, 05° 16 East.

[[Heuvelland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Heuvelland is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 8177 people lived there.

It is at 50° 47 North, 02° 49 East.

[[Hoegaarden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Hoegaarden is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 6226 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 04° 53 East.

A beer, named after that town, is made there.

[[Hoeilaart]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Hoeilaart is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 10040 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 04° 28 East.

[[Hoeselt]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Hoeselt is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 9343 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 05° 29 East.

[[Holsbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Holsbeek is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 9395 people lived there.

It is at 50° 55 North, 04° 45 East.

[[Honnelles]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Honnelles is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 5009 people lived there.

It is at 50° 20 North, 03° 44 East.

[[Hooglede]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Hooglede is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 9867 people lived there.

It is at 50° 58 North, 03° 04 East.

[[Hoogstraten]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Hoogstraten is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 18905 people lived there.

It is at 51° 24 North, 04° 45 East.

[[Horebeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Horebeke is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 2054 people lived there.

It is at 50° 50 North, 03° 41 East.

[[Hotton]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Hotton is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 5043 people lived there.

It is at 50° 16 North, 05° 26 East.

[[Houffalize]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Houffalize is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 4802 people lived there.

It is at 50° 08 North, 05° 47 East.

[[Houthalen-Helchteren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Houthalen-Helchteren is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 30050 people lived there.

It is at 51° 01 North, 05° 22 East.

[[Houthulst]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Houthulst is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 9104 people lived there.

It is at 50° 58 North, 02° 57 East.

[[Houyet]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Houyet is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 4471 people lived there.

It is at 50° 11 North, 05° 00 East.

[[Hove]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Hove is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 8298 people lived there.

It is at 51° 09 North, 04° 28 East.

[[Huldenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Huldenberg is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 9261 people lived there.

It is at 50° 47 North, 04° 35 East.

[[Hulshout]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Hulshout is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 9371 people lived there.

It is at 51° 04 North, 04° 47 East.

[[Huy]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Huy is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007 its population was 20232.

It is at 50° 31 North, 05° 14 East.

[[Friedrich Rittelmeyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1938 deaths, German Lutherans, German theologians, People from Bavaria, Christian ministers

Friedrich Rittelmeyer (5 October 1872 – 23 March 1938) was a German Protestant theologian. He was born in Dillingen an der Donau, Bavaria. From 1895 to 1922 he worked as a Lutheran pastor in Würzburg, Nuremberg and Berlin. In 1922 he became the founder (and leader up to his death) of The Christian Community, a christian denomination, inspired by anthroposophy. He died in Hamburg.

[[Ichtegem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Ichtegem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 13493 people lived there.

It is at 51° 05 North, 03° 00 East.

[[Ypres]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Ypres (Ieper) is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders. The municipality is made up of the city of Ypres and the villages of Boezinge, Brielen, Dikkebus, Elverdinge, Hollebeke, Sint-Jan, Vlamertinge, Voormezele, Zillebeke, and Zuidschote. In 2007, 34919 people lived in the municipality. It is at 50° 51 North, 02° 53 East. Poison gas was first used here, in the Second Battle of Ypres in 1917.

[[Incourt]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Incourt is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 4619 people lived there.

It is at 50° 41 North, 04° 48 East.

[[Ingelmunster]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Ingelmunster is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 10,646 people lived there.

[[Ittre]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Ittre is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 6087 people lived there.

It is at 50° 39 North, 04° 15 East.

[[Izegem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Izegem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 26486 people lived there.

It is at 50° 55 North, 03° 12 East.

[[Jabbeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Jabbeke is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 13615 people lived there.

It is at 51° 11 North, 03° 05 East.

[[Jalhay]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Jalhay is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 8004 people lived there.

It is at 50° 33 North, 05° 57 East.

[[Jemeppe-sur-Sambre]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Jemeppe-sur-Sambre (ʒə.mɛp.syʁ.sɑ̃bʁ) is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 18056 people lived there.

It is at 50° 28 North, 04° 40 East.

[[Jette]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Jette is a municipality in the Belgian Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007, 43564 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 04° 20 East.

[[Jodoigne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Jodoigne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 12644 people lived there.

It is at 50° 43 North, 04° 52 East.

[[Juprelle]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Juprelle is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 8492 people lived there.

It is at 50° 42 North, 05° 31 East.

[[Jurbise]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Jurbise is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 9695 people lived there.

It is at 50° 32 North, 03° 54 East.

[[Kalmthout]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Kalmthout is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 17504 people lived there.

It is at 51° 23 North, 04° 28 East.

[[Kampenhout]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Kampenhout (ˈkɑmpə(n)ɦʌu̯t) is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 11060 people lived there.

It is at 50° 56 North, 04° 33 East.

[[Kapelle-op-den-Bos]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Kapelle-op-den-Bos is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 8916 people lived there.

It is at 51° 00 North, 04° 21 East.

[[Kapellen, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Kapellen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 26104 people lived there.

It is at 51° 18 North, 04° 25 East.

[[Kaprijke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Kaprijke is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 6171 people lived there.

It is at 51° 13 North, 03° 37 East.

[[Kasterlee]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Kasterlee is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 17988 people lived there.

It is at 51° 14 North, 04° 58 East.

[[Keerbergen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Keerbergen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 12580 people lived there.

It is at 51° 00 North, 04° 37 East.

[[Kelmis]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Kelmis or La Calamine is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 10472 people lived there.

It is at 50° 43 North, 06° 00 East.

[[Kinrooi]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Kinrooi is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 12,098 people lived there.

It is at 51° 08 North, 05° 44 East.

[[Kluisbergen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Kluisbergen is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 6258 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 03° 29 East.

[[Knesselare]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of East Flanders

Knesselare is a former municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders. On 1 January 2019, the municipality was merged into Aalter.

In 2007, 7894 people lived there.

It is at 51° 08 North, 03° 24 East.

[[Knokke-Heist]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders, Port cities and towns of the North Sea

Knokke-Heist is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 34,132 people lived there.

It is at 51° 20 North, 03° 17 East.

[[Koekelare]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Koekelare is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 8325 people lived there.

It is at 51° 05 North, 02° 58 East.

[[Koekelberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Koekelberg is a municipality in the Belgian Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007, 18,541 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 04° 19 East.

[[Koksijde]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Koksijde is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 21419 people lived there.

It is at 51° 07 North, 02° 38 East.

[[Kontich]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Kontich is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2014, 20859 people lived there.

It is at 51° 08 North, 04° 26 East.

[[Kortemark]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Kortemark is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 12060 people lived there.

It is at 51° 01 North, 03° 02 East.

[[Kortenaken]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Kortenaken is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 7578 people lived there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 05° 03 East.

[[Kortenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Kortenberg is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 18424 people lived there.

It is at 50° 53 North, 04° 32 East.

[[Kortessem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Kortessem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 8153 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 05° 23 East.

[[Kortrijk]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Kortrijk or Courtray (Courtrai in French) is a city in the Belgian province of West Flanders. The city is located along the river Leie (Lys). The centre is a well preserved historic area with a lot of shops and nice squares. The Beguinage (Begijnhof in Dutch) is a very well known historic part of the centre with well preserved medieval streets, houses, squares and alleys and was declared UNESCO World Heritage.

[[Kraainem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Kraainem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 13,105 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 04° 28 East.

[[Kruibeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Kruibeke (ˈkrœʏ̯beːkə) is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 15328 people lived there.

It is at 51° 10 North, 04° 18 East.

[[Kruishoutem]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of East Flanders

Kruishoutem is a former municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders. On 1 January 2019, Kruishoutem and Zingem were merged into the new municipality of Kruisem. In 2007, there were 8,152 people living there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 03° 31 East.

[[Kuurne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Kuurne is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 12626 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 03° 17 East.

[[La Bruyère]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

La Bruyère is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 8,379 people lived there.

It is at 50° 33 North, 04° 48 East.

[[La Hulpe]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

La Hulpe is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 7309 people lived there.

It is at 50° 43 North, 04° 29 East.

[[La Louvière]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

La Louvière is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2012, 78895 people lived there.

It is at 50° 28 North, 04° 11 East.

[[La Roche-en-Ardenne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

La Roche-en-Ardenne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 4348 people lived there.

It is at 50° 11 North, 05° 34 East.

[[Laakdal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Laakdal is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 14998 people lived there.

It is at 51° 04 North, 05° 01 East.

[[Laarne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Laarne is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders. In 2007, 11,768 people lived there. It is at 51° 01 North, 03° 51 East.

[[Lanaken]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Lanaken is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg. In 2007 there were 24,724 people living in Lanaken. It is at 50° 53 North, 05° 39 East.

[[Landen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Landen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 14876 people lived there.

It is at 50° 45 North, 05° 04 East.

[[Langemark-Poelkapelle]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Langemark-Poelkapelle is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 7774 people lived there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 02° 55 East.

[[Lasne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Lasne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 13994 people lived there.

It is at 50° 41 North, 04° 29 East.

[[Le Rœulx]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Le Rœulx is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 7969 people lived there.

It is at 50° 30 North, 04° 06 East.

[[Lebbeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Lebbeke is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007 its population was 17643.

It is at 51° 00 North, 04° 07 East.

[[Lede]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Lede is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 17,195 people lived there.

It is at 50° 58 North, 03° 58 East.

[[Ledegem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Ledegem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 9379 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 03° 07 East.

[[Léglise]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Léglise is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 4178 people lived there.

It is at 49° 48 North, 05° 32 East.

[[Lendelede]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Lendelede is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 5411 people lived there.

It is at 50° 53 North, 03° 14 East.

[[Lennik]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Lennik is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant. In the year 2007, 8,729 people lived there.

It is at 50° 48 North, 04° 09 East.

[[Lens (Belgium)]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Lens is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 4042 people lived there.

It is at 50° 33 North, 03° 54 East.

[[Leopoldsburg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Leopoldsburg is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 14472 people lived there.

It is at 51° 07 North, 05° 15 East.

[[Les Bons Villers]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Les Bons Villers is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 8932 people lived there.

It is at 50° 32 North, 04° 26 East.

[[Lessines]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Lessines is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 18025 people lived there.

It is at 50° 42 North, 03° 49 East.

[[Leuven]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant, Provincial capitals of Belgium

Leuven (ˈløːvə(n)) or Louvain (Louvain, luvɛ̃; Löwen) is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 91,942 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 04° 42 East.

Leuven hosts Belgium's biggest university - Katholieke Universiteit Leuven. So, Leuven is very young populated city, and there were more than 45,000 students in Leuven in 2012.

Leuven also has a long history. The town hall in the city centre dates from the Middle Ages.

[[Leuze-en-Hainaut]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Leuze-en-Hainaut is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 13300 people lived there.

It is at 50° 36 North, 03° 37 East.

[[Libin]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Libin is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 4655 people lived there.

It is at 49° 58 North, 05° 15 East.

[[Libramont-Chevigny]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Libramont-Chevigny is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 9981 people lived there.

It is at 49° 55 North, 05° 22 East.

[[Lichtervelde]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Lichtervelde is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 8438 people lived there.

It is at 51° 01 North, 03° 08 East.

[[Liedekerke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Liedekerke is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 12119 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 04° 05 East.

[[Karyotype]]

CATEGORIES: Chromosomes

A karyotype is the number and appearance of chromosomes in the nucleus of a eukaryote cell. The term is also used of the complete set of chromosomes in a species, or an individual organism. It describes the number of chromosomes, and what they look like under a light microscope. Attention is paid to their length, the position of the centromeres, any differences between the sex chromosomes, and any other physical characteristics. The preparation and study of karyotypes is part of cytogenetics (cytology and genetics).

The basic number of chromosomes in the somatic (body) cells of an individual or a species is called the somatic number and is designated 2n. Thus, in humans 2n = 46. In the sex cells the chromosome number is n (humans: n = 23).

So, in normal diploid organisms, chromosomes are present in two copies. There may, or may not, be sex chromosomes. Polyploid cells have multiple copies of chromosomes and haploid cells have single copies. The study of whole sets of chromosomes is sometimes known as karyology. 

The chromosomes are depicted (by rearranging a microphotograph) in a standard format known as a karyogram or idiogram: in pairs, ordered by size and position of centromere for chromosomes of the same size. This may be used for many purposes; such as, to show genetic disease, what sex the animal is and its diploid number. In humans, cytologists have used karyotypes to help identify genetic abnormalities a baby might have before it is born.

Karyotypes may be studied to gather information about past evolutionary events, such as polyploidy.

[[Liège]]

CATEGORIES: Liège

Liège (l lee, ljɛʒ, li.eːʃ; Lidje liːtʃ; Luik lœyk; Lüttich ˈlʏtɪç; Leodium) is a city in Belgium. It is the cultural centre of the Walloon region of Belgium and the capital of the province of Liège. Liège is also seat of a Roman Catholic bishop. In 2007, 188,907 people lived there.

It is at 50° 38 North, 05° 34 East.

The first written trace of the city was found in 558 as Leodicum or Vicus Leodicus. From 717, Liege was made the seat of a bishopric and became a cultural centre in the Middle Ages. These bishops ruled the city as Prince-Bishops until the 1790s. In the French Revolution, the cathedral was damaged, partially burned down and then completely detroyed. In the 19th century, the city lived on coal-mining, steel industry and trade. The region was the second biggest economic center in Europe after the UK in the 19th century.

Today Liege is a major educational hub, with a university and many high schools. It is a crossing point in Europe, Liège has the second biggest inner harbour and the 8th biggest cargo airport in Europe (Liège Airport). The city, that had a lot of problems since the 1970s because of the end of the steel industry and coal-mining, is now having a good economy thanks to the logistics and high tech industry (biotechnology, space industry, IT).

[[Lier, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Lier is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 33,259 people lived there.

It is at 51° 07 North, 04° 34 East.

[[Lierde]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Lierde is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 6454 people lived there.

It is at 50° 49 North, 03° 50 East.

[[Lierneux]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Lierneux is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 3337 people lived there.

It is at 50° 17 North, 05° 47 East.

[[Lille (Belgium)]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Lille is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 15628 people lived there.

It is at 51° 14 North, 04° 49 East.

[[Lincent]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Lincent is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 3055 people lived there.

It is at 50° 42 North, 05° 01 East.

[[Linkebeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Linkebeek is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 4710 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 04° 20 East.

[[Lint (Belgium)]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Lint is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 8035 people lived there.

It is at 51° 07 North, 04° 29 East.

[[Linter]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Linter is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 7038 people lived there.

It is at 50° 50 North, 05° 02 East.

[[Lo-Reninge]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Lo-Reninge is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 3317 people lived there.

It is at 50° 58 North, 02° 45 East.

[[Lobbes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Lobbes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 5515 people lived there.

It is at 50° 20 North, 04° 16 East.

[[Lochristi]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Lochristi is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 20395 people lived there. It is at 51° 05 North, 03° 50 East.

[[Lokeren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Lokeren is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 38276 people lived there.

It is at 51° 06 North, 03° 59 East.

[[Lommel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Lommel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 32141 people lived there.

It is at 51° 13 North, 05° 18 East.

[[Londerzeel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Londerzeel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 17452 people lived there.

It is at 51° 00 North, 04° 18 East.

[[Idomeneo]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, 1780s operas, 1781

Idomeneo is an opera seria with music by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. The libretto (words) are in Italian and were written by Giambattista Varesco. He based it on  a French text by Antoine Danchet. In 1780 Mozart and Varesco were asked by the Elector of Bavaria to write an opera for a court carnival. 

Idomeneo  was first performed in Munich on 29 January 1781.  Mozart was only 24 years old.  It was the first of his great operas.

Mozart wrote three different types of opera:  Idomeneo is an opera seria (serious opera).  These were written in Italian, and are about serious, dramatic stories, often stories from Ancient Greece or Rome.  La Clemenza di Tito  is also an opera seria.  Don Giovanni  is an example of a mixture of comic and serious opera, while The Magic Flute  is a German opera in the Singspiel tradition.

Idomeneo  has traditional recitatives and arias. The choruses, marches, and ballets were very much like French opera tradition.  Mozart was inspired by the operas of Gluck.

[[Lontzen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Lontzen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 5175 people lived there.

It is at 50° 40 North, 06° 00 East.

[[Lovendegem]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of East Flanders

Lovendegem is a former municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders. On 1 January 2019, Lovendegem, Waarschoot and Zomergem were merged into the new municipality of Lievegem.

In 2007, 9393 people lived there.

It is at 51° 05 North, 03° 36 East.

[[Lubbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Lubbeek is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 13,740 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 04° 50 East.

[[Lummen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Lummen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 13,803 people lived there.

It is at 50° 59 North, 05° 11 East.

[[Maarkedal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Maarkedal is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 6460 people lived there.

It is at 50° 49 North, 03° 39 East.

[[Maaseik]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Maaseik is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 23879 people lived there.

It is at 51° 05 North, 05° 47 East.

[[Maasmechelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Maasmechelen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2011, 37,159 people lived there.

It is at 50° 58 North, 05° 41 East.

[[Machelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Machelen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 12792 people lived there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 04° 26 East.

[[Maldegem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Maldegem is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 22366 people lived there.

It is at 51° 12 North, 03° 26 East.

[[Malle]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Malle (ˈmɑlə) is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 14158 people lived there.

It is at 51° 17 North, 04° 41 East.

[[Malmedy]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Malmedy is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 11878 people lived there.

It is at 50° 25 North, 06° 01 East.

[[Manage]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Manage is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 22382 people lived there.

It is at 50° 30 North, 04° 14 East.

[[Manhay]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Manhay is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 3185 people lived there.

It is at 50° 17 North, 05° 40 East.

[[Marche-en-Famenne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Marche-en-Famenne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 17066 people lived there.

It is at 50° 13 North, 05° 20 East.

[[Marchin]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Marchin is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 5143 people lived there.

It is at 50° 27 North, 05° 14 East.

[[Martelange]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Martelange is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 1584 people lived there.

It is at 49° 49 North, 05° 44 East.

[[Mechelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Mechelen is a municipality in the south part of the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 78,900 people lived there. In 2008: 80,176.

It is at 51° 01 North, 04° 28 East.

[[Meerhout]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Meerhout is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 9463 people lived there.

It is at 51° 07 North, 05° 04 East.

[[Meeuwen-Gruitrode]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of Limburg

Meeuwen-Gruitrode is a former municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg. On 1 January 2019, Meeuwen-Gruitrode and Opglabbeek were merged into the new municipality of Oudsbergen.

In 2007, 12611 people lived there.

It is at 51° 05 North, 05° 31 East.

[[Meise]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Meise is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 18545 people lived there.

It is at 50° 56 North, 04° 19 East.

[[Meix-devant-Virton]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Meix-devant-Virton is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 2675 people lived there.

It is at 49.

[[Melle]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Melle is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 10660 people lived there.

It is at 51° 00 North, 03° 48 East.

[[Menen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Menen is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 32439 people lived there.

It is at 50° 47 North, 03° 07 East.

[[Merbes-le-Château]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Merbes-le-Château is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 4141 people lived there.

It is at 50° 19 North, 04° 09 East.

[[Merchtem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Merchtem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 15053 people lived there.

It is at 50° 57 North, 04° 14 East.

[[Merelbeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Merelbeke is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 22423 people lived there.

It is at 50° 59 North, 03° 44 East.

[[Merksplas]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Merksplas is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 8270 people lived there.

It is at 51° 21 North, 04° 51 East.

[[Mesen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Mesen is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 983 people lived there.

It is at 50° 45 North, 02° 54 East.

[[Messancy]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Messancy is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 7466 people lived there.

It is at 49° 35 North, 05° 49 East.

[[Mettet]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Mettet is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 12037 people lived there.

It is at 50° 19 North, 04° 39 East.

[[Meulebeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Meulebeke is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 10,983 people lived there.

It is at 50° 57 North, 03° 17 East.

[[Middelkerke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Middelkerke is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 18,080 people lived there.

It is at 51° 11 North, 02° 49 East.

[[Modave]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Modave is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 3719 people lived there.

It is at 50° 26 North, 05° 18 East.

[[Moerbeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Moerbeke is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 5904 people lived there.

It is at 51° 10 North, 03° 56 East.

[[Momignies]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Momignies is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut. In 2007, 5140 people lived there. It is at 50° 01 North, 04° 10 East.

[[Mont-de-l'Enclus]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Mont-de-l'Enclus is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 3417 people lived there.

It is at 50° 44 North, 03° 30 East.

[[Mont-Saint-Guibert]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Mont-Saint-Guibert is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 6535 people lived there.

It is at 50° 38 North, 04° 36 East.

[[Montigny-le-Tilleul]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Montigny-le-Tilleul is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut. In 2007, 10,215 people lived there. It is at 50° 22 North, 04° 22 East.

[[Moorslede]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Moorslede is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders. Moorslede comprises the towns of Dadizele and Moorslede itself.

In 2007, 10697 people lived there.

It is at 50° 53 North, 03° 03 East.

[[Morlanwelz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Morlanwelz is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 18723 people lived there.

It is at 50° 27 North, 04° 14 East.

[[Mortsel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Mortsel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 24,426 people lived there.

It is at 51° 09 North, 04° 27 East.

[[Mouscron]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Mouscron is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, its population was 53174.

It is at 50° 44 North, 03° 12 East.

[[Musson]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Musson is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 4232 people lived there.

It is at 49.

[[Nandrin]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Nandrin is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 5651 people lived there.

It is at 50° 30 North, 05° 25 East.

[[Nassogne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Nassogne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 5045 people lived there.

It is at 50° 07 North, 05° 20 East.

[[Nazareth (Belgium)]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Nazareth is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 10962 people lived there.

It is at 50° 57 North, 03° 35 East.

[[Neerpelt]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of Limburg

Neerpelt is a former municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg. On 1 January 2019, Neerpelt and Overpelt were merged into the new municipality of Pelt.

In 2007, 16156 people lived there.

It is at 51° 13 North, 05° 26 East.

[[Neufchâteau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Neufchâteau is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 6652 people lived there.

It is at 49° 50 North, 05° 26 East.

[[Neupré]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Neupré is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 9748 people lived there.

It is at 50° 32 North, 05° 29 East.

[[Nevele]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of East Flanders

Nevele is a former municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders. On 1 January 2019, the municipality was merged into Deinze.

In 2007, 11376 people lived there.

It is at 51° 02 North, 03° 33 East.

[[Niel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Niel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 8922 people lived there.

It is at 51° 06 North, 04° 19 East.

[[Nieuwerkerken]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Nieuwerkerken is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 6685 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 05° 11 East.

[[Nieuwpoort, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders, Port cities and towns of the North Sea

Nieuwpoort is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders. In 2007, 10940 people lived there. It is at 51° 07 North, 02° 45 East.

[[Nijlen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Nijlen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 20978 people lived there.

It is at 51° 09 North, 04° 40 East.

[[Ninove]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Ninove is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 35874 people lived there.

It is at 50° 50 North, 04° 01 East.

[[Nivelles]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Nivelles is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 24622 people lived there.

It is at 50° 35 North, 04° 19 East.

[[Ohey]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Ohey (Ohè) is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 4318 people lived there.

It is at 50° 26 North, 05° 07 East.

[[Olen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Olen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 11467 people lived there.

It is at 51° 08 North, 04° 51 East.

[[Olne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Olne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 3788 people lived there.

It is at 50° 35 North, 05° 45 East.

[[Onhaye]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Onhaye is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 3124 people lived there.

It is at 50° 14 North, 04° 50 East.

[[Oosterzele]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Oosterzele is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 13194 people lived there.

It is at 50° 56 North, 03° 48 East.

[[Oostkamp]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Oostkamp (ˈoːstkɑmp) is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 21948 people lived there.

It is at 51° 09 North, 03° 14 East.

[[Oostrozebeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Oostrozebeke is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 7458 people lived there.

It is at 50° 55 North, 03° 20 East.

[[Opglabbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of Limburg

Opglabbeek is a former municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg. On 1 January 2019, Meeuwen-Gruitrode and Opglabbeek were merged into the new municipality of Oudsbergen.

In 2007, 9718 people lived there.

It is at 51° 02 North, 05° 35 East.

[[Opwijk]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Opwijk is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 12393 people lived there.

It is at 50° 58 North, 04° 11 East.

[[Oreye]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Oreye is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 3464 people lived there.

It is at 50° 43 North, 05° 21 East.

[[Orp-Jauche]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Orp-Jauche is a municipality found in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, it had a population of 7932 people.

It is found at 50° 42 North, 04° 59 East.

[[Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 30188 people lived there.

It is at 50° 40 North, 04° 34 East.

[[Oud-Heverlee]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Oud-Heverlee is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 10861 people lived there.

It is at 50° 50 North, 04° 39 East.

[[Oud-Turnhout]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Oud-Turnhout is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 12633 people lived there.

[[Oudenaarde]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Oudenaarde is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 29,702 people lived there.

It is at 50° 50 North, 03° 36 East.

[[Oudenburg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Oudenburg is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 8947 people lived there.

It is at 51° 11 North, 03° 00 East.

[[Oudergem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Oudergem (current Dutch spelling) or Auderghem (French and former Dutch spelling) is one of the nineteen municipalities in the Brussels-Capital Region of Belgium.

In 2007, 29,681 people lived there.

It is at 50° 49 North, 04° 25 East.

[[Ouffet]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Ouffet is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 2551 people lived there.

It is at 50° 26 North, 05° 28 East.

[[Oupeye]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Oupeye is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 23633 people lived there.

It is at 50° 42 North, 05° 39 East.

[[Carbohydrate]]

CATEGORIES: Carbohydrates

Carbohydrates are chemical compounds that contain only oxygen, hydrogen and carbon. They are made up of joined-up sugars. Sugars have the general formula Cm(H2O)n, and are also known as saccharides.

Certain carbohydrates are an important storage and transport form of energy in most organisms, including plants and animals.

[[Overijse]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Overijse is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 24164 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 04° 32 East.

[[Overpelt]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of Limburg

Overpelt is a former municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg. On 1 January 2019, Neerpelt and Overpelt were merged into the new municipality of Pelt.

In 2007, 13581 people lived there.

It is at 51° 12 North, 05° 25 East.

[[Paliseul]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Paliseul is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 5055 people lived there.

It is at 49° 54 North, 05° 08 East.

[[Pecq]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Pecq is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 5309 people lived there.

It is at 50° 41 North, 03° 20 East.

[[Peer, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Peer is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 15943 people lived there.

It is at 51° 08 North, 05° 27 East.

[[Pepingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Pepingen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 4357 people lived there.

It is at 50° 45 North, 04° 09 East.

[[Pepinster]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Pepinster is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 9574 people lived there.

It is at 50° 34 North, 05° 48 East.

[[Péruwelz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Péruwelz is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 16826 people lived there.

It is at 50° 30 North, 03° 35 East.

[[Perwez]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Perwez is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 7621 people lived there.

It is at 50° 37 North, 04° 48 East. It is 50.81 km² in size.

[[Philippeville]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Philippeville is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur, 28 kilometres south of Charleroi.

In 2007, 8482 people lived there.

It is at 50° 11 North, 04° 32 East.

[[Pittem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Pittem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 6609 people lived there.

It is at 50° 59 North, 03° 16 East.

[[Plombières]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Plombières is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 9765 people lived there.

It is at 50° 44 North, 05° 57 East.

[[Pont-à-Celles]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Pont-à-Celles is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 16379 people lived there.

It is at 50° 30 North, 04° 21 East.

[[Poperinge]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Poperinge is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 19707 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 02° 43 East.

[[Profondeville]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Profondeville is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 11424 people lived there.

It is at 50° 22 North, 04° 52 East.

[[Putte]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Putte is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 15813 people lived there.

It is at 51° 03 North, 04° 37 East.

[[Puurs]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of Antwerp

Puurs is a former municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp. It includes the towns of Liezele, Ruisbroek, Breendonk and Puurs proper. There is also the hamlet of Kalfort. On 1 January 2019, Puurs and Sint-Amands were merged into the new municipality of Puurs-Sint-Amands.

In 2007, 16250 people lived there.

It is at 51° 04 North, 04° 16 East.

[[Quaregnon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Quaregnon is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 18640 people lived there.

It is at 50° 26 North, 03° 52 East.

[[Quévy]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Quévy is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 7758 people lived there.

It is at 50° 21 North, 03° 56 East.

[[Quiévrain]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Quiévrain is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 6544 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 03° 40 East.

[[Raeren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Raeren is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 10199 people lived there.

It is at 50° 40 North, 06° 07 East.

[[Ramillies]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Ramillies is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 5856 people lived there.

It is at 50° 38 North, 04° 54 East.

[[Ranst]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Ranst is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 17948 people lived there.

It is at 51° 11 North, 04° 33 East.

[[Ravels]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Ravels is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 14020 people lived there.

It is at 51° 22 North, 04° 59 East.

[[Rebecq]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Rebecq is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 10255 people lived there. It is at 50° 39 North, 04° 08 East.

[[Remicourt]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

50.666667Remicourt is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège. In 2007, the population of the settlement was 5137 people.

[[Rendeux]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Rendeux is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 2274 people lived there.

It is at 50° 14 North, 05° 30 East.

[[Retie]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Retie is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 10485 people lived there.

It is at 51° 16 North, 05° 05 East.

The town is near the Dutch border and is in fact closer to the city of Eindhoven than Antwerp.

The official language of the area is Dutch, but many people especially in the hospitality industry speak English and French.

[[Riemst]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Riemst is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg. In 2007, 16076 people lived there. It is at 50° 48 North, 05° 36 East.

[[Rijkevorsel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Rijkevorsel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 10847 people lived there.

It is at 51° 20 North, 04° 45 East.

[[Rixensart]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Rixensart is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 21426 people lived there.

It is at 50° 42 North, 04° 31 East.

[[Rochefort]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Rochefort is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 12133 people lived there.

It is at 50° 09 North, 05° 13 East.

[[Roeselare]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Roeselare is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders. In 2016, more than 61 000 people lived there. 

It is at 50° 56 North, 03° 07 East.

[[Ronse]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Ronse is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 24426 people lived there.

It is at 50° 44 North, 03° 36 East.

[[Roosdaal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Roosdaal is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant. In 2007, 10788 people lived there. It is at 50° 50 North, 04° 04 East.

[[Rotselaar]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Rotselaar is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 15155 people lived there.

It is at 50° 57 North, 04° 42 East.

[[Rouvroy]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Rouvroy is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 2007 people lived there.

It is at 49.

[[Ruiselede]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Ruiselede is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 5139 people lived there.

It is at 51° 02 North, 03° 23 East.

[[Rumes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Rumes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 5027 people lived there.

It is at 50° 33 North, 03° 18 East.

[[Rumst]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Rumst is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 14650 people lived there.

It is at 51° 04 North, 04° 25 East.

[[Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 6556 people lived there.

It is at 50° 36 North, 05° 21 East.

[[Saint-Ghislain]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Saint-Ghislain is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 22536 people lived there.

It is at 50° 26 North, 03° 49 East.

[[Saint-Hubert]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Saint-Hubert is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 5737 people lived there.

It is at 50° 01 North, 05° 22 East.

[[Saint-Léger, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Saint-Léger is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 3225 people lived there.

It is at 49° 36 North, 05° 39 East.

[[Saint-Nicolas, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Saint-Nicolas is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 22583 people lived there.

It is at 50° 38 North, 05° 32 East.

[[Saint-Vith]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Sankt Vith or Saint-Vith is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 9,190 people lived there.

It is at 50° 16 North, 06° 07 East.

[[Sainte-Ode]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Sainte-Ode is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 2305 people lived there.

It is at 50° 01 North, 05° 31 East.

[[Sambreville]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Sambreville (sɑ̃.bʁə.vil) is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 26997 people lived there.

It is at 50° 26 North, 04° 38 East.

[[Schaerbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Schaerbeek (in French) or Schaarbeek (in Dutch) is a municipality in the Brussels-Capital Region of Belgium.

In 2007, 113,493 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 04° 23 East.

[[Schelle]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Schelle is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 7914 people lived there.

It is at 51° 07 North, 04° 20 East.

[[Scherpenheuvel-Zichem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Scherpenheuvel-Zichem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 22100 people lived there.

It is at 50° 58 North, 04° 58 East.

[[Schilde]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Schilde is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 19537 people lived there.

It is at 51° 14 North, 04° 35 East.

[[Schoten]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Schoten is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 33132 people lived there.

It is at 51° 15 North, 04° 30 East.

[[Seneffe]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Seneffe is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 10625 people lived there.

It is at 50° 31 North, 04° 15 East.

[[Seraing]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Seraing is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 61237 people lived there.

It is at 50° 36 North, 05° 30 East.

[[Silly, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Silly is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 8072 people lived there.

It is at 50° 38 North, 03° 55 East.

[[Sint-Agatha-Berchem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Sint-Agatha-Berchem (in Dutch) or Berchem-Sainte-Agathe (in French) is a municipality in the Belgian Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007, 20431 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 04° 17 East.

[[Sint-Amands]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of Antwerp

Sint-Amands is a former municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp. It includes the towns of Lippelo, Oppuurs and Sint-Amands proper. On 1 January 2019, Puurs and Sint-Amands were merged into the new municipality of Puurs-Sint-Amands.

In 2007, 7819 people lived there.

It is at 51° 03 North, 04° 12 East.

[[Sint-Genesius-Rode]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Sint-Genesius-Rode (Rhode-Saint-Genèse in French) is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 17975 people lived there.

It is at 50° 44 North, 04° 21 East.

[[Sint-Gillis-Waas]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Sint-Gillis-Waas is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 18164 people lived there.

It is at 51° 13 North, 04° 07 East.

[[Sint-Jans-Molenbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Sint-Jans-Molenbeek (in Dutch) or Molenbeek-Saint-Jean (in French) is a municipality in the Belgian Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007, 81632 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 04° 19 East.

[[Saint-Josse-ten-Noode]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Saint-Josse-ten-Node (sɛ̃ ˈʒos ten ˈnɔd; usually shortened to Saint-Josse) or Sint-Joost-ten-Node (sɪnˈcoːstɛˈnoːdə) is a municipality in the Brussels-Capital Region in Belgium. It is the smallest municipality by area in Belgium.

In 2007, 23,785 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 04° 22 East.

[[Sint-Katelijne-Waver]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Sint-Katelijne-Waver is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 19642 people lived there.

It is at 51° 04 North, 04° 32 East.

[[Woluwe-Saint-Lambert]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Woluwe-Saint-Lambert (in French) or Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe (in Dutch) is a municipality in Belgium, in the Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007, 48315 people lived there.

It is at 50° 51 North, 04° 25 East.

[[Sint-Laureins]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Sint-Laureins is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 6591 people lived there.

It is at 51° 14 North, 03° 31 East.

[[Sint-Lievens-Houtem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Sint-Lievens-Houtem is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 9481 people lived there.

It is at 50° 55 North, 03° 51 East.

[[Sint-Martens-Latem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Sint-Martens-Latem is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 8256 people lived there.

It is at 51° 01 North, 03° 38 East.

[[Sint-Niklaas]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Sint-Niklaas is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 70016 people lived there.

It is at 51° 09 North, 04° 08 East.

[[Sint-Pieters-Leeuw]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Sint-Pieters-Leeuw is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 30929 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 04° 14 East.

[[Woluwe-Saint-Pierre]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Woluwe-Saint-Pierre (in French) or Sint-Pieters-Woluwe (in Dutch) is a municipality in the Belgian Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007, 38554 people lived there.

It is at 50° 49 North, 04° 27 East.

[[Sint-Truiden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Sint-Truiden (Saint-Trond) is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 38427 people lived there.

It is at 50

[[Sivry-Rance]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Sivry-Rance is a municipality found in the Belgian province of Hainaut. Annie Debruxelles is a mayor.

In 2018, its population was 4,833.

It is found at 50° 10 North, 04° 10 East.

The area is 72.97 km2.

It has 5 sub-municipalities: Grandrieu, Montbliart, Rance, Sautin, and Sivry.

[[Soignies]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Soignies (swaɲi; Zinnik, ˈzɪnɪk) is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 25700 people lived there.

It is at 50° 34 North, 04° 04 East.

[[Sombreffe]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Sombreffe is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 7732 people lived there.

It is at 50° 31 North, 04° 36 East.

[[Somme-Leuze]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Somme-Leuze is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 4732 people lived there.

It is at 50° 20 North, 05° 22 East.

[[Soumagne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Soumagne is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 15562 people lived there.

It is at 50° 36 North, 05° 44 East.

[[Spa, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Spa towns in Belgium, Municipalities of Liège

Spa is a municipality of Belgium. It is in the Walloon Region and Province of Liège. It is in a valley in the Ardennes mountain chain. Spa is 35 km (22 miles) southeast of Liège, and 45 km (28 miles) southwest of Aachen.

[[Spiere-Helkijn]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Spiere-Helkijn is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 2047 people lived there.

It is at 50° 43 North, 03° 21 East.

[[Sprimont]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Sprimont is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège. In 2015, 14147 people lived there.

[[Stabroek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Stabroek is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 17627 people lived there.

It is at 51° 19 North, 04° 21 East.

[[Staden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Staden is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 10995 people lived there.

It is at 50° 58 North, 03° 00 East.

[[Stavelot]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Stavelot is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 6669 people lived there.

It is at 50° 23 North, 05° 55 East.

[[Steenokkerzeel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Steenokkerzeel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 10988 people lived there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 04° 30 East.

[[Stekene]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Stekene is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 17040 people lived there.

It is at 51° 12 North, 04° 02 East.

[[Stoumont]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Stoumont is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 3025 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 05° 48 East.

[[Tellin]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Tellin is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 2386 people lived there.

It is at 50.

[[Temse]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Temse is a municipality in Belgium. It is in the province of East Flanders, in the region of Flanders. There are four towns in the municipality: Temse, Elversele, Steendorp, and Tielrode. In 2007, 26667 people lived there. It is at 51° 07 North, 04° 12 East.

The name Temse comes from the Gaul (Gallo-Roman) word Tamisiacum or Tamasiacum. Until the early 20th century (1900s), the French name of the city was used: Tamise. 

[[Tenneville]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Tenneville is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 2561 people lived there.

It is at 50° 05 North, 05° 31 East.

[[Ternat]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Ternat is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 14765 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 04° 10 East.

[[Tervuren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Tervuren is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 20,816 people lived there.

It is at 50° 49 North, 04° 30 East.

[[Tessenderlo]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Tessenderlo is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 16999 people lived there.

It is at 51° 04 North, 05° 05 East.

[[Theux]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Theux is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 11672 people lived there.

It is at 50° 32 North, 05° 48 East.

[[Thimister-Clermont]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Thimister-Clermont is a municipality found in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007 its population was 5331.

[[Thuin]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Thuin is a Walloon municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

In 2007, 14606 people lived there.

It is at 50° 20 North, 04° 17 East.

[[Tielt]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Tielt is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 19357 people lived there.

It is at 51° 00 North, 03° 19 East.

[[Tielt-Winge]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Tielt-Winge is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 10103 people lived there.

It is at 50° 56 North, 04° 54 East.

[[Tienen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Tienen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 32083 people lived there.

It is at 50° 48 North, 04° 56 East.

[[Tinlot]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Tinlot is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 2358 people lived there.

It is at 50° 28 North, 05° 22 East.

[[Tintigny]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Tintigny is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 3739 people lived there.

It is at 49° 41 North, 05° 30 East.

[[Tongeren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Tongeren is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 29806 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 05° 27 East.

[[Torhout]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Torhout is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 19539 people lived there.

It is at 51° 03 North, 03° 06 East.

[[Tournai]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Hainaut

Tournai is a municipality in the Belgian province of Hainaut, Wallonia.

In 2007, 67844 people lived there.

It is at 50° 36 North, 03° 23 East.

[[Tremelo]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Tremelo is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 13904 people lived there.

It is at 50° 59 North, 04° 42 East.

[[Trois-Ponts]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Trois-Ponts is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 2504 people lived there.

It is at 50.

[[Trooz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Trooz is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 7706 people lived there.

It is at 50° 34 North, 05° 41 East.

[[Tubize]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Tubize is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 22713 people lived there.

It is at 50° 41 North, 04° 12 East.

[[Turnhout]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Turnhout is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 39863 people lived there.

It is at 51° 19 North, 04° 56 East.

[[Uccle]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Uccle (in French) or Ukkel (in Dutch) is a municipality in the Brussels-Capital Region of Belgium.

In 2007, 76576 people lived there.

It is at 50° 48 North, 04° 20 East.

[[Vaux-sur-Sûre]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Vaux-sur-Sûre is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 4759 people lived there.

It is at 49° 54 North, 05° 34 East.

[[Verlaine]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Verlaine is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 3610 people lived there.

It is at 50° 36 North, 05° 19 East.

[[Verviers]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège, Cities in Belgium

Verviers is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège and in the Arrondissement of Verviers.

In 2007, 54150 people lived there.

It is at 50° 35 North, 05° 51 East.

[[Veurne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Veurne is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 11832 people lived there.

It is at 51° 04 North, 02° 39 East.

[[Vielsalm]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Vielsalm is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 7339 people lived there.

It is at 50° 17 North, 05° 54 East.

[[Villers-la-Ville]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Villers-la-Ville is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant. In 2007, 9704 people lived there. 

It is at 50° 34 North, 04° 31 East.

[[Villers-le-Bouillet]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Villers-le-Bouillet is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 6110 people lived there.

It is at 50° 34 North, 05° 15 East.

[[Vilvoorde]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Vilvoorde is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 37964 people lived there.

It is at 50° 55 North, 04° 25 East.

[[Viroinval]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Viroinval is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 5747 people lived there.

It is at 50° 04 North, 04° 32 East.

[[Virton]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Virton is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 11228 people lived there.

It is at 49.

[[Visé]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Visé is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 16852 people lived there.

It is at 50° 44 North, 05° 41 East.

[[Vleteren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Vleteren is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 3640 people lived there.

It is at 50° 56 North, 02° 44 East.

[[Voeren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Voeren is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 4261 people lived there.

It is at 50° 45 North, 05° 45 East.

[[Vorselaar]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Vorselaar is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 7419 people lived there.

It is at 51° 12 North, 04° 46 East.

[[Forest, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Brussels-Capital Region

Forest (in French) or Vorst (in Dutch) is a municipality in the Belgian Brussels-Capital Region.

In 2007, 48284 people lived there.

It is at 50° 48 North, 04° 19 East.

[[Vosselaar]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Vosselaar is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 10212 people lived there.

It is at 51° 18 North, 04° 53 East.

[[Vresse-sur-Semois]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Vresse-sur-Semois is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 2861 people lived there.

It is at 49° 52 North, 04° 56 East.

[[Waarschoot]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of East Flanders

Waarschoot is a former municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders. On 1 January 2019, Lovendegem, Waarschoot and Zomergem were merged into the new municipality of Lievegem.

In 2007, 7756 people lived there.

It is at 51° 09 North, 03° 36 East.

[[Waasmunster]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Waasmunster is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007 its population was 10329.

It is at 51° 06 North, 04° 05 East.

[[Wachtebeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Wachtebeke is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 6875 people lived there.

It is at 51° 10 North, 03° 51 East.

[[Waimes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Waimes is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 6825 people lived there.

It is at 50° 24 North, 06° 06 East.

[[Walcourt]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Walcourt is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007 its population was 17652.

It is at 50° 15 North, 04° 25 East.

[[Walhain]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant

Walhain is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, its population was 6088.

It is at 50° 37 North, 04° 41 East.

[[Wanze]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Wanze is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 12802 people lived there.

It is at 50° 32 North, 05° 12 East.

[[Waregem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Waregem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 35831 people lived there.

It is at 50° 53 North, 03° 26 East.

[[Waremme]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Waremme is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 14198 people lived there.

It is at 50° 41 North, 05° 15 East.

[[Wasseiges]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Wasseiges is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 2580 people lived there.

It is at 50° 37 North, 05° 00 East.

[[Waterloo]]

Waterloo may refer to:

[[Wavre]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Walloon Brabant, Provincial capitals of Belgium

Wavre is a municipality in the Belgian province of Walloon Brabant.

In 2007, 32576 people lived there.

It is at 50° 43 North, 04° 36 East.

[[Welkenraedt]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Welkenraedt is a municipality in the Belgian province of Liège.

In 2007, 9237 people lived there.

It is at 50° 39 North, 05° 58 East.

[[Wellen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Wellen is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 6998 people lived there.

It is at 50° 50 North, 05° 20 East.

[[Wellin]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Luxembourg (Belgium)

Wellin is a municipality in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.

In 2007, 2958 people lived there.

It is at 50.

[[Wemmel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Wemmel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 14996 people lived there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 04° 18 East.

[[Wervik]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Wervik is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 17690 people lived there.

It is at 50° 46 North, 03° 02 East.

[[Westerlo]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Westerlo is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 23230 people lived there.

It is at 51° 05 North, 04° 55 East.

[[Wetteren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Wetteren is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 23304 people lived there.

It is at 51° 00 North, 03° 53 East.

[[Wevelgem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Wevelgem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 30926 people lived there.

It is at 50° 48 North, 03° 11 East.

[[Wezembeek-Oppem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Wezembeek-Oppem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 13496 people lived there.

It is at 50° 50 North, 04° 29 East.

[[Wichelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Wichelen is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 11099 people lived there.

It is at 51° 00 North, 03° 58 East.

[[Wielsbeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Wielsbeke is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 9002 people lived there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 03° 22 East.

[[Wijnegem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Wijnegem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 8890 people lived there.

It is at 51° 13 North, 04° 31 East.

Wijnegem is the home of the Wijnegem Shopping Center. 

[[Willebroek]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Willebroek is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 23300 people lived there.

It is at 51° 03 North, 04° 21 East.

[[Wingene]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Wingene is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 13328 people lived there.

It is at 51° 03 North, 03° 16 East.

[[Wommelgem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Wommelgem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 12117 people lived there.

It is at 51° 12 North, 04° 31 East.

[[Wortegem-Petegem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Wortegem-Petegem is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 6085 people lived there.

It is at 50° 50 North, 03° 33 East.

[[Wuustwezel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Wuustwezel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 18605 people lived there.

It is at 51° 23 North, 04° 35 East.

[[Yvoir]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Namur

Yvoir is a municipality in the Belgian province of Namur.

In 2007, 8563 people lived there.

It is at 50° 19 North, 04° 52 East.

[[Zandhoven]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Zandhoven is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 12262 people lived there.

It is at 51° 12 North, 04° 39 East.

[[Zaventem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Zaventem is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 29034 people lived there.

It is at 50° 53 North, 04° 28 East.

[[Zedelgem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Zedelgem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 21940 people lived there.

It is at 51° 08 North, 03° 08 East.

[[Zele]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Zele is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 20444 people lived there.

It is at 51° 04 North, 04° 02 East.

[[Zelzate]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Zelzate is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 12190 people lived there.

It is at 51° 12 North, 03° 48 East.

[[Zemst]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Zemst is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 21553 people lived there.

It is at 50° 59 North, 04° 27 East.

[[Zingem]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of East Flanders

Zingem is a former municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders. On 1 January 2019, Kruishoutem and Zingem were merged into the new municipality of Kruisem.

In 2007, 6822 people lived there.

It is at 50° 54 North, 03° 39 East.

[[Zoersel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Zoersel is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 20803 people lived there.

It is at 51° 16 North, 04° 42 East.

[[Zomergem]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Municipalities of East Flanders

Zomergem is a former municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders. On 1 January 2019, Lovendegem, Waarschoot and Zomergem were merged into the new municipality of Lievegem.

In 2007, 8,003 people lived there.

It is at 51° 07 North, 03° 33 East.

[[Zonhoven]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Zonhoven is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 20060 people lived there.

It is at 50° 59 North, 05° 22 East.

[[Zonnebeke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Zonnebeke is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 11908 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 02° 59 East.

[[Zottegem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Zottegem is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007 its population was 24578.

It is at 50° 52 North, 03° 48 East.

[[Zoutleeuw]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flemish Brabant

Zoutleeuw is a municipality in the Belgian province of Flemish Brabant.

In 2007, 7983 people lived there.

It is at 50° 50 North, 05° 06 East.

[[Zuienkerke]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Zuienkerke is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 2743 people lived there.

It is at 51° 15 North, 03° 09 East.

[[Zulte]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Zulte is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 14629 people lived there.

It is at 50° 55 North, 03° 26 East.

[[Zutendaal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Limburg

Zutendaal is a municipality in the Belgian province of Limburg.

In 2007, 6956 people lived there.

It is at 50° 55 North, 05° 34 East.

[[Zwalm]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of East Flanders

Zwalm is a municipality in the Belgian province of East Flanders.

In 2007, 7835 people lived there.

It is at 50° 52 North, 03° 44 East.

[[Zwevegem]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of West Flanders

Zwevegem is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders.

In 2007, 23809 people lived there.

It is at 50° 48 North, 03° 20 East.

[[Zwijndrecht, Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Zwijndrecht is a municipality in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

In 2007, 18352 people lived there.

It is at 51° 13 North, 04° 19 East.

[[Sai Baba of Shirdi]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 1918 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Indian people, Spiritual teachers

Sai Baba of Shirdi (d. October 15, 1918) was a spiritual master who lived in India. His followers believed that he was a saint or satguru.  Some say he was an incarnation of Lord Krishna while others think of him as an incarnation of Lord Dattatreya. He lived the longest part of his life in a village in India called Shirdi. 

Although Sai Baba died almost 100 years ago, still today large numbers of people follow him or have great respect for him. He is very well respected in India, both by Hindus and Muslims. There are many temples built all over India to honor Sai Baba of Shirdi.

[[Mast-Allah]]

CATEGORIES: Spirituality, Islam

A Mast-Allah is a kind of spiritual person in the part of the Muslim religion called Sufism. Masts sometimes seem strange or crazy to people who don't know about them, but Sufis of Iran, Pakistan, and India believe they are not really crazy, but are saints. 

The Indian teacher Meher Baba asked a doctor named William Donkin to write a book about masts called "The Wayfarers." Wayfarer means wanderer, and the book's title implied that masts are on a spiritual journey. Meher Baba wrote the introduction of the book. In his introduction Meher Baba explained that masts are traveling along an internal path and are lost because they are so dazzled (amazed) by the sights they see. They are so amazed and dazzled by these sights they see that they forget how to act normally. So Meher Baba says they are like people who are drunk, only the masts are not drunk on alcohol but on God and are very close to God. 

[[Bob Sauvé]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, American Hockey League players, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Laval National players, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, Sportspeople from Montreal, Verdun Maple Leafs (ice hockey) players, Vezina Trophy winners

Robert F. "Bob" Sauvé (born June 17, 1955, in Sainte-Geneviève, Quebec) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. He is currently a player agent.

[[Salarzai]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani tribes

Salarzais, along with the Kakazai and Wur, are one of the four clans of Tarkanis. Originating in Kunar province Afghanistan, there are around 8,000 members in the Babukarrah and Charmung valleys in Bajaur and 150 members in Bara Banda of Nowshera District in Pakistan.

The Khans of Pashat and Khar have some control over the tribe.But there are no such control of khan of khar and most of tribe are indpended in thair life style . A very renowned personality of this tribe is Affan Zia Salarzai, who has made a mark in international research arena.  

There are 10 village in salarzai

Charai: 

There are two village in buner valley where you would see waterfalls charai and Laygani situated at the bottom of the Elam mountain.50 to 60 families living in charai village & the smallest & most beautiful village in buner valley.

Jowar:

Jowar Chawak is one of the 10 villages of Salarzai tribe, at an important location village Swat and peer Baba. Divided in Ali Khan Khail, Dohail, Qambo Khail and Alishar Khail. True to their Pathan characteristics, they value hospitality, bravery and honour. Observing Islamic religious values, upholding tribal traditions and customs is their trait of life but they are equally mild-natured, enterprising, open-minded, outward looking, accommodative and peace-loving. Their economic conditions are heavily dependent on foreign remittances of family earning hands settled in large numbers in Karachi, Middle East and other countries. Historically, agriculture is primary occupation of the people but having no proper irrigation system and at the mercy of seasonal rains, it is a kind of disguised employment.

Kinger Gali:new

Village Kinger Gali is one of the 10 villages of Salarzai tribe, at an important location conterminous to the village of Sangao of Mardan District and Bazdara of Malakand Agency. The prominent sub-tribes are Karra Khel, further divided in Jugi Khel, Aziz Khel, Alladad Khel, Mahmood Khel and Lamghani (Laghmani), and Dallo Khel. True to their Pathan characteristics, they value hospitality, bravery and honour. Observing Islamic religious values, upholding tribal traditions and customs is their trait of life but they are equally mild-natured, enterprising, open-minded, outward looking, accommodative and peace-loving. Their economic conditions are heavily dependent on foreign remittances of family earning hands settled in large numbers in Karachi, Middle East and other countries. Historically, agriculture is the primary occupation of the people but having no proper irrigation system they are at the mercy of seasonal rains, and so it is a kind of disguised employment. Nawab Amir Muhammad Khan of Tonk state in India was a native of Alladad Khel tribe of this village, whom they remember proudly.

Bampokha :

Bampokha is the 2nd largest village in salarzi region after jower. Dwelling two main kheils Sheikheil and qambokheil. The word Bampokha is consist of two sanskriti word Bam mean high and pokha mean build on,so its name means a place which build on high altitude. 

Bampokha is very famous for its various kinds of precious marbles. Marble Industry can generate lot of revenue provided the Government takes certain steps as listed below:

Provision of latest machinery so that to standardize the extraction process of marble (raw material). Then our Industrialists would be able to export the marble products to the international market.

To import the refining and polishing machinery currently monopolized by a few industrialized nations and setting them up in country so that the materials can be polished on site.

Marble city should be established with stable electricity so resolve the current power failure problems.

Approach the Italian government and World Trade Organization to stop the mislabelling of Pakistani origin marble as being labelled from other countries like Italy.

The establishment of polytechnical centres to help local people in better managing the affairs of the local Marble industry and training them to operate the more advanced machinery needed to refine the marble.

Nanser :new

Nanser:

The inhabitants of the village of Nanser are tribe Khan Gali and Mastkhel. Both of Khan Gali and Mastkhel are famous for their furious nature. They were great warriors in the time of tribal age called the Pukhto age. Nanser is famous for games like cricket and specially mookha. They are very famous for their hospitality nature being pukhtoons. Nanser is famous for its tourist spot Bakhai where many springs do spring throughout the year. The greenery and forests of Bakhai give it further beauty.

Mastkhel are further divided into tribes of Ranra Khel, Zenoor Khel and Manawar Khel. The population of Nanser is about 2500 with 260 houses. The hujra system is still alive in the village.

Nanser is rich in its marble resources. It is specially famous for its black marble.

Katkala  :new

Katkala is the last village of the sub tribe Salarzee. It is bordered with AshayZee subtribe and has close relations with AshayZee sub tribe and GadayZee subtribe. It is the greenest part of the Salarzee subtribe, and has a population of about 4000 persons with One High School known as Government High School Katkal established in 1928, one girls middle school, One primary school and one private English medium school.

Unlike other villages of Salarzee. the people of Katkala don't play Mokha which is a local popular game. They are very good in cricket, and in hunting.

Bazargay :new

Bazargay lies in the center of Salarzai tribe. It is surrounded by beautiful natural views. The main Mingora-Sawari National Highway goes in the center of Bazargay. It is the only village in Salarzai tribe which is in a vast open area, all other villages of Salarzai are in mountains or very near to mountains. The people of Bazargay are divided in 2 main prominent sub-tribes 1)Pitaw Khail (sub-tribes are Mazeed Khail, Akbar Khail and Tawus Khail) 2) Soori Khail. The Mukha-team of Bazargay is well-known and the only one which has many records in this field and also has above 12 Mukah-Cups. ("Mukha" the traditional Sport of Pukhtoon Nation). Their economic conditions are heavily dependent on foreign remittances of family earning hands settled in large numbers in Karachi, Middle East and other countries. Historically, agriculture is primary occupation. The hujra system is still alive in the village. Bazargay is rich in its marble resources.

Laygani :new

Leagani is a village in Buner valley, at the bottom of the Elam mountain. Karakar is a part of this village. This village is the boundary wall between Swat and Buner, serving as the gateway to Buner valley.

Koohay :

It is the side and small village of buner near 4 km to south bampokha. It is historical hundreds of years old. The village occupied by hills on three sides; only one side is open to bamokha side. After this village come choor banda and sar banda and darraha 7 km long.

Girarai :

Girarai is the side village of Salarzi it is away 4km from jowar chowak this village very beautiful than other salarzi village. The village occupied by hills on three sides; only one side is open to JOWAR side.The people of GIRARAI are very hospitable, religious, hardworking, brave and Peace-loving. Observing Islamic religious values, upholding tribal traditions and customs is their trait of life but they are equally mild-natured, enterprising, open-minded, outward looking, accommodative and peace-loving. They are divided in 4 main prominent sub-tribes 1)PITAW KHAIL (2)SORI KHAIL(3)DERI KHAIL(4)KHOWAR. Their economic conditions are heavily dependent on foreign remittances of family earning hands settled in large numbers in Karachi, Middle East and other countries.

[[Utmankhel]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani tribes, Ethnic groups in Pakistan, Ethnic groups in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

The Utmankhel (اتمان خیل) are a Pashtun tribe who live in the hills to the north of Peshawar in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. Their land lies between the Mohmands and the Ranizais of Swat, to the west and south-west of the junction of the Swat and Panjkora rivers. They claim to be descendants of Baba Utman Shamraiz, who accompanied Sher Shah Suri in his expedition into India . The Utman Khel are a tall, stout and fair race, but their dress and general customs have been assimilated by the neighbouring peoples of Bajour. Their land is very hilly and difficult, but has well cultivated in terraces.

The British conducted military campaigns against them in 1852, 1878, and 1898. They numbered some 40,000, and their fighting strength was about 8000 men.

There are some subtribes of Utman Khel, they are as under.

[[Bara Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Khyber Agency

Bara (تحصیل باڑہ) is a tehsil in Khyber Agency, Federally Administered Tribal Areas, Pakistan.

In the 2000s, Bara achieved some mention in worldwide media with the founding of Lashkar-e-Islam, founded in the area by Mufti Munir Shakir, and later passed to Mangal Bagh, a local driver.

[[Jamrud]]

CATEGORIES: Khyber Agency

Jamrud (جمرود) is a town in the Khyber Agency, one of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of Pakistan. The town is the doorway to the Khyber Pass, part of the Hindu Kush range. The town has road and rail linkages with Peshawar city of Pakistan, and a pass connects it with Landi Kotal, near the borders of Afghanistan.

Jamrud, lying in proximity to the Khyber pass, has remained a location on the trade route between central Asia and the South Asia and a strategic military location.

[[Upper Orakzai Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Upper Orakzai is a tehsil of Orakzai District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

Some of main areas of Upper Orakzai include:

[[Ghulam Khan Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Pakistan

Ghulam Khan (غلام خان) is town in North Waziristan Agency, FATA, Pakistan. Ghulam Khan is on the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan. It is the third most important border crossing point between Pakistan and Afghanistan, after Chaman and Torkham.

[[Mir Ali Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Pakistan

Mir Ali is a town in Pakistan (North Waziristan). In October 2007, a battle killed 175 near the town.

[[Razmak Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Pakistan

Razmak is one of the three sub-divisions of North Waziristan Agency, the other two being Miranshah and Mirali. Inhabitants are Uthmanzai Wazirs. Razmak is further sub-divided in three Tehsils. Tehsil being the lowest administrative unit in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) of Pakistan. The three tehsils of Razmak are Razmak, Datta Khel and Garhyom. Datta Khel and Garyom are low lying areas with a permanent population and a hot and dry climate. Tehsil Razmak is hilly and colder. It is pleasant in summers, but snow clad in the winters.

[[Sofiensaal]]

CATEGORIES: Concert halls

Sofiensaal (or Sofiensäle) is the name of a former public bath and concert venue in Vienna. It was built as a public bath in the years 1845-1848 by Eduard van der Nüll and August Sicard von Sicardsburg. It was used as a bath in winter. During the summer, the swimming pool was covered with wooden planks. The venue could then be used for concerts, and as a dance venue. In March 1912 Karl May gave his last public speech there. He had an audience of about 2000 people. In September 1913, the first movies that had sound were shown in the building. This was later stopped however, as there were problems with making sure the sound was at the right time in the movie (called synchronicity). 

In May 1938, Richard Suchenwirth founded the NSDAP Austria section there. During the war, the venue was used to collect the Jews (who were later deported). The building was restored to its former glory by Carl Appel in 1948. In the 1950, DECCA installed the most modern recording studio in Europe in the rooms. The studio was used until the 1970s, to make recordings of the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, amongst others.

In the 1990s, it was used as a clubbing venue.

It burned down completely in a fire, in 2001, but was rebuilt, and is has now been re-opened since 2013.

[[Ordinary language philosophy]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

Ordinary language philosophy is a way of doing philosophy that uses ordinary, everyday words. It came out of analytic philosophy, the most common way of doing philosophy in English-speaking countries in the 20th century.

Analytic philosophers like Bertrand Russell thought that ordinary language was confused, and tried to use the ideal or most accurate words to describe ideas. Ordinary language philosophers thought that analytic philosophers had a problem with forgetting what words really mean. They thought that using ordinary words would make their ideas clearer and their mistakes easier to spot.

Ordinary language philosophy came out of followers of the later work of Ludwig Wittgenstein at the University of Oxford, and was most popular between 1930 and 1970.

[[Attock Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Attock Tehsil (تحصیل اٹک) is one of the six tehsils (subdivisions) of Attock District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is between 33º38' and 34º0' N. and 72º7' and 72º50' E, with an area of 651. The Indus bounds it on the northwest, dividing it from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, while the Haro flows through from east to west. The northwest corner is occupied by the fertile Chach plain. South of this is a dry sandy plain, beyond which rises the Kala-Chitta range. The eastern half consists of the tract known as the Nala, which includes, along with a number of low hills and much broken country, a considerable area of fairly good level land, portions of which are irrigated from wells and by cuts from the Haro and other smaller streams.

[[Fateh Jang Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Fateh Jang Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil), of Attock District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The tehsil is administratively subdivided into 14 Union Councils of Pakistan.

[[Jand Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Jand Tehsil is one of the six tehsils (subdivisions) of Attock District in the Punjab province of Pakistan.

[[Hazro Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Hazro Tehsil is one of the six tehsils (subdivisions) of Attock District in the Punjab province of Pakistan, it is a newly created tehsil and forms parts of the NA-57 constituency of Attock. On 26 October 2006, the Minister of State for Environment, Malik Amin Aslam announced that Rs150 million would be spent on the NA 57 area of Attock including remote areas of Hazro Tehsil.

[[Jhal Jhao Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Jhal Jhao (جھلجاؤ) is a small town in the southern part of Balochistan, Pakistan in Awaran District. It lies at 26°18'10N 65°34'49E and is 347m (1141ft) above sea level. The town's population is about 10,000  (in the year 2005). The town is made up mainly of mud houses and small canals that give water. It is surrounded by tall, dry mountains and deserts. The only way get in and out of Jhal Jhao is by the Bela Awaran Road.

The town does not have a lot of money, as there is no industry nearby. It is also impossible to grow anything near Jhal Jhao as it is too dry and hot.  It only rains 2-3 times a year, never more than 20 mm. Most of the money earned comes from shoemaking.

In 1987, US aid developed a small road which would join Jhal Jhao with the Bela Awaran Road. Before that, the only way to enter Jhal Jhao was by helicopter, or animals such as horses and donkeys.  At the moment there are no construction projects happening in Jhal Jhao.

[[Korak Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Korak is town and Union Council of Awaran District in the Balochistan province of Pakistan. It is at 26°50'38N 65°44'3E and is 648 metres (2129 feet) above sea level. During the floods of 2007, 137 households (619 people) here were affected.

[[Badin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan, Badin District

Badin (بدین) is a town in Sindh, Pakistan. It is east of the Indus River. The region is swampy, fertile for growing rice. There is some oil in the region. Badin is the capital of Badin District.

[[Ticket]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Ticket could mean:

Tickets could mean:

[[Matli Taluka]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh, Badin District

Matli is the largest taluka of Badin District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is administratively divided into 13 Union Councils.

[[Fort Abbas Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Fort Abbas was formerly known as "Pholra". In 1927, Nawab Sir Sadiq Abbasi changed this name and gave it the name of his elder son, Muhammad Abbas.

Fort Abbas is a historic city of Bahawalnagar District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. This city is on the border and the language is Punjabi. Fort Abbas is a largest tehsil by land area. It is one of the five tehsils of Bahawal Nagar district. It is connected with other parts of the country through road and railway track. One side is connected with the Pakistan/India border. Internet, telephone, and mobile are available.

Fort Abbas has forest, desert and agricultural land. Major crops are wheat, cotton and sugar cane.

Historically it's part of Abbasi state Bahawalpur. Once River Ghagra passed through and the city was on the bank of the river. Now nothing is there, even the city fort is demolished.

The Islamia University of Bahawalpur, BWN Campus made a research study on climate and agricultural conditions in Fort Abbas. They found that a lot of the area is not appropriate for crops and vegetation. There are lot of reasons behind it:

[[Ahmedpur Sharqia Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Ahmadpur East is one of the five tehsils (administrative subdivisions) of Bahawalpur District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. Ahmad Pur East contains 31 Union Councils of Pakistan.

[[Bahawalpur Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Bahawalpur Tehsil (also Bhawalpur or Bhawulpore) (بہاولپور) is a city of (1998 pop. 403,408) in Bahawalpur District, Punjab Pakistan. Seraiki is the local language of the area. Urdu and English are also spoken by the people. Bahawalpur is located south of the Sutlej River and it lies in the Cholistan region. It is situated 90 km from Multan, 420 km from Lahore and about 700 km from the national capital Islamabad. It was the capital of the former princely state of Bahawalpur.

[[Hasilpur Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Hasilpur is a city of Bahawalpur District in east central Punjab, Pakistan. The city is between the Satluj River and the Indian border.  It is 96 east of the district capital Bahawalpur.

[[Christopher Smart]]

CATEGORIES: English poets, 1722 births, 1771 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Christian hymnwriters, English children's writers, English playwrights, English writers, Musicians from Kent

Christopher Smart (April 11, 1722 – May 21, 1771) was a famous poet. He worked for his father-in-law John Newbery. He was locked away in a mental asylum for many years. In there, he wrote famous poems. They are A Song to David and Jubilate Agno. Jubilate Agno was not published until 1939.

Sometimes he was called "Kit" or "Kitty" by his friends. He was friends with Samuel Johnson and Henry Fielding. He went to college at the University of Cambridge. After college, he wrote for newspapers and acted.

[[Bhakkar Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Bhakkar Tehsil (Urdu/Seraiki/Punjabi: تحصیل بکھر) is an administrative subdivision, (tehsil), of Bhakkar District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The town of Bhakkar is the headquarters of the tehsil.

[[Darya Khan Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Darya Khan is a town and tehsil of Bhakkar District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. The tehsil of Darya Khan is subdivided into 8 Union Councils of Pakistan, two of which form the town of Darya Khan itself.

One of Town Union Council name is Union Council Bangyal Abdad.

Population of Darya Khan city is near about 50000.

[[Talagang Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Talagang Tehsil is a subdivision (tehsil) of Chakwal District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The tehsil, which is headquartered at the city of Talagang, is administratively subdivided into 23 Union Councils. Talagang Tehsil is one of the largest tehsils in South Asia as it contains 102 villages. Some of the villages near Talagang town are Cheenji, Adhlaka, Jatla, Lawa, Dhurnal, Pachnand, Mogla, Malakwal, Tamman, Akwal, Chowkhandi, Dhook Goria, Perha Fathial, and Dhook Kund.

[[Tangi Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Tangi is a town in Hashtnagar, Charsadda District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. It is one of eight towns in Hashtnagar.

[[Taunsa Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Taunsa Sharif or Taunsa is a Tehsil (subdivision) of Dera Ghazi Khan District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The town of Tounsa Shareef is the headquarters of the tehsil.

[[Kulachi Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Kulachi is a city and the headquarters of Kulachi Tehsil (an administrative subdivision) of Dera Ismail Khan District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. It is situated 50 km from Dera Ismail Khan in the Damaan valley of the Sulaiman Range, and lies on the banks of the Gomal River (local name "Luni" or "Khuarha"), a tributary of the Indus River.

[[Paharpur Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Paharpur Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Dera Ismail Khan District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.

[[Bhaderwah Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Bhaderwah (تحصیل برامئللاھ) is a town and a notified area committee in Doda District in the Indian-occupied state of Maqbuza Kashmir, Kashmir region. Bhaderwah valley is mostly a mountainous town that is 80 km from Batote.

[[Andy Roddick]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, American male tennis players, Living people, Sportspeople from Omaha, Nebraska, US Open (tennis) champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Andrew 'Andy' Roddick (born August 30, 1982) is an American professional tennis player. He was born in Omaha, Nebraska. Roddick turned pro in 2000. In 2003, he was ranked best in the world and won the US Open. He is known for his powerful serves and held the world record for fastest serve at 155 mph (249 km/h). He retired in 2012. His height is 6, and he weighs around 195 lbs.

[[Kishtwar Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Kishtwar (تحصیل کیسھتوار) is a town and a notified area committee in Doda District in Maqbuza Kashmir, the Kashmir region

[[Ramban Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Ramban (تحصیل رامبان) is a newly created district in Maqbuza Kashmir (disputed territory).

[[La Clemenza di Tito]]

CATEGORIES: Operas

La Clemenza di Tito is a libretto written by Pietro Metastasio in 1734. It has been used by nearly 40 different composers. March 2009 The most famous version is by Mozart.

[[Ghotki]]

CATEGORIES: Ghotki District

Ghotki (گھوٹکی) Ghotki is a town of Northern Sindh, Pakistan. It was the site of the July 13, 2005 Ghotki rail crash.

[[Mirpur Mathelo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan, Ghotki District

Mirpur Mathelo is a town in Ghotki District, Sindh province, Pakistan. The city is the capital of Mirpur Mathelo Taluka and is administratively subdivided into two Union Councils. It is located at 28°1'60N 69°32'60E

[[Kamoki Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Kamoke is a Tehsil of Gujranwala District. It is on the Grand Trunk Road now national highway. Its headquarters is at Kāmoke, which is about 22 km from Gujranwala, the district capital. It is famous for its market of Basmati rice. It contains twenty-four Union Councils. Kamoke is a busy town on the GT road. Most people here are Rajputs and Jats and arian and depend on agriculture. Kamoke is famous for its burfy (a local sweet) and rice.

Kamoke is the city with the most mosques in Pakistan. There are two degree colleges, one for men and other for women. The city is divided into three reigons: Line par, sarak par and main bazar. There are four police stations (P.S.): P.S. Sadar Kamoki, P.S. City Kamoke, P.S. Eminabad and P.S. Wahndo.

[[Nowshera Virkan Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Nowshera Virkan is a big town west of the industrial city of Gujranwala, Pakistan.

Nowshera Virkan lies in the Gujranwala District, it is a hub of rice growing villages. It is also known as Nowshera mandi

[[Wazirabad Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Wazirabad Tehsil (وتحصیل وزیر آباد) is a tehsil of Gujranwala District, Punjab, Pakistan. Wazirabad is on the banks of the Chenab River nearly 100 kilometres north of Lahore on the Grand Trunk Road. It is 45 kilometres from Sialkot, 30 kilometres from the district capital, Gujranwala, and about 12 kilometres from Gujrat.

[[Gujrat Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Gujrat Tehsil is a subdivision (tehsil) of Gujrat District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The tehsil is administratively subdivided into 65 Union Councils of Pakistan.

[[Kharian Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Kharian Tehsil is a subdivision (tehsil) of Gujrat District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The tehsil, which is headquartered at the city of Kharian, is administratively subdivided into 43 Union Councils of Pakistan.

[[Sarai Alamgir Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Sarai Alamgir (سرائے عالمگیر) (pop. 50,000) is the chief town of the tehsil of the same name. It is part of Gujrat District in the north of Punjab province. The town is located on the eastern bank of the Jhelum River across from the larger town of Jhelum. East of the town is the Upper Jhelum Canal.

[[Jiwani Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Jiwani port is along the Arabian Sea in Gwadar District, Balochistan, Pakistan. It is near the Iranian border. 25,000 people live there. It is expected to become a major commercial center in concert with the development of the port of Gwadar nearly 80 to the east.

Jiwani is at the eastern end of Gwadar Bay, which is shared between Iran and Pakistan. The area around the bay includes a mangrove forest extending across the international border, and is an important habitat for a wide variety of wildlife, especially the endangered Olive Ridley and Green turtles. Plans to grant fishing concessions and offshore drilling rights are potentially a threat to the wildlife of the area.

Jiwani holds strategic importance in the region, because it is next to the shipping lanes to and from the Persian Gulf. This is the main reason that the town hosts a small naval base and an airport with a 5,500-foot runway.

[[Ormara Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Ormara (اورمارا) is a port city in the Makran or coastal region of the Balochistan province of Pakistan. It is at 25° 16' 29N 64° 35' 10E. It is 240 west of Karachi and 230 east of Gwadar on the Arabian Sea.

[[Jacobabad Taluka]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh, Jacobabad District

Jacobabad Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Jacobabad District, Sindh, Pakistan. It is subdivided into 15 Union Councils, 8 of which form the capital Jacobabad.

[[Bishnah Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Bishnah (تحصیل بیسھناھ) is a town and a notified area committee in Jammu District in the disputed territory of Kashmir region

[[Chiniot Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan)

Chiniot (چنیوٹ) is a city in the Punjab province of Pakistan. Chiniot is tehsil headquarters of Jhang District in the former Faisalabad Division. It is on left bank of the Chenab River on the Sargodha to Faisalabad road. About 1.5 million people live in Chiniot. Chiniot is at latitude 31.7200 and longitude 72.9789.

Chiniot is on the bank of River Chenab. It is famous for its furniture industry. It exports furniture. Its workers is specially skilled in woodwork. Before February 2009, Chiniot District and tehsil were part of Jhang District.

[[Shorkot Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Shorkot is the center of Jhang District, Punjab, Pakistan.

[[Jhelum Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Jhelum Tehsil is an administrative subdivision of Jhelum District in Punjab province, Pakistan. The tehsil is subdivided into 27 Union Councils of Pakistan and is heaquartered at the city of Jhelum.

[[Sohawa Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Sohawa is one of the tehsils (administrative sub-divisions) of Jhelum District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is in the northwestern part of the district. One sign of Sohawa is the toll plaza by the name of 'Tarakki' on the Grand Trunk Road. The main bazaar of Sohawa brings people from nearby villages.

[[Pind Dadan Khan Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Pind Dadan Khan Tehsil (Urdu/Punjabi: پنڈ دادن خان) is a small area in Jhelum District, in Punjab, Pakistan.  It is the oldest tehsil in this area of Pakistan.  Its capital city is Pind Dadan Khan.  ("Pind" comes from the Punjabi word for "village.")  The capital city is on the bank of River Jhelum, about 28 kilometres from the M2 motorway.

Pind Dadan Khan Tehsil is well known for having Asia's largest salt mine, Khewra Salt Mines.  The Khewra Salt Mines have been used for over 2000 years, and they have an underground mosque. 

The area has a long history going back to the time of Alexander the Great's invasion (see Punjab (Pakistan)).  Alexander the Great's famous horse, Bucephalus, is said to be buried in the small town of Jalalpur Sharif, which is in Pind Dadan Khan.

Pind Dadan Khan Tehsil is named after Nawab Dadan Khan.  He was the Muslim Governor of Lahore (the capital city of Punjab) in the 1700s.

One important person from Pind Dadan Khan was Nawabzada Ghzanfar Ali Khan.  He was a Muslim minister in the 1946 cabinet.  Just after the Islamic Republic of Pakistan was created, he became Minister of Health, Food and Agriculture.  In December of 1947, he became the Minister of Refugees and Rehabilitation.  

Another important person from this area was Mohammad Ramzan Chotana.  He was awarded several gold medals by the British Government for his skill in different technical fields.

One of the important personalities from the area in recent times was Justice (R) Khawaja Imtiaz Ahmad. He served as Chief Justice of the Lahore Highcourt from 2014-2015.  He has the honor of being the first person from the area to be made judge of the Lahore Highcourt Lahore. He served as the Chief Justice of the Lahore Highcourt for 9 months and he is still remembered for his contributions to the judiciary of Pakistan.

[[Dina]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Pakistan

Dina (دینہ) is a rapidly expanding commercial town in the Jhelum District of the province of Punjab, Pakistan. It is about 10 miles northwest of Jhelum City, where there is a junction with the road to the Mangla Dam and Rohtas Fort. The historic Grand Trunk Road passes through the centre of the town.

[[Takht-e-Nasrati Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Takht-e-Nasarati is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Karak District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. The town of Takht-e-Nasrati is the headquarters of the tehsil.

[[Kashmore]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Kashmore (کشمور) is a city in Kashmor District, Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Kasur Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Kasur Tehsil  (تحصِيل قصُور) city and urban tehsil (subdivison) is the city of the famous Punjabi Sufi poet Bulleh Shah and the capital of Kasur District. It is 55 km southeast of Lahore. It is one of the oldest cities in Pakistan. According to legend, it was founded thousands of years ago by Kash, or Kashava, brother of Lav, who were the sons of the deity Sri Rama Chandra, the hero of the epic Ramayana.

[[Pattoki Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Pattoki Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Kasur District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The market town of Pattoki is the headquarters of the tehsil.

[[Kabirwala Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Kabirwala Tehsil is a subdivision (tehsil) of Khanewal District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is administratively subdivided into 34 Union Councils of Pakistan, two of which form the tehsil capital Kabirwala.Dr. Safdar hameed is Incharge of civil Veterniary Hospital Kabirwala.

[[Khanewal Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Khanewal Tehsil is a subdivision (tehsil) of Khanewal District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is administratively subdivided into 25 Union Councils of Pakistan, six of which form the tehsil capital Kabirwala.

[[Jahanian Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Jahanian (جہانیاں) is an administrative subdivision, tehsil, of Khanewal District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The town of Jahanian is the headquarters of the tehsil.

[[Mian Channu Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Mian Channu Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Khanewal District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is administratively subdivided into 12 Union Councils of Pakistan, three of which form the tehsil capital Mian Channu.

[[Kharan, Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Kharan (خاران) is a town in Kharan District, Balochistan, Pakistan.

[[Kohlu Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Kohlu (کوہلو) is the capital of the Kohlu District in Balochistan, Pakistan.

[[Liane de Pougy]]

CATEGORIES: 1869 births, 1950 deaths, French dancers

Liane de Pougy (July 2, 1869 – December 26, 1950), was a Folies Bergère dancer who became famous for being one of Paris's most beautiful courtesans.

[[Handwara Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Handwara (تحصیل ھاندوارا) is a town and a notified area committee in Kupwara District of the disputed territory of Indian-held Kashmir.

[[Kupwara Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Kupwara (تحصیل کئپوارا) is a town and a notified area committee in Kupwara District, Kashmir.

[[Renala Khurd Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Renala Khurd is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Okara District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is administratively subdivided into 18 Union Councils of Pakistan, two of which form the tehsil capital Renala Khurd

[[Hub Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Hub Tehsil (تحصیل حب) is in Lasbela District, Balochistan, Pakistan. The tehsil is administratively subdivided into seven Union Councils. Its heaquarters is in the city of Hub.

[[Sonmiani Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Sonmiani is a coastal town in the southeast of Balochistan province in Pakistan, approximately 45 kilometres northwest of Karachi.

[[Uthal Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Uthal is a city in Lasbela District, Balochistan, Pakistan. Uthal is the district headquarter of Lasbela District.

[[Lodhran Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Lodhran is the chief city of Lodhran District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is at 29°31'60N 71°37'60E. It is on the northern side of River Sutlej.

[[Mansehra Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Mansehra Tehsil (مانسہرہ) is a subdivision of the Mansehra District, Hazara Division, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. The main or central city of Mansehra is also located in this area. It is a major stop for tourists on the Karakoram Highway which leads to China. It is also a major transit point to the Northern Areas and locations such as the Kaghan Valley, Naran, Shogran, Lake Saiful Mulook and Babusar Top.

[[Mardan Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Mardan (مردان) is a city and headquarters of Mardan District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.

[[Takht Bhai Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Takht-i-Bahi (or Takhtbai or Takht-i-Bahi or Takht Bahai) is a Buddhist monastic complex dating back to 1st century BC. It is located about 15 kilometers from Mardan in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. It was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1980

[[Dasht Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Dasht is a town and tehsil (a unit of government) of Kech District in the Balochistan province of Pakistan.  The town is at 28°36'30N 66°18'50E with an altitude of 1796 metres (5895 feet). In 1998, 58,621 people lived in Dasht.

[[Mastung Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Mastung, the capital of Mastung District, is a town in the Baluchistan province of Pakistan. It is located at 29°48'0N 66°50'60E and has an altitude of 1701 metres (5583 feet). The town is also the administrative centre of Mastung Tehsil, an administrative subdivision of the district - the town itself is administratively subdivided into two Union Councils of Pakistan

[[Hala, Sindh]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Matiari District

Hala (Sindhi: هـالا) is a town in the Pakistani province of Sindh.

[[Matiari]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Matiari District

Matiari (مٹیاری) is the capital city of Matiari District, Sindh, Pakistan, 

This was founded by the kazmi Syed Family which migrated from Herat  Afghanistan to first Hala kundi and then Matiari, they bought major agricultural lands here and made it into a big town

It is said that the name matiari was given to this place because the settlers used to place water coolers made of clay said "MAT" in sindhi on the roadside for the travellers to have water from them and with time the name became "MATT WARI" TO "MATIARI",  some also said that it is said matiari because the syeds that shifted to this area lived in a nearby town for a short while which was named MATALO so this placed started being called MATALAN WARA and finally became matiari later on many of the syed families shifted to other places of this district too such as BHANOTH and many lived kept living in matiari 

Matiari District comprises of 3 talukas Matiari, Hala, New saeedabad,

Matiari is 25 kms away from Hyderabad.

[[Isakhel Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Isakhel Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Mianwali District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Isakhel is the headquarters of the tehsil which is administratively subdivided into 14 Union Councils of Pakistan

[[Mianwali Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Mianwali (میانوالی) is the capital city of Mianwali District in the north-west of Punjab province, Pakistan.

[[Piplan Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Piplan is a town and tehsil of Mianwali District. It is in southern Punjab, Pakistan.  

[[Mumtazabad Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Mumtazabad Colony is one of the oldest yet well-planned housing areas of Multan in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is located at 30 and is in the east of Multan.

[[Sher Shah]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Sher Shah is a town in Multan District in the Punjab province of Pakistan.

[[Jatoi Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Jatoi is a tehsil, an administrative subdivision, of Muzaffargarh District in the Punjab province of Pakistan, it is administratively subdivided into 16 Union Councils of Pakistan. The main languages are Seraiki, Punjabi and Urdu.

[[Kot Addu Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Kot Adu is a city of Muzaffargarh District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city, which is subdivided into 3 Union Councils, is the capital of Kot Adu tehsil. It is located in the southern part of the province, and is a very historic city. It has a population of over 1 millionJanuary 2012, making it the 400th largest city in Pakistan. It is just east of the Indus River, more or less in the centre of the country, about 866 km from Karachi, 600 km from Islamabad, 100 km from Multan, 80 km from D.G. Khan, 60 km from Muzzafargarh, 60 km from Layyah and 16 km from Taunsa Barrage.

Kot Addu City, being a historic and prosperous city, attracts tourists and is known as the 'City of rivers'. The city was named after Addu Khan whose grave is still there in the middle of the city. Kot Addu has been considered for the capital of country due to strategic location of the city. It is politically and culturally rich. Many famous poets, singers and patricians were born in this tehsil.

[[Muzaffargarh]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Muzaffargarh (مظفر گڑھ) is a town in southwestern Punjab, Pakistan. It is on the bank of the Chenab River. It is the chief city of Muzaffargarh District.

[[Sangla Hill Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Sangla Hill is a Tehsil in Pakistan in Nankana Sahib District in the Punjab Province.

[[Shahkot Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Shahkot is a Tehsil of Nankana Sahib District, Pakistan.

[[Narowal Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Narowal Tehsil is a subdivision (tehsil) of Narowal District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is administratively subdivided into 39 Union Councils of Pakistan, four of which form the tehsil capital Narowal

[[Shakargarh Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Shakargarh Tehsil is a subdivision (tehsil) of Narowal District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The tehsil is administratively subdivided into 35 Union Councils, three of which form the tehsil capital Shakargarh.

[[Jhal Magsi Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Jhal Magsi is a town in Kachhi District, Balochistan, Pakistan.

[[Bhiria]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Naushahro Feroze District

Bhiria is a city in the Naushahro Feroze District of Sindh in Pakistan.

Bhiria city is situated at National Highway Pakistan. It is Tehsil of District Naushahro Feroze. It had remained the city of Education in the days of Indo-Pak. This city has produced many literate persons who had served at distinct posts of Pakistan like; in Juidiciary, education, politics, economy, engineering, business. The population of the city is around 15 thousands inhabitants. The most important of this city is its sweat known as "Pera". It is somewhat made of milk, sugar, & other some stuff. Other cities nearby this city are Bhiria Road, tharooshah, Kandiaro, & Mehrapur.

[[Moro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Naushahro Feroze District

Moro is a city and a tehsil in the Naushahro Feroze District of Sindh, Pakistan. It is in the centre of Sindh. It is at 26°40'0N 68°0'0E. It has an altitude of 28. It is 12 east of the River Indus.

[[Mehrabpur]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Naushahro Feroze District

Mehrabpur is a town and a tehsil in the Naushahro Feroze District of Sindh in Pakistan. It is on the main railway line between Karachi and Lahore. It is a junction station with a disused branch line to Naushahro Feroze.

On 19 December 2007, at 2:30 am an overcrowded express train travelling from Karachi to Lahore derailed 2 km south of Mehrabpur killing over 40 people and injuring hundreds more. Derailment seems to have been caused by defective rails.

[[Mailsi Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Mailsi Tehsil is a subdivision (tehsil) of Vehari District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is administratively subdivided into 31 Union Councils of Pakistan, two of which form the tehsil capital Mailsi.

[[Vehari Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Vehari Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Vehari District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Vehari is the headquarters of the tehsil which is administratively subdivided into 26 Union Councils.

[[The Omen]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 horror movies, 1970s horror thriller movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Academy Award winning movies, American horror thriller movies, American supernatural movies, Movies composed by Jerry Goldsmith, Movies set in England, Movies set in Rome

The Omen is a 1976 American suspense/horror movie set in England. It was directed by Richard Donner. The movie stars Gregory Peck, Lee Remick, David Warner, Harvey Stephens, Billie Whitelaw, Patrick Troughton, Martin Benson, and Leo McKern. A remake, The Omen, was released on June 6, 2006.

This movie has a sequel, Damien: Omen II.

[[Faker]]

CATEGORIES: Australian alternative rock bands, Indie bands, Musical groups from Sydney

Faker is a band from Sydney, Australia. They started in 1996 and have made two albums.

[[Pakpattan Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Pakpattan (پاکپتن) is the capital of Pakpattan District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. Pakpattan is also called the 'city of Baba Farid', in honour of the Sufi saint, Hazrat Baba Farid-ud-din Ganj Shakar whose shrine is located here. It is 190 km from Lahore and very close to Sahiwal, about 45 km. Pakpattan city is an old city. There is one postgraduate college for males called Faridia Degree College and one women's degree college as well. There are some government-funded schools such as Fazilka Islamia High School, Govt. High School, Urban area High School.

[[Panjgur]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Panjgur (پنجگور) is a small town in Panjgur District, Balochistan province, Pakistan. It is located at 26°58'0N 64°5'60E.

[[Pishin]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Pishin (پشین) is a small town in Pishin District, Balochistan, Pakistan.

Famous past residents of Pishin include the Pashtun politicians Qazi Musa and his wife Jennifer Musa, who took up politics following her husband's death.

Pishin (Pashto: پشین) is a small town located in the Pishin District of Balochistan province, Pakistan. It is the capital of the district,1 and is located in the east of the province at 30°35'0N 67°0'0E near the border with Afghanistan with an altitude of 1555 metres (5104 feet).2 Tremors from the 2008 Pakistan earthquake were felt in the town. Surrounding areas are Yaro, Saranan, Nowabad and Milkyar. During World War II, the British built two air bases in the district of Pishin, one near the town of Pishin and the other in Saranan. The runways of the air base are still in good condition.

فہرست  چھپائیں 

1 History

2 Geography, weather and agriculture

3 Famous people

Historyترمیم

Old name Pashung which later became Pishin. Pishin houses ethenic Pashtun tribes of Syed, Kakar, and Tareen. There is considerable number of settlers as well in the district. Tomb of Khan of Kalat is near old grave yard of Pishin city, who was kept under custody in Pishin by Britishers in late 1890's. District is bordered by Qilla Saifullah and Loralai in East, Afghanistan to the North and Qilla Abdullah to West. An agricultural dependent area, which produces chunk of fruit that includes Grapes, Apple, Peach, Plums and Berreys. General populace is educated with literacy rate of 55% (male 74% and females 30%).  Khanozai being the most literate area. Pishin is hidden in far history however it played a bright role in Anglo-Afghan Wars fought between Britain forces and Afghan tribes. The tribes contributed very much assistance to MALIK BARAN KHAN TAREEN OF HAIKALZAI who was fighting against the English forces. The tribes from Pishin used to attack the convoys of British forces when they were on their way to Afghanistan to fight.

Geography, weather and agricultureترمیم

Pishin is the biggest district of Pashtun tribes in Balochistan. It connects Quetta, the capital city, to Afghanistan. It is located in the north west of Balochistan. Due to its high population and vast area, a new tehsil "Huramzai" has been established. The temperature is hot in summer, up to 40 °C, and in winter it is cold even below the freezing point. Famous rivers are River Surkhab and River Lora, which is further divided into different tributaries. Koa Khawaja I ran, Koa Toba Achakzai and Koa Toba Kakari are famous mountain regions in district.

Famous people

Popular Indian actor Kader Khan was born in Pishin.34 Companion of Qaid e Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Qazi Muhammad Essa was from Pishin, his son Jehangir Ashraf Qazi has served the country at different positions in UNO. Sultan Golden, the fmaous bike rider hails from Pishin district. Syed Muhammad Agha Huramzai was also from Pishin, who was well known in the area fro his generosity & civic services. Syed Salahuddin Agha was also from Karbala Pishin who had played meaningful role in forming Pakistan in 1940s and after independence. Syed Liaquat Agha son of Syed Salahuddin Agha is also a famous personality in Pishin. He was president of Pakistan football federation, President of Quetta chamber of commerce and currently member of Balochistan Assembly from Pishin. He is also chief of Syed tribe.

Sultan golden, a record holder in reverse high jump of vehicke, belongs to same place. Raheem Kakar who was former Nazim e Aala and Mayor of Quetta city during 1999-2004, belongs to Tehsil Karezath of District Pishin. There are numerous Martyres  sons which this soil gave to the motherland. Major Jalal Tareen was one them who was martyred during initial phases of Operation Zarb e Azb.

[[Pampore Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Pampore (تحصیل پاامپہرع) is a town and a notified area committee in Pulwama District in the disputed occupied territory of Kashmir

[[Pulwama Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Pulwama (تحصیل پائلواما) is a town and a notified area committee in Pulwama District in the Kashmir

It is an area of Kashmir that is rich in agriculture.

[[Tral Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Tral (تحصیل ترال) is a town and a notified area committee in Pulwama District in Kashmir.

[[Khanpur Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Khanpur (خانپور) is a city in Punjab, Pakistan.

Khanpur is a centre for sugarcane and cotton crops. The Tehsil of Khanpur is one of the largest area-wise of Rahimyar Khan District. The famous Cholistan desert is mainly located in the Khanpur area.

Khanpur is also known as Khanpur Katora; Katora means bowl. Khanpur had a long history of producing clay bowls.

Khanpur is a nice and historical city of punjab, Pakistan.

[[Sadiqabad Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Sadiqabad is a subdivision (tehsil) of Rahimyar Khan District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is administratively subdivided into 29 Union Councils, six of which form the tehsil capital Sadiqabad.

[[Jampur Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Jampur is a small city in Rajanpur District, south of Dera Ghazi Khan, in the centre of Pakistan. It covers an area of about five square kilometres. It has 80,000 people.

[[Rajouri Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Rajouri (تحصیل راجہئری) is a town and a notified area committee in Rajouri District in Jammu and Kashmir.

[[Sunderbani Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Sunderbani (تحصیل سئندعربانی) is a town and a notified area committee in Rajouri District in Jammu and Kashmir.

[[Thanamandi Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir, Tehsils of Azad Kashmir

Thanamandi (تحصیل تھاناماندی) is a town and a notified area committee in the Rajouri District of the Kashmir.

[[Gujar Khan Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Gujar Khan Tehsil, head-quartered at Gujar Khan, is one of the seven Tehsils (sub-divisions) of Rawalpindi District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is administratively subdivided into 33 Union Councils of Pakistan and according to the 1998 census has a population of 493,000

[[Kahuta Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Kahuta Tehsil (تحصیل کہوٹہ) is one of the seven Tehsils (subdivisions) of Rawalpindi District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The neighbouring Tehsil of Kotli Sattian used to be part of Kahuta, but was later created as a separate tehsil.

[[Kotli Sattian Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Kotli Sattian is a tehsil (subdivision) of Rawalpindi District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. Its name is derived from the mountain town of Kotli and the Satti tribe. Main tribes of the area include the Dhanial.

[[Murree Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Murree Tehsil (تحصیل مری) is one of the seven Tehsils (i.e. sub-divisions) of Rawalpindi District in the Punjab province of Pakistan.

Murree Tehsil is in the northernmost part of Punjab province where it borders the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. The hill resort city of Murree is the capital city of this area.

[[Rawalpindi Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Rawalpindi is a tehsil (an administrative subdivision) of Rawalpindi District in the western part of Punjab, Pakistan. It contains the district capital - the city of Rawalpindi.

[[Taxila Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Taxila Tehsil, headquartered at Taxila, is one of the seven Tehsils (sub-divisions) of Rawalpindi District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. At the 1998 census, it had a population of 151,000.

[[Jhando Mari]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Jhando Mari is a town and Union Council of Tando Allah Yaar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It is part of Jhando Mari Taluka and is in the north of the district at 25°38'60N 68°54'0E,. The Union Council has 30,384 people.

[[Mithi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Mithi is a town in Tharparkar District, Sindh province, Pakistan. It is 300 from Karachi.

[[Spandau Ballet]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 establishments in England, 1970s British music groups, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, English pop music groups, English rock bands, Musical groups established in 1979, Musical groups from London, Musical groups disestablished in 1990, 1990 disestablishments in Europe, 1990s disestablishments in England, Musical groups established in 2009, 2009 establishments in England

Spandau Ballet are an English pop group. The band became active in 1979 and split in 1990. They reformed in 2009. True is one of their biggest hits.

[[Chevrolet Corvette]]

CATEGORIES: Chevrolet automobiles, Sports cars, 1950s automobiles, 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, 2020s automobiles

The Chevrolet Corvette is a sports car that has been built by Chevrolet since 1953. It is now in its 8th generation.

[[Bhumibol Adulyadej]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Kings and queens, People from Cambridge, Massachusetts, People with Parkinson's disease, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Thai nobility

Bhumibol Adulyadej (December 5, 1927 – October 13, 2016), was the King of Thailand from 9 June 1946 until 13 October 2016. Most people in Thailand knew him as "the Great" (มหาราช, Maharaja). He was also known as Rama IX. He was one of the world's longest-serving heads of state. He was the longest-serving monarch in Thai history.

Bhumibol was a billionaire. He used some of his money to pay for over 3,000 development projects, mostly in rural areas. He was very popular in Thailand. He was like a semi-divine figure for some Thais.

Bhumibol was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States. He was taught in Switzerland. Bhumibol was also a musician, artist, and sailor.

After a period of failing health and suffering from kidney failure, Bhumibol died on October 13, 2016 at the Siriraj Hospital in Bangkok, aged 88.

[[Don Edwards (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Buffalo Sabres players, Calgary Flames players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, National Hockey League broadcasters, People from Hamilton, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners, American Hockey League players, Ontario Hockey League players

Don Edwards (born September 28, 1955 in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender who played ten seasons in the National Hockey League for the Buffalo Sabres, Calgary Flames, and Toronto Maple Leafs. He won the Vezina Trophy along with Bob Sauve in 1980.  He played in the 1980 and 1982 All-Star Games and backed up Mike Liut in the 1981 Canada Cup.

On February 24, 1982, Edwards was a part of history as he gave up Wayne Gretzky's 77th goal of the 1981-82 NHL season in a game vs. the Edmonton Oilers at Buffalo Memorial Auditorium. Gretzky broke Phil Esposito's former single season record of 76 goals and finished the year with 92, which still stands as an NHL record.

[[List of NHL franchise post-season droughts]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League lists

These are lists of active and all-time NHL team post-season, post-season series win, Stanley Cup Final and Stanley Cup droughts up to and including the 2014 Stanley Cup Playoffs.  Those teams which have never made it in team history are listed by the season that they entered the league, either as a new team or when they merged into the NHL from the WHA. These lists do not include the canceled 2004–05 NHL season.

[[Eine kleine Nachtmusik]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart

Eine kleine Nachtmusik is the name given to the Serenade No. 13 for strings in G major, K 525 by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. It is one of his most popular pieces and the opening tune is heard in many places, e.g. on mobile phones.It was composed in 1787 and is a serenade for strings.

The title Eine kleine Nachtmusik means literally: "A little Night Music". "Nachtmusik" was a title which was often given to serenades in the 18th century. A serenade in the 18th century was a lighthearted piece of music, often played during feasts. This serenade is written for two violins, viola, and cello and possibly a double bass as well. It is either performed as a string quartet (just four players) or by a small group of instruments, in which case at least one double bass is normally added.

[[Jam Nawaz Ali Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Jam Nawaz Ali is a small city in Sanghar District, Sindh, Pakistan about 60 km from Sanghar city. Cadet College Sanghar is in this city.

[[Khipro Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Khipro (کھپرو, کپرو) is a taluka, an administrative subdivision, of Sanghar District, Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Sanghar Taluka]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Sanghar Taluka (سانگھڑ) is a subdivision of Sanghar District in the province of Sindh in Pakistan. The city of Sanghar is the capital. 

[[Shahdadpur Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Shahdadpur is a city in Sindh, a province of Pakistan. It is at 27°51'N and 67°64'E. coordinates. The historical city of al-Mansura is about 19 km southeast of Shahdadpur. 

The shrines of Sohni and Mehinwal, from the Sohni Mahiwal story, are in and near to the city. The shrine of Sohni is near the city, while that of Mehinwal is in the centre of the city. Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai (whose shrine is about 10 km from Shahdadpur) immortalised love through his poetry. 

[[Sinjhoro Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Sinjoro is a taluka (an administrative subdivision) of Sanghar District, Sindh, Pakistan. It is nearer to Sanghar than other tehsils. The people are mainly are Sindhi.

Most of the people are involved in agriculture and livestock. The Sindhi people are mostly involved in cultivation.

[[Tando Adam Khan Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Tando Adam (ٹنڈو آدم خان) is a town in Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Bhalwal Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Bhalwal Tehsil is a subdivision (tehsil) of Sargodha District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is administratively subdivided into 53 union councils, four of which form the tehsil capital Bhalwal.

The boundaries of the tehsil are marked by the Jhelum River and the Chenab River. According to the 1998 census the total population of the tehsil was 132,600.

[[Sargodha Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Sargodha Tehsil is a tehsil (administrative subdivision) of Sargodha District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The tehsil is subdivided into 62 Union Councils - 22 of which form the city of Sargodha.

[[Sillanwali Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Sillanwali Tehsil is a subdivision (tehsil) of Sargodha District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is administratively subdivided into 16 Union Councils of Pakistan.

[[Puran Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Shangla District

Puran is a tehsil of the Shangla District of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. Aloch is the headquarters of the tehsil. Puran Tehsil comprises nine Union Councils of Pakistan.

Puran Tehsil of the Shangla District is a beautiful place, and its boundaries meet Bunier, Swat, Kaladakha, and the Indus River.

[[Martung]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Shangla District

Martung, Mārtung or Martoong is a highland village and sub tehsil of Shangla District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province (former North-West), Pakistan. The center of Martung (Koozkalai) is 982 meters above sea level. Some parts of Martung are more than 1800 meters above mean sea level. Some of Martung's important villages are Kabalgram, Pishlor, Titwalan, Koozkalai, Manzkalai, Shaga and Karindara.

[[Daska Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Daska (ڈسکہ, ڈسکا), is a small industrial city with a population of around 300,000 in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The town has the status of Tehsil (Sub District) and is one of four Tehsils of Sialkot District. It is located at 32°19'60N 74° 20' 60E.

[[Pasrur Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Pasrur (پسرور) is a tehsil in Sialkot District, in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The nearest big cities are Sialkot, Narowal and Gujranwala.

[[Sambrial Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Sambrial is a town and tehsil of Sialkot District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is on the bank of Upper Chenab Canal at 32°28'0N 74°20'60E and lies to the west of the district capital Sialkot. It is home to Sialkot International Airport and Sialkot Dry Port.

Sambrial became the fourth tehsil of Sialkot, containing 160 villages with 17 Union Councils of Pakistan and two police stations - Sambrial and Begowala.

[[Lehri Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Lehri is a town and Union Council of Sibi District in the Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Sukkur Taluka]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Sukkur City Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Sukkur District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city of Sukkur is the capital.

[[Rohri Taluka]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Rohri Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Sukkur District in the Sindh province of Pakistan, the town of Rohri is the capital.

[[The Simpsons (season 1)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 in American television, 1990 in American television, The Simpsons seasons, 1990s television seasons

''The Simpsons'' Season 1 was the first season of The Simpsons, featuring 13 full-length episodes. The first episode aired on December 17, 1989 and the last aired on May 13, 1990.

[[Patrick Rafter]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2000 Summer Olympics, Australian male tennis players, Australian of the Year Award winners, Australian Olympians, Australian Open champions, Living people, Sportspeople from Queensland, US Open (tennis) champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Patrick "Pat" Rafter (born 28 December 1972) is a retired professional tennis player from Australia. He was once ranked number one in the world. Rafter won the US Open in 1997 and 1998. He also reached and lost the 2000 and 2001 Wimbledon finals to Pete Sampras and Goran Ivanišević respectively.

[[Pat Cash]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Australian male tennis players, Australian Olympians, Living people, Sportspeople from Melbourne, Wimbledon champions

Patrick "Pat" Cash (born May 27, 1965, in Melbourne, Victoria) is a retired professional tennis player from Australia. He won the Wimbledon Championships in 1987 and was once ranked the fourth best player in the world.

[[Steve Young]]

CATEGORIES: College Football Hall of Fame, Pro Football Hall of Fame, San Francisco 49ers players, Tampa Bay Buccaneers players, 1961 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Salt Lake City, Utah

Steve Young (born Jon Steven Young on October 11, 1961 in Salt Lake City, Utah), is a former quarterback for the NFL's San Francisco 49ers and Tampa Bay Buccaneers. He was named the Most Valuable Player of Super Bowl XXIX. He is now in the Pro Football Hall of Fame.

[[Pioneer 10]]

CATEGORIES: Pioneer program

Pioneer 10 was a space probe launched by NASA in March 1972. Its aims were to study the planets Jupiter and Saturn as well as the edges of the Solar System. The spacecraft also carried one of two plaques, the Pioneer plaques. On the plaques were images that held some information about humans and earth. The other plaque was on Pioneer 11. The plaques were designed by a team lead by Carl Sagan to communicate with extraterrestrial life should the spacecraft come into contact with it.

There is no longer communication with the probe; the last contact was in 2003 and in 2006 a final attempt at contact failed.

[[Synthetic]]

Synthetic usually means the combination of two or more parts, either by humans or natural processes. It can also be used as in:

[[San Siro]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in Italy, 1926 establishments in Italy

Stadio Giuseppe Meazza, known better as the San Siro, is a sports stadium in Milan, Italy. It is the home stadium of the Italian football clubs Milan and Inter.

[[The Chronicles of Narnia movie series]]

CATEGORIES: The Chronicles of Narnia, Series of movies

''The Chronicles of Narnia'' movie series are a series of movies created by Walden Media and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures. The movies are based on the series of fantasy novels of the same name written by British author C.S. Lewis. The first movie in the series, The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe, was released in 2005, and the second, Prince Caspian, was released in 2008. The third movie, The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, was released in 2010. In January 2009, it was announced that Disney would not continue to distribute the Narnia movie series, thus The Voyage of the Dawn Treader was sent to 20th Century Fox. Fox will now distribute the Narnia movie series afterwards.

20th Century Fox will currently distribute The Silver Chair in works.

[[2008 in movies]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, Lists of movies

Below is a list of movies released in 2008, ordered by release date.

[[Super Bowl XXXIV]]

CATEGORIES: Super Bowl, Sports in Atlanta, Georgia, 2000 in sports, St. Louis Rams, 2000 in the United States, 20th century in Georgia (U.S. state), History of Atlanta, Georgia

Super Bowl XXXIV (or Super Bowl 34) was a Super Bowl game between the St. Louis Rams and the Tennessee Titans in the National Football League (NFL) champion for the 1999 regular season. The Rams won against the Titans 23–16. The game was played on January 30, 2000 at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta, Georgia.

It is best remembered for the final play of the game, where Mike Jones of St Louis tackled Kevin Dyson of Tennessee at the one yard line as time ran out, thus stopping Tennessee from scoring a touchdown that could have tied the game.

[[Evangelical Church in Germany]]

CATEGORIES: Calvinism, Lutheranism, Protestantism in Germany

The Protestant Evangelical Church in Germany (German: Evangelische Kirche in Deutschland, abbreviated EKD) is a group of 20 regional churches. They are made up of two Reformed (Calvinist), 9 Lutheran and 9 United (Lutheran-Reformed) churches. 

The Moravian Church and the Federation of Evangelical Reformed Congregations are associate members.

The Evangelical Church in Germany is not a church like the Church of England or the Roman Catholic Church. This is because it is not one big church which share the same system of beliefs, instead it is a collection of churches which allow its members to share in church services and worship.

[[Season (sports)]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words, Sports seasons

In sports, a season is the part of one year that games of that sport are played. For example, in Major League Baseball, one season lasts about from April to September, that is the time of the year that baseball teams play their games.

There are four parts of the season, they are:

[[S.E.A.]]

The three-letter acronym SEA could mean:

People/organizations/businesses

Sports teams

Mathematical

Locations

Other

[[Cancer (disambiguation)]]

Cancer can mean:

See also:

[[Billy Reid]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Scottish football managers, Scottish footballers

Billy Reid (born 18 July 1963 in Glasgow) is a retired Scottish footballer. He is now manager of Scottish Premier League club Hamilton Academical.

Reid won the PFA Scotland Manager of the Year in 2008.

[[Csaba László]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Romanian footballers, Romanian football managers, Hungarian footballers, Hungarian football managers

Csaba László (born 13 February, 1964 in Odorheiu Secuiesc, Harghita County, Romania) is a Romanian-Hungarian football manager and former player. In 2012 he was appointed as a head coach of Lithuanian national football team. He was previously manager of Scottish Premier League club Hearts and also had spells at Ferencvárosi TC, FC Sopron and the  Ugandan national team.

[[Mixu Paatelainen]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Finnish footballers, Football managers, Sportspeople from Helsinki

Mika-Matti "Mixu" Paatelainen (born February 3, 1967 in Helsinki) is a retired Finnish football player and is the current manager of Hibernian. Mixu is the oldest of three brothers, all of whom have played professional football. He scored 18 goals in 70 appearances for the Finnish national team, which makes him Finland's all time twelfth most capped player and fifth top goalscorer.

[[Craig Brewster]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, People from Dundee, Scottish football managers, Scottish footballers

Craig James Brewster, (born in Dundee on 13 December 1966), is a Scottish manager and former professional footballer . He was most recently manager of Inverness Caledonian Thistle for the second time, but had previously made his name in a long and successful career playing as a prolific centre forward for many clubs in Scotland, but most notably for Ionikos in Greece.

[[Jim Jefferies]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Scottish football managers, Scottish footballers

Jim Jefferies (born November 22, 1950 in Musselburgh, East Lothian) is the Scottish football manager of Scottish Premier League team Kilmarnock F.C.. Jefferies began his managerial career at Gala Fairydean before he joined Berwick Rangers where he was manager until 1988. He then managed Falkirk FC, Heart of Midlothian FC and Kilmarnock FC. He was the longest serving manager in the Scottish Premier League when he left Kilmarnock in January 2010. He had been managing the club for eight years.

[[Mark McGhee]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Scottish football managers, Scottish footballers, Sportspeople from Glasgow

Mark Edward McGhee (born 25 May, 1957 in Glasgow, Scotland) is a former professional footballer and current manager of English club Bristol Rovers.

[[Walter Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers

Walter Smith, OBE (born 24 February 1948 in Lanark) is a Scottish former football player, but is better known as a football manager. He is currently the manager of Scottish Premier League club Rangers, his second spell in that capacity with the club.

[[Richard Hamilton (artist)]]

CATEGORIES: Companions of Honour, English painters, Artists from London, 1922 births, 2011 deaths

Richard  Hamilton CH (24 February 1922 - 13 September 2011) was an English painter and collage artist. He was born in Pimlico, London.

[[Peter Blake (artist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, English artists, English painters, People from Dartford

Sir Peter Thomas Blake, CBE (born 25 June 1932 in Dartford, Kent) is an English pop artist, best known for his design of the sleeve for The Beatles' album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. He lives in Chiswick, London, United Kingdom.

During the late 1950s, Blake became one of the best known British pop artists.Blake was included in group expositions at the Institute of Contemporary and had his first solo exposition in 1960. It was the 'Young Contemporaries' exposition of 1961 where he was displayed next to  David Hockney and R.b Kitaj that he was first identified with the young British Pop Art movement.Blake won the John Moores junior award (1961) for his work Self Portrait with Badges.

[[Sehwan Sharif Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Sehwan Sharif (تحصیل سہون شریف) is a city in Dadu District, Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Dokri]]

CATEGORIES: Larkana District

Dokri (ڏوڪري) is a town in Larkana District,  Sindh province of Pakistan and is the capital town of the Dokri Taluka. Moenjodaro is found 7 km away in East-South of the Dokri town. The town has been the point of several Communist movements in the past.

[[Okara Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Okara (اوکاڑہ) is a city in the Okara District, Punjab, Pakistan. It is southwest of the city of Lahore. Okara is famous for its agriculture-based economy and cotton mills.

[[Landi Kotal Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Khyber Agency

Landi Kotal or Landikotal (لنڈی کوتل) in Pakistan is the highest point on the Khyber Pass, 1,072 metres above sea level. It is on a route across the mountains from the near-border city, Peshawar. Landi Kotal is often visited by tourists and can be reached by train or road.

Landi Kotal is the main shopping centre for both the Shinwari and Afridi tribes.

[[Ham (disambiguation)]]

Ham can have different meanings:

[[Liège (province)]]

CATEGORIES: Liège (province)

Liège (Lîdje; Luik; German: Lüttich) is the easternmost province of the Walloon Region, in Belgium. Its capital is the city of Liège.

It is an area of French and German ethnic groups. Most of its inhabitants speak French and a minority of them speaks German.

[[East Flanders]]

CATEGORIES: East Flanders

East Flanders (Dutch: Oost-Vlaanderen, (Province de) Flandre-Orientale, German: Ostflandern) is a province of Flanders, one of the three regions of Belgium.

Its capital, and also the largest city of the province, is Ghent (Gent, Gand).

[[Flemish Brabant]]

CATEGORIES: Flemish Brabant

Flemish Brabant (Dutch: Vlaams-Brabant, French: Brabant flamand) is the youngest and smallest province of the Flemish Region, one of the three regions of Belgium. It covers the Dutch-speaking northern part of the former province of Brabant. Flemish Brabant also completely surrounds the Brussels-Capital Region, which forms an enclave within the territory of the province.

Its capital, and also the largest city of the province, is the university city of Leuven (Louvain, often used in English).

[[Network card]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking, Computer hardware

A Network interface card (also known as a NIC, network card, or network interface controller) is an electronic device that connects a computer to a computer network, usually a LAN. It is considered a piece of computer hardware. Most modern computers support an internal network interface controller embedded in the motherboard directly rather than provided as an external component.

Network cards let a computer exchange data with a network. To achieve the connection, network cards use a suitable protocol, for example CSMA/CD. Network cards usually implement the first two layers of the OSI model, that is the physical layer, and the data link layer. There are older network protocols such as ARCNET, introduced in 1977, LocalTalk or Token Ring, but today, most network cards use Ethernet.Ethernet cards are available in several different standard packages called form factors that have evolved over the last several generations of PC hardware:

[[Genogram]]

CATEGORIES: Genealogy

A genogram is a family tree with medical details, such as whether the person is male or female, and whether brothers and sisters are twins. Genograms help medics understand a person better.

[[Ancestor table]]

CATEGORIES: Genealogy

An ancestor table (from German language ahnentafel) is a family tree where people are shown in a numbered list instead of a tree.

In the table, a person is listed as number 1, the father is 2, the mother is 3. Then, the grandparents can be added:

This can continue even farther, including the great-grandparents:

[[Coupé]]

CATEGORIES: Coupes, Automobile body styles

A coupé or coupe (from the French coupé: past participle of the verb couper, to cut) is type a sports car with a fixed roof and two doors.

[[Gus MacPherson]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Scottish football managers, Scottish footballers

Angus 'Gus' Ian MacPherson (born 11 October 1968 in Glasgow) is a former Scottish footballer. St Mirren parted with MacPherson on 11 May 2010. He is currently the manager of Queen of the South. He was educated at Lenzie Academy

[[St. Johnstone F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Premier League clubs, 1884 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1880s establishments in Scotland

St. Johnstone Football Club is a Scottish football club based in Perth. Although it is officially recorded as being formed in 1884, research has shown that they did not play their first game until February 1885. The club plays its home games at McDiarmid Park.

St. Johnstone will now compete in the Scottish Premiership after finishing first and being promoted in the 2008-09 season.

[[Bookcase]]

CATEGORIES: Furniture

A bookcase, or bookshelf, is a piece of furniture that is used to hold books.

Bookcases can be different sizes, from a small single shelf to a large bookcase that can fill an entire wall.

Libraries have many bookcases holding books on many different topics.

[[Spreadsheet]]

CATEGORIES: Spreadsheet software

A Spreadsheet is a computer program that imitates a paper worksheet. It shows a large sheet (like a sheet of paper) that has many cells in a grid of rows and columns. Users can put words or numbers into the cells, to make headings and store information (usually numbers). You can also move the grid lines around so that some cells are bigger than others, and change the color or size of text/font, the same way font/text is changed in a word processor. You can even put pictures in the worksheets, make multiple pages, and print out their results on real paper.

The primary reason most people use spreadsheets is for automatic calculations. Spreadsheets can be designed to add up the items/amounts on a bill, calculate sales tax, and even calculate income tax. A user can add and subtract the numbers here, even if the numbers are not next to each other. This means the computer does all the math, and people only need to give the correct information.

Another strength of spreadsheets, is that they can produce diagrams, like graphs and pie-charts, based on the data the user enters. Sometimes the numbers make more sense when the computer turns them into a picture.

[[Washington (disambiguation)]]

Washington can have different meanings:

[[Bill Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Boston Bruins players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, 1991 deaths

Bill "Red" Anderson (December 13, 1912 – June 16, 1991) in Tillsonburg, Ontario) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player that played one game with the Boston Bruins in the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[John Aiken]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, American ice hockey players, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts

John Aiken (born January 1, 1932 in Arlington, Massachusetts) was an American ice hockey player. He played one game for the Montreal Canadiens in the National Hockey League.

[[Sebastien Centomo]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Living people, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Ice hockey people from Quebec

Sebastien Centomo (born March 26, 1981 in Laval, Quebec is a professional ice hockey player who played one game with the Toronto Maple Leafs.

[[Alexander Andrievsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Belarusian ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Living people, People from Minsk, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Alexander Andrijevski (born August 10, 1968 in Minsk, Belarus) was a Belarusian professional hockey right winger who played one game for the Chicago Blackhawks in the National Hockey League.

[[1931–32 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 in North America, 1932 in North America

The 1931–32 NHL season was the fifteenth season of the National Hockey League. Eight teams played 48 games each. The Toronto Maple Leafs swept the New York Rangers in three games for the Stanley Cup.

[[Bigpoint GmbH]]

CATEGORIES: Online games

Bigpoint GmbH is a game developer based in Hamburg, Germany which produces browser based MMORPG games that are unique in that do not require any downloads to play.

Founded by Heiko Hubertz in December of 2002, Bigpoint has experienced record growth (more than 4500% in 5 years) since its creation and won numerous business awards including the Red Herring Award in 2007 - placing it among the top 100 most innovative businesses - and the Ruban d'Honneur at the European Business Awards in 2009.

In June of 2008 a 70% controlling share of Bigpoint GmbH was purchased by NBCU's and GE's joint venture Peacock Equity Fund https://web.archive.org/web/20100220043646/http://www.gelending.com/servlets/ActionServlet?action and UK PE Firm GMT Communications Partners in a $110m (€70m) deal that gave each a 35% share of the company.

This allowed the three initial venture capital investors -  Aurelia Private Equity, European Founders Fund and United Internet Beteiligungen - to sell out while CEO Heiko Hubertz re-invested his share of the sale to retain a 30% stake in the company.

Heiko Hubertz currently acts as the company's Managing Director.

Bigpoint has a portfolio of more than 40 games translated into 20 languages, with the two largest being SeaFight with approximately 15.7 million registered users and Dark Orbit with approximately 14.2 million registered users.

The company claims to receive more than 200,000 new user registrations each day.

A complete list of Bigpoint's games can be found Here https://web.archive.org/web/20090827120600/http://www.bigpoint.net/index.es?action

[[Space Invasion]]

CATEGORIES: Online games

Space Invasion is a text-based online browser game. Space Invasion is a Space-strategy themed game. It currently has over 500,000 Players. Space Invasion was created by the company Bigpoint.

[[Stromatolite]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils

Stromatolites  are special rock-like structures. They usually form in shallow water.

They are formed by bacteria such as cyanobacteria. There may also be other types of bacteria and single-celled algae.

The mucus secreted by the bacteria collects grains of sediment, and they are stuck together with calcium carbonate, also from the bacteria. This builds up into the structures seen in certain sea-shore bays. Cyanobacteria use water, carbon dioxide, and sunlight to create their food, and expel oxygen as a by-product.

The real significance of stromatolites is that they are the earliest fossil evidence of life on Earth. The oldest known stromatolites have been dated between 3,710 million years and 3,695 million years old, and were discovered from an exposed outcrop of metacarbonate rocks in the Isua supracrustal belt (ISB) in Southwest Greenland. The ISB stromatolites predate by over 215 million years the previous most convincing and generally accepted multidisciplinary evidence for oldest life remains: stromatolites in the 3,480 million year old Dresser Formation of the Pilbara craton in Western Australia.

At one time, the oldest known stromatolites were dated to 3,450 million years ago, during the Archaean eon, but the more recent discoveries of older stromatolites provides evidence in accord with genetic molecular clock studies that have placed the origin of life in the Hadean eon.

The ability of cyanobacteria to perform oxygenic photosynthesis is highly significant. Early cyanobacteria in stromatolites are thought to be largely responsible for increasing the amount of oxygen in the primaeval Earth's atmosphere through their continuing photosynthesis. They were the first known organisms to photosynthesis and produce free oxygen. After about a billion years, the effect of this photosynthesis began to make a huge change in the atmosphere. The process, called the Great Oxygenation Event, actually took a long time. Eventually, it killed off most of the organisms which could not live in oxygen, and led to the kinds of environment we know today, where most organisms use and need oxygen.

[[Newington, London]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Southwark

Newington is an area in the London Borough of Southwark in London, England.

[[Makemake (dwarf planet)]]

CATEGORIES: Dwarf planets

Makemake (officially known as 136472 Makemake) is a dwarf planet. It was discovered on March 31, 2005 by astronomers Michael E. Brown, Chad Trujillo and David Rabinowitz. It was announced as a dwarf planet on June 11, 2008, and the discovery of a moon was announced on April 26, 2016. Makemake is a Trans-Neptunian object, because it orbits the Sun further out than Neptune.   

Originally the object was given a codename 'Easterbunny' as it was discovered shortly after Easter.  The International Astronomical Union gave it the name Makemake, the creator god of the ancient Easter Island people, to keep its connection with Easter.

Makemake appears to be made mainly of ice and rock.  However, at its very low temperature, ice is as hard as many types of rock.

In 2016, it was discovered that Makemake has a small moon. Makemake's moon does not yet have a name.  Instead, astronomers call it "S/2015 (136472) 1".  Its orbital period around Makemake is more than 12 days.  The moon is about 175 kilometers across.

[[Encyclopedia Dramatica]]

CATEGORIES: Wikis, Websites

Encyclopædia Dramatica is a website that stored mostly articles that make fun of people or things. The pages satirize current events, and many events on the internet. Encyclopædia Dramatica has been described as a "snarky (sarcastic and nasty) Wikipedia anti-fansite".

The site is a wiki that runs on MediaWiki software. The site often shows its content in a disrespectful way and often abusive style. Many articles are written in a satirical way to upset those who take the content seriously.

[[Super Bowl XXXVI]]

CATEGORIES: Super Bowl, 2002 in sports, New England Patriots, St. Louis Rams, 2002 in the United States, 2000s in Louisiana

Super Bowl XXXVI was a Super Bowl game. It was played on February 3, 2002 at the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana. The New England Patriots won their first Super Bowl by defeating the St. Louis Rams (now called the Los Angeles Rams), 20–17. The national anthem was sung by Mariah Carey and the halftime show featured the band, U2.

[[Marc Bulger]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, American football quarterbacks, Atlanta Falcons players, Baltimore Ravens players, Living people, New Orleans Saints players, Sportspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, St. Louis Rams players

Marc Robert Bulger (BUL-jer) (born April 5, 1977 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) is the starting quarterback for the Baltimore Ravens in the National Football League. He was voted Most Valuable Player of the 2004 Pro Bowl.

[[Pro Bowl]]

CATEGORIES: Hawaii, National Football League, 1980 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Hawaii

The Pro Bowl is the all-star game for the National Football League (NFL). It is played the week before the Super Bowl. The game has been played at Aloha Stadium in Honolulu, Hawaii, since January 1980.

[[Dennis Green]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, National Football League coaches, People from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, College football coaches

Dennis "Denny" Green (February 17, 1949 – July 22, 2016) was a head coach for the Minnesota Vikings and Arizona Cardinals, in the National Football League. He also coached college football for Northwestern University and Stanford University. He was born in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

[[Emmitt Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American Christians, Arizona Cardinals players, Dallas Cowboys players, College Football Hall of Fame, Sportspeople from Florida, American football running backs, People from Pensacola, Florida

Emmitt James Smith III (born May 15 1969 in Pensacola, Florida) is a former National Football League player who played for the Dallas Cowboys and Arizona Cardinals. 

[[Moons of Pluto]]

CATEGORIES: Pluto's moons

The moons of Pluto are moons which orbit the dwarf planet Pluto. There are five moons orbiting the dwarf planet in total. The first one discovered was Charon which is near one quarter the size of Pluto. Charon was also sometimes considered a double dwarf planet.  The second was Nix, the third was Hydra, the fourth moon was Kerberos, and the fifth moon to be discovered was Styx.

[[Herbarium]]

CATEGORIES: Agricultural buildings, Botany

In botany, an herbarium is the building where the specimens are stored, or the scientific institute that not only stores but researches these specimens. A dried plant mounted on a sheet also is an herbarium.

In scientific literature herbaria are recognized by acronyms,

for example NY specimens are kept in New York Botanical garden.

[[Slash fiction]]

CATEGORIES: Writing, LGBT, Fiction genres

Slash fiction is fiction, especially fanfiction, that is about homosexual couples. Usually "slash" refers to male/male couples. The word "FemSlash" is used to describe female/female couples. To this day, most slash is written by females for females to read.

The word is believed to have first been used with Kirk/Spock pairings in fan stories. These stories began being written in the late 1970's.

Slash fiction does not need explicit sexual encounters to be considered slash. The homosexual activity could be just holding hands or kissing.

In Japanese manga, slash stories are called yaoi. This is only used to describe male/male relationships. Yuri is used to describe female/female relationships, much the same as the word "FemSlash" is used.

[[Big Brother 9 (UK)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 television seasons, 2000s British television series, Big Brother seasons

Big Brother UK 2008 was the 9th series of Big Brother, a television programme. New rules were put in place since the last series and this one was called "Zero Tolerance" (meaning that no bad behaviour was accepted). Sixteen housemates entered the house on the first day, and five more housemates entered the house as the days went by. After ninety-three days inside the Big Brother House, Rachel Rice was voted the winner of the show, and took home £100,000.

[[Glory (religion)]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology, Judaism

Glory (from the Latin gloria, meaning "fame" or "renown") is a word used to show the highness of God, in the Judeo-Christian religions.

[[Groin]]

CATEGORIES: Body parts

The groin is the  hollow or fold where the leg meets the torso of the human body.

[[Bart Starr]]

CATEGORIES: Green Bay Packers players, Sportspeople from Alabama, Pro Football Hall of Fame, 1934 births, 2019 deaths, People from Montgomery, Alabama

Bryan Bartlett Starr (January 9, 1934 in Montgomery, Alabama – May 26, 2019) was a former American football player and coach for the National Football League. He was the quarterback for the Green Bay Packers (1956-1971) and the MVP of the first two Super Bowls. He went to the Pro Bowl four times. He was added to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1977.

Starr died May 26, 2019 in Birmingham, Alabama after failing health because of a stroke.

[[Tom Coughlin]]

CATEGORIES: People from New York, 1946 births, Living people, National Football League coaches, College football coaches

Thomas Richard Coughlin (born August 31, 1946 in Waterloo, New York) is the head coach for the New York Giants, the 2007 National Football League (NFL) Super Bowl Champions. He was the coach at Boston College before moving to the NFL. 

[[Fenway Park]]

CATEGORIES: Boston Red Sox, Major League Baseball venues, Sports buildings in the United States, Buildings and structures in Boston, Massachusetts, 1912 establishments in the United States

Fenway Park is a baseball stadium in Boston, Massachusetts. It is the home stadium of the Boston Red Sox. The park opened in 1912. It is the oldest of all current Major League Baseball parks.

The ballpark has also been the home field of several football teams. Some Boston college teams have played there. The New England Patriots also played there in their early years.

The name Fenway Park comes from the stadium being in the Fenway district of Boston. One of its well-known features is the Green Monster, a tall wall in left field.  Seats were added to the Green monster in 2003.

The Major League Baseball All-Star Games in 1946, 1961, and 1999 were played at Fenway. Nine World Series games have been played there.

[[Medial collateral ligament]]

CATEGORIES: Skeletal system

The medial collateral ligament (often known as the tibial collateral ligament, or abbreviated to MCL) is one of the four major ligaments of the knee.

[[Green Monster (Fenway Park)]]

CATEGORIES: Boston Red Sox, Walls

The Green Monster (often known simply as The Monster) is the nickname of the green, 37-foot, two-inch (11.3 m) left field wall at Fenway Park baseball park, where the Boston Red Sox play home games.  Seats were added on top of the Green Monster just in time for the 2003 MLB season.

[[Josh McCown]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Texas, Miami Dolphins players, American football quarterbacks, Chicago Bears players, Tampa Bay Buccaneers players, Cleveland Browns players

Joshua Treadwell McCown (born July 4, 1979 in Jacksonville, Texas) is an American football quarterback for the New York Jets of the National Football League. He was drafted by the Arizona Cardinals in the third round of the 2002 NFL Draft. He played college football at Sam Houston State. McCown was named Player of the Week during his time with the Hartford Colonials of the United Football League in 2010.

[[Injured reserve list]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League, Ice hockey words, National Hockey League

The injured reserve list is a list of players who are injured and can not play for a period of time. It is mostly used in the National Hockey League and National Football League. In baseball, a similar list called the disabled list is used. 

[[Amendment]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Constitutions

An amendment is a formal or official change made to a law, contract, constitution, or other legal document.  It is based on the verb to amend, which means to change. Amendments can add, remove, or update parts of these agreements.  They are often used when it is better to change the document than to write a new one.

[[Matt Leinart]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Arizona Cardinals players, Houston Texans players, American football quarterbacks, Football players from California, People from Santa Ana, California, Heisman Trophy winners

Matthew Stephen Leinart (born May 11, 1983 in Santa Ana, California) is an American football quarterback for the Oakland Raiders of the National Football League. He played college football for the University of Southern California Trojans. In 2004, his junior year at USC, he won the Heisman Trophy. He was drafted by the Arizona Cardinals in 2006. The Cardinals released him in 2010, and he was signed by the Houston Texans. He joined the Raiders for the 2012 season.

[[Puzzle video game]]

CATEGORIES: Puzzle video games, Types of video games, Video game genres

A puzzle video game is a type of video game that focuses on puzzle solving. They test things such as strategy, logic, and problem solving. One example is Minesweeper.

[[Patricia Heaton]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from Ohio, Emmy Award winning actors

Patricia Helen Heaton (born March 4, 1958 in Bay Village, Ohio) is an Emmy Award-winning American Actress best known for playing lead character and Ray Barone's wife Debra Barone on the CBS television sitcom Everybody Loves Raymond. She currently stars as Frankie Heck on the ABC sitcom The Middle.

She received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on May 22, 2012.

[[Mike Sweeney]]

CATEGORIES: Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, American baseball players, Kansas City Royals players, Oakland Athletics players, Seattle Mariners players, Philadelphia Phillies players, 1973 births, Living people

Michael John Sweeney (born July 22, 1973 in Orange, California) is a retired first baseman and designated hitter in Major League Baseball. He played for the Kansas City Royals, Oakland Athletics, Seattle Mariners and the Philadelphia Phillies. Sweeny retired in 2011.

[[James Caviezel]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American movie actors, American Christians, Actors from Washington

James Patrick Caviezel, Jr. (kəˈviːzəl; born September 26, 1968) is an American movie actor. He is sometimes called Jim Caviezel. He is probably best known for playing the part of Jesus Christ in the 2004 movie The Passion of the Christ.

[[Human cloning]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic engineering, Humans

Human cloning is the creation of a human being, human cell, or human tissue taken from another human. This method is used to make an exact copy of a human.

It has two types:

[[Jeff Suppan]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Oklahoma, American baseball players, Arizona Diamondbacks players, Boston Red Sox players, Kansas City Royals players, Pittsburgh Pirates players, St. Louis Cardinals players, Milwaukee Brewers players

Jeffrey Scot Suppan (ˈsuːpɑːn; born January 2, 1975, in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma), is a Major League Baseball pitcher for the Milwaukee Brewers.

[[Donation]]

CATEGORIES: Giving

A donation is a gift usually given for charitable reasons. It could be money, food, toys, clothing, or something else that is needed. Usually, when someone gives a donation they do not expect to get anything in return.

[[Shake It (Metro Station song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs

Shake It is a 2008 song by Metro Station. It is from their album Metro Station. The song video was released in 2009.

[[Constant Lievens]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1893 deaths, Belgian priests, Belgian Roman Catholics, Jesuits, Missionaries, People from West Flanders

Constant Lievens (April 11, 1856, in Moorslede, Belgium – November 7, 1893, in Leuven, Belgium) is a Belgian (Flemish) Jesuit priest, missionary among the tribal peoples of India. He is regarded as the apostle of the Chotanagpur (Jharkhand and Chattisgarh states in central India).

[[Precambrian]]

CATEGORIES: Geological periods

Pre-cambrian (or Precambrian) is a term used to describe the eons before the Cambrian. It lasted from about 4.567 billion years ago to about 542 million years ago. It starts with the beginning of the Earth, about 4.567 billion years ago. When it ends, there were many hard-shelled animals around. It is named after the Roman name for Cymru / Wales, because rocks thought to be from this time were first studied there.

The supereon is subdivided into 3 eons, the Hadean (4.5 to 4 billion years ago), the Archaean (4 to 2.5 billion years) and the Proterozoic (from 2.5 billion years to 542 million years).

The immediate Precambrian period is the Ediacaran.

[[Presidents' Trophy]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League trophies and awards

The Presidents' Trophy is an award presented by the National Hockey League (NHL) to the team that finishes with the most points in the league during the regular season. If two teams tie for the most points, then the trophy goes to the team with the most wins. The winning team is also awarded $350,000 in cash bonuses. The Presidents' Trophy has been awarded 27 times to 15 different teams since first being awarded in 1985. The most recent winner is the Tampa Bay Lightning for the 2018 NHL season.

[[Prince of Wales Trophy]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League trophies and awards, 1924 establishments in North America

The Prince of Wales Trophy, or simply the Wales Trophy, is a National Hockey League (NHL) trophy awarded to the Eastern Conference (formerly the Wales Conference) playoff champions. The trophy is awarded prior to the final series which are the championship games to decide the winner for the Stanley Cup against the Western Conference's champions. The trophy was first established in the 1923-24 NHL season, for the champion of the NHL playoffs, but it has been the trophy for eight different accomplishments, which also include being the NHL regular season champions, American Division regular season champions, regular season champions, East Division regular season champions, Wales Conference regular season champions, Wales Conference playoffs champions, and Eastern Conference playoffs champions. The current holder of the Prince of Wales Trophy is the Tampa Bay Lightning after defeating the New York Rangers in the 2015 Eastern Conference finals.

[[Prince of Wales (disambiguation)]]

Prince of Wales is the title traditionally given to the heir apparent to the reigning monarch of the United Kingdom. It originated as the title of current princes of Wales in the 12th and 13th centuries.

The name Prince of Wales may also refer to:

[[Caorle]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Veneto

Caorle is a small city on the coast of the Veneto region in northeast Italy. There are several churches that are popular to visit.

[[Pet Sounds]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 albums, The Beach Boys albums, Rock albums, Pop albums

Pet Sounds is the 11th studio album by the American band the Beach Boys. It was released in 1966. The album was very popular for its complex but catchy pop songs and technical recording style.

The leader of the band, Brian Wilson used a system of recording songs that was a little different than the system they had used before. Much of the album was recorded by Wilson himself using professional studio musicians. - people who are hired to play songs for an album. In the recording, stringed and wind instruments were used. They also used instruments that were very unusual for rock music. These included vibraphones, harps, French horns, harpsichords, electro-theremins. Also, things like bicycle whistles, and Coca Cola cans with stones inside of them were used. The lyrics of the songs were more serious. They talked about the problems, disappointments and sadness of a young man. Because all the songs had a similar mood and themes, it is considered to be a concept album.

After the album was released, Pet Sounds did not sell very well. Wilson felt this was a failure but music critics loved it. The album got real recognition in 1990s-2000s, when many music magazines listed it in their lists of the best albums in popular music.

Wilson decided to make another album in the same way. The new album, he called Smile.

[[Smile (Beach Boys album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, The Beach Boys albums

Smile is an unfinished album by the Beach Boys. Their leader Brian Wilson wanted the album to be the follow-up to the album Pet Sounds. It was never finished because Wilson thought the public would not like it.

Later in 1967, the Beach Boys released another album called Smiley Smile. The album had songs that were written for Smile. Smiley Smile was not the great success that Wilson thought Smile would have been. The Beach Boys lost many fans because of the album's failure.

In 2004, Brian finished a version of Smile.

[[Colleges and universities in Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Florida, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of private and public colleges and universities in the state of Florida:

[[Greek salad]]

CATEGORIES: Salads, Greek food

Greek salad (Greek: χωριάτικη σαλάτα, xorˈjatiki saˈlata), 'country/village salad', is a dish from Greece. It is commonly served as a part of  a traditional Greek meal. It is one of the most popular salads in Greece and Cyprus. This is because it is light, refreshing and easy to make. It is especially popular during the summer months. True Greek salad is essentially a tomato salad made of sliced or chopped tomatoes with a few slices of cucumber, and red onion. It is usually seasoned with salt, black pepper, and oregano and dressed with olive oil. Common additions include feta cheese, bell peppers, capers, anchovies, sardines and kalamata olives. Lettuce orvinegar are not used in a Greek salad. 

A lettuce salad (called μαρούλι, "lettuce") is a different salad. It is also popular, especially in the autumn and spring. It is made of finely sliced lettuce, scallions, and fresh dill, and dressed with salt, black pepper, olive oil and red wine vinegar or lemon juice.

[[Homo habilis]]

CATEGORIES: Hominins, Prehistoric Africa

Homo habilis  (Latin: "handy man") is one of the early ancestors of modern man who used primitive stone tools. Their remains have been found in the Olduvai Gorge in Tanzania. They are believed to be about 2 million years old. The flat face and large molars of the Homo habilis resemble the Australopithecus lineage. The brain size of the Homo habilis is about 700 cc (larger than the Australopithecus). An "apelike" (long arms and a small body) body structure was characteristic of the Homo habilis. They are believed to have been about 1.3 metres tall, and weigh about 37 kilograms. There is still a lot of argument between scientists about the species. They can not all agree on the characteristics, or whether it is even a separate species at all.

[[Avogadro constant]]

CATEGORIES: Analytical chemistry, Numbers

The Avogadro constant (symbols: L, NA) is the number of particles (usually atoms or molecules) in one mole of a given substance. Its value is equal to 6.02214129. The constant was named after the Italian scientist Amedeo Avogadro.

The measurement of Avogadro's constant was refined in 2011 to commas ± commas.

An old term closely related to the Avogadro constant is Avogadro's number. Avogadro's number is the number of atoms in 12 grams of the carbon isotope carbon-12. Avogadro's number is a dimensionless quantity and has the numerical value of the Avogadro constant given in base units.

[[Books of Kings]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books

The Books of Kings are a set of books in the Old Testament. Both Judaism and Christianity see it as a part of the Bible. The Books of Kings describes the history of Israel's kings from the end of the rule of David until the time of the Babylonian exile (so it writes about a time of about 450 years). After a long description of Solomon's rule, 1 and 2 Kings writes of how the kingdom of Israel was divided and then shows how the Kingdom of Israel and the Kingdom of Judah developed.

[[Under My Skin]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne albums, 2004 albums

Under My Skin is a 2004 album by Avril Lavigne. Under My Skin debuted at number-one on the Billboard 200 albums chart and according to Billboard magazine, was ranked number 149 on the list of top-selling album of the 2000s.

[[World Music Award]]

CATEGORIES: Music awards, 1989 establishments

The World Music Awards is an international awards show that honors recording artists every year. The awards are given out based on artists' worldwide sales figures, which are provided by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI). The World Music Awards was founded in 1989. John Martinotti is an executive producer and co-founder of the show.

[[The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 comedy movies, 2004 animated movies, Movies based on TV series, American comedy movies, American animated movies, SpongeBob SquarePants movies, Movies composed by Harry Gregson-Williams, Movies set in the 2000s

The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie is a 2004 movie based on Nickelodeon's SpongeBob SquarePants television series.

[[Montecito, California]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in California, Settlements in Santa Barbara County, California

Montecito is a census-designated place (CDP) in Santa Barbara County, California.  As of the 2000 census, the CDP population was approximately 10,000, although the boundaries are ill-defined. Montecito is among the richest communities in the United States and is home to many celebrities.  It is east of, and directly adjacent to the city of Santa Barbara, occupying the eastern portion of the coastal plain south of the Santa Ynez Mountains.  Portions of the town are built on the lower foothills of the range. Notable roads spanning the length of Montecito include Mountain Drive, Sycamore Canyon Road, and East Valley Road.

[[Goo Goo Dolls]]

CATEGORIES: American punk bands, American rock bands, Grunge bands, Musical groups from New York, Musicians from Buffalo, New York, Warner Bros. Records artists

The Goo Goo Dolls are a rock band formed in 1986 in Buffalo, New York by John Rzeznik and Robby Takac. "Iris" is one of their most popular songs.

[[Radio Disney]]

CATEGORIES: Radio stations in the United States, Disney, Dallas, Texas, Companies based in Texas, Defunct companies

Radio Disney was an American radio network based in Dallas, Texas, in the United States broadcasting music and other content targeted at children and young teenagers. It is a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company.  They closed in 2021.

[[Losing Grip]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 songs, Avril Lavigne songs

Losing Grip is a 2003 single by Avril Lavigne. It is the fourth single from her first studio album Let Go.

On the Billboard charts, Losing Grip was able to peak at #17 on the Mainstream Top 40, #33 on the Adult Top 40, and at #64 on the Hot 100 charts. At the 2004 Grammy Awards, Losing Grip was nominated for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance.

[[Books of the Bible]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Bible

The Books of the Bible are the different sections of the Bible.  Each book has a different name. Most of the time the book is named after the person who maybe wrote the book. Although that is not always the case. Different religions, and different denominations of Christianity, have different books or sections in the Bible. These different groups accept different books. These groups also use different names for the same books. The stories in the "Books of the Bible" are very similar for all religious groups. Some people use a trick and ideas to memorize the Bible.  

Below, there is a list or table that compares the Books of the Bible in Judaism and in the Catholic, Protestant, Greek Orthodox, Slavonic Orthodox, Georgian, Armenian Apostolic, Syriac, and Ethiopian Churches. The table covers both the Old Testament and the New Testament. For a detailed discussion of the differences, see "Biblical canon".

The Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, and Eastern Catholic churches may have small differences in the lists of books that they accept. If at least one Eastern church accepts a book, then that book is listed in this table. The Eastern churches accept all of the books that the Roman Catholic Church accepts.

[[Bambi's Children]]

CATEGORIES: Bambi, 1939 books, Children's books

Bambi's Children, The Story of a Forest Family (Bambis Kinder. Eine Familie im Walde) is a book written by Felix Salten, first printed and translated from German to English in 1939. It is a sequel to Salten's book Bambi, A Life in the Woods. It was first published in German only in the following year.

The main characters are Bambi's twin fawns, Geno, male, and Gurri, female; it also stars their friends, another pair of fawns named Lana and Boso. Lana and Boso are the children of Aunt Rolla, a doe met later in the course of the novel. Two more new characters are introduced—Nello and Membo, the orphans.  The overall storyline is how Geno and Gurri learn the pleasures as well as downsides of nature and their forest home. Bambi, A Life in the Woods, the original story of Bambi, is much darker than the sequel. Unlike its predecessor, Bambi's Children ends when Geno begins to grow his antlers, whereas Bambi, A Life in the Woods continues until Bambi's children are born.  In the end, Faline, knowing the time is right, sends off her children to live their own lives.

What may be interesting to readers is that it is not possible to determine whether Bambi's Children is a sequel to the book Bambi or a midquel as there are no references to the former which makes one able to place the latter. The language of Bambi's Children is more gentle than that of Bambi, A Life in the Woods.

[[Book of Common Prayer]]

CATEGORIES: Christian literature, Protestant Reformation

The Book of Common Prayer is an old Anglican prayer book.

The book was first published in 1549 during the reign of Edward VI of England. It was the first prayer book to contain the forms of service for daily and Sunday worship in English and to do so within a single volume.

[[9X Generation]]

CATEGORIES: Cultural anthropology

Thế hệ 9X (The 9X Generation) is the group of people born between the years 1990 and 1999. This is a Vietnamese term.

[[Littlest Pet Shop (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Wii games, Nintendo DS games, Windows games, Electronic Arts video games

Littlest Pet Shop is an video game that was made by Electronic Arts. It is part of the Littlest Pet Shop series. The video game was released on the PC, Wii, and Nintendo DS. The game was released on October 14, 2008 in North America.

[[Unforgiven (2008)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in professional wrestling, Sports in Cleveland, Ohio, WWE Unforgiven, 2008 in American television, 2000s in Cleveland, Ohio

Unforgiven (2008) was the eleventh Unforgiven professional wrestling pay-per-view event by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on September 7, 2008 at the Quicken Loans Arena in Cleveland, Ohio and used talent from the Raw, SmackDown!, and ECW brands.

[[WWE Unforgiven]]

CATEGORIES: WWE Unforgiven

WWE Unforgiven is a professional wrestling pay-per-view. It now happens every year in September. The event was put on by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). The event was exclusive to the Raw brand from 2003 to 2006. The first event was an In Your House pay-per-view event. It took place on April 26, 1998. It featured the first Inferno match. The combatants were The Undertaker and his brother (kayfabe) Kane. The event was succeeded by WWE Breaking Point.

[[Fill (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical terminology

A fill in popular music is a short instrumental passage, between melody lines of a song. (A longer passage between verses is called a solo.)

Fills are usually played with a keyboard instrument or a guitar, but other instruments (such as a saxophone) may also be used. Drum fills are sometimes called "drum rolls", but a roll is actually a steady beat on a single drum, while a fill may use more than one drum or beat.

[[Montevideo Convention]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 in the United States, International law, Montevideo, 1930s treaties

The Montevideo Convention on the Rights and Duties of States is a treaty. Today, it is part of customary international law. The treaty was signed at Montevideo, Uruguay, on December 26, 1933, at the Seventh International Conference of American States.  At this conference, United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Secretary of State Cordell Hull declared the so-called Good Neighbor Policy which opposed U.S. armed intervention in inter-American affairs. Franklin D. Roosevelt tried to reverse the perception of "Yankee imperialism" with this treaty.  The view of Yankee imperialism was brought about by policies instituted (largely) by his predecessor, President Herbert Hoover. The convention was signed by 19 states, three with reservations (Brazil, Peru and the United States).

The convention is about what a state is and what rights and duties a state has.  The most well-known is article 1, which sets out the four criteria for statehood that have sometimes been recognized as an accurate statement of customary international law:

In addition, the first sentence of article 3 states explicitly that "The political existence of the state is independent of recognition by the other states." This is known as the declarative theory of statehood.

Some have questioned whether these criteria are enough, as they allow less-recognized entities like the Republic of China (Taiwan) or under- or unrepresented entities like the Principality of Sealand, Somaliland or Liberland to claim full status as states. According to the alternative constitutive theory of statehood, a state exists only insofar as it is recognized by other states. It should not be confused with the Estrada doctrine.

Some people have attempted make the definition of statehood broader, although they have less support. Founders of non-territorial micronations often say that the requirement in the Montevideo Convention of a defined territory is unjust. Some non-territorial entities, notably the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, are considered subjects of international law, but they do not aspire to be states.

[[Gig]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry

A gig is a word that bands use when talking about their live shows. The Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians defines a gig as "A term commonly applied to a musical engagement of one night’s duration only; to undertake such an engagement."

[[Folly]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures

In architecture, a folly is a building usually constructed strictly for aesthetic pleasure. Originally, buildings were made to provide  shelter or to house people. Follies are just decoration; they no longer have a building's original function.

They were first constructed to put accents into parks and estates. "Folly" is used in the sense of fun or light-heartedness, not in the sense of something ill-advised.

[[Littlest Pet Shop]]

CATEGORIES: Toys

Littlest Pet Shop are a line of toys sold by Hasbro. They are marketed for girls. The toys were first sold in 1992. They were sold for four years before Hasbro stopped selling them. In 2005, the company started selling them again. Since 2005, over 60 million of the toys have been sold at about $4 each. The Littlest Pet Shop toys are one of the main types of toys sold by Hasbro.

[[Bambi (disambiguation)]]

Bambi can mean:

People:

Fictional people:

Other:

[[Pete Seeger]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2014 deaths, American activists, American folk musicians, American guitarists, American pianists, Singer-songwriters from New York, American television presenters, Banjo players, Deaths from natural causes, Mandolinists, Musicians from New York City, Singers from New York City, Writers from New York City

Pete Seeger (Peter Seeger; May 3, 1919 – January 27, 2014) was an American folk musician and songwriter. He was a longtime friend of Woody Guthrie, and founder of The Almanac Singers and The Weavers, two famous folk bands. Seeger's usual musical instrument is a banjo.

[[Strawberry Fields Forever]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 songs, The Beatles songs

"Strawberry Fields Forever" is a song composed by John Lennon, recorded by his band The Beatles in 1966 at Abbey Road Studios, and issued by Parlophone Records and Capitol Records in February 1967, as the B-side to "Penny Lane".

[[Lucy (Australopithecus)]]

CATEGORIES: Australopithecines

Lucy is the common name of AL 288-1. This is a fossil discovery of about 40% of the skeleton of a female Australopithecus afarensis. There are several hundred pieces of bone. The discovery was made in 1974 at Hadar in the Awash Valley of Ethiopia's Afar Depression.

This discovery gave us much scientific evidence. Lucy lived about 3.2 million years ago, and is a hominid.

The skeleton shows that Lucy had a small skull capacity, like an ape, but also that she walked upright like a human. This supported the view that bipedalism came before the increase in brain size in human evolution. Those features are true of all australopithecines.

[[Tom Smothers]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American composers, American television personalities, Comedians from New York City, Musicians from New York City, Actors from New York City

Tom Smothers (born Thomas Bolyn Smothers III on February 2, 1937) is an American comedian, composer and musician, best known as half of the musical comedy team The Smothers Brothers, alongside his younger brother Dick.

Smothers was born on February 2, 1937 in New York City, New York.  He studied at Redondo Union High School and at San José State University. He was married two times. His current marriage is to Marcy Carriker. He has two children with Carriker and one from his last marriage. He now lives in Sonoma County, California.

[[Dick Smothers]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American composers, American television personalities, Comedians from New York City, Musicians from New York City, Actors from New York City

Richard Remick "Dick" Smothers (born November 20, 1939) is an American actor, comedian, composer and musician. He is best known for being half of the musical comedy team the Smothers Brothers, with his older brother Tom.

Smothers was born on November 20, 1939 in New York City, New York. He studied at Verdugo Hills High School, later at the Redondo Union High, and at the San José State University. 

He was married to Linda Smothers from 1960 until they divorced in 1969. Then he was married to Lorraine Martin from 1986 until they divorced a few months later. Then he was married to Denby Franklin from 1997 until they divorced in 2006. He had six children. He now lives in Sarasota, Florida.

[[Italian Mare Nostrum]]

CATEGORIES: World War II, History of Italy

Italian Mare Nostrum was the name given during World War II, by Benito Mussolini and his fascist propaganda to the Mediterranean Sea.

[[ArenaBowl]]

CATEGORIES: Arena Football League

The ArenaBowl is the Arena Football League's championship game. 

[[New York Dragons]]

CATEGORIES: Arena Football League, Sports in New York, 1995 establishments in the United States

The New York Dragons are an Arena Football League team. They were started in 1995 as the Iowa Barnstormers. In 2001, the team moved to New York. They now play in the Eastern Division of the National Conference.

[[Amsterdam Admirals]]

CATEGORIES: American football, Sport in the Netherlands, Amsterdam

The Amsterdam Admirals were a professional American football team in the NFL Europa. They are based in Amsterdam, Netherlands.

[[The Andy Griffith Show]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 establishments in the United States, 1968 disestablishments, 1960s American television series, American sitcoms, Black and white television series, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

The Andy Griffith Show is an American sitcom television series. The series won no awards, but it was very popular in its day. It was #1 in its final year on the air.

[[Happy Days]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s in fiction, 1974 television series debuts, 1984 television series endings, 1970s American sitcoms, 1980s American sitcoms, ABC network shows, American television spin-offs, Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, Period television series, Television series set in Wisconsin, 1974 establishments in the United States, 1984 disestablishments in the United States, English-language television programs

Happy Days is an American television sitcom. It was originally aired on ABC between January 15, 1974 and June 12, 1984. It stars Ron Howard, and has several spin-offs. It is set in Milwaukee, Wisconsin in the 1950s and 1960s.

[[Archie Bunker's Place]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, CBS network shows, Television spin-offs, 1979 American television series debuts, 1983 disestablishments in the United States, English-language television programs

Archie Bunker's Place is an American TV sitcom made by Norman Lear. It aired on CBS from September 23, 1979, and ended on April 4, 1983. It is a spin-off of All in the Family.

[[Live Free or Die Hard]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, 2000s action thriller movies, 2000s crime thriller movies, 2000s sequel movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American sequel movies, Die Hard movies, Movies set in Maryland, Movies set in New York, Movies set in Washington, D.C.

Live Free or Die Hard (called Die Hard 4.0 outside of North America and also known as Die Hard 4) is a 2007 American action movie starring Bruce Willis and Justin Long. It is the fourth film in the Die Hard series

[[Texas Tech University]]

CATEGORIES: Big 12 Conference, Colleges and universities in Texas, Lubbock, Texas, 1923 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in Texas

Texas Tech University is a public university in Lubbock, Texas. It started in 1923 and now has about 30,000 students.

[[Die Hard with a Vengeance]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 action movies, 1995 crime movies, 1995 thriller movies, 1990s action thriller movies, 1990s crime thriller movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Die Hard movies, Movies directed by John McTiernan, Movies set in New York City

Die Hard with a Vengeance is a 1995 American action movie starring Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson. It is the third movie in the Die Hard series.

[[Die Hard 2]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 action movies, 1990 crime movies, 1990s action thriller movies, 1990s crime thriller movies, 1990s sequel movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American sequel movies, Die Hard movies, Movies about murderers, Movies based on books, Movies set in Virginia, Movies directed by Renny Harlin

Die Hard 2 (also called Die Hard 2: Die Harder) is an American action thriller movie starring Bruce Willis, Bonnie Bedelia, and William Sadler.  It was released on the Fourth of July weekend in 1990. It is the second movie in the Die Hard series.

[[Die Hard]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 crime movies, 1988 action movies, 1980s crime thriller movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American action thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, American heist movies, Die Hard movies, German-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by John McTiernan, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Multilingual movies

Die Hard is a 1988 American action thriller movie starring Bruce Willis. It is the first movie in a series, and was followed by four sequels Die Hard 2 (1990), Die Hard with a Vengeance (1995), Live Free or Die Hard (2007), and A Good Day to Die Hard (2013).

[[Street Fighter 2010]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 video games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Fighting games

Street Fighter 2010: The Final Fight is a Nintendo Entertainment System beat 'em up video game made by Capcom. It is very different from any other game in the series, being a platform game rather than a versus fighting game. In the American version of the game, the player controls Ken Masters.

[[Rayman Raving Rabbids]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, PlayStation Portable games, Game Boy Advance games, Nintendo DS games, Windows games, PlayStation 2 games, Wii games, Xbox 360 games, Ubisoft games, Video game spin-offs, Party video games, Rayman

Rayman Raving Rabbids is a party video game made by Ubisoft for the Wii, PlayStation 2, Xbox 360, Microsoft Windows, Game Boy Advance, and Nintendo DS game consoles. It's a spin-off of the Rayman series where Rayman has to thwart the Rabbids, the bad guys of the game, playing mini-games to do this. The Game Boy Advance and DS versions are platform games like older Rayman titles with less mini-games.

[[Teleportation]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Science fiction, Transport

Teleportation is the supposed movement of matter from one point to another without travelling across the physical space between them. This has been shown in science fiction movies to move objects and people quickly from one place to another. In the real world however, no one knows if and how such a move could ever be performed. Therefore it remains a purely fictional idea to date.

[[Capcom]]

CATEGORIES: Capcom, Video game companies, 1979 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Japan

Capcom Co., Ltd. is a Japanese video game company. They are most known for the Mega Man series, Resident Evil series, Steel battalion and Street fighther.

They were founded on May 30, 1979.

[[Mega Man Star Force 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, Mega Man games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games, Capcom games, Video game sequels

Mega Man Star Force 2, known in Japan as Shooting Star Rockman 2 is an action role-playing video game made by Capcom for the Nintendo DS game console. There are two versions - Zerker × Saurian and Zerker × Ninja. It is the sequel to Mega Man Star Force, and will have a sequel in 2008.

[[Mega Man Star Force]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games, Mega Man games, Capcom games

Mega Man Star Force, known in Japan as Shooting Star Rockman, is an action role-playing video game made by Capcom for the Nintendo DS game console. It has three versions - Pegasus, Leo, and Dragon. It has a sequel called Mega Man Star Force 2.

[[Mega Man X8]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, Mega Man games, PlayStation 2 games, Windows games, Capcom games, Video game sequels

Mega Man X8 is a platform video game made by Capcom for the PlayStation 2 game console. It's the sequel to Mega Man X7, and the latest game in the Mega Man X series.

[[Mega Man X7]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 video games, Mega Man games, PlayStation 2 games, Windows games, Capcom games, Video game sequels

Mega Man X7, called ロックマンX7 in Japan, is a platform video game made by Capcom for the PlayStation 2 game console. It is the sequel to Mega Man X6.

[[Mega Man X6]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 video games, Mega Man games, PlayStation games, Windows games, Capcom games, Video game sequels

Mega Man X6, called Rockman X6 in Japan, is a platform video game made by Capcom for the PlayStation game console. It is the sequel to Mega Man X5.

[[Pikmin (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Pikmin series

Pikmin is a series of video games created by Nintendo that started on the Nintendo GameCube in 2001. It has two released games - Pikmin and Pikmin 2, and it has an upcoming game that will be on the Wii or Nintendo DS. The series is about a spaceman called Captain Olimar visiting an alien planet and working with creatures called Pikmin to explore it.

[[Metroid Prime]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 video games, Cancelled video games, Nintendo GameCube games, Wii games, Metroid Prime

Metroid Prime is a first-person action-adventure video game made by Retro Studios and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo GameCube game console. It is the first 3D Metroid game, and it had a lot of controversy over it. It has had a lot of follow-up titles. It has had two sequels called Metroid Prime 2: Echoes and Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, a side game called Metroid Prime Hunters, and a spin-off called Metroid Prime Pinball. It takes place after Metroid, but before Metroid II: Return of Samus.

[[Minnesota Timberwolves]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in Minneapolis, Minnesota, 1989 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Minnesota

The Minnesota Timberwolves are a basketball team in Minneapolis, Minnesota in the United States. They began playing in the National Basketball Association in 1989. They play their home games at the Target Center. 

The Minnesota Timberwolves played their first game on November 3, 1989 in a 106–94 loss against the Seattle SuperSonics. After the Timberwolves drafted Kevin Garnett in the 1995 NBA draft, they were able to make the NBA playoffs for 8 seasons in a row. In 2004, the Timberwolves were able to win their first division title and advanced to the Western Conference Finals. The team was defeated 4 games to 2 by the Los Angeles Lakers.

On October 25, 2015, head coach Flip Saunders died after a battle with Hodgkin's lymphoma. Sam Mitchell is currently serving as an interim head coach.

The Minnesota Timberwolves went 14 years without going to the playoffs, but in 2018 the Timberwolves made the playoffs with a 8 seed and are heading up against the Houston Rockets with the Rockets up in a 3-1 lead.

[[Longsword]]

CATEGORIES: Swords

The longsword is a European sword. It was mainly used during the medieval and renaissance periods, about 1350 to 1550 AD. Early and late use is known in the 13th and 17th centuries.

The longsword has a long blade, but also a long grip, which means it is a weapon designed for two-handed use.

[[Resident Evil]]

CATEGORIES: Resident Evil

Resident Evil is a survival horror media franchise which has had of video games, movies, comics, novels, and collectibles owned by Capcom. It's one of their most successful franchises ever, along with Mega Man and Street Fighter.April 2009

[[Kofi Kingston]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Ghanaian people, WWE wrestlers

Kofi Sarkodie-Mensah (born 14 March 1981) is a Ghanaian-American professional wrestler. He is currently signed to World Wrestling Entertainment where he wrestles under the ring name Kofi Kingston. Kingston has won the wwe tag team championship on numerous occasions.

[[Red-necked wallaby]]

CATEGORIES: Macropods, Marsupials of Australia

The red-necked wallaby (Macropus rufogriseus) is a medium-sized macropod, common in  parts of eastern Australia. As one of the largest wallabies, it looks like a kangaroo. Males can weigh more than 20 kg and have a head-body length of 90 cm.

Red-necked wallabies have a black nose and paws, white stripe on the upper lip, and a medium grey coat with a red color on their neck.

Red-necked wallabies are found along the coast and forests of eastern Australia, from Rockhampton, Queensland to the South Australian border; in Tasmania and on many of the Bass Strait islands (many of these may have been introduced to the islands).

In Tasmania, north-east New South Wales and coastal Queensland, their numbers have got bigger over the past 30 years. This is because they are no longer hunted. A lot of forest has been cleared for grass where wallabies can feed at night, alongside trees where they can shelter by day. It is less common in Victoria.

Like most macropods, the red-necked wallaby lives by itself. Groups, also called mobs, share feeding areas. They feed at night and in the late afternoon, generally eating grass and herbs close to forest shelter.

There are two subspecies. The Tasmanian form, Macropus rufogriseus rufogriseus, also called Bennett's wallaby is smaller, has longer fur, and breeds in the late summer, mostly between February and April. They can live close to people and are seen feeding on lawns in the suburbs of Hobart and other towns.

The mainland form, Macropus rufogriseus banksianus, breeds all year round. A female can have babies at the about 14 months old. A baby red-necked wallaby, called a joey, lives in the mothers pouch for 9 months, and continues to feed from the mother till about 12–15 months of age.

[[Kolo Touré]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Ivorian footballers, Manchester City F.C. players

Kolo Touré (born 19 March 1981) is a Côte d'Ivoire football player. He plays for Liverpool and Côte d'Ivoire national team.

[[Battle of Baghdad (1258)]]

CATEGORIES: 1258, Battles, History of Islam, Baghdad, History of Iraq, 13th century in Asia

The Battle of Baghdad in 1258 was a victory for the Mongol leader Hulagu Khan, a grandson of Genghis Khan. Baghdad was captured, sacked, and over time burned.

Baghdad was the capital of the Abbasid Empire. This was an Islamic empire in what is now Iraq.  The Abbasid caliphs were the second of the Islamic dynasties.

[[Credo]]

CATEGORIES: Christian prayers

The Credo (ˈkɾeːd̪oː) is part of Christian Mass.  Credo is Latin, and means I believe. It is a statement of faith. In Catholicism, the Nicene Creed is used very often; but there are others, such as the Athanasian Creed or Apostles' Creed.

Very often it is sung by the crowd, or by a choir; many people have written credoes. One of them is Antonio Vivaldi

[[J. D. Salinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2010 deaths, American novelists, Jewish American writers, Jews who converted to Christianity, Writers from Manhattan

Jerome David Salinger (January 1, 1919 – January 27, 2010), better known as J. D. Salinger, was an American writer of (partly) Jewish descent. He was best known for his 1951 novel The Catcher in the Rye.

[[Luca Toni]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Luca Toni (born 26 May 1977 in Pavullo nel Frignano, Modena) is an Italian football player. He plays for Genoa and Italy national team.

[[Sara Gilbert]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Actors from Santa Monica, California, American child actors, LGBT people from California, American movie actors, American television actors, Lesbians, LGBT actors, Vegetarians

Sara Gilbert (born Sara Rebecca Abeles on January 29, 1975 in Santa Monica, California) is an American actress most famous for being Darlene Conner in Roseanne. She has guest-starred on many primetime programs such as The Simpsons and Will & Grace. She was in the cast of The Big Bang Theory. She is a vegetarian. She is openly lesbian and was in a relationship with Allison Adler from 2002 until their relationship ended in 2011. They have a son born in 2004, and a daughter born in 2007. She has been in a relationship with musician Linda Perry since 2011. The couple became engaged in April 2013. Gilbert was born in Santa Monica, California, the daughter of Barbara Cowan (née Crane) and Harold Abeles.

[[Alicia Goranson]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American television actors, actors from Illinois, American movie actors, People from Evanston, Illinois

Alicia Linda Goranson (born June 22, 1974, in Evanston, Illinois), also known as Lecy Goranson, is an American actress most famous for her role as Becky Conner in the TV show Roseanne.

[[Ape Escape]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 video games, PlayStation games, PlayStation Portable games

Ape Escape, known in Japan as Saru! Get You!, is a platform video game for the PlayStation. It was made by Sony Computer Entertainment.

[[Ken Kesey]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2001 deaths, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from liver cancer, Writers from Colorado, Writers from Oregon

Kenneth Elton Kesey (September 17, 1935 – November 10, 2001) was an American writer best known for his novel One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. He was born in La Junta, Colorado and moved to Springfield, Oregon in 1946.

[[Liver cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Liver disease

Liver cancer is malignant tumors on, or in, a liver. The most common form of liver cancer is hepatocellular carcinoma, which is more common in those with cirrhosis of the liver, which may be caused by alcohol abuse, Wilson's disease, or hepatitis. Hepatoblastoma occurs most often in children.

[[One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 books, 20th century American novels, English-language novels, Oregon, Suicide in fiction, Works about prostitution

One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a novel. It was written in 1959 by Ken Kesey. It was published in 1962. It is set in a mental asylum in Oregon. It was made into a movie that was directed by Milos Forman. The movie stars Jack Nicholson. It was very popular, and won 5 Academy Awards. It was a very controversial book. It is still considered a classic.

[[Fred Thompson]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Alabama, American lobbyists, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in Tennessee, Deaths from non-Hodgkin lymphoma, People from Sheffield, Alabama, Politicians from Alabama, 2008 United States presidential candidates, United States senators from Tennessee

Fred Dalton Thompson (Freddie Dalton Thompson; September 19, 1942 – November 1, 2015) was an American politician, actor, attorney, and lobbyist. 

Thompson became famous during the 1970s during the Watergate Scandal because he discovered the Watergate tapes which would lead to President Richard Nixon's resignation in 1973.

He starred on Law & Order as Arthur Branch, the District Attorney of New York. He quit the show to run as the Republican candidate for the United States presidency in 2008, but he did not become the candidate. He was also the host of The Fred Thompson Show, one of Westwood One's most popular talk shows.

On November 1, 2015, Thompson died from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), a form of cancer, at the age of 73 in Nashville, Tennessee.

[[John Glenn]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2016 deaths, American astronauts, American aviators, American military personnel of the Korean War, American military personnel of World War II, American Presbyterians, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Colonels, Disease-related deaths in Ohio, 1984 United States presidential candidates, United States senators from Ohio, US Democratic Party politicians, Businesspeople from Columbus, Ohio, Engineers from Ohio, Congressional Gold Medal recipients, Freemasons, Scientists from Columbus, Ohio, Politicians from Columbus, Ohio, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, United States Marine Corps personnel

John Herschel Glenn Jr. (July 18, 1921 – December 8, 2016) was a former astronaut and United States Senator. He is best known for being the first American to orbit the Earth as an astronaut for NASA. After his career as an astronaut, he went into politics and served as a Senator from his home state of Ohio from 1974-1999. In 1998, he made his second spaceflight at the age of 77 years. He is the oldest man ever in outer space. Following the death of senator Edward Brooke in January 2015, he was the oldest living former U.S. senator until his death in December 2016.

[[Super OS]]

CATEGORIES: Linux software, Ubuntu (operating system) derivatives, Linux distributions, Live CD

Super OS (formerly: Super Ubuntu) is a free Linux distribution. It is a modified version of Ubuntu made with reconstructor. Its main goal is to provide an ‘Out of the Box’ experience, containing various enhancements over Ubuntu. It has the goal of remaining compatible with Ubuntu.

[[Sahelanthropus]]

CATEGORIES: Hominins, Prehistoric Africa, Miocene

Sahelanthropus tchadensis is a fossil hominid. From evidence at the fossil site in Chad in the African Sahel, it is thought to have lived about 7 million years ago. 

The split of the line into humans and chimpanzees (known as human-chimpanzee divergence) probably happened between 6.3 and 5.4 million years ago. This can be seen from genetic data. Because the fossil is older than this spilt, its status is unclear. The first fossil found is known as Toumaï today.

[[Remastersys]]

CATEGORIES: Live CD, Debian-based Linux distributions

Remastersys is a free software/open source (GPL) script for Linux distributions that allows a person to:

[[The Unknown Comic]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Canadian television actors, Canadian comedians

Murray Langston (born 1945, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, Canada) is a Canadian comedian and writer. His television work includes The Sonny and Cher Comedy Hour, Make Me Laugh, and The Gong Show.

Langston is best known, oddly enough, as The Unknown Comic – a comedian who appears onstage wearing a paper bag over his head. He first appeared as the Unknown Comic on The Gong Show. He did not want his true identity known, because an appearance on an amateur show could have hurt his comedy career, when he was already well-known.

Audiences liked the Unknown Comic, and Langston began to appear as that character on other shows, and in live performances. In time, Langston was as famous for the character as for himself. When he was finally unmasked in public (on a television show called Real People), the two careers became one. Langston has performed both as himself and as the Unknown Comic ever since.

Langston partly retired from his career during the 1990s, to focus on raising his daughter.

[[Australopithecine]]

CATEGORIES: Australopithecines, Miocene

The term Australopithecine ('australos' for short) refers to any species in the related genera  Australopithecus or  Paranthropus. These genera occurred in the Pliocene–Pleistocene era, and were bipedal. The arrangement of their teeth, especially the dental arcade, was similar to humans. They did not have the large canine teeth characteristic of present-day apes.

They had a brain size not much larger than modern apes, lacking the large brain of the genus Homo. They were mainly bipedal, but probably capable of climbing and living at least partly in trees. Their arms were longer in proportion to their bodies, and this also suggests their inherited capacity to move above the ground. The efficiency of their walking is difficult to estimate, but they were not so well adapted to bipedalism as humans. The males were much larger than the females, which suggests a family arrangement with a dominant male and several females, as with modern apes. Nothing is known for certain about their use of tools.

They are in the hominins,and appeared in the late Miocene.

When used alone, the term refers to both genera together. Australopithecus is sometimes referred to as the "gracile (slender) australopithecines", while Paranthropus are also called the "robust australopithecines".

Other genera:

A likely ancestor of the australopithecines is the Ardipithecus genus, which lived in East Africa. The genus Homo (humans), appears about 2.4 million years ago with Homo habilis. Australos moved into mixed savannah/woodland habitats as the climate cooled in the later Miocene. This explains their adaptations to walking or walking plus climbing. It also explains the changes to their diet and teeth, though not in detail. The great increase in brain size of modern man began with the genus Homo: it did not start with the australos.

The australopithecines according to Briggs & Crowther.

[[Sahara pump theory]]

CATEGORIES: Geography, Evolutionary biology, Prehistoric Africa

The Sahara Pump Theory attempts to explain how plants and animals from Africa moved into the Middle East and then Europe and Asia. 

At the time, Africa was rainier than it is today, and the Sahara was wetter, with bigger lakes and more rivers. 

African rainy periods are associated with a "wet Sahara" phase, during which larger lakes and more rivers exist.  This causes changes in the type of animals found in the area. 

Regardless of the aridity of the greater Sahara, migration along the river corridor was halted when, during a desert phase 1.8-0.8 million years ago, the Nile ceased to flow completely and possibly flowed only temporarily in other periods due to Nubian Swell uplift.

During the periods of a wet Sahara, the Sahara and Arabia become a savanna grassland and African flora and fauna become common. During the following dry period, the Sahara reverts to desert conditions usually as a result of the retreat of the West African Monsoon southwards. Evaporation exceeds precipitation, the level of water in lakes like Lake Chad falls, and rivers become dry wadis.  

Flora and fauna previously widespread retreat northwards to the Atlas Mountains, southwards into West Africa, or eastwards into the Nile Valley and thence either south-east to the Ethiopian Highlands and Kenya or north-east across the Sinai into Asia. This separates populations of some of the species in areas with different climates, forcing them to adapt, possibly giving rise to speciation (species splitting).

The Saharan pump has been used to date four waves of human emigration from Africa, namely:

[[US Airways]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the United States, Tempe, Arizona, Star Alliance

US Airways, Inc. was an airline that used to be owned by the US Airways Group, Inc. US Airways was previously known as USAir. It was the sixth largest airline in the United States.  Its headquarters were in Tempe, Arizona. US Airways owned 357 large jet aircraft and 329 smaller planes that flew to 240 places in North America, Central America, the Caribbean, Hawaii, and Europe. In May 2008, US Airways had 36,632 people working for them in the world and flew 3,512 flights each day.  The US in US Airways stands for United States.

US Airways had many flights from Charlotte, North Carolina, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Phoenix, Arizona. US Airways also ran smaller numbers of flights from Washington, DC, Las Vegas, Nevada, New York, New York, and Boston, Massachusetts.

The airline also had the US Airways Shuttle. It's a brand which operates frequent flights between cities in the northeast part of the United States. Other companies operate short flights for US Airways, which are called US Airways Express. After the AA combination, the brand is now known as the "American Shuttle".

In 2005, US Airways combined with America West Airlines, but they kept the US Airways name.

In 2013, US Airways announced it was going to be combined with American Airlines.  The combination was completed on April 8, 2015,  with the new airline keeping the "American Airlines" name.  US Airways had it's last flight on October 16, 2015. 

[[Northwest Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the United States, 2010 disestablishments

Northwest Airlines, Inc. (often abbreviated NWA) is a subsidiary of Delta Air Lines, Inc., and was a major United States airline. It was headquartered in Eagan, Minnesota, near Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport in the United States. Northwest had three major hubs in the United States: Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport, Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport, and Memphis International Airport. Northwest also operated flights from a small hub in Asia at Narita International Airport near Tokyo and also operated transatlantic flights in cooperation with their partner KLM from Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam. It also had focus city operations at Indianapolis International Airport and Seattle-Tacoma International Airport.

As of 2006 Northwest was the world's sixth largest airline in terms of domestic and international scheduled passenger miles flown and the U.S.'s sixth largest airline in terms of domestic passenger miles flown. In addition to operating one of the largest domestic route networks in the U.S., Northwest carries more passengers across the Pacific Ocean (5.1 million in 2004) than any other U.S. carrier, and carries more domestic air cargo than any other American passenger airline. It is the only U.S. combination carrier (passenger and cargo service) operating dedicated Boeing 747 freighters. The airline, along with its parent company, Northwest Airlines Corporation and subsidiaries, operated under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection which, in the United States, allows continued operation during the reorganization effort, not stopping flights as in the case in some countries. Northwest emerged from bankruptcy protection on May 31, 2007.

Northwest Airlines' regional flights were operated under the name Northwest Airlink by Mesaba Airlines, Pinnacle Airlines, and Compass Airlines. Its frequent flyer program was WorldPerks. Northwest Airlines' tagline was "Now you're flying smart." 

On April 14, 2008, Northwest announced it would be merging with Delta Air Lines, subject to regulatory review. The merger was officially completed on January 31, 2010. 

[[JetBlue Airways]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the United States, Companies based in New York City, Low-cost airlines

JetBlue Airways is an American low-cost airline owned by JetBlue Airways Corporation. The company is headquartered in Long Island City, a neighborhood in New York City.  Its main base is John F. Kennedy International Airport. 

In 2001, JetBlue began a focus city operation at Long Beach in Los Angeles County, California. Another was opened at Logan International Airport in Boston, Massachusetts in 2004. It also has focus city operations at Fort Lauderdale – Hollywood International Airport, Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport, and Orlando International Airport. The airline mainly serves destinations in the United States, along with flights to the Caribbean, the Bahamas, Bermuda, and Mexico. As of February 2021, JetBlue has 267 airplanes, with 8 on order, and flies to 99 cities. 

[[Erich Wasicky]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1947 deaths, Austrian people of World War II, Austrian physicians, Austrian war criminals, Executed Austrian people, Executed Nazis, Holocaust perpetrators, Majors, People executed by hanging, Scientists from Vienna, SS officers, Waffen-SS people, Pharmacists

Erich Wasicky (May 27, 1911 in Vienna, Austria - May 28, 1947 in Landsberg) was a pharmacist at the Mauthausen concentration camp. He was responsible for killing many inmates.

Wasicky joined the NSDAP and the SS (he had the rank of SS-Sturmbannführer). From 1941 to 1944, he worked in the concentration-camp Mauthausen. He was in charge of choosing victims to be killed, and of poisoning them with the gas Zyklon-B. He also drove trucks that were used for killing people by exhaust gas. Up to 15,000 people had been killed at Mauthausen as well as neighboring Hartheim.

After the end of World War II he was charged with murder by an US-military tribunal, found guilty, and was hanged on May 28, 1947.

[[Indie pop]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music, Alternative music

Indie pop is a genre of alternative rock which originated in the United Kingdom in the 1980s. Originally and often still a form of independent music, it is closely associated with indie rock, both genres are similar, yet there are differences between both. Indie rock tends to be edgier, rougher and harsher-sounding, contrasting the more melodious indie pop. Indie pop additionally takes influences from 1960s girl group music and power pop, often giving it retro elements, and makes usage of jangly guitars.

In 1986, British music magazine NME released a cassette called C86, which included indie pop and indie rock music; the artists in C86 made music which was described by About.com as "a twee, amateurish form of home-made music drawing deeply from sunny '60s acts like The Byrds and the Velvet Underground."

Early indie pop bands include The Shop Assistants or The Pastels. More recent bands in the genre include Point blank, Travis, The Research and Maritime.

[[Travis]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, British pop music groups, Indie bands, Musical groups from Glasgow, Scottish rock bands, 1990s establishments in Scotland

Travis are a Scottish Indie pop rock band. They have released many albums including The Man Who, The Invisible band and  The Boy with No Name. 

Their latest album was released in September of 2013 and is called Where You Stand

They are best known for their single "Why Does It Always Rain on Me?" from their 1999 release The Man Who.

[[The Boy with No Name]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums

The Boy with No Name is an album by Indie pop band Travis and was released in May of 2007.  The name of this record came from the fact it took Francis Healy (singer) a long time to name his son.

[[Stuttering]]

CATEGORIES: Language, Human communication

Stuttering or stammering is a problem of speech disorder some people have when they speak. Five to six percent of children have a stammer while one percent of adults have a stammer.  Men are 4 times more likely to have a stammer than women.  Stammers normally start at 2-6 years and run in families.  The person knows what they want to say but the flow of their speech is ‘bumpy’ and may have some of the following features:

[[Life expectancy]]

CATEGORIES: Demography, Gerontology

Life expectancy is how long a person is expected to live. It is based on many factors such as country and life style including smoking, diet, and exercise.

[[Autrans]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Isère, Former communes in France

Autrans is a village near Grenoble. About 1,541 people live there. It is a well-known ski resort. On 1 January 2016, it became a part of the new commune of Autrans-Méaudre-en-Vercors.

[[Claron McFadden]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Singers from New York City, Sopranos, American opera singers

Claron McFadden (born 1961) is an American soprano singer. She became known because she sang in the opera Lulu by Alban Berg, at Glyndebourne Festival Opera.

[[Demosthenes]]

CATEGORIES: 384 BC births, 322 BC deaths, European politicians, Ancient Greek philosophers

Demosthenes (384–322 BC, Δημοσθένης, Dēmosthénēs) was a well-known Greek statesman and orator from ancient Athens. His speeches show the height of classical Athenian skill at speaking. They also show us lots about the politics and culture of ancient Greece during the 4th century BC. Demosthenes learned rhetoric by studying the speeches of previous great orators.  He delivered his first law court speeches when he was twenty. He argued effectively to gain from his guardians what was left of his inheritance. For a time, Demosthenes made his living as a professional speech-writer and a lawyer, writing speeches for use in private legal suits.

At the age of 21, Demosthenes took the job of the commander of warships in Athens.

Demosthenes grew interested in politics during the time he wrote speeches for others. In 354 BC he gave his first public political speeches. He went on to devote his most productive years to opposing Macedon's expansion. He idealized his city and tried throughout his life to restore Athens' supremacy and motivate the rest of the Athenians against Philip II of Macedon. He sought to preserve his city's freedom and to establish an alliance against Macedon, in an unsuccessful attempt to impede Philip's plans to expand his influence southwards by conquering all the Greek states. After Philip's death, Demosthenes played a leading part in his city's uprising against the new King of Macedon, Alexander the Great. However, his efforts failed and the revolt was met with a harsh Macedonian reaction. To prevent a similar revolt against his own rule, Alexander's successor, Antipater, sent his men to track Demosthenes down. Demosthenes took his own life, in order to avoid being arrested by Archias, Antipater's confidant.

The Alexandrian Canon compiled by Aristophanes of Byzantium and Aristarchus of Samothrace recognized Demosthenes as one of the ten greatest Attic orators and speech writers. According to Longinus, Demosthenes "perfected to the utmost the tone of lofty speech, living passions, copiousness, readiness, speed". Cicero acclaimed him as "the perfect orator" who lacked nothing, and Quintilian extolled him as "lex orandi" ("the standard of oratory") and that "inter omnes unus excellat" ("he stands alone among all the orators").

[[Mexicali]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Mexico, Baja California (state)

Mexicali is a city in Mexico. It is in the north of the country and across the border from California in the United States. It is the capital city of Baja California. Mexicali is the farthest north city of Latin America. About 903,000 people live there. Many of them are Hispanic.

[[Mobile (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne songs, 2003 songs

Mobile is a song by Avril Lavigne. It was only released in Australia and New Zealand.

[[Don't Tell Me]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne songs, 2004 songs

Don't Tell Me is a 2004 song by Avril Lavigne. It is from her album Under My Skin. On April 27 2004, it was released as the first single off of that album.

[[EasyJet]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments in the United Kingdom, Airlines of the United Kingdom, Low-cost airlines

EasyJet Airline Company Limited, styled as easyJet, is a British low cost airline founded in 1995. Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou started the airline in 1995. He was in charge of EasyJet until 2002.  Starting in 2003, EasyJet opened many bases at airports throughout Europe.  As of 2016, EasyJet is based at London Luton Airport. EasyJet currently has 26 bases and its largest base is at London Gatwick Airport.  It is the second largest low-fare airline in Europe. It flies domestic and international scheduled services. It has 387 routes between 104 European and north African airports.

EasyJet was featured in the television series Airline.

[[Joystick]]

CATEGORIES: Joysticks, Data input

A joystick is an input device consisting of a stick that pivots on a base and reports its angle or direction to the device it is controlling. Joysticks are often used to control video games, and usually have one or more push-buttons whose state can also be read by the computer. A popular variation of the joystick used on modern video game consoles is the analog stick.

The joystick has been the principal flight control in the cockpit of many aircraft, particularly military fast jets, where center stick or side-stick location may be employed.

Joysticks are also used for controlling machines such as cranes, trucks, underwater unmanned vehicles and zero turning radius lawn mowers. Miniature finger-operated joysticks have been adopted as input devices for smaller electronic equipment such as mobile phones.  

[[Nobody's Home]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 songs, Avril Lavigne songs

"Nobody's Home" is Avril Lavigne's third single from her second album Under My Skin. Daniel Stern played guitar for it. It was produced by Lavigne and Don Gilmore.

The song was written by Lavigne and Ben Moody, ex-member of Evanescence. It is a "rock ballad".

[[Harpo Marx]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1964 deaths, Actors from New York City, Comedians from New York City, American movie actors, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Jewish American actors, Mimes

Arthur Marx (previously Adolph Marx), also called Harpo Marx (November 23, 1888 – September 28, 1964), was one of the Marx Brothers. While acting, he did not speak, and only used horns, whistles, and other props. He taught himself to play the harp and became a good player. This is why he was nicknamed "Harpo". He played the harp in most of his movies and also wore a red wig.

He died after a heart attack.

[[Klaus Barbie]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1991 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, Deaths from leukemia, Extradition, German prisoners, German war criminals, Holocaust perpetrators, People from North Rhine-Westphalia, People from Prussia, People who died in prison custody, Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment, RSHA people, SS officers

Klaus Barbie (25 October 1913 – 25 September 1991) was an SS-Hauptsturmführer, soldier, and Gestapo member. He is known as the "Butcher of Lyon" because of the war crimes he committed in France during World War II. He lived in Bolivia from 1951 until he was extradited (moved by government order) to France in 1983. From 1984-1987, he was tried and convicted of, and sentenced to life imprisonment for, crimes against humanity. He remained in prison until he died of leukemia in Lyon. 

[[Mega Man X2]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 video games, Mega Man games, Capcom games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games

Mega Man X2, called ロックマンX2 in Japan, is a platform video game made by Capcom for the Super NES game console.

[[Mega Man X (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 video games, Windows games, Mega Man games, Capcom games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games

Mega Man X, called Rockman X in Japan, is a platform video game made by Capcom for the Super NES game console. It is the first game in the Mega Man X series, a spin-off of the Mega Man series.

[[Animal Crossing (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 video games, Nintendo 64 games, Nintendo GameCube games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games, Video game remakes, Animal Crossing

This article is about the first game in the series. For the video game series, see Animal Crossing. For other uses, see Animal Crossing (disambiguation).

Animal Crossing, known as Dōbutsu no Mori in Japan, is a life simulation video game made by Nintendo for the Nintendo 64 and Nintendo GameCube game consoles. It was only released on the Nintendo 64 in Japan in 2001. In 2002, it was released in North America, Europe, and Australia for the Nintendo GameCube. It supports the GameCube-Game Boy Advance link cable and the e-Reader items and has emulated Nintendo Entertainment System games in it as items. That means that the player can replay old NES games within the game itself.

[[Gerd Müller]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, 1970 FIFA World Cup players, 1974 FIFA World Cup players, Association football forwards, German footballers, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease

Gerhard "Gerd" Müller (November 3, 1945 – August 15, 2021) was a German footballer. He played for FC Bayern München and the Germany national team. He was the best striker at his times and still owns many scoring records.

[[Gebenhofen]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bavaria

Gebenhofen is a village near Augsburg, Germany. It looks like people settled there in the Merowingian era (7th century). Today, about 500 people live in the village. It is a member of the gemeinde Affing and can be found in the Landkreis Aichach Friedberg (Regierungsbezirk Schwaben).

[[Brassicaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Brassicales, Brassicaceae

Brassicaceae is a family of plants including mustard, wasabi, and horseradish. They are also called the mustard family, or cabbage family. Some plants in this family are hot when you eat them, so they are used as spices. Another group includes the cabbages, where there are broccoli, cauliflower, and cabbage. Another name for this family is Cruciferae.

The flowers of this family have four petals and look like a cross. The name comes from the genus in it, Brassica.

[[Amputation]]

CATEGORIES: Surgery

Amputation is the act of cutting off a part of the human body, sometimes because of medical reasons. In some countries, amputation of the hands, feet or other body parts was used as a form of punishment for people who committed crimes. A person who has had an arm or leg removed is known as an amputee.

[[Ned Kelly (2003 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Australian biographical movies, Australian crime movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Ned Kelly, Western movies, Movies set in Australia

Ned Kelly is a 2003 Australian movie directed by Gregor Jordan. The movie shows the life of Ned Kelly who was a famous bushranger in Australia. The movie is based on Robert Drewe's book Our Sunshine.

Most of the filming was done at the Little River Earth Sanctuary, Mount Rothwell, near Geelong. Street scenes were filmed in Clunes and Ballarat. Other locations include Broadford, Glenfern, Hepburn Springs and Melbourne.

[[Turban]]

CATEGORIES: Headgear, Sikhism, Religious clothing

The turban is a piece of clothing - a type of headwear based on cloth winding. It is worn by people of the Sikh religion.

[[Ubayd Allah al-Mahdi Billah]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 934 deaths, Caliphs

Ubayd Allah al-Mahdi Billah a.k.a Said ibn Husayn (Arabic: عبيد الله بن الحسين المهدي) is considered the founder of the Fatimid dynasty, the only major Shi'ite caliphate in Islam.  He established Fatimid rule throughout much of North Africa.  He ruled from 909 to 934.

After establishing himself as the first Imam of the Fatimid dynasty he made claim to genealogic origins dating as far back as Fatimah, the daughter of the Prophet of Islam, Muhammad, through Husayn, Fatimah's son, and Ismail. It was at this time as well that he changed his name to Ubaydallah Al-Mahdi.

[[750]]

CATEGORIES: 750

[[Amir al-Mu'minin]]

CATEGORIES: Islam

Amir al-Mu'minin (أمير المؤمنين) is usually translated Commander of the Faithful, but Leader of the Believers might be a better translation. It is the Arabic style of Caliphs and other independent sovereign Muslim rulers that claim legitimacy from a community of Muslims. It has been claimed as the title of rulers in Muslim countries and empires and is still used for some Muslim leaders.

[[Middle Persian]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian languages, Extinct languages

Middle Persian is the Iranian dialect of southwestern Khuzestan, Lorestan, Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari provinces in Iran. During the Sassanid times (224-654 CE) it became a prestige dialect. It came to be spoken in other regions as well. Middle Persian is classified as Western Iranian language. It comes from Old Persian and is the ancestor of Modern Persian. 

The native name for Middle Persian (and perhaps for Old Persian also) was Pārsik. The word is the origin of the native name for the Modern Persian language.

[[Devil's Dyke]]

CATEGORIES: Monuments and memorials in England

Devil's Dyke, or Devil's Ditch is an earthwork in Cambridgeshire, England. A few parts of Bronze Age broken pots have been found there.

[[Scranton, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Pennsylvania, Scranton, Pennsylvania, 1856 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Pennsylvania

Scranton is a city in Pennsylvania. It is the county seat of Lackawanna County. The city had a population of 76,415 people in 2000.

[[Umayya ibn Abd Shams]]

CATEGORIES: Muslims, Year of birth missing, Year of death missing

Umayya ibn Abd Shams is the man, the clan of Banu Umayyad is named after. Umayya was the adopted son of Abd Shams ibn Abd Manaf and the father of Harb ibn Umayya and Abu al-'As.

[[Abd Manaf ibn Qusai]]

CATEGORIES: History of Islam, Muslims, Year of birth unknown, Year of death unknown

Abd Manaf ibn Qusai (Arabic: عبد مناف بن قصي) is the person, whom the clan of Banu Abd Manaf is named after. His father was Qusai ibn Kilab.

When his father died, he took charge of his work.  He too distinguished himself by his ability, and he was famous for his generosity and good judgment. 

He had five sons: Nawfal, Abd Shams, Hashim (after whom the Banu Hashim clan was named) and Muttalib ref. Muttalib was younger than Hashim, and became his successor.June 2008

[[660]]

CATEGORIES: 660

[[Ghazi Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Ghazi Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Haripur District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. The tehsil, headquartered at the town of Ghazi, is itself divided into 7 Union Councils.

[[Haripur Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Haripur Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil), of Haripur District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. The tehsil is administratively subdivided into 37 Union Councils.

[[Lahor]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Lahor is a town and tehsil of Swabi District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. The town is a settlement of 35,000 people and is west of Swabi, on the northern bank of the Indus River. Lahor is surrounded by Yar Hussain, Tordher, Ambar and the Indus River.

[[Mandi Bahauddin Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Mandi Bahauddin Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Mandi Bahauddin District in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The city of Mandi Bahauddin is the headquarters of the tehsil.

[[Necronomicon]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction books, Magic (paranormal)

The Necronomicon is a fictional book of magic created by the horror writer H. P. Lovecraft. It is a Greek-sounding word commonly translated as "book of dead names".  It is pronounced "neck-ro-nom-ih-kon".  Like most of his ideas, the Necronomicon came to Lovecraft in his dreams.  Lovecraft let his friends write stories about the Necronomicon.  Eventually, fake Necronomicons were written.

[[Occult]]

CATEGORIES: Occult

thumb|right|Magician's interpretation of Baphomet.Occult refers to an area of knowledge or thought that is hidden. The word occult has many uses in the English language. Often it means knowledge that lies outside the range of normal experience or scientific explanation. The term sometimes means knowledge meant only for certain people or knowledge that must be kept hidden. For most occultists it is the study of a deeper spiritual reality.

The term occult is also used as a label given to a number of magical organizations or orders, and the teachings and practices as taught by them. The name also extends to a large body of literature and spiritual philosophy.

[[Pandemic Studios]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies, Companies based in Los Angeles, Companies of Australia, Brisbane

Pandemic Studios was a video game developer that was started in 1998. It became owned by Electronic Arts from 2007 to 2009. It was an Australian and American company, with offices in Brisbane and Los Angeles.

Pandemic Studios developed the first two main titles of the successful Star Wars: Battlefront series; those were Star Wars: Battlefront and Star Wars: Battlefront II. It also developed Full Spectrum Warrior, the Mercenaries series, and the last game in the Army Men series.

Their office in Brisbane was closed in February 2009. In November 2009, Electronic Arts cut a total of 1,500 jobs, including at Pandemic. The company was officially closed on 17 November 2009. The rest of the staff were moved to EA Los Angeles to support Mercs Inc, a sequel to the Mercenaries series.

[[Ghost town]]

CATEGORIES: Ghost towns, Tourism

A ghost town is a name for a city or town in which no one lives anymore. It can happen because of economical reasons (for instance, a town of gold miners who cannot find gold anymore), a natural disaster (a flood, a very long drought) or even a man-made disaster (for example, the nuclear fallout that emptied the town of Prypiat, Ukraine). 

Some ghost towns are kept intact as tourist attractions. For example Craco, in the Italian region of Basilicata, is a destination for tourists and pilgrims, as well as a famous movie set for movies like The Passion of the Christ by Mel Gibson and Quantum of Solace by Marc Forster.

[[Rain dance]]

CATEGORIES: Ritual dances, Superstitions

A rain dance is a ceremonial dance. It is performed by people who believe it will cause rain and keep their harvest safe. 

Many different types of "rain dances" can be found in many cultures, from Ancient Egypt to certain Native American tribes. In the 20th century Balkans, a ritual known as Paparuda (Romanian) or Perperuna (Slavic) is a type of rain dance.  

The Cherokee tribe, an ethnic Native American tribe from the Southeastern United States used rain dances to both create rain and to remove evil spirits from the earth.  The legend of the tribe says that the rain created has the spirits of the former leaders of the tribe. During the rain, these spirits fight the evil spirits in a place between our reality and the spirit world.March 2009 These raindances are also seen as acts of worship.

Julia M. Butree in her book,  describes the "Rain Dance of Zuni" and other Native American dances

Feathers and turquoise are worn during the dance. They symbolize wind and rain.  Many traditions of the Rain Dance are passed down through history by people telling their children about them in stories.

[[Louse]]

CATEGORIES: Insects, Parasites

Lice (singular: louse), are wingless insects that live in hair. They are all external parasites on every species of bird and most mammalian orders. They are not found on Monotremes  and a few eutherian orders, namely bats (Chiroptera), whales, dolphins and porpoises (Cetacea) and pangolins (Pholidota). There are more than 3,000 different species; three are classified as human lice.

[[The Adventures of Pinocchio]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 books, Children's books

The Adventures of Pinocchio (Le avventure di Pinocchio) is a story by Carlo Collodi. It was first published as a serial in a children's magazine between 1881-1883. The serial ended tragically with the death of Pinocchio. It was published as a book in 1883 with black and white illustrations by Enrico Mazzanti.  Pinocchio tells the story of a puppet who wants to become a real boy. The book has been adapted to movies.

[[Mandi Bahauddin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Mandi Bahauddin is the capital of Mandi Bahauddin District in Punjab, Pakistan.

[[Thumper]]

Thumper may mean:

in fictional characters:

[[Talagang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Talagang is a city in Pakistan. It is in the Punjab province and is the capital of Talagang Tehsil.

[[Arra, Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Arra is a village and Union Council of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. It is part of Choa Saidan Shah Tehsil.

[[Balkassar]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Balkassar is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Choa Saidan Shah Tehsil and is located at 32°55'60N 72°39'0E. Also, Balkassar is famous for its 'Rain of Flaming Dogs' ceremony which happens once in a year.

[[Balokassar]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Balokassar is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Choa Saidan Shah Tehsil. 

[[Basharat]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Basharat is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Choa Saidan Shah Tehsil and is located at 32°46'60N 73°5'60E

[[Terry Goodkind]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Omaha, Nebraska, 1948 births, 2020 deaths, American novelists

Terry Goodkind (January 11, 1948 – September 17, 2020) was an American writer from the U.S. state of Nebraska. He was known for writing fantasy books. His most famous book is called Wizard's First Rule which is part of the The Sword of Truth series. He was born in Omaha, Nebraska.

Goodkind died on September 17, 2020 in Boulder City, Nevada at the age of 72.

[[Begal]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District, Chakwal District

Begal is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 33°2'57N 72°39'11E

[[Bharpur]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District, Chakwal District

Bharpur is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 32°51'0N 72°34'0E

[[Bheen]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Bheen is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil.

[[Bhilomar]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Bhilomar is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Talagang Tehsil and is located at 32°43'60N 72°25'60E.

[[Bhoun]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Bhoun is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil.

[[Bidher]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Bidher is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Talagang Tehsil.

[[Buchal Kalan]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Buchal Kalan is a village and Union Council of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. It is part of Kallar Kahar Tehsil.

[[Budhial]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Budhial is a village and Union Council of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. Budhial village is about 25 kilometres from Talagang at 32°58'60″N 72°10'60″E.

[[Chak Malook]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Chak Malook is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. It is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 32°58'0N 72°57'0E.

[[Chak Umra]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Chak Umra is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil.

[[Choa Ganj Ali Shah]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Choa Ganj Ali Shah is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 32°49'0N 73°5'60E

[[Choa Saidanshah]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Choa Saidan shah is a village and Union Council of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. It is at 32°43'0N 72°58'60E. It is a named after a man who was a famous Sufi.Its famous for it spirngs and lakes.Choa Saidan Shah is one of the few villages that have all kinds of facities like Hospitals,Schools,Collages.

[[Dab, Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Dab is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. It is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 33° 0' 0" N 72° 52' 0" E.

[[Dalwal]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Dalwal is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Choa Saidan Shah Tehsil and is located at 32°42'0N 72°52'60E

[[Dandot]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Dandot (ڈنڈوت) is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Choa Saidan Shah Tehsil and is located at 32°38'60N 72°58'0E

[[Dhoular]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Dhoular is a village and Union Council of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. and is part of Talagang Tehsil. According to the 1998 census of Pakistan its total population was about 6,500.

[[Dhudial]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Dhudial is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil. It is one of the largest villages of Chakwal District and is located at 33°3'52N 72°58'24E about 70km south of the capital Islamabad.

[[Dhurnal]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Dhurnal is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. It is part of Talagang Tehsil and is located at 32° 47' 60"N 72° 5' 60"E.

[[Dullah]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Dullah is a village and Union Council of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan.

[[Dulmial]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Dulmial is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Choa Saidan Shah Tehsil and is located at 32°43'60N 72°55'0E.

[[Dumman]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Dumman is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil.

[[Jabbi Shah Dilawar]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Jabbi Shah Dilawar is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Talagang Tehsil and is located at 33.

[[Jand, Chakwal]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Jand is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 33°4'0N 73°7'60E.

[[Jand Khanzada]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Jand Khanzada is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 32°55'60N 73°5'60E. The name means village of Khanzada.

[[University of Texas at Austin]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Big 12 Conference, Colleges and universities in Texas, Austin, Texas, 1883 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Texas

The University of Texas at Austin is a public university in Austin, Texas.  It is one of the largest universities in the United States, with almost 50,000 students.  It was founded in 1883.

[[Jassial]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Jassial is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Talagang Tehsil and is located at 33°1'40N 72°23'34E.

[[Jaswal, Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Jaswal is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 32°49'0N 72°58'0E.

[[Jhatla]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Jhatla is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Talagang Tehsil and is located at 32°49'0N 72°22'60E.

[[Kallar Kahar]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Kallar Kahar is a town and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 32°46'60N 72°42'0E.

[[Karsal]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Karsal is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 33°2'30N 72°35'7E.

[[Karyala]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Karyala is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 32°49'60N 72°52'60E.

[[Texas A&M University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Colleges and universities in Texas, Southeastern Conference, 1871 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Texas

Texas A&M University is a public university in College Station, Texas.  It is a large university, with about 65,000 students.  It was founded in 1871.  It and the University of Texas at Austin are the two largest universities in the state.  For many years, everybody at Texas A&M had to take classes about the army, and Texas A&M is one of only six schools in the country that have a "Corps of Cadets." The George H.W. Bush presidential library is at Texas A&M.  

There are other campuses of Texas A&M in Galveston, Laredo, Corpus Christi and Texarkana.  There is also a campus in Qatar.  

[[Khairpur, Chakwal]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Khairpur is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil. 

[[Khotian]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Khotian is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil and is located at 32°46'0N 73°7'0E.

[[Kot Choudrain]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Kot Choudrain is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Chakwal Tehsil.

[[Kot Gullah]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Kot Gullah is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. It is part of Talagang Tehsil.

[[Kot Qazi]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Kot Gullah is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Talagang Tehsil.

[[Kot Sarang]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Chakwal District

Kot Sarang is a village and Union Council, an administrative subdivision, of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan, it is part of Talagang Tehsil and is located at 33°2'14N 72°23'11E.

[[Impala]]

CATEGORIES: Bovids, Mammals of Africa

The impala (Aepyceros melampus) is a medium-sized African antelope. The name "impala" comes from the Zulu language.

[[Biblical Mount Sinai]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament, Mountains of Asia

The Biblical Mount Sinai is a mountain that was written about in the Old Testament. It was written by Moses that the Ten Commandments were given to him by God on Mount Sinai. The name Horeb is sometimes used to describe Mount Sinai. Tradition places it at Jebel Musa (Mount Moses) in the south of the Sinai Peninsula, but some see it as being further north at the Wadi Sudr.

[[Reconstructor]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Reconstructor is a program that allows anyone to customize an iso image of Ubuntu.

[[870s]]

CATEGORIES: 870s

[[University of the Incarnate Word]]

CATEGORIES: Christian colleges and universities in the United States, Colleges and universities in Texas, San Antonio, Texas, 1881 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Texas

The University of the Incarnate Word is a private Catholic university in San Antonio, Texas, United States.  There are about 5500 students enrolled and it was founded in 1881.

[[Texas State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Texas, Sun Belt Conference, 1899 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Texas

Texas State University is a public university in San Marcos, Texas, United States. There are about 28,000 students enrolled and it was founded in 1899.

The school is the namesake of the Texas State University System, founded in 1911 to govern the state's normal schools (teachers' colleges). The system now has four universities and three two-year colleges.

Texas State's sports teams, nicknamed "Bobcats", are members of the Sun Belt Conference.

[[Northeastern State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Oklahoma, 19th-century establishments in Indian Territory

Northeastern State University (NSU) is a public university with its main campus in Tahlequah, Oklahoma, United States, at the foot of the Ozark Mountains. Tahlequah is also home to the capital of the Cherokee nation of Oklahoma. The university also has two other campuses in Muskogee and Broken Arrow. Northeastern is the oldest institution of higher learning in the state of Oklahoma as well as one of the oldest institutions of higher learning west of the Mississippi River.

[[University of Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Big 12 Conference, Colleges and universities in Oklahoma, 1890 establishments in Oklahoma Territory, Norman, Oklahoma

The University of Oklahoma, abbreviated OU, is a public university in the Norman, Oklahoma, United States. It has about 27,000 students enrolled, and it was started in 1890. David Boren is president of the university.

[[Cicada]]

CATEGORIES: Hemiptera

Cicadas are small insects. They are kinds of true bugs.

The noisy buzz they make is the male calling to the female using his vibrating panels, called tymbals, on his sides. When the female, who cannot buzz, hears the buzz of a male, she searches for him. After they mate, the female will use her ovipositor to cut a line into the branch of a tree and lay her eggs there. Adult cicadas don't usually bite. They are usually green or black. Cicadas can also be eaten. It is eaten in countries like China.

Cicadas live in temperate to tropical climates where their large size and unique sound makes them well known. Cicadas are often colloquially called locusts, although they are unrelated to true locusts, which are a kind of grasshopper. Cicadas are related to leafhoppers and spittlebugs.

[[Liège Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Belgium, Liège (province), Liège

Liège Airport, also called Liège-Bierset, is an important cargo airport in Belgium. It was at the end of 2007 the 8th biggest cargo airport in Europe and the 38th biggest in the world.

Liège is in the centre of the golden triangle Paris – Amsterdam – Frankfurt that handles 66% of European freight, 75% with London added.

The airport is in the northwest of the city of Liège, in the east of Belgium. It is mainly used for freight operation but also serves more than 21 destinations for passengers (mainly charters).

Liège Airport is the world hub of TNT Airways, and the European hub of CAL Cargo Air Lines, El Al Cargo and Ethiopian Cargo (using Southern Air aircraft).

The airport is also used as a regular refuelling stop on New York City – Middle East routes by Kalitta Air (including the Newark – Baghdad route for US mail).

[[Object (computer science)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer programming

In Object-oriented programming, an object is an instance of a Class. Objects are an abstraction. They hold both data, and ways to manipulate the data. The data is usually not visible outside the object. It can only be changed by using a well-specified mechanism (usually called interface).

Suppose there is a bank account; this bank account has a current balance, but it also has a history of things that were done. These fields are however not directly accessible. There are methods like deposit() and withdraw() and checkBalance(). Most applications (and other objects) only change this object through this interface. 

Banks usually impose a credit limit. Suppose, there are 1000 dollars on the account. If the client does not have a special agreement with the bank, he cannot take out more money than there is on the account; so he can withdraw() a maximum of 1000 dollars. He might have an agreement with the bank, so he can borrow money from the bank (but has to pay a fee). In that case, he might be able to withdraw 1500 dollars (or 2000 dollars). So the withdraw method has to do a lot of checks as described above.

The account manager might see the account differently, she might have methods to set the maximum amount that can be taken out of the account, or to set the fee or interest rate that the customer has to pay for the money to be borrowed.

As an object is an instance of a class; it has certain things from that class. It can perhaps be compared to other objects of that class. Two apples, one red and bigger, the other green and smaller. On the other hand: It is not that easy to compare different objects. A green apple does not have much in common with a steel wrench.

[[Object-oriented design]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Object-Oriented Design (OOD) is a way for the designer of a computer program to specify what a computer program will do, using the way that people think and not using the way that computers think.  People think in terms of classes and objects.  For example, fruit is a class, and there are different kinds of fruits such as bananas and pineapples.  If a computer program designer were specifying to a computer programmer how to create a computer program to manage the fruits in a supermarket, then he or she would specify the program in terms of classes and objects which is how people think.

A computer program called a compiler and/or an interpreter would take the program that the programmer typed in and convert it into a form that a computer can run.  Computers really only understand things that are encoded as numbers.  Object-Oriented-Design (OOD) uses the power and speed of a computer to allow humans to be more productive in making computer programs, by letting human computer programmers think in terms of how humans think.

[[Odd]]

Odd may mean:

ODD may mean:

[[Konkan]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of India

Konkan is a part of India. It on the west coast of India. The coastal areas of Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka are all part of Konkan region.

The word Konkan means corner (kona) and piece/part of earth (kana).

People in Konkan speak 2 main languages. One is Konkani language. Other is a dialect of Marathi language which is also called Konkani.

[[Triple J]]

CATEGORIES: Radio stations, Australian culture

Triple J is a radio station from Australia. It is funded and owned by the Australian Government through the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. The music played by the station is aimed at youth (usually between 12 and 25 years old) and is usually alternative music. The station started in 1972 as "Double Jay" in Sydney. It can now be heard all around Australia.

[[Radovan Karadžić]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Presidents of Republika Srpska, Crimes against humanity, Fraudsters, Genocide, Montenegrin people, Poets, Prisoners, Psychiatrists, War criminals

Radovan Karadžić (Serbian Cyrillic: Радован Караџић; born 19 June 1945 in Petnjica, Montenegro, Yugoslavia) used to be a Bosnia and Herzegovinian politician.  He was in charge of part of the Bosnian Genocide.  From 1995 to 2008, he was a fugitive.  He was arrested on 21 July 2008 in Serbia.  In 2016, he was convicted of war crimes.

[[Common Language Specification]]

CATEGORIES: Software

A Common Language Specification (CLS) is a document that says how computer programs can be turned into Common Intermediate Language (CIL) code. When several languages use the same bytecode, different parts of a program can be written in different languages. Microsoft uses a Common Language Specification for their .NET Framework. To fully interact with other objects regardless of the language they were used in, objects must expose to callers only those features that are common to all the languages they must exchange information with. It was always a dream of Microsoft to unite all different languages into one umbrella and CLS is one step towards that. Microsoft has defined CLS which are nothing but guidelines for languages to follow so that it can communicate with other .NET languages in a seamless manner.

Most of the members defined by types in the .NET Framework class library are able to work with CLS. However, some types in the class library have one or more members that are not able to work with CLS. These members allow support for language features that are not in the CLS.

The CLS was designed to be large enough to include the language constructs that are commonly needed by developers, yet small enough that most languages are able to support it. Any language construct that makes it impossible to quickly confirm the type safety of code was excluded from the CLS so that all languages that can work with CLS can produce verifiable code if they choose to do so. 

[[Cus D'Amato]]

CATEGORIES: Sportspeople from New York City, Boxing, People from the Bronx, 1908 births, 1985 deaths

Constantine "Cus" D'Amato (January 17, 1908 – November 4, 1985) was an American boxing trainer.  He trained two of boxing heavyweight champions, Mike Tyson and Floyd Patterson.

He once said, "The hero and the coward both feel the same thing, but the hero uses his fear, projects it onto his opponent, while the coward runs. It's the same thing, fear, but it's what you do with it that matters." 

[[Willi Auerswald]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1956 deaths, German prisoners, German war criminals, Holocaust perpetrators, Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment, SS officers

Willi Auerswald (1894–1956) was a member of the German SS in the rank of a SS-Oberscharführer. Auerswald belonged to the guards of the Mauthausen Concentration camp. Between spring 1942 and November 1944 he was one of the leaders of the subcamp Steyr-Münichholz.

Auerswald was feared by the prisoners due to his brutality. Executions and brutal punishments made him one of the most terrible guards at Mauthausen. 

After the end of World War II Auerswald was charged by an US-military tribunal in Dachau. The trial document lists a case where a Russian prisoner, begging for his life, was pushed by Auerswald into a fence secured by high voltage. He died immediately. The documentation also mentioned that 300 healthy prisoners were brought from Mauthausen to the sub-camp St. Aegyd. More than 50% died within the next few weeks or became severely sick so that they were brought back to Mauthausen where they died. Auerswald was the head of the St. Aegyd sub-camp at that time.

Auerswald was found guilty and sentenced to death by hanging. Later it was changed to life imprisonment.

== Other websites == 

[[Baylor University]]

CATEGORIES: Big 12 Conference, Colleges and universities in Texas, Christian colleges and universities in the United States, Waco, Texas, 1845 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Texas

Baylor University is a private Baptist university in Waco, Texas, United States. There are about 13,000 students enrolled and it was founded in 1845. 

[[Texas Lutheran University]]

CATEGORIES: Christian colleges and universities in the United States, Colleges and universities in Texas, 1891 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Texas

Texas Lutheran University is a private Lutheran university in Seguin, Texas, United States.  It is a small school with about 1300 students enrolled and it was founded in 1891.

[[The Evergreen State College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Washington, Olympia, Washington, 1967 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Washington (state)

The Evergreen State College is a public college in Olympia, Washington, United States.  There are about 4500 students enrolled and it was founded in 1967.

[[Battle of Berlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 in Germany, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving Poland, Battles involving the Soviet Union, European battles of World War II, 1940s in Berlin, April 1945 events, May 1945 events

The Battle of Berlin was the last major battle of Second World War in Europe and took place in Berlin from 16 April to 3 May 1945. The Soviet Union's Red Army, along with Polish forces, captured the city, the capital of Germany. When they captured the Reichstag, Adolf Hitler committed suicide with his new wife by shooting himself in the head and her taking a cyanide pill.

[[VMDK]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats

The VMDK (Virtual Machine Disk) is a file format used by VMware products.

[[University of Texas at San Antonio]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Texas, Conference USA, San Antonio, Texas, 1969 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Texas

The University of Texas at San Antonio, also known as UTSA (especially when talking about sports), is a public university in San Antonio, Texas, United States.  It has about 28,000 students enrolled and it was founded in 1969.

UTSA's sports teams, known as Roadrunners, currently play in Conference USA.

[[NHL All-Star Team]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League trophies and awards

The NHL All-Star Teams were first named at the end of the 1930–31 NHL season, to honor the best performers over the season at each position.

Members of the Professional Hockey Writers' Association vote for the All-Star Team at the end of the regular season.

[[National Hockey League Players' Association]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 establishments in North America, National Hockey League, Trade unions in the United States

The National Hockey League Players' Association (Association des joueurs de la Ligue nationale de hockey; AJLNH) or NHLPA is a labour union that represents the interests of the hockey players in the National Hockey League of North America.

[[Role of United States in the Vietnam War]]

CATEGORIES: Vietnam War

The role of the United States in the Vietnam War began soon after the Second World War and escalated into full commitment during the Vietnam War (1956-1975).

[[Johann Altfuldisch]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1947 deaths, Executed German people, Executed Nazis, German war criminals, Holocaust perpetrators, People executed by hanging, People from Bavaria, SS officers, Waffen-SS people

Johann Altfuldisch, (November 11, 1911 at Brückenau, Bavaria – May 28, 1947 at Landsberg am Lech) was a member of the NSDAP and the Waffen-SS and one of the guards at the concentration camp Mauthausen. He had the second highest rank at Mauthausen.

After the end of World War II Altfuldisch was charged by a military court for killing innocent people, especially members of ethnic groups and war prisoners. He was found guilty and hanged on May 28, 1947.

[[Phalanges]]

CATEGORIES: Limbs and extremities, Bones

Phalanges are bones. There are 14 of them in each hand and foot. The phalanges (distal, middle and proximal) in the hand are the fingers and those in the feet are the toes. Human toe bones are usually shorter than the bones in the hand.

[[Alpaca]]

CATEGORIES: Camelids, Domesticated animals, Mammals of South America

The Alpaca (Vicugna pacos) is one of the four species of South American camelid, and they are domesticated. It resembles a small llama in superficial appearance. Alpacas are bred for their fiber while Llamas are used to carry burdens.

[[Guy Berryman]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish musicians, guitarists, 1978 births, Living people

Guy Rupert Berryman (born 12 April 1978) is a Scottish guitarist. He is a member of the rock band Coldplay. He is known as the bass guitarist for the band and is left-handed but plays with his right hand.

[[Mennonites]]

CATEGORIES: Anabaptism

The Mennonites are a group of  Christian Anabaptists named after Menno Simons (1496–1561). His teachings were a relatively minor influence on the group, though.  They are of the historic peace churches. Mennonites are committed to nonviolence, nonviolent resistance/reconciliation, and pacifism.

There are about 1.5 million Mennonites worldwide as of 2006. There are many different types of mennonite communities in the world. There are those that dress in old-fashioned ways, and others which are hard to tell apart from other people leading a modern lifestyle. Most Mennonites are in the United States and Democratic Republic of Congo, but Mennonites can also be found in tight-knit communities in at least 51 countries on six continents or scattered amongst the populace of those countries.

Mennonites have an international distinction among Christian denominations in disaster relief. They also place a strong theological emphasis on voluntary service. Mennonite Disaster Service, based in North America, provides both immediate and long-term responses to hurricanes, floods, and other disasters. Mennonite Central Committee provides disaster relief around the world alongside their long-term international development programs. Other programs offer a variety of relief efforts and services throughout the world.

In the last few decades some Mennonite groups have also become more actively involved with peace and social justice issues, helping to found Christian Peacemaker Teams and Mennonite Conciliation Service.

[[Anabaptist]]

CATEGORIES: Anabaptism, Christian movements and denominational families, Protestant Reformation

Anabaptists are Protestant Christians. The word anabaptism comes from the Greek language, meaning "to baptize again". The followers of these movements hold that people should be baptized after they are believers. This is called believer's baptism. Infants, by their doctrine, can not be validly baptized, as they cannot decide how they want to achieve salvation.  

They arose as part of the Radical wing of the Reformation of 16th century Europe. The best-known Anabaptists today are the Mennonites, the  Amish, and the Hutterites.

[[Hutterites]]

CATEGORIES: Anabaptism, Protestantism, Christian movements and denominational families

Hutterites are a group of Protestanŧ Christians. They are an anabaptist movement; they think believers should be baptized (a second time). Their movement was founded by Jacob Hutter who lived in the 16th century. The main difference to the Mennonites is that they think the Bible should be read literally. They also share everything they have; there is no private property. Within the Hutterites, there are a few different groups. Some of the groups are more liberal than others. Usually, the different groups also have different leaders. 

Today, there are about 50.000 Hutterites; most of them live in the Canada and the United States. Like the Amish they still speak a dialect of German. In 2005, there were about 465 settlements, with 60 to 150 people each. The people who emigrated to the US or Canada had one of the following family names: Decker, Entz, Glanzer, Gross, Hofer, Kleinsasser, Knels, Mändel, Stahl, Tschetter, Waldner, Walther, Wipf, Wollmann, or Wurz.

[[Prairie View A&M University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Texas, 1876 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Texas

Prairie View A&M University is a public university in Prairie View, Texas, United States.  It has about 8,000 students enrolled and it was founded in 1876.  It is an historically African-American school with ties to Texas A&M University, though any person of any race may attend.

[[VMware]]

CATEGORIES: American technology companies, 1998 establishments in California, Palo Alto, California, Companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area

VMware, Inc. is a company that makes software and is a global leader in the virtualization market. The company was founded in 1998 and is based in Palo Alto, California. The name "VMware" comes from the acronym "VM", meaning "virtual machine", while ware comes from second part of "software".

[[VMware ThinApp]]

CATEGORIES: Software

VMware ThinApp is a computer program that can make portable applications.

[[MediaFire]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, File sharing

MediaFire is a free and unlimited file and image hosting website in Harris County, Texas, USA. Every feature of the service is available to users whether they choose to create a cost-free account or not.

The website is very popular and has attracted at least 8.7 million visitors annually by 2008 according to a study made by Compete.com.

[[University of Houston]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Texas, American Athletic Conference, Houston, Texas, 1927 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in Texas

The University of Houston is a public university in Houston, Texas.  It was started in 1927, and has nearly 35,000 students.

[[Acronis]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 establishments in the United States, Software, American technology companies

Acronis Inc. is an American software company. Its main products are hard disk utility software. These include disk-imaging backup and recovery, partition management, boot management, and data migration software. It also develops software for virtualization migration and conversion for purpose of migrating a physical server to a virtual server (such as VMware), or what is also termed P2V. Its best-known product is Acronis True Image, which allows a software image of a computer to be made and which can be reinstalled on the same or another computer. Most software is produced in different versions starting at low-priced software for single computers up to versions for companies with many desktop and server computers.

Acronis' headquarters are in Burlington, MA, USA with additional offices in the United States, Europe and Asia. Walter Scott, who formerly ran Imceda Corporation until its sale to Quest Software, became CEO in 2005. Acronis has taken venture funding from New York private equity and venture capital firm Insight Venture Partners.

[[Acronis True Image]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Acronis True Image is a program to make disk images. It is made by Acronis.  True Image can create an image of a disk while it is running Microsoft Windows or Linux, or offline by booting from CD/DVD, USB flash drives, PXE, or other bootable media.  As a disk imaging solution, True Image can restore the previously captured image to another disk, effectively replicating the structure and contents to the new disk, also allowing partition resizing if the new disk is of different capacity.

[[The Young Ones]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 television series debuts, 1984 television series endings, 1980s British sitcoms, BBC television sitcoms, 1982 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1984 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, English-language television programs

The Young Ones is a British sitcom, first seen in 1982, on BBC2. Its anarchic sense of humour, in the 1980s, made the actors famous in the UK. Soon after that, it was shown to Americans on MTV, one of the first shows on the new channel that was not mostly about music.

The programme was about four college students sharing a house: violent punk rocker Vyvyan (Adrian Edmondson), the stuck-up anarchist Rick (Rik Mayall), the suffering hippy Neil (Nigel Planer), and the mysterious Mike (Christopher Ryan). It also starred Alexei Sayle, who played their landlord, Jerzei Balowski, and other members of the Balowski family.

The show was like a regular sitcom, with violent slapstick, silly turns in the plot, and surrealism.

Although the series was set in North London, many outdoors scenes were filmed in Bristol. All four characters went to the fictional "Scumbag College", but they were never shown in a classroom, and were hardly ever seen studying.

The show was voted #31 in the BBC's Best Sitcom poll in 2004.

[[Napoléon III]]

CATEGORIES: 1808 births, 1873 deaths, Emperors and empresses, House of Bonaparte, People from Paris, Presidents of France

Napoléon III, also known as Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte (1808–1873) was the first President of the French Republic and the last monarch of France. Made president by popular vote in 1848, Napoleon III ascended to the throne on 2 December 1852, the forty-eighth anniversary of his uncle, Napoleon I's, coronation. He ruled as Emperor of the French until September 1870, when he was captured in the Franco-Prussian War.

[[Charles Perrault]]

CATEGORIES: 1628 births, 1703 deaths, French writers

Charles Perrault (12 January 1628 – 16 May 1703) was a French author who started the literary genre of fairy tales. His best known tales include the following:

[[Saint Joseph]]

CATEGORIES: 90s BC births, 10s deaths, Ancient Israeli people, Early Christian saints, New Testament people, People from Bethlehem, People from Nazareth, Carpenters

Joseph (Hebrew יוֹסֵף, Yosef; Ἰωσήφ, Iosíf) is a figure in the Gospels, the husband of Mary, the mother of Jesus and the step father of Jesus. In Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox and Anglican Christian traditions, he is regarded as Saint Joseph.

[[West Flanders]]

CATEGORIES: West Flanders

West Flanders (West-Vlaanderen; French: (Province de) Flandre-Occidentale; German: Westflandern) is one of the five provinces of the Flemish Region, also named Flanders, and also is one of the ten provinces of Belgium. It is the westernmost province in Flanders.

Its capital is Bruges (Brugge, Bruges, Brügge).

The whole Belgian North Sea coast, an important tourism destination, lies in West Flanders. A tram line runs the length of the coast, from De Panne on the French border, via the port of Ostend (Oostende), to Knokke-Heist on the Dutch frontier.

[[Oneness Pentecostalism]]

CATEGORIES: Pentecostalism, Nontrinitarianism

Oneness Pentecostalism, also known as Apostolic Pentecostalism, is a movement of Christianity that split from the Pentecostal movement, at around 1914. Followers believe that the Bible was inspired by God. 

"Oneness" means that they believe that God is one being, not three persons (like in the Trinity doctrine), and that Jesus is God in human flesh – fully god and fully human. This makes them different from most Unitarians who say that the son of god was only man. "Apostolic" means that they follow the Apostolic doctrine (by the 12 Apostles in the early Church). "Pentecostal" means that they put an emphasis on the moving of the Holy Spirit (like speaking in tongues) as was done on the Day of Pentecost.

[[Roşoşa River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Romania

The Roşoşa River is a tributary of the Argel River in Romania. That means it flows into the Argel River.

[[Linux kernel]]

CATEGORIES: Linux

Linux is an operating system kernel used by a group of Unix-like operating systems.  These are known as Linux operating systems.

The Linux kernel is released with the GNU General Public License version 2 (GPLv2) and developed by programmers worldwide.

[[Sebastian Vettel]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Formula One current, Formula One drivers, German racecar drivers, Living people, Sportspeople from Hesse

Sebastian Vettel (born 3 July 1987 in Heppenheim) is a German race car driver.  He is a four-time Formula One world champion.  He drives for the Aston Martin team in Formula One and is contracted by the team until the end of 2022. He is a former driver of Red Bull Racing's sister team, Scuderia Toro Rosso, in 2008. Before that he was a reserve driver of BMW Sauber.

He currently holds numerous records in Formula One, most of them from his first win in the 2008 Italian Grand Prix and his debut drive in the 2007 United States Grand Prix.

[[Sara Evans]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Country musicians, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Missouri

Sara Evans (born February 5, 1971) is a traditional country singer born in Boonville, Missouri.  She has had several #1 hits, gold albums and platinum albums.

[[Felipe Massa]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian racecar drivers, Formula One current, Formula One drivers, People from São Paulo

Felipe Massa (born April 25 1981 in São Paulo) is a Brazilian Formula One racing driver. In the 2008 racing season he was working for the Ferrari team. His contract allows him to continue driving for that racing team until 2010. In 2008 he is a co-driver of Kimi Räikkönen. Massa was hurt in the 2009 Grand Prix of Hungary qualifying session. He missed the remainder of the 2009 season, but was back for the 2010 season.

[[Linux (disambiguation)]]

Linux may refer to:

[[Tarsals]]

CATEGORIES: Bones, Feet

Tarsals are bones found in the feet. They are also known as ankle bones. There are seven of them in each foot. The seven tarsals are:

[[Georg Cantor]]

CATEGORIES: 1845 births, 1918 deaths, German academics, German mathematicians, People from Saint Petersburg

Georg Cantor (3 March 1845 - 6 January 1918) was an important German mathematician.  He founded set theory and worked on transfinite numbers.

[[Pay-per-view]]

CATEGORIES: Television technology

Pay-per-view (often abbreviated PPV) is a way that people can pay to watch events on television in their homes. The event is shown at the same time to everyone ordering it. This is different than video on demand systems which lets people see the event at any time. Common events include movies, sporting events, and pornographic movies.

The first major pay-per-view event was on September 16, 1981. This event was Sugar Ray Leonard and Thomas Hearns for the Welterweight Championship. Viacom Cablevision in Nashville, Tennessee, was the first system to offer the event. Over fifty percent of its customers paid to see the fight.January 2008  Viacom's Marketing Director, Pat Thompson, put together the fight. He later put together other PPV fights, wrestling matches, and even a Broadway play.

After leaving Viacom, Thompson became head of Sports View. He produced the first pay-per-view football game on October 16, 1983.January 2008 Sports View was important in creating pay-per-view networks. It was a part of creating TigerVision for LSU, TideVision for Alabama, and UT Vol Seat for Tennessee. Sports View also produced the Ohio State-Michigan Football game on PPV in November of 1983.

In 1985, the first U.S. cable channels to show only pay-per-view, Viewers Choice, Cable Video Store, and Request TV began operation within days of each other. Viewers Choice was available to both home satellite dish and cable customers. Request TV was available to only cable viewers at first. Dish owners could not use it until the 1990s.

The term "pay-per-view" became more well known in the 1990s when companies like iN DEMAND, HBO, and Showtime started using it to show movies and other things. In Demand would show movies, concerts, and other events at prices between $3.99 to $49.99. HBO and Showtime would offer championship boxing, with prices between $14.99 to $54.99.January 2008

Pay-per-view is also a very important way for professional wrestling companies like World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) , Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) ,  Ring of Honor (ROH) and Asistencia Asesoría y Administración to earn money.

[[Talus]]

CATEGORIES: Bones

The talus is the second largest of the seven tarsal (ankle) bones. It is next to the calcaneus and navicular bones.

[[Dhaka District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India, Districts of East Pakistan, Dhaka Division

Dacca District (ঢাকা জেলা) is a district in the centre of Bangladesh. The district is part of the Dhaka Division, more than half of the district is made up of Dacca - the capital of the district and of Bangladesh too.

[[Proprietary software]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Proprietary software (or closed source software) does not let people see or change source code of the computer software. It is the opposite of free software. Proprietary software is usually created by businesses who want to sell their software, but some programs that are free to use are still proprietary because the user is not allowed to change them. With proprietary software, only the people that make the software can see and change the code.

Even if the people who make the program give the source code to other people, the program will be proprietary if they do not allow to do important things like these: 

Most companies who sell their software for money (and even some who do not charge money for it) make it proprietary source. This makes it harder for people to copy and change the software, or to use the source code to make similar software. It helps prevent a user from pretending to be the author of someone else's work (a way of plagiarism).

[[Dhaka Division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of British India, East Pakistan provincial region, Dhaka Division

Dhaka Division is an administrative division of Bangladesh. The capital and largest city is Dhaka. The division has an area of 31,119.97 km², and a population of 38,678,000.

The division of Dhaka is next to the Indian state of Meghalaya to the north, Barisal and Chittagong Divisions on the south, Sylhet Division to the east, Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions to the west.

[[Kala Dhaka]]

CATEGORIES: Himalayas, Mountain ranges of Pakistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Kala Dhaka which also used to known as the Black Mountain of Hazara is a mountain range and a former tribal area of Mansehra District, Hazara Division, of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. Since 2011 it is a new district of the Hazara division.

[[Dhaka (disambiguation)]]

Dhaka may refer to:

[[Muridke Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Muridke Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Sheikhupura District, Punjab, Pakistan. The tehsil was formerly part of Ferozewala Tehsil until 2005, when it was separated from Ferozewal and became another of Sheikhupura's tehsils. It is headquartered at the city of Muridke. Besides various villages it includes the town of Narang Mandi.

The 'Ravi Rayon' factory  complex is very famous industry in Muridke.

Rice Reasurch Institute is popular place in Kala Shah Kaku.

[[Ratodero Taluka]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Ratodero is a taluka of Larkana District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city of Ratodero, founded by Rato Khan Jalbani in the days of Talpur dynasty, is the capital.

[[Swabi Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Swabi is a tehsil of Swabi District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. It is administratively divided into twenty Union Councils.

[[Mehrgarh]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Pakistan, World Heritage Sites in Pakistan

Mehrgarh, (م‍ﮩ‍رگڑھ) one of the most important Neolithic (7000 BC to 3200 BC) sites in archaeology, lies on the Kachhi Plain of Balochistan, Pakistan. It is one of the earliest sites with evidence of farming (wheat and barley) and herding (cattle, sheep and goats) in South Asia.

It was rediscovered about 1974.

[[Geography of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Romania

With an area of 238391, Romania is the second biggest country in southeastern Europe. It is the twelfth-largest in Europe.  A large part of Romania's border with Serbia and Bulgaria is made by the Danube.  The Danube is joined by the Prut River. The Prut River makes the border with the Republic of Moldova.  The Danube then flows into the area of the Black Sea inside of Romania, which forms the Danube Delta.  The Danube Delta is the second biggest one of the best kept deltas in Europe. It is also a biosphere reserve and a biodiversity World Heritage Site.  Some of the other major rivers in Romania are the Siret, which runs from the north to the south of Moldavia; the Olt, which runs from the Carpathian Mountains to Oltenia; and the Mureş, which runs through Transylvania from the east to the west.

[[Mohenjo-daro]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Pakistan, World Heritage Sites in Pakistan, Pakistani culture

Mohenjo-daro  was one of the largest city-settlements of the Indus Valley Civilization of south Asia. 

It is in province of Sindh, Pakistan. The city was built around 2600 BC. It was one of the early urban settlements in the world. Mohenjo-daro existed at the same time as the civilisations of ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia and Greece. The archaeological ruins of the city are designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In Pakistan, it is one of the national icons of the distant past.

[[Kot Diji]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Pakistan

The ancient site at Kot Diji (کوٹ ڈیجی) was the forerunner of the Indus Civilization. The people of this site lived about 3000 BC. The remains consist of two parts; the citadel area on high ground, and the outer area.

Kot Diji is located about 22 kilometres south of Khairpur in the province of Sindh, Pakistan. The site is at the foot of the hills.  There a fort (Kot Diji Fort) was built around 1790 by the Talpur ruler of Upper Sindh, Mir Suhrab, who ruled from 1783 to 1830. This fort built on the ridge of a steep narrow hill is well preserved.

[[Chanhu-daro]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Pakistan

Chanhudaro (also Chanhu Daro) is an archaeological site. It was a part of the Jhukar phase of Indus valley civilization. The site is located 130 south of Mohenjo-daro, in Sindh, Pakistan. People lived in the settlement between 4000-1700 BC. Chanhudaro is believed to have been a centre for manufacturing carnelian beads.

Digging first started in Chanhudaro in the middle of the 1930s by the American School of Indic and Iranian Studies and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. After the independence of Pakistan, Mohammed Rafique Mughal also did work in the area.

[[List of lakes of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Romania, Romania-related lists, Lists of lakes

The following is a list of lakes in Romania, by type of lake:

[[Harappa]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Pakistan, Villages in Pakistan, World Heritage Sites in Pakistan

Harappa (ہڑپہ) is an archaeological site in Punjab, northeast Pakistan. It is about 35 km (22 miles) southwest of Sahiwal. A village with the same name is located about 6 kilometres from the site. About 15,000 people live there.  

The site got little attention until the 1920s. In 2005, an amusement park scheme was abandoned during the early stages of building work. Harrapa is a beautiful place 

The site contains the ruins of a city from the Bronze Age. The people living in Harappa were part of the Indus Valley Civilization.

[[National Hockey League rules]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League

While the National Hockey League (NHL) follows the general rules of ice hockey, it is slightly different from those used in international games organized by the International Ice Hockey Federation such as the Olympics. 

[[Gilgit Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Gilgit-Baltistan, Divisions of Jammu and Kashmir

Gilgit Agency (گلگت آگنکے) was the name of most of the area of northern Kashmir which formed a de facto dependency of Pakistan from 1947 to 1970, which was then merged into Northern Areas. The Agency was administered directly from Islamabad separately from the neighbouring state of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and the princely states of Hunza-Nagar District. The area of the Agency comprised the traditional region of Gilgit. The Agency also bordered the Sinkiang region of China to the northeast, the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir to the south, Baltistan to east, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to the west. Both India and Pakistan recognise the regions of Gilgit and Baltistan as disputed and technically part of the divided State of Jammu & Kashmir.

The chief towns of the Agency were Gilgit and Skardu with the small town of Ghyari also holding significance for Shia Muslims as the site of a mosque built by Sayyid Ali Hamadani, a fourteenth century Persian who brought Islam to the region

[[Latifabad Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Latifabad Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city of Latifabad is the headquarters of the subdivision

[[Aar]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Switzerland

The Aar (German: Aare) is a tributary of the Rhine and is the longest river that both comes up from and ends completely inside of Switzerland.

[[Mehar Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Mehar Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Dadu District in the Sindh province of Pakistan.

[[Qasimabad Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh

Qasimabad Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan

[[Mary]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Mary is a female given name. It can refer to:

[[Asea Brown Boveri]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Switzerland, 1988 establishments in Europe, 1980s establishments in Switzerland

ABB Group is a power and automation company based in Zürich, Switzerland. It is one of the world's largest engineering multinationals with operations in around 100 countries. The company has five divisions: Power Products, Power Systems, Discrete Automation & Motion, Low Voltage Products and Process Automation.

[[Samaro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Mirpur Khas District

Samaro is a town in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is at 25°16'60N 69°23'45E and has an altitude of 11 metres (39 feet), the town is the headquarters of a taluka (an administrative subdivision) of Mirpur Khas District.

[[Fatehpur Thakiala Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir

Fatehpur Thakiala is one of the three tehsils, (administrative subdivisions), of Kotli District, Azad Kashmir, Pakistan. It is also called Nakyal.

[[Alamanni]]

CATEGORIES: Germanic tribes, Austrian people, German people, French people, Liechtenstein people, Swiss people, Alsace, Baden-Württemberg, Liechtenstein, Swabia, Bavaria, Vorarlberg

The Alamanni, Allemanni, or Alemanni were a band of west Germanic tribes. They lived around the upper Main, which is the longest tributary of the Rhine.

[[Sibi Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Balochistan

Sibi Tehsil (تحصیل سبی) is a subdivision (tehsil) of Sibi District in the Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Schloss Lenzburg]]

CATEGORIES: Castles

Schloss Lenzburg is a castle that was started above the older part of the town of Lenzburg in the Canton of Aargau, Switzerland.

[[A1 freeway, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Roads, Transport in Switzerland

The A1 is a major highway in Switzerland. It stretches across the majority of Northern Switzerland, starting relatively close to Geneva and ends at St. Margrethen. It has roughly 86 exits and buildings (these are listed on the table above).

[[Dera Ismail Khan Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Dera Ismail Khan Tehsil is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) of Dera Ismail Khan District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. 

[[Gojal Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Northern Areas (Pakistan)

Gojal Tehsil (تحصیل گوجل), also known as Upper Hunza is the largest tehsil of the Gilgit District, Northern Areas of Pakistan, it is north of the Gilgit region and is close to the Chinese border.

Gojal is a network of small and large valleys sharing borders with Hunza in the South, China in the North and East and Afghanistan in the North West. Shishkat is the first village of Gojal. Except for the Shimshal, Misgar and Chipursan valleys, all villages of Gojal can be seen while travelling on the Karakuram Highway.

The Karakorum Highway (KKH) crosses Gojal entering China at the Khunjerab Pass linking Pakistan to China and, in the future, other Central Asian states such as Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Kazakhstan.

[[Gojra Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Punjab (Pakistan)

Gojra Tehsil is a part (tehsil) of Toba Tek Singh District in Punjab, Pakistan. It has an area of 1,115 km² and is administratively separated into 24 Union Councils, 6 of which form the tehsil capital Gojra.

[[Guanaco]]

CATEGORIES: Camelids, Mammals of South America

The guanaco (Lama guanicoe) is camelid animal native to South America. Guanacos are usually found in small herds or loosely structured family groups.

[[Vicuña]]

CATEGORIES: Camelids, Mammals of South America

The vicuña (Vicugna vicugna) is one of two wild South American camelids. The vicuña is the smallest of the camelids. It has had an interesting relationship with humans over time.

[[Nocturnes (Debussy)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Claude Debussy

Nocturnes is a piece of music for orchestra by the French composer Claude Debussy.  There are three movements.  A female chorus also sings in the last movement.  Debussy finished writing "Nocturnes" on  15 December  1899. 

[[Brooklyn Nets]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Brooklyn, Sports in New York City, 1967 establishments in New York (state)

The Brooklyn Nets are a team in the National Basketball Association in the New York City community of Brooklyn. They play their home games in the, Barclays Center.

The team was founded as the New Jersey Americans in 1967, and played in the American Basketball Association (ABA). After one season in that state, they moved to Long Island, becoming the New York Nets. In 1976, the Nets were one of four ABA teams that joined the NBA, and returned to New Jersey a year later, becoming the New Jersey Nets. After their return to New Jersey, they played on the campus of Rutgers University. In 1981, they moved to East Rutherford, closer to New York City. In 2010, they moved to Newark, and played there until their new Brooklyn arena was built. Once they moved to Brooklyn, they became the Brooklyn Nets.

[[Cleveland Cavaliers]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in Cleveland, Ohio, 1970 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Ohio

The Cleveland Cavaliers are an American professional basketball team in the National Basketball Association in Cleveland, Ohio. They began playing in 1970. They play their home games at Rocket Mortgage FieldHouse, originally known as Gund Arena and later as Quicken Loans Arena. They now have one NBA championship won in 2016 with the help of LeBron James.

[[Indiana Pacers]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Indianapolis, Indiana, 1967 establishments in the United States

The Indiana Pacers are a team in the National Basketball Association in Indianapolis, Indiana. They began playing in the American Basketball Association from 1967 to 1976. The Pacers joined the NBA in 1976. They play their home games at the Bankers Life Fieldhouse.

[[Fan]]

CATEGORIES: Machines

What fans are

A device used for cooling themselves down when they feel hot, especially:

1. A machine using an electric motor to rotate vanes in order to move air for cooling.

2. A tool whose shape is usually long triangle or semicircle is made of feathers, leaves, paper, cloth, etc. people usually wave it lightly in a hand to create a cooling current of air.

Various types of fans and their characteristics

[[Washington Wizards]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams

The Washington Wizards are a team in the National Basketball Association (NBA) in Washington, D.C. at the Verizon Center. They were known as the Washington Bullets from 1974–1997 and were formed as the Chicago Packers in 1961. Michael Jordan came out of his second retirement to play with the Washington Wizards from 2001–02 and was the Wizards' president of basketball operations from 2001 - 2003 until he was fired by Wizards' majority owner Abe Pollin.

[[Orlando Magic]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in Orlando, Florida, Richard DeVos, 1989 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Florida

The Orlando Magic are an American professional basketball team in the National Basketball Association in Orlando, Florida. They began playing in 1989. They play their home games at the Amway Center. They are the only team in the "big four" sports leagues to be based in Orlando. Steve Clifford is the current owner of the team.

[[Charlotte Hornets (NBA)]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in Charlotte, North Carolina, 2004 establishments in North Carolina

The Charlotte Hornets are a team in the National Basketball Association (NBA) in Charlotte, North Carolina. They play their home games at the Spectrum Center. Most of the team is owned by Michael Jordan, who was a star player for the Chicago Bulls in the 1980s and 1990s. The team started playing in 2004 as the Charlotte Bobcats, and was the second NBA team to play in Charlotte (the New Orleans Pelicans had played in Charlotte as the Hornets from 1988 to 2002). In 2010, the Bobcats made the playoffs for the first time.

After the New Orleans Hornets renamed themselves the Pelicans in 2013, they gave the "Hornets" name back to the NBA. The Bobcats soon announced they would rename themselves the Hornets beginning with the 2014–15 NBA season, and the name change became official on May 20, 2014.

At the time of the change to "Hornets", the team also said that it had reached a deal with the NBA and the Pelicans to split the Pelicans' history and records between the two teams:

[[Denver Nuggets]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in Denver, Colorado

The Denver Nuggets are a team in the National Basketball Association in Denver, Colorado. They play their home games at Ball Arena, formerly known as Pepsi Center. Carmelo Anthony, Allen Iverson, and Nenê also used to play for them. Current stars include Nikola Jokić and Jamal Murray.

[[Memphis Grizzlies]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Memphis, Tennessee, 2001 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Tennessee

The Memphis Grizzlies are a team in the National Basketball Association. They play their home games at the FedExForum in Memphis, Tennessee.

In 1995, the team began playing in the NBA. The team was then in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, and was called the Vancouver Grizzlies. In 2001, the Grizzlies moved to Memphis because the previous owner Orca Bay Sports and Entertainment started losing money on the franchise due to low attendance and a weak Canadian dollar.

[[Los Angeles Clippers]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in Los Angeles, 1970 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in California

The Los Angeles Clippers are a team in the National Basketball Association (NBA). They play their home games in the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. The Los Angeles Lakers also play their home games in the Staples Center.

[[Texas A&M University–Corpus Christi]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Texas, Corpus Christi, Texas, 1947 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Texas

Texas A&M University–Corpus Christi is a public university in Corpus Christi, Texas, United States.  It has about 7,000 students enrolled and it was founded in 1947.  

[[Freedom of the press]]

CATEGORIES: Journalism, Freedom

Freedom of the press is a promise by a government not to punish journalists (and other people who report the news) for doing their job. It is an idea like freedom of speech: it lets people express their opinions or beliefs. Many countries have laws or constitutional amendments protecting freedom of the press. The word "press" in the phrase comes from the printing press.

[[Olympic Flame]]

CATEGORIES: Olympic Games

The Olympic Flame or Olympic Torch is a symbol of the Olympic Games. A committee plans the route that it goes through, which ends at the city where the event is being hosted. Sometimes people use the torch route to make a point.  During the 2008 Olympic torch relay to Beijing, people talked about and held signs that were against China's human rights record and signs that said Tibet was not a part of China.

[[Freedom of assembly]]

CATEGORIES: Freedom

Freedom of assembly and freedom of association, is the right  to join together with others peacefully to reach common goals and express common opinions, both in public and in private. This usually includes business groups (or corporation), civic organizations, labor unions, political parties, and protest groups. 

[[First Amendment to the United States Constitution]]

CATEGORIES: Freedom, United States Bill of Rights, Amendments to the United States Constitution

The First Amendment to the United States Constitution is a part of the United States Bill of Rights that protects freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly, freedom of the press, and right to petition.   

The Establishment Clause does not allow the government to support one religion more than any other religion. The government also can not say that a religion or a god is true.  This is often described as "separation of church and state", where "state" means "The Government". It also does not allow the government to establish a national religion. It allows people to debate religion freely without the federal government of the United States getting involved.  The clause did not stop the various states from supporting a particular religion, and several states did.

[[Parliamentary procedure]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Law, Systems

Parliamentary procedure is a commonly accepted way in which a group of people work together to discuss and make decisions.  It is a set of rules for meetings.

[[Militia]]

CATEGORIES: Military

A militia is a group of people not in the military who do many things that the military does.  This includes collecting weapons, training soldiers, defending people or land, policing an area.  Militias are often made up of veterans who were once in the military.  

Some militias are organized by a government, like the United States National Guard.  This is a group of state militias who help with wars, natural disasters and other emergencies.  Others are not connected to a government, and may even be illegal. One common definition of a militia includes all men who are able to serve as soldiers.

At the beginning in the late 20th century, some militias acted as professional forces, while still being "part-time" or "on-call" organizations. 

[[Pictures at an Exhibition]]

CATEGORIES: Solo piano pieces, Compositions by Modest Mussorgsky

Pictures at an Exhibition is a piece of music for solo piano composed by Modest Mussorgsky in 1874.  It is Mussorgsky’s most famous solo piano work and often played by virtuosos to show how good they are.  Many years after Mussorgsky’s death, Maurice Ravel made an arrangement of the piece for orchestra.  This version, by a Russian composer and a French arranger, is how people usually hear the music today. 

[[Wine (disambiguation)]]

Wine is an alcoholic beverage.

Wine can also mean:

[[Wine (software)]]

CATEGORIES: Free software, 1993

Wine is a piece of software which lets Unix-like computer operating systems on the x86 and x86-64 architectures to execute programs written for Microsoft Windows. Wine runs Windows programs without using emulation. Wine also provides a software library known as Winelib which developers can compile Windows applications against to help port them to Unix-like systems. Some Wine code is used in ReactOS, a free operating system that is Windows-compatible and is not based on Unix.

The Wine developers released version 1.0 of Wine, after 15 years of development, on June 17 2008. 

Wine is free software, released under terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL).

[[Carbon-12]]

CATEGORIES: Isotopes, Carbon

Carbon-12 (also written 12C) is an isotope of carbon. It is the most common isotope of carbon, as 98.89% of all carbon is this type of carbon. It is one of two stable (non-radioactive) isotopes of carbon. The other is carbon-13.

Carbon-12 is important in chemistry as it is the benchmark from which all other relative atomic masses are worked out. Its relative atomic mass is exactly 12.

[[Art rock]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music

Art rock (also sometimes called progressive rock or classical rock) is a sub-genre of rock music that has "experimental influences". It tries to make rock music into art instead of just entertainment. It often uses longer songs than other genres of rock. It uses different techniques such as elements (parts) of classical music. It is not usually music to dance to, but music to just listen to. It started in the 1960s. Phil Spector (an American music producer) and Brian Wilson (the leader of The Beach Boys) are two early examples of musicians making art rock. The genre was popular with British bands at the end of the 1960s and the beginning of the 1970s. 

[[MIT License]]

CATEGORIES: Software licences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

The MIT License is a free software license that was created at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). It is a permissive license, meaning that it allows programmers to put the code in proprietary software on the condition that the license is given with that software, and GPL-compatible, meaning that the GPL permits programmers to combine and redistribute it with software that uses the MIT License.

According to the Free Software Foundation, the MIT License is more accurately called the X11 license, since MIT has used many licenses for software and the license was first written for the X Window System.

Software that use the MIT License include Expat, PuTTY, Mono development platform class libraries, Ruby on Rails, Cakephp, Twisted, Lua 5.0 onwards and the X Window System, which the license was written for.

Some software are dual licensed under the MIT License, such as older versions of the cURL library, which allowed recipients to choose either the Mozilla Public License or the MIT License.

[[Blender (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: Music magazines, American magazines

Blender is an American music magazine that self-identifies as "the ultimate guide to music and more." It is also known for sometimes having pictures of female celebrities that shows them with a lot of their body uncovered. It puts together lists of albums, artists, and songs, including both "best of" lists and "worst of" lists. In each issue, there is a review of an artist's entire discography, with a review of each album. The magazine teamed up with VH1 to create the "50 Most Awesomely Bad Songs".

Blender is published by Dennis Publishing. The magazine was started in 1994 as the first digital CD-ROM magazine by Jason Pearson, David Cherry & Regina Joseph, acquired by Felix Dennis/Dennis Publishing, UK. It published 15 digital CD issues, and launched on the web in 1997. It started publishing a print edition again in 1999 in the same form that it does today. Blender CD-ROM showcased the earliest digital editorial (paper) formats, as well as the first forms of digital advertising. The first digital advertisers included: Calvin Klein, Apple Computer, Toyota and Nike.

[[Discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies

Discography is the study and listing of sound recordings. The word comes from the word "disc", which is the most commonly used term for describing the format used most for sound recordings in the 20th century, and the -graph suffix meaning something written.

A listing of all recordings of a musician or singer is usually called their "discography". Discographies may also be created based on a particular musical genre or record label, for example, so that all artists in a genre, or that have contracts with a certain label, are listed together.

The term "discography" became popular in the 1930s by collectors of jazz records. Jazz fans did research and self-published discographies about when jazz records were made and what musicians were on the records, as record companies did not commonly include that information on/with the records at that time.

[[Euoplocephalus]]

CATEGORIES: Ankylosauria

Euplocephalus (meaning "well-armored head") was a large armored dinosaur, measuring about 20 feet (6 m) long; it weighed about 2 tons. Its wide head had a horny, toothless beak, small, peg-like cheek teeth, bony horns, and a small brain. Among its contemporaries were the large meat-eating Tyrannosaurus and Deinonychus.

Fossils from more than 40 individuals have been discovered in Alberta, Canada and Montana in the United States, making Euoplocephalus the best known ankylosaurid. This includes 15 skulls, teeth, and a few almost-complete skeletons, found with the armor still attached. Individual armor plates are the most commonly found element from them.

[[Progressive metal]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy metal subgenres

Progressive metal (often called prog metal) is a sub-genre of heavy metal music that mixes the powerful, guitar-driven sound of metal with the complexity of progressive rock, which includes odd time signatures and complicated instrumental playing. Some progressive metal bands are also influenced by jazz fusion and classical music. Like progressive rock songs, progressive metal songs are usually much longer than other metal songs, and they are often themed in concept albums. As a result, progressive metal is rarely heard on mainstream radio and video programs.

[[Mamenchisaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropods

Mamenchisaurus was a long-necked, long-tailed, four-legged, plant-eating dinosaur. 

Mamenchisaurus had the longest neck of any known dinosaur, except the newly found Sauroposeidon.Its neck was about 46 feet (14 m). It had 19 vertebrae in its neck, more than any other known dinosaur had. Mamenchisaurus was about 70 to 80 feet (21 to 25 m) long and weighed roughly 12 tons (11 tonnes). 

Its hind legs were longer than the front legs; these hind legs were similar to the legs of Diplodocus. Its skull however, was box-shaped, unlike Diplodocus' elongated snout.

[[Knoxville, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Former United States state capitals, Knoxville, Tennessee, County seats in Tennessee

Knoxville is the third-largest city in the state of Tennessee, in the United States of America. The largest city in the state is Memphis, followed by Nashville, the capital of Tennessee. Knoxville is the county seat of Knox County. In 2010, it had a population of 178,874.

The city has been often called "The Streaking Capital of the World" and "The Underwear Capital of the World".

Knoxville was founded in 1786 and is the second oldest of Tennessee's four major cities, after Nashville which was founded in 1779.  After Tennessee's admission into the Union in 1796, Knoxville was the state's first capital. In 1819, the capital was moved to Murfreesboro, prior to Nashville becoming the current capital. The city was named in honor of the first Secretary of War, Henry Knox.

Knoxville's economy is largely fueled by the regional location of the main campus of the University of Tennessee, the Oak Ridge National Laboratory and other Department of Energy facilities in nearby Oak Ridge, the National Transportation Research Center, and the Tennessee Valley Authority.

[[Così fan tutte]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, 1790s operas, 1790

Così fan tutte, ossia La scuola degli amanti (Women are like that, or The school for lovers) is an opera buffa with music by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and an Italina libretto by Lorenzo Da Ponte. Così premiered at the Burgtheater in Vienna on 26 January 1790. 

Legend says the opera was based on a real-life incident that occurred in Vienna. In the 19th century, the opera was considered somewhat naughty, and was rarely performed. Modern critics however believe that the music is some of Mozart's finest, and the opera is now frequently performed around the world.

[[Revolver (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: Music magazines

Revolver is a monthly hard rock and heavy metal magazine published by Future US. It started as a magazine that was about more popular styles of music, but then changed to what it is now. The magazine is put together a lot like Spin, and also writes about the heavy metal and punk subcultures.  It has cover stories (usually centering on a band's new album, song, or upcoming tour), album reviews, instrument reviews, and a section for readers to get advice from a celebrity.

Another notable feature of the magazine is its coverage of underground and up-and-coming bands from all over the world.  Instead of focusing only on the most popular bands, Revolver introduces a lot that are not played on the radio or on MTV.

Its slogan is: "The World's Loudest Rock Magazine!"

[[University of York]]

CATEGORIES: Universities in England, York

The University of York is a research-intensive university in the city of York, England. York University began in 1963, and has more than 30 departments and centres, covering many subjects.

Despite its relatively young age, the university has a big reputation. York has been named the 8th best "young university" in the world, and first in the UK, building a "reputation to rival Oxford and Cambridge".

The university is among the top 10 in the country, top 20 universities in Europe, and ranked 96th in the world, according to the 2011 QS World University Rankings. This places York in the top 1% of all higher education institutions across the globe.

In the last Research Assessment Exercise in 2008, York was also named as the 8th best research institution in the United Kingdom. The university was named Sunday Times university of the year in 2003 and Times Higher Education university of the year in 2010. In 2012, The University of York was invited to join the Russell Group in recognition of the institution's world-leading research and outstanding teaching.

[[Magazine circulation]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines

A magazine's circulation is the number of copies it usually distributes for each issue. It is one of the main factors used to determine how much money they will charge businesses to advertise in the magazine. Circulation is not always the same as copies sold, which is usually called paid circulation, because many magazines are distributed to readers without making them pay anything. This is more true for magazines dealing with business and professional topics. When determining readership figures, which is how many people read an issue, the number is usually considered to be higher than the circulation figures because of the assumption that most copies of the magazine are read by more than one person. In many countries, circulation figures are checked by companies that do not work for the magazine, such as the Audit Bureau of Circulations, to make sure that the numbers a publisher gives to advertisers is accurate.

[[Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa]]

CATEGORIES: 1486 births, 1535 deaths, Astrologers, German esotericists, Occultists, People from Cologne, Writers from North Rhine-Westphalia

Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa von Nettesheim (14 September 1486 – 18 February 1535) was a German occult writer, astrologer, and alchemist.

[[Paracelsus]]

CATEGORIES: 1493 births, 1541 deaths, Astrologers, Austrian physicians, Botanists, Occultists, Swiss chemists, Austrian biologists, Swiss biologists

Paracelsus (11 November or 17 December 1493 in Einsiedeln, Switzerland – 24 September 1541 in Salzburg, Austria) was a Swiss-Austrian alchemist, physician, astrologer, and general occultist. The name "Paracelsus" was a nickname: it means "equal to or greater than Celsus", and refers to his medical skill. He was born Phillip von Hohenheim.

He gained his doctorate degree from the University of Ferrara in 1515 or 1516.

He gave zinc its name (in Latin as "zincum"). He also named the cyanobacterium Nostoc, which is a long-chain colonial bacterium. The adjective "bombastic" comes from his family name. It refers to his arrogance.

Paracelsus was responsible for the creation of laudanum, an alcoholic herbal opium preparation. It was in common use up to the 19th century. Like most of the alchemists, he was a notable botanist. He wrote various books, but especially his major work (title translated as: On the miners' sickness and other diseases of miners). This listed the occupational hazards of metalworking, including treatment and prevention strategies. He also wrote a book on the human body which contradicted Galen's ideas. He disagreed with Galen's idea of four humours, and instead believed that disease could come from an external source.

[[Morris]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2001 deaths

Maurice de Bevere (December 1, 1923 - July 16, 2001), better known as Morris, was a Belgian cartoonist and the creator of Lucky Luke.

[[Palos Verdes blue]]

CATEGORIES: Endangered species, Lycaenidae

The Palos Verdes blue butterfly is a small endangered butterfly that can be seen near the Palos Verdes Peninsula in southwest Los Angeles County, California. So far, it can only be seen here and might be one of the rarest butterflies in the world.

[[Wingspan]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation, Birds

The wingspan of an airplane or a bird is the distance from the tip of one wing to the tip of the other. The wingspan of an aircraft is always measured in a straight line, from wingtip to wingtip, independently of wing shape or sweep.

To measure the wingspan of a bird, a live or freshly dead specimen is placed flat on its back, the wings are grasped at the wrist joints and ankles, and then the distance is measured between the tips of the longest primary feathers on each wing.

[[Talent agent]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment occupations

A talent agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds jobs for actors, musicians, models, and other people in different entertainment businesses. Agents make their money by taking a percentage of the money that their client is paid.

[[Airbus A319]]

CATEGORIES: Airbus aircraft

[[Félix Houphouët-Boigny]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1993 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Prime Ministers of Ivory Coast, Presidents of Ivory Coast, Roman Catholics

Félix Houphouët-Boigny (feliks ufwɛt bwaɲi; 18 October 1905 – 7 December 1993) was the first President of Côte d'Ivoire. He was president until he died in 1993.

[[University of Cambridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1231 establishments, University of Cambridge, 13th century establishments in England

The University of Cambridge (also called Cambridge University) is in Cambridge, England. It is the second-oldest university in all English-speaking countries. It is one of the world's leading places of learning.

The University started as a group of scholars in the city of Cambridge. This may have started in 1209, when scholars left Oxford after a fight with local people. The universities of Oxford and Cambridge are often called Oxbridge. This is not a different university. It is a way of saying Oxford and Cambridge together. Cambridge University and Oxford University are both very important to the history of England.

Cambridge is usually ranked in the world's top five universities. UK rankings and tests on the quality of its research also rate it very highly. Cambridge has more than 18,000 students and many sport clubs and societies.

Many important people studied at the University of Cambridge, including scientists, poets, artists, politicians and members of the British Royal Family. 121 former students and staff from Cambridge later won a Nobel Prize.

[[Carpals]]

CATEGORIES: Bones

Carpals are bones found in the hand. They are also called wrist bones as they are in the wrist. There are eight carpals in each hand.  Any easy way to remember the eight bones in order is "Some Lovers Try Positions That They Can't Handle." for Scaphoid, Lunate, Triquetrum, Pisiform, Trapezium, Trapezoid, Capitate, Hamate.

[[Orient Express]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in Europe

The Orient Express is the name for a passenger train (and its route). Originally it ran from Paris to Istanbul. The final service was an overnight train between Strasbourg and Vienna (it joined with the sleeper from Amsterdam in Karlsruhe). The service ended in 2009.

[[Sleeping car]]

CATEGORIES: Trains

The sleeping car or sleeper is a part of a train with beds built in, mostly for making nighttime travel more restful. 

[[List of police forces in the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: United Kingdom-related lists, Law enforcement agencies of the United Kingdom

This is a list of the Police forces in the United Kingdom.

[[Robert Christgau]]

CATEGORIES: American journalists, Writers from New York City, 1942 births, Living people

Robert Christgau (born April 18, 1942) is an American music journalist. He has called himself the "Dean of American Rock Critics".

[[Texas A&M University–Kingsville]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Texas, 1925 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in Texas

Texas A&M University–Kingsville is a public university in Kingsville, Texas, United States.  It has about 6,500 students enrolled and it was founded in 1925.  It has ties to Texas A&M University.

[[1932–33 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 in North America, 1933

The 1932–33 NHL season was the 16th season of the National Hockey League. Nine teams each played 48 games. The New York Rangers beat the Toronto Maple Leafs three games to one for the Stanley Cup.  

[[1933–34 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s in North America

The 1933–34 NHL season was the 17th season of the National Hockey League. Nine teams each played 48 games. The Chicago Black Hawks were the Stanley Cup winners as they beat the Detroit Red Wings three games to one.

[[Passer rating]]

CATEGORIES: American football, Canadian football, College football, National Football League

Passer rating (known as passing efficiency or pass efficiency in NCAA football) is a measure of how well a quarterback, or any other passer in American and Canadian football, played.  Math is used to get the passer rating.  To get a good passer rating, a quarterback needs to have a high number of good passes and touchdowns. A quarterback can get a bad passer rating if the quarterback has many interceptions.

[[Postal codes in the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Postal codes, Postal services in the United Kingdom

UK postal codes are known as postcodes.

UK postcodes use letters and numbers. The British Prime Minister's postcode at 10 Downing Street is SW1A 2AA.

These codes were started by the Royal Mail over a 15-year period from 1959 to 1974 – the full list is now available electronically from the Royal Mail as the Postcode Address File. They were made to help electronically sort mail.

Postcodes are now used for many other purposes such as insurance calculations, and as a way to describe United Kingdom places to sat navs.

[[Chenab River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River

The Chenab River (Punjabi/دریائے چناب), a mix of two words: 

'Moon(Chan) چن River(aab)) آب', is formed by the confluence of the Chandra and Bhaga rivers at Tandi in the upper Himalayas in the Lahul and Spiti District of Himachal Pradesh, Republic of India. In its upper reaches it is also known as the Chandrabhaga. It is a tributary of the Indus River.

It flows through the Jammu region of Jammu and Kashmir into the plains of the Punjab, forming the boundary between the Rechna and Jech interfluves (Doabs in Persian). It is joined by the Jhelum River at Trimmu تریمو and then by the Ravi River Ahmadpur Siyaal احمدپورسیال. It then merges with the Sutlej River near Uch Sharif to form the Panjnad or the 'Five Rivers', the fifth being the Beas River which joins the Satluj near Ferozepur, India. The Chenab then joins the Indus at Mithankot. The total length of the Chenab is about 960 kilometres. 

The waters of the Chenab are allocated to Pakistan under the terms of the Indus Waters Treaty.

The Baglihar hydropower dam is being built (as of 2006) on the Chenab River in the Doda district.  This is about 110 kilometers eastward of the Pakistan border in the Jammu division of the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir. The dam is one of 9 hydro-electric projects on the Chenab River.

[[Jhelum River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River

Jehlum River or Jhelum River (Punjabi: ਜੇਹਲਮ, Punjabi: دریاۓ جہلم) is the largest and most western of the five rivers of Punjab, and passes through Jhelum District. It is a tributary of the Indus River and has a total length of about 480 miles (774 kilometers).

[[Ravi River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River

The Ravi River (راوی), 

(रवि, ਰਾਵੀ, is a river in Kashmir and Pakistan. It is one of the five rivers which give Punjab its name. 

It is also one of the major five rivers/tributaries of Indus.  

The Ravi was known as Parushani or Iravati to Indians in Vedic times and Hydraotes to the Ancient Greeks. 

It originates in the Himalayas in the Chamba district of Himachal Pradesh following a north-westerly course. It turns to the south-west, near Dalhousie, and then cuts a gorge in the Dhaola Dhar range entering the Punjab plain near Madhopur. It then flows along the Indo-Pak border for some distance before entering Pakistan and joining the Chenab River. 

The total length of the river is about 720 km. 

The waters of the Ravi river are allocated to India under the Indus Waters Treaty between India and Pakistan and the resulting Indus Basin Project. 

It is also called 'The river of Lahore' since that great city is located on its eastern bank. On its western bank is located the famous town of Shahdara with the tomb of Jahangir and the Tomb of Noor Jahan.

[[Shingo River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan

The Shingo River is a tributary of the Suru River (Indus), and flows through the Ladakh region of Jammu and Kashmir.

[[Iranian women's movement]]

CATEGORIES: History of Iran, Islam, Feminism

The Iranian women's movement, also called the Persian women's movement, involves the Iranian women's social movement for women's rights. The movement emerged after the Iranian Constitutional Revolution. Semi secret associations took place and organized women's rights demonstrations and protests.

It lasted until 1910, when the first Women Journal was published by women, to 1933, when which the last women’s association was dissolved by the Reza Shah’s government. The women’s movement emerged again after the Iranian Revolution (1979).  In some villages the parents must show proof of their daughters virginity on the wedding night.

[[Tricastin nuclear power plant]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear power plants in Europe

Tricastin is a nuclear power plant in France. It has 4 reactors, which each generate 915 MW, for a total of 3.6 TW. It is next to the highway, about halfway between Valence-sur-Rhône and Avignon. It is on the River Rhône. It was built form 1974 to 1981; the first reactors started working in 1980. It has been criticized several times, because of incidents:

[[Polly Pocket]]

CATEGORIES: Dolls

Polly Pocket is a line of small plastic dolls and accessories. The name comes from the fact that many of the first Polly Pocket toys came in pocket-size cases.  The Fashion Polly dolls are sold by Mattel.

[[Juliet Burke]]

CATEGORIES: Television characters

Juliet Burke is the name of a fictional character, a main character on the ABC's TV series Lost.  She is played by the actress Elizabeth Mitchell. Juliet's character was introduced in the third season's premiere.  

[[Shyok River]]

CATEGORIES: Tributaries of the Indus River, Gilgit-Baltistan, Kashmir, Rivers of India, Rivers of Pakistan

The Shyok River is a river flowing through Disputed Area Ladakh and the Northern Areas of Pakistan (Ghanche District). Shyok river (a tributary of the Indus) originates from the Rimo glacier, one of the tongues of Siachen Glacier and becomes very wide at the confluence with the Nubra River (a tributary of Shyok, originating from Siachen Glacier).

The alignment of the Shyok river is very unusual, originating from the Rimo glacier it flows in a SE direction and at joining the Pangong range it takes a NW turn and flows parallel to its previous path. The Shyok flowing in a wide valley suddenly enters a narrow gorge after Chalunka and then joins the Indus at Skardu (Pakistan). The Nubra river originating from the Siachen glacier also behaves like the Shyok, before Tirit the SE flowing river takes a NW turn on meeting the river Shyok. The similarity in the courses of these two important rivers probably indicates a series of palaeo fault lines trending NW-SE in delimiting the upper courses of the rivers. The importance of the Indus River and the Shyok rivers is in the deposition of a huge thickness of Quaternary sediments a treasure trove for geology researchers.

[[Suru River (Indus)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River

The Suru River is a river in Jammu and Kashmir that forms the western and northern boundary of the Zanskar Range, it takes birth from the waters of Nunkun peak in its skirts flows to the north of Kargil and empties into the Indus River.

[[Tawi River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan

Tawi is a river that flows through the city of Jammu, Kashmir. 

Tawi river is a major left bank tributary of Chenab River. The river originates from the lapse of Kali Kundi glacier and adjoining area south-west of Bhadarwah in Doda District. Tawi river catchment is delinated by latitude 320 35' -330 5' N and longitude 740 35' - 750 45' E. The catchment area of the river up to Indo-Pak cease-fire border (Jammu) is 2168 km², and falls within the districts of Jammu, Udhampur and a small part of Doda. Elevation in the catchment varies between 400–4000 m and total length of the river is about 141 km. The river in general flows through steep hills on either side excepting the lower reach for about 35 km. width of the river at Jammu is about 300 m at the bridge site.

[[Zanskar Gorge]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River

The Zanskar Gorge is found in the Zanskar region of Jammu and Kashmir. Its walls are near vertical cliffs up to 600m high.  The Zanskar River (a tributary of the Indus River) is only 5m wide in places.  It provides an access route to the Zanskar Valley, but only in winter when the river is frozen.

[[Gilgit River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River

The Gilgit River (دریائے گلگت) is a tributary of the Indus River, and flows past the town of Gilgit. It is in the Northern Areas of disputed Kashmir, Pakistan.

[[Gomal River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Rivers of Afghanistan

Gomal River (دریائے گومل) is a river in Afghanistan and Pakistan, with its headwaters in the south-east of Ghazni.

Within Pakistan, the Gomal river surrounds South Waziristan agency, forms the boundary between Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan. From South Waziristan, the river enters the Gomal Valley in Tank District at a place known as Girdavi, Murtuza which is inhabited by the Miani tribe. It is mainly here that the water of Gomal is used to cultivate the lands in Gomal Valley through Zam system (Rod Kohi). The river passes then through the Damaan plain in Kulachi Tehsil and later on through Dera Ismail Khan Tehsil, It then joins the Indus River 20 miles south of Dera Ismail Khan

[[Hub River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan

Hub River (دریائے حب) is a river found in Lasbela, Balochistan, Pakistan. 

It forms the provincial boundary between Sindh and Balochistan, west of Karachi. 

Hub Dam is a large water storage reservoir constructed in 1981 on the Hub River in the arid plains north of Karachi. The reservoir supplies water for irrigation in the Lasbella district of Balochistan and drinking water for the city of Karachi. The dam is an important staging and wintering area for an appreciable number of waterbirds and contains a variety of fish species which increase in abundance during periods of high water. 

The Mahseer (Tor putitora), an indigenous riverine fish found in the Hub River, grows up to 2m in length and is fished.

The Hub dam was declared a wetland of importance in 2001.

[[Hingol River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan

Hungol River or Hingol River (دریائے ہنگول) is in Makran, Balochistan, Pakistan.

The river is 350 miles long and is the longest in Balochistan. It winds through the Hungol valley between high cliffs. 

The river flows all year long, unlike most other streams in Balochistan which only flow during rare rains.  

The Hungol river and valley are in Hingol National Park.

[[Kundar River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Rivers of Afghanistan

Kundar River is in Balochistan, Pakistan. The meltwater from the Sulaiman Mountains forms Kundar River and it flows through Balochistan and drains into Gomal River.

The two principal drainage channels of the Zhob District are the Zhob River and the Kundar River, both flow into the Gomal River. The general direction of the rivers is from Southwest to northeast. The Zhob River rises at Tsari Mehtarazai pass, the watershed a distance of about 400 kilometers. The broad plain of the Zhob River is occupied by the alluvial formation. The Kundar River rises from the central and highest point of the TobaKakar range, a few kilometers northeast of the Sakir. It constitutes boundary between Pakistan and Afghanistan territory for a considerable length. The other subsidiary rivers or streams are the Baskan, Chukhan, Sri Toi, Sawar, Surab, etc.

[[Kunhar River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan

Kunhar River (دریائے کنہار) is in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. A main source of the river is Lulusar lake, nearly 48 km from Naran Valley. Glaciers of Malka Parbat and Makra Peak and the waters of Saiful Muluk lake feed the river. The Kunhar flows through the entire Kaghan Valley through Jalkhand, Naran, Kaghan, Jared, Paras and Balakot, and joins the Jhelum River.

The Kunhar river trout is considered to be the best throughout the Indian subcontinent.April 2009

[[Kurrum River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River, Rivers of Afghanistan

The Kurrum River or Karam River (دریائے کرم) flows in the Kurrum Valley, stretching  across the Afghan-Pakistani border west to east (crosses from the Paktia Province of Afghanistan into the Kohat border region of Pakistan) at 33, about 150 km west-to-south-west of the Khyber Pass.

[[Lyari River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan

Lyari River (لیاری ندی) is a small stream in Karachi, Pakistan. It flows from northeast to the center. It drains into the Arabian Sea at the Monora channel. It is one of the two rivers of Karachi, the other one being the Malir River. The river is about 50 kilometres (30 miles) long. As a seasonal river it carries the collected water after the rains in the catchment area.

[[Malir River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan

The Malir River (دریائے ملير) is in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. It flows through the city of Karachi from north east to the centre before flowing into the Arabian Sea. Two smaller rivers flow into the Malir, the Thadho and the Sukhan.

The Malir river is one of two rivers flowing through Karachi, the other is the Lyari River. 

In the rainy season the Malir river gets a lot of water and millions of liters of water flows with it into the Arabian Sea.

[[Panjkora River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan

The Panjkora River rises rises high in the Hindu Kush at lat. 35.45 and joins the Swat River near Chakdara, Malakand, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. Its name is derived from the Persian for 'panj' (meaning 'five') and 'kora' (meaning 'river').

[[Wisent]]

CATEGORIES: Bovines, Mammals of Europe

The wisent (or the European bison, Bison bonasus) is a bison species and the heaviest surviving animal in Europe. It is a close relative of the American bison.

Longer legged and less heavily built than its American cousin, the wisent may reach a height of 54 to 60 in. (137–152 cm) at the shoulder, and a weight of more than 1 ton (900 kg). It has brown hair and short upcurved horns. Its hump is less prominent than that of the American bison and its coat less shaggy.

[[Panjnad River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River

Panjnad River (پنجند, Sanskrit: panj = five, nadi = river) is a river in Punjab, Pakistan. Panjnad River is formed by successive confluence of the five rivers of Punjab, namely Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas and Sutlej. Jhelum and Ravi join Chenab, Beas joins Sutlej, and then Sutlej and Chenab join to form Panjnad near Uch Sharif. The combined stream runs southwest for approximately 45 miles and joins Indus River at Mithankot. The Indus continues into the Arabian Sea. A dam on Panjnad has been erected; it provides irrigation channels for Punjab and Sind provinces south of the Sutlej and east of the Indus rivers.

Beyond the meeting of Indus and Panjnad rivers, the Indus river was known as Satnad (Sat = seven) carrying the waters of seven rivers including Indus river, which is believed to be in ealrlier times the Saraswati River/Ghaggar-Hakra River river which eventually dried and became a seasonal river due to seismic shifts in the glacial region of Himachal Pradesh where it originated and later on Kabul river and the five rivers of Punjab.

[[Sutlej]]

CATEGORIES: Tributaries of the Indus River, Rivers of India, Rivers of Pakistan

The Sutlej River (sometimes spelled Satluj River) is a branches of the Indus River. It is the longest of the five major rivers that flow through the region of Punjab in northern India and Pakistan. It is north of the Vindhya Range, south of the Hindu Kush, and east of the Central Makran range in Pakistan.

It is the easternmost branch of the Indus River. The source of the river is at Lake Rakshastal in Tibet, near Mount Kailas. It flows generally west and southwest through the region of Punjab. The region to its south and east is dry, and is known as the Thar Desert.

[[Zhob River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan

Zhob River (دریائے ژوب) is in Balochistan, Pakistan. The meltwater from the Sulaiman Mountains forms Zhob River. The river flows through Balochistan and drains into the Gomal River near Khajuri Kachadd. Zhob city is on the banks of Zhob river.

[[Hunza River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River

Hunza River (دریائے ہنزہ) is the main river in Hunza, in the Northern Areas of Pakistan. It is formed by the confluence (joining) of the Khunjerab River, Gujerab River, Misgar River, Chapursan River and Shimshal River. These rivers are fed by glaciers.   

After flowing to south to Nagar it turns to west. From Chalit it again takes a turn to the south. Flowing through Nomal Valley, it reaches Gilgit city and empties out into Gilgit River. It joins the Gilgit River with the Naltar River. Later it flows into the Indus River.

[[Kabul River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River, Rivers of Afghanistan

Kabul River, or Kabal River (دریای کابل), is a river that rises in the Sanglakh Range in Afghanistan, separated from the watershed of the Helmand by the Unai Pass. It is the main river in the eastern part of Afghanistan. It flows 700 km before joining the Indus River near Attock. It passes through the cities of Kabul, Chaharbagh, Jalalabad, and (flowing into Pakistan some 30 km north of the Khyber Pass) Nowshera. The major tributaries of the Kabul River are the Logar, Panjshir, Kunar and Alingar and Bara rivers.

[[Kunar River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Rivers of Afghanistan

The Kunar River (Kunar Rud) is about 480 km long. It is in eastern Afghanistan and northwestern Pakistan. The Kunar river system is fed from melting glaciers and snow of the Hindu Kush mountains. The Lutkho River joins the Mastuj River just north of the important regional centre of Chitral in Pakistan and is then called the Chitral River, before flowing south into the upper Kunar Valley in Afghanistan, where it is referred to as the Kunar River.

The Kunar River empties into the Kabul River just to the east of the city of Jalalabad in Afghanistan. The combined rivers then flow eastwards into Pakistan. Then it becomes known as the Chitral River, joining the Indus River at the city of Attock.

[[Rupal River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan

The Rupal River is an east-west glacial stream rising from the meltwater of the Rupal Glacier in northern Pakistan. The stream flows through the Rupal Valley, south of Nanga Parbat, before turning northeast to the village of Tarashing. The Rupal drains into the Astore River, which eventually reaches the Indus River near Jaglot.

[[Soan River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River

The Soan River (سون) is a river in Punjab, Pakistan. It is the most important stream of the Pothohar region. It drains much of the water of Pothohar. It also forms the northern border of Bannu District.

The river starts near a small village Bun in the foothills of Patriata and Murree. It provides water to Simblee Dam, which is reservoir of water for Islamabad. Near Pharwala Fort it cuts through a high mountain range and that is a wonderful phenomenon of nature. The place is called Swan Cut. No stream can cut such a high mountain. It proves the Swaan was there before the formation of this range. And when the mountain rose through millions of years, the stream continued its path by cutting the rising mountain. Ling stream, following a relatively long course though Lehtrar and Kahuta falls in the Swaan near Sihala.

Islamabad Highway crosses this stream near Sihala where famous bridge Cock Pull is constructed over it. Another famous, Lai stream joins this stream near Swaan Camp. After walking a tortuous path and creating a big curve, the stream reaches Kalabagh where it falls into the Indus river. This relatively small stream is more than 250 kilometers long. Due to its mountainous course and shallow bed, it is hardly used for irrigation purposes. For grinding wheat, you can find ancient types of flour mills near Chakian. Fishing is not possible in this stream as a profession. Rohu is the main species of fish in this stream. Kingfisher birds hunt here too.

[[The Fox and the Hound 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 movies, American buddy movies, American animated movies, American family movies, American musical movies, Disney animated movies, Disney direct-to-video movies, Movies about dogs

The Fox and the Hound 2 is a 2006 American animated direct-to-video movie. It was produced by DisneyToon Studios. It is a sequel to the 1981 Disney animated movie The Fox and the Hound. The movie was directed by Jim Kammerud. It was released on December 12, 2006. The story of the movie takes place during the childhood of Tod and Copper. In this movie, Copper wants to join a band of singing stray dogs. The movie features the voices of Reba McEntire and Patrick Swayze. The movie had an official soundtrack album released on November 21, 2006.

[[Direct-to-video]]

CATEGORIES: Movie terminology

A movie that is released direct-to-video (also known as made-for-video, straight-to-video, more recently, straight-to-DVD) is one which has been released to the public on home video formats (historically VHS) before or without being released in movie theaters or broadcast on television. The term is also at times used as an insulting term for sequels of movies that are not expected to have financial success.

[[A Perfect Circle]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Alternative rock bands, Alternative metal bands

A Perfect Circle, often called APC by fans, is an alternative rock band. It was put together by guitarist Billy Howerdel and Tool lead singer Maynard James Keenan.

The band is made of Jeordie White - the bass player for Marilyn Manson, James Iha - who played guitar for The Smashing Pumpkins, and Josh Freese, who used to go on tour and play drums with Nine Inch Nails.

Although the group never officially broke up, A Perfect Circle has not performed or written anything since 2006. The band members still keep busy with other projects. On September 17, 2009, Keenan confirmed that new material from A Perfect Circle was on the way during a live radio interview with BJ Shea on Seattle rock station KISW.

The band's biggest hits have been "Judith", "Weak and Powerless", and "The Outsider". They have released the albums Mer De Noms, Thirteenth Step, and Emotive.

[[UNetbootin]]

CATEGORIES: Linux software

UNetbootin (Universal Netboot Installer) is a cross-platform utility that can create Linux Live USB drives and can load a variety of system utilities or install various Linux distributions and other operating systems without a CD.

[[Live USB system creator]]

CATEGORIES: Linux software

The Live USB system creator is to tool designed to create Live USBs of Ubuntu from a running Ubuntu Live CD

[[Fedora Live USB creator]]

CATEGORIES: Linux software

The Fedora Live USB creator is an official tool designed to create Live USBs of Fedora.

[[University of Texas at Arlington]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Texas, Sun Belt Conference, Arlington, Texas, 1895 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Texas

The University of Texas at Arlington is a public university in Arlington, Texas.  About 25,000 students are enrolled (currently taking classes).  It was founded in 1895.

[[Old Persian language]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian languages

The Old Persian language is one of two Old Iranian languages. The other is Avestan). Old Persian was used during the Achaemenid era (c. 600 BC to 300 BC). Examples of Old Persian have been found in Iran, Iraq, Turkey and Egypt.

[[8 Eyes]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 video games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Platform games

8 Eyes is a 1988 video game created by Thinking Rabbit for the Nintendo Entertainment System.  The game has eight levels in it, and can be played by one or two players.  In the game, a soundtrack, composed by Kenzou Kumei, had three songs for each of the eight levels, each set in a different part of the world.  It has almost the same gameplay and graphics to Castlevania.  The name of the main character of the game is Orin, and he looks like Simon Belmont from the Castlevania games.

[[Palos Verdes]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in California, Geography of Los Angeles County, California

Palos Verdes is often used to refer to a group of coastal cities on the Palos Verdes Peninsula in the Los Angeles/South Bay area of California.

Palos Verdes Estates, Rancho Palos Verdes, Rolling Hills, and Rolling Hills Estates are the larger cities in the area.

[[P.U.N.K.S.]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 movies, English-language movies

P.U.N.K.S. is a 1999 movie. It stars Jessica Alba, Randy Quaid, and Henry Winkler.

[[Troy]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Turkey, Ancient Greek cities

Troy  was a city in north-west Asia Minor. It was the center of the Trojan War, as told in eight long epic poems, six from the Epic Cycle, and two written by Homer, the Iliad and the Odyssey.

Today it is the name of an archaeological site, the location of Homeric Troy, in Hisarlik in Anatolia, close to the seacoast in what is now Çanakkale province in northwest Turkey, southwest of the Dardanelles.

UNESCO has listed the archaeological site of Troy as a World Heritage Site.

[[Federal Information Processing Standard]]

CATEGORIES: Standards

Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) are standards made by the United States Federal government for non-military government agencies and by government contractors to use, and they are announced to the public.

Many FIPS standards are modified versions of standards used in the wider community (ANSI, IEEE, ISO, etc.) 

[[Maggot]]

CATEGORIES: Flies

A maggot is the common name of the larval phase of development in insects of the order Diptera (flies). Sometimes, the word is used to describe the larval stage of any insect.

[[Undertow (Tool album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 albums, Debut albums, Heavy metal albums

Undertow is Tool's first full-length album, released in 1993. When this album was released, grunge music was at its most popular, and pop punk was slowly beginning to become popular. Undertow helped heavy metal music continue as a leading mainstream musical style, and allowed several later bands to break through to the mainstream. Allmusic saw the album's success in the "striking, haunting visuals that complemented the album's nihilistic yet wistful mood." It was eventually certified double platinum by the RIAA on May 14, 2001.

The album was recorded between October and December 1992 at Grand Master Studios, Hollywood, California, and includes songs that the band decided to not release on their previous EP, Opiate.

[[Princess Beatrice of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 births, 1944 deaths, House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, Bailiffs Grand Cross of the Order of St John

Saxe-Coburg and Gotha (until 1917)Windsor (from 1917)

Princess Beatrice of the United Kingdom, GBR (Beatrice Mary Victoria Feodore; 14 April 1857 – 26 October 1944), later Princess Henry of Battenberg, was a member of the British Royal Family. She was the youngest child of Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom and Prince Albert of Saxe - Coburg and Gotha.

[[Xbox Live]]

CATEGORIES: Xbox

Xbox Live (trademarked as Xbox LIVE) is the online gaming service created by Microsoft for the Xbox, Xbox 360 and Xbox One. It costs about $50 USD per year (in America) and has over 31 million subscribers as of 2013. There are two versions of Xbox Live; Gold and Free. Free allows an online 'friends list' and downloads, but does not allow users to play games against other people online. Gold is the same as Free, but with the addition of online gaming and cost $50/£40 a year. Subscribers can pay with a credit card or by special cards which are bought in shops and enter the codes online. 

[[Zanskar River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pakistan, Tributaries of the Indus River

Zanskar River has two branches of origin. One of them takes birth in Ropshu area and flowing west-ward reaches Zanskar town; see Zanskar Gorge. The other branch is formed from the waters of the glaciers of central Zanskar and flowing south-east reaches Padam. From this place it turns to the north and collecting the waters of Khurna River empties into the Indus River. Another stream called Zora flowing to the north from the southern frontiers, also joins Zanskar river.

[[Xbox Live Vision]]

CATEGORIES: Xbox

The Xbox Live Vision is a webcam designed for the Xbox 360 and Xbox Live.

[[Trumpet Concerto (Arutunian)]]

CATEGORIES: Concertos

Arutunian Trumpet Concerto is Armenian composer Alexander Arutunian’s sixth major composition. It was written for the Soviet trumpet player Timofei Dokschitzer, who moved to the USA and represented the concerto there. According to J. Sundram, "it is an energetic powerhouse of Eastern European lyricism and harmonic textures". According to Philip Smith, the principal trumpet of the New York Philharmonic, Arutunian's Trumpet Concerto is too much popular among the trumpet players.

[[Alexander Arutunian]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2012 deaths, Armenian composers, People from Yerevan

Alexander Arutiunian (born September 23, 1920, Yerevan; died March 28, 2012) was an Armenian composer and pianist, widely-known particularly for his Trumpet concerto. He was awarded by the State Prizes of USSR (1949) and Armenia (1970), People's Artist of the USSR (1970) and Armenian SSR (1964) honorary titles, "St Mesrop Mashtots" and "Khorenatsi" Armenian medals, "Alexandrov" Gold medal (1976), "St Sahak and St Mesrop" Order by Holy Etchmiadzin (2004).

He graduated from the Music Conservatory of Yerevan, then he studied composition with Genrikh Litinsky. After graduation he returned to Yerevan to teach at the local Conservatory and later he became artistic director of the Armenian Philarmonic Orchestra.

In 1948 he was awarded the USSR State Prize for the Motherland cantata, a graduation piece he wrote as a student at the Moscow Conservatory. He has continued to win acclaim at home and abroad for his works, many of which are quickened by the folk traditions of Armenian music.

Some of Arutiunian's works for wind instruments, notably the 1950 concerto for trumpet, the concerto for tuba, and the brass quintet Armenian Scenes, have secured their place in the international repertory, having been performed by conductors such as Valeri Gergiev, who has recorded his Symphony for large orchestra, composed in 1957 with the Symphony orchestra of the Russian All-Union Radio. In 1988, he composed his Violin Concerto "Armenia-88".

[[Epicurus]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek philosophers

Epicurus (Samos, 341 BC – Athens, 270 BC) was an ancient Greek philosopher. He started a school of philosophy called Epicureanism.

[[The Hundred and One Dalmatians]]

CATEGORIES: British novels, English-language novels, 101 Dalmatians, 1956 books, Books about dogs

The Hundred and One Dalmatians, or The Great Dog Robbery is a 1956 children's novel by Dodie Smith.  The story is about Cruella de Vil and her plans to skin 101 Dalmatian puppies to make a fur coat. The puppies are rescued by other animals. Disney released an animated movie in 1961 based on the book as One Hundred and One Dalmatians. The book has been published as 101 Dalmatians. Smith wrote a sequel to the book called The Starlight Barking.

[[101 Dalmatians]]

CATEGORIES: English-language television programs

101 Dalmatians may mean:

[[Coulomb's law]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Laws of physics

Coulomb's law is a function developed in the 1780s by physicist Charles-Augustin de Coulomb. It explains how strong the force will be between two electrostatic charges. Electrostatic means electric charges without any motion.

[[Snow White (disambiguation)]]

Snow White can mean:

[[Leprechaun]]

CATEGORIES: Irish culture, Legendary creatures

In Irish mythology, a leprechaun (leipreachán) is a type of male fairy said to live in the island Ireland. They are a class of fairy folk" in Irish mythology and folklore, as with all fairies, with the Tuatha Dé Danann.

They usually form into the look of old men and who enjoy doing trouble. They are said to be very rich, having many treasure crocks buried during war-time.yeats1 Legend says, if someone looks at one of them, the leprechaun cannot escape, but the moment the person looks away, he disappears.

[[Greater Middle East]]

CATEGORIES: Asia, Middle East

The Greater Middle East (also known as "The New Middle East") is a political term that groups together various countries, related to the Arab world with Iran and Turkey, marginal countries such as Pakistan and Afghanistan.  Various Central Asian countries and the lower Caucasus (Azerbaijan, Armenia, and Georgia) and Cyprus and Greece are sometimes also included. Some speakers may use the term to denote areas with significant Muslim majorities, but this usage is not universal. The countries and Territories of the GME are as the following:

[[Asian snake-eyed skink]]

CATEGORIES: Lizards, Reptiles of Pakistan

The Asian snake-eyed skink (Ablepharus pannonicus) is a species of skink. It lives in the Caucasus Mountains and the Greater Middle East. It is a small skink, with a body color that can be brown or copper green, and some have a white stripe along their side. Like a snake, it does not have moveable eyelids.

[[Crosswords DS]]

CATEGORIES: Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games, Puzzle video games

Crosswords DS (also known as CrossworDS) is a crosswords video game made by Nuevo Retro Games and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS game console. It has three games - Crosswords, Word search, and Anagrams.

[[Fedora Unity]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, Linux

Fedora Unity is a community project to build comprehensive and concise websites and content that provide Fedora users and contributors with quality information.

All submissions to the project are covered by the Open Publication License (with no options) unless otherwise noted in order to allow submission to the Fedora Documentation Project.

[[Picross DS]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, Nintendo DS-only games, Puzzle video games

Picross DS is a puzzle video game made by Jupiter and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS game console.

[[Text box]]

CATEGORIES: Computers, Writing tools

A text box is a box that people type things into the computer.

[[Type]]

Type may mean:

In philosophy:

In mathematics:

In computing:

In sociology:

Other:

[[Free agent]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words

A free agent is a professional sports player who is not part of a specific team, especially whose contract has expired with the team he or she was on. That player can then sign a new contract with any team.

[[Out (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball rules

An out in baseball happens to the batter or his teammates on the field in a game. When a player is out, they leave the field, and when there are 3 outs, the other team goes up to bat. One way to get an out is if a baseball is caught while in the air and before it touches the ground after being hit by the batter. Another way is to strike out. To strike out you have to either miss the ball or not swing at good pitches three times while batting. Tag outs and force outs are the other main ways players get out. 

[[Run (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball rules

A run in baseball is when a player on a team scores a point. It can be a walked in run, a batted run, or a home run.

[[Maxis]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies

Maxis Software is an American company that was founded as a video game developer and is now a brand name of Electronic Arts (EA). Maxis' second software title was SimCity, a city simulation and planning game. Maxis is also the creator of the best-selling computer game of all time, The Sims and its sequel The Sims 2 and a title called Spore in which you guide a creature from cell form to smart, developed creatures. These four titles and their related products are the brand's most popular and successful lines.

Most Maxis titles are simulation-based, though none are considered traditional simulations. Maxis founder Will Wright likens them as "digital dollhouses." Maxis has also released games developed by other production houses, such as A-Train and SimTower.

[[Underwater]]

CATEGORIES: Water

Underwater is a term telling what is below the surface of a body of water such as an ocean, sea, lake, pond, or river. Most of the planet Earth is covered by water. The bottom of the ocean is called the sea-bed. Most of the sea-bed is between 4000 below the surface of the ocean. Just like the Earth's dry land, the sea-bed also has mountains, valleys and flat plains, although they are covered with water. The deepest part of all the world's oceans is a place called the Challenger Deep, which is in the Mariana Trench. It is 10924 under the sea.

Although a number of human activities happen underwater, such as scuba diving for work or recreation, or even warfare with submarines, most of the oceans, especially the deepest parts, have not been explored yet.

[[Hereford (cattle)]]

CATEGORIES: Cattle breeds

Hereford cattle are a widely used breed in temperate areas, mainly for beef production.

Originally from Herefordshire, England, they are found in the temperate parts of Australia. The breed also enjoys great popularity among ranchers in the desert American Southwest of the United States, as well as in the centre and east of Argentina and in Uruguay. Herefords made up the largest percentage of registered cows among herders in New Zealand. This is a testament to the hardiness of the breed; while originating in cool, moist Britain, they have thrived in much harsher climates. The breed has adapted to a wide range of climates on nearly every continent.

Hornless variants with the polled gene are known as the Polled Herefords. Breeding horned and hornless together functions as a genetic dehorner. This is often used as an alternative to a dehorning process, which causes stress and often weight loss.

[[Beef cattle]]

CATEGORIES: Cattle

Beef cattle are cattle raised for meat production (as distinguished from dairy cattle). The meat of cattle is known as beef. While the principal use of beef cattle is meat production, other uses include leather, and products used in shampoo and cosmetics. The plural beeves, when referring to such meat-animals (of either sex), is well known in the American cattle industry, but is often restricted to steers.

[[Roman army]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Rome, Armies

The Roman army is the military of ancient Rome, the forces used by the Roman Kingdom, Roman Republic and later Roman Empire. Its infantry for much of its history was the Roman legion. Rome also had a navy. The size of the army in the late Roman Empire was about 128,000  179,200 men. It was very well organized. The main Roman soldiers in the Empire were the legionaries. The legions were separated into centuries, made up of 80 soldiers and 20 other men who remained in the camp to cook and do other chores.  

Other soldiers in the army were called the auxilia. Auxilia were non-citizens who mainly came from the Roman provinces. They were paid less than legionaries and did not usually wear armor but at the end of their service, which was a minimum of 25 years, they were given Roman citizenship.

The army had cavalry units called Equites. Their men were rich enough to have horses and more expensive weapons. Being few, they were less important in battle than the infantry.

[[Tierpark Hagenbeck]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Hamburg, Zoos in Germany

Tierpark Hagenbeck (translated as Animal park Hagenbeck) is the name of the largest zoo in Hamburg, Germany. The park was founded by Carl Hagenbeck in 1907. His father was a fishmonger (a person who buys and sells fish). It is the first zoo in the world to use moats (a moat is a large hole or trench. Animals do not dare cross it).

This was done instead of using cages with bars, so the animals would feel more at home. 

Bombs in the Second World War completely destroyed the zoological garden. With much help from the founding family, it was rebuilt after the war. Two Indian Elephants helped to clear the rubble in the zoo.

There are 210 different species in the Tierpark Hagenbeck. The sadness is the only swan which is almost completely black, the Mourning swan. There are also mandrills and baby elephants but no tapir. There is breeding for Orangutan, North Chinese leopard and giant otters from South America.

[[Ronno]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Rhône

Ronno is a village in the Rhône department of central-eastern France.

[[Ultamatix]]

CATEGORIES: Linux software

Ultamatix is a computer program to install other programs on Ubuntu and Debian-based distributions.

[[Cover]]

Cover can have more than one meaning:

[[Limit of a function]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In calculus, a branch of mathematics, the limit of a function is the behavior of a certain function near a selected input value for that function. Limits are one of the main calculus topics, along with derivatives,  integration, and differential equations.

[[Marilyn Manson]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American rock singers, People from Canton, Ohio, Singers from Ohio, American rock guitarists, American singer-songwriters, Musicians from Ohio, Writers from Ohio, American poets, American keyboard players, American rock drummers, American heavy metal musicians, American heavy metal singers, American painters, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Ohio

Brian Hugh Warner (born January 5, 1969 in Canton, Ohio), better known by his stage name Marilyn Manson, is an American singer, artist and actor known for his stage name and image as the lead singer of the band named after him. His stage name was formed from the names of actress Marilyn Monroe and murderer,  Charles Manson.

In February 2021, Manson was accused of sexual and physical abuse by multiple women and men; including his ex-fiancée Evan Rachel Wood.

[[Move]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Move may mean:

Science 

Government, law and politics

computing

Organizations and brands

Music

Personal name

[[Arthur Phillip]]

CATEGORIES: 1738 births, 1814 deaths, Admirals, Governors of New South Wales, Politicians from London, Royal Navy officers

Admiral Arthur Phillip RN (11 October 1738 – 31 August 1814) was a British naval officer. Phillip was made Governor of New South Wales, the first European colony in Australia, which is now the city of Sydney.

[[Bill Cowher]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League coaches, American football linebackers, Philadelphia Eagles players, Cleveland Browns players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania, 1957 births, Living people

William Laird "Bill" Cowher (born May 8, 1957) is a former American football coach and player.  He coached the Pittsburgh Steelers for 15 seasons.  He is an analyst for The NFL Today. He won his only Super Bowl when the Pittsburgh Steelers beat the Seattle Seahawks.

[[Halting problem]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

The Halting problem is a problem in computer science. The problem is looking at a computer program and finding out if the program is going to run forever or not. We say that a program "solves the halting problem" if it can look at any other program and tell if that other program will run forever or not.

For example, a program like this:

will loop forever, but the program

stops very quickly.

Is there a program that solves the halting problem? It turns out there is not. We prove this fact by showing that if there is a program that solves the halting problem then something impossible happens. So for the moment we will act like there really is a program that solves the halting problem. Here, P is a function which will evaluate function F (called with argument I) and return true if it runs forever and false otherwise.

P can look at any program and find out if it will run forever or not. We use P to make a new program that we will call Q. What Q does is look at another program and then answer the following question: "If we run this program and make it look at a copy of itself, will it run forever?". We can make Q because we have P. All we need to do is to tell Q to create a new program that is the old program looking at itself, and then use P to find out if the new program runs forever or not.

Now we make another program R. R looks at another program and asks Q for its answer on that program. If Q answers "yes, if we run this program and make it look at a copy of itself it will run forever", then R stops. If Q answers "no, if we run this program and make it look at a copy of itself, it will not run forever", then R enters an infinite loop and runs forever.

Now we look at what happens if we make R look at a copy of itself. Two things can happen: it will either stop or run forever. 

If running R and making it look at a copy of itself does not run forever, then Q answered "yes, if we run this program and make it look at a copy of itself it will run forever". But Q said this when looking at R itself. So what Q actually said is: "yes, if we run R and make it look at a copy of itself it will run forever". So: If R running on a copy of itself does not run forever, then it does run forever. This is impossible. 

If running R and making it look at a copy of itself runs forever, then Q answered "no, if we run this program and make it look at a copy of itself it will not run forever". But Q said this when looking at R itself. So what Q actually said is: "no, if we run R and make it look at a copy of itself it will not run forever". So: If R running on a copy of itself runs forever, then it does not run forever. This is also impossible.

No matter what happens, we get an impossible situation. We did something wrong, and we need to find out what it was. Most of the things we did were not wrong. We can not say "making a program look at a copy of itself is wrong", or "looking at what another program said and then going into a loop if it said one thing, and stopping if it said another thing" is wrong. It does not make sense to say that we are not allowed to do those things. The only thing that we did that looks like it could be wrong is that we pretended that a program like P exists in the first place. And since this is the only thing that could be wrong, and something must be wrong, this is it. This is the proof that a program like P does not exist. There is no program that solves the halting problem.

This proof was found by Alan Turing in 1936.

[[Largentière]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche, Subprefectures in France

Largentière (L'Argentièira) is a commune in the Ardèche department of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in southeastern France. It is a subprefecture of the department.

[[Tucumcari, New Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Mexico, County seats in New Mexico, 1901 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in New Mexico

Tucumcari is a city in the U.S. state of New Mexico. It was founded in 1901 and is the county seat of Quay County.

[[Tauriers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Tauriers  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Gibson (disambiguation)]]

Gibson may refer to:

[[Thueyts]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Thueyts  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Gibson Les Paul]]

CATEGORIES: Guitars

The Gibson Les Paul is an electric guitar that has been made by Gibson since 1952. It is one of the most popular electric guitars of all time.

[[Usclades-et-Rieutord]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Usclades-et-Rieutord is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Uzer, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Uzer is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Vagnas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Vagnas  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Valgorge]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Valgorge  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Vals-les-Bains]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Vals-les-Bains is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Valvignères]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Valvignères  is a commune in the Ardèche department in south France.

[[Vernon, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Vernon is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Vesseaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Vesseaux  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Veyras, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Veyras is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Coucouron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Coucouron is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Scottish Fold]]

CATEGORIES: Cat breeds

The Scottish Fold (sometimes called Coupari by Canadian breeders) is a  breed of cat. Its distinctive ear fold is caused by a particular gene.

First known as Flops, for their "floppy" ears, Scottish Fold became the breed's name in 1966. Scottish Folds with long hair are known by a number of names. For example, it is called the Highland Fold by the ACFA, AACE, and UFO; the Scottish Fold Longhair by the TICA, NCFA, ACA, CCA, and CFA; and the Longhair Fold by the CFF.

[[The Sims 3]]

CATEGORIES: The Sims, 2009 video games, Nintendo 3DS games

The Sims 3 is a computer game for Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X. It was released on June 2, 2009 and is a sequel to the popular The Sims and The Sims 2 computer games. There have been versions of the game for consoles and mobile phones as well. The Sims 3 was a success right when it was released. The game has sold 1.4 million copies in its first week and over ten million copies worldwide to date.

EA released a sequel, The Sims 4, in September 2, 2014.

[[Brad Delson]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, American guitarists, Extras, Linkin Park, Musicians from Los Angeles, California

Bradford Phillip "Brad" Delson (born December 1, 1977 in Agoura Hills, California) is the lead guitarist of alternative rock band Linkin Park.

[[Charlton Heston]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2008 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Illinois, Presidents of the Screen Actors Guild, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, Deaths from pneumonia, People with Alzheimer's disease, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Charlton Heston (October 4, 1923 – April 5, 2008) was an American actor. He had many big roles, such as playing Moses in the movie The Ten Commandments, astronaut Colonel George Taylor in the movie Planet of the Apes, the dystopian 1971 The Omega Man and 1973 Soylent Green.  Heston played Judah Ben-Hur in the Academy Award-winning Ben-Hur.

[[Ambush marketing]]

CATEGORIES: Marketing

Ambush marketing is a form of marketing. Many events, especially in sports have sponsors. These sponsors pay money, which makes it possible to hold the event. In return for this, they get publicity and media coverage. Ambush marketing is a name given to marketing campaigns that are also done around the event, but where no money is paid for the event.

There are many very important events where one company will pay money to become the exclusive sponsor of the event (or in a category of the event). This creates a problem for other brands or companies. These other brands then find ways to promote themselves in connection with the same event. They do not pay the sponsorship fee. Even if they wanted to, they could not, because one brand is the exclusive sponsor. They also do not break any laws.

[[Al-Mustansir II of Cairo]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 1262 deaths, Cairo, Egyptian Muslims

Al-Mustansir II of Cairo was an Abbasid Caliph of Cairo, Egypt, for the Mamluk Sultans between 1261 and 1262.

[[University of Texas at El Paso]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Texas, Conference USA, El Paso, Texas, 1914 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in Texas

The University of Texas at El Paso is a public university in El Paso, Texas, United States.  It has about 20,000 students enrolled and it was founded in 1914.

[[Achaemenid Empire]]

CATEGORIES: History of Iran, History of Pakistan, Mesopotamia, Former countries in the Middle East, Empires

The Achaemenid Empire, or Achaemenid Persian Empire, (550–330 BC) was the first of the Persian Empires to rule over significant portions of Greater Persia (or Iran). It followed the Median Empire as the second great empire of the Iranian peoples.  At the height of its power, the Achaemenid Empire had about 7.5 million square kilometers and was territorially the largest empire of classical antiquity.

The empire was forged by Cyrus the Great. It spanned three continents, including parts of Afghanistan and Pakistan; parts of Central Asia, Asia Minor, Thrace; much of the Black Sea coastal regions; Iraq, northern Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Israel, Lebanon, Syria; and all significant population centers of ancient Egypt as far west as Libya. The empire was the foe of the Greek city-states in the Greco-Persian Wars. It freed the Israelites from their Babylonian captivity, and instituted Aramaic as the empire's official language. Because of the Empire's vast extent and long endurance, Persian influence upon the language, religion, architecture, philosophy, law and government of nations around the world lasts to this day.

[[Vexilloid]]

CATEGORIES: Flags

A vexilloid has the same functions as a flag but it looks different. Vexilloids are characteristic of traditional societies and ancient empires (Flags did not come into general use until medieval times.).  A vexilloid consists of a staff held upright with a cloth banner that hangs down vertically on the staff and on top of the staff is an emblem, such as a carved animal.

[[The Dark Knight (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, 2000s crime thriller movies, 2000s superhero movies, Movies shot in Chicago, Illinois, American movies, British movies, British action movies, British crime movies, British thriller movies, American action movies, American crime thriller movies, Batman movies, Movies based on comic book characters, IMAX movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies composed by Hans Zimmer, Movies composed by James Newton Howard, Movies directed by Christopher Nolan, Movies featuring a Best Supporting Actor Academy Award-winning performance, The Dark Knight Trilogy, American sequel movies, Warner Bros. movies, American superhero movies, United States National Film Registry movies

The Dark Knight is a 2008 British-American superhero movie directed, produced, and co-written by Christopher Nolan. Based on the DC Comics character Batman, the movie is the second installment of Nolan's The Dark Knight Trilogy and a sequel to 2005's Batman Begins, starring Christian Bale and supported by Michael Caine, Heath Ledger, Gary Oldman, Aaron Eckhart, Maggie Gyllenhaal, and Morgan Freeman. In the movie, Bruce Wayne / Batman (Bale), Police Lieutenant James Gordon (Oldman) and District Attorney Harvey Dent (Eckhart) form an alliance to dismantle organized crime in Gotham City, but are menaced by an anarchistic mastermind known as the Joker (Ledger), who seeks to undermine Batman's influence and throw the city into anarchy.

Nolan's inspiration for the movie was the Joker's comic book debut in 1940, the 1988 graphic novel The Killing Joke, and the 1996 series The Long Halloween, which retold Harvey Dent's origin. The "Dark Knight" nickname was first applied to Batman in Batman #1 (1940), in a story written by Bill Finger. The movie was the first mainstream feature to partially utilize IMAX 70 mm cameras, with Nolan using them for 28 minutes of the movie, including the Joker's first appearance. Warner Bros. initially created a viral marketing campaign for The Dark Knight, developing promotional websites and trailers highlighting screenshots of Ledger as the Joker. Ledger died on January 22, 2008, some months after he completed filming and six months before the movie's release from a toxic combination of prescription drugs, leading to intense attention from the press and movie-going public.

Considered one of the best movies of its decade and one of the best superhero movies of all time, the movie received critical praise for its screenplay, visual effects, musical score, themes, performances (particularly Ledger), cinematography, action sequences and direction. The movie also set numerous records during its theatrical run. The Dark Knight appeared on 287 critics' top-ten lists, more than any other movie of 2008 with the exception of WALL-E, and more critics (77) named The Dark Knight the best movie released that year. With over $1 billion in revenue worldwide, it became the fourth-highest-grossing movie at the time, and highest-grossing movie of 2008; it also set the record for highest-grossing domestic opening with $158 million, a record it held for three years. At the 81st Academy Awards, the movie received eight nominations; it won the award for Best Sound Editing and Ledger was posthumously awarded Best Supporting Actor. The Dark Knight Rises, the final movie in the trilogy, was released on July 20, 2012.

[[Gorgon]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures

In Greek mythology, the Gorgons were female monsters that had fangs and serpents for hair with bronze claws. They were the daughters of Phorkys and Keto. The serpents in their hair were special: Everyone who looked at them was turned to stone. There were three Gorgons, named Stheno, Euryale and Medusa. Only Medusa was mortal. She was beheaded by Perseus. Medusa's head was brought to Athena. There are many motives showing Athena with an aegis, and a Gorgon's head on her chest. 

Homer only talks about one Gorgon. Hesiod names all three, Stheno, the powerful one, Euryale,who could jump far, and trouble-ridden Medusa, the queen. According to Hesiod, they lived at the edge of the known world, in the Atlas Mountains. At a later time, Libya is also named as their home.

With Hellenism came the myth that the Gorgo was a sister of Alexander the Great. In this myth, she is a neck, a water spirit. The sailors of each passing boat are asked whether he is still alive. If they answer no, she takes the boat and the sailors into the water. The answer that saves the lives of the seamen is "Yes, and he reigns as a king" (Ζεί και βασιλέβει). 

The heads of the Gorgons are often found on shields, capes and amulets. These were believed to be magic. The magic that is used against bad spirits and bad luck is known as apotropaic magic.

[[As the World Turns]]

CATEGORIES: CBS network shows, American drama television series, 2000s American television series, Soap operas, English-language television programs

As the World Turns (ATWT) is an American television soap opera that airs each weekday on CBS.

Set in the made-up town of Oakdale, Illinois, the show first went on TV on Monday, April 2, 1956 at 1:30pm EST. Before this show, all soaps were fifteen minutes in length; ATWT was the first half-hour soap opera.

At first, viewers were not excited about it, but ratings picked up in its second year, and reached the top spot in the daytime Nielsen Ratings by the fall of 1958. As the World Turns was the most-watched daytime drama from 1958 until 1978, with ten million people watching each day. At its height, the main actors such as Helen Wagner, Don MacLaughlin, Don Hastings, and Eileen Fulton became very well known in the United States.

The show went from black-and-white to color in the mid-1960s, with the final black-and-white episode shown on February 10, 1967. The show went from a half-hour in length to one hour starting on December 1, 1975. Also in 1975, they stopped doing the show live, and decided to tape it instead - that way, more than one episode could be taped in a day, and the actors would not have to work every day.

April 2, 2006 was the 50th anniversary of the soap opera on CBS. The show aired its 13,000th episode April 23, 2007; the 10,000th episode aired on May 12, 1995.  As the World Turns is well known for having been taped in New York City for all of its 52 years on television (43 years in Manhattan and nine years in Brooklyn).

On December 8, 2009, CBS announced that As the World Turns would air its last episode in September 2010.

[[Mexican wolf]]

CATEGORIES: Wolves

The Mexican wolf (Canis lupus baileyi), also known as the lobo, is a species of wolf. It is one of the rarest subspecies of the grey wolf. It was once native to southeastern Arizona, southern New Mexico, western Texas and northern Mexico. It is the smallest of North America's gray wolves.

[[Live USB]]

CATEGORIES: Storage devices

A Live USB is a USB flash drive that contains a full operating system so it can serve as a boot device.

[[Traffic collision]]

CATEGORIES: Automobiles

A traffic collision, or motor vehicle collision, is when a vehicle hits another vehicle, person or object. Pedestrians, animals, road debris or other objects may be involved.

Traffic collisions often result in injury, death, and property damage. They injure tens of millions of people every year, and kill usually a little more than a million.  

Road safety is partly a matter of design.  Ideally, roads should be designed for the safety of all road users.  This would mean providing adequate facilities for pedestrians, cyclists, and motorcyclists.  Infrastructure measures such as footpaths, cycling lanes, safe crossing points, and other traffic calming measures can help reduce the risk of injury.

[[Malden, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Massachusetts, 1640 establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 1640s establishments in Massachusetts

Malden is a suburban city in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, United States. The population was 56,340 at the 2000 census.

[[Gary Bettman]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, National Hockey League, Businesspeople from New York

Gary Bettman (born June 2 1952) is the current commissioner of the National Hockey League. He has held this post since February 1 1993. He is unpopular among many hockey fans, who are still angry over the lockout a few years ago. He has become even more unpopular for leading the league into another lockout in September 2012.

[[Mother (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Mother series

Mother Mother, is a role-playing video game series made by Nintendo, Ape, Inc., HAL Laboratory, and Brownie Brown. Shigesato Itoi was in charge of all three games. It has three main games in it, and started on the NES with Mother, and then it had EarthBound on the Super NES and Mother 3 on the Game Boy Advance. EarthBound is the only game of the three that came out in English, and it has a strong fanbase that wants the other two games in English too.

[[Australian Recording Industry Association]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in Australia, Music industry, Australian music

The Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) is a group that represents the music industry in Australia. It is in charge of music licenses and royalties. ARIA has more than 100 members, and is run by a Board of Directors. ARIA holds annual award ceremonies called the "ARIA Music Awards" where prizes are given for Australian music. It also runs the "ARIA" which are music charts which list the most popular songs and albums in Australia each week.

[[Microsoft Excel]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft

Microsoft Excel (full name Microsoft Office Excel)  is a part of Microsoft Office. It is also avaliable on Mac.  It is made by Microsoft and it is proprietary software. It is used on the operating systems Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X. It can do calculations and graphics. For example, it can make charts and other pictures from data tables. It also has a macro programming language called Visual Basic for Applications (VBA). Excel is part of Microsoft Office. The current versions are 2016 for Windows and 2016 for Mac.

[[Villeneuve-de-Berg]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Villeneuve-de-Berg is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Astro Nusantara]]

CATEGORIES: Television

Astro Nusantara is a satellite television service in Indonesia. Astro Nusantara is operated by PT Direct Vision (found on 28 February 2006), a joint venture company between Astro All Asia Networks plc and PT First Media Tbk. subsidiary PT. Direct Vision. Currently, the service consists of 48 channels including 5 locally produced Indonesia exclusive channels were launched under the Astro brand.

[[Oxnard, California]]

CATEGORIES: Oxnard, California, 1903 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in California

Oxnard is the largest city in Ventura County, California. Over 200,000 people live there. Founded in 1903. It is at the western edge of the fertile Oxnard Plain, and is one of the world's most important agricultural places, that has the strawberry and lima bean capital.

[[List of tools to create Live USB systems]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft lists

This page lists and links to information on the various versions of Microsoft Windows, a major computer operating system developed by Microsoft.

[[Real Madrid Baloncesto]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Spain, Basketball teams, Madrid, 1932 establishments in Europe, 1930s establishments in Spain

Real Madrid is a Spanish basketball team. It was founded in 1932 as a division of the Real Madrid club.

2011-2020

The team secured the club's 10th European Cup crown in May 2018, before clinching a 34th league title in June of the same year. Three seasons earlier, in the 2014/15 campaign, the Whites enjoyed a historic year in which the team captured five titles, including a ninth continental crown. The success of that season was followed up in the 2015/16 campaign, which ended with the team winning the league and Copa del Rey double. The side also lifted this latter title in the tournament's 2017 edition.

[[Vinezac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Vinezac  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Vogüé]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Vogüé is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Chirols]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Chirols is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Chomérac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Chomérac is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France. It is 8 km (5 miles) from Ardèche's capital Privas at the centre of the Ardèche.

[[Creysseilles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Creysseilles is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Cros-de-Géorand]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Cros-de-Géorand is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Duane Allman]]

CATEGORIES: American guitarists, Musicians from Nashville, Tennessee, Writers from Nashville, Tennessee, Singers from Nashville, Tennessee, Southern rock musicians, American rock musicians, American soul musicians, American blues musicians, American jazz musicians, 1946 births, 1971 deaths

Howard Duane Allman (November 20, 1946 – October 29, 1971) was an American musician. He was the lead guitarist of the southern rock group, the Allman Brothers Band.  He is often thought of as one of the greatest guitarists of all time, and is widely considered the greatest slide guitarist of all time.

[[Nomenclature]]

Nomenclature may mean a set or system of names or terms used by one person or by a community. This community will often be used in one or more areas of science (scientific nomenclature) or art.

Nomenclature may refer to one of the following:

[[Saint-Étienne]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in France, Communes in Loire, Departmental capitals in France

Saint-Étienne is a city in France, located southwest of Lyon. It is the prefecture of the Loire department in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. It was first mentioned in 1258 as Sancti Stephani de Furanum. From about the 14th century, the importance of the city grew due to the arms that were made there. Jules Massenet was born near Saint-Étienne.

A.S. Saint-Étienne is a famous football club.

[[Darbres]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Darbres   is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Saint-Julien-en-Saint-Alban]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Saint-Julien-en-Saint-Alban  is a commune in the Ardèche department in south France.

[[Saint-Julien-Labrousse]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Ardèche

 Saint-Julien-Labrousse  is a former commune in the Ardèche département in southern France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Belsentes.

[[Saint-Julien-le-Roux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Saint-Julien-le-Roux  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Transport in Melbourne]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Melbourne

Melbourne, Victoria, Australia has lots of transport contentions by air, sea, and on land. It has the largest tram network in the world, the most extensive freeway network of any Australian city, the busiest container port in the country, the second busiest airport and the second largest suburban rail network.

[[Dompnac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Dompnac   is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Dunière-sur-Eyrieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Dunière-sur-Eyrieux   is a commune of the Ardèche département in southern France.

The commune's name was changed from Dunières-sur-Eyrieux to Dunière-sur-Eyrieux (without "s") on 1st of January 2001.

[[Fabras]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Fabras  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Faugères, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Faugères is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Flaviac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Flaviac   is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[History of the National Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey in Canada, Ice hockey in the United States, National Hockey League

The National Hockey League (NHL) is a professional sports organization. It contains ice hockey teams in Canada and the United States. It began in 1917 and is still running.

[[Destroy All Humans! (2005 video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, Destroy All Humans!, PlayStation 2 games, Xbox games, THQ games

Destroy All Humans! is a video game developed by Pandemic Studios and published by THQ. It was released for the Xbox and PlayStation 2 game consoles. The game is set in 1950s U.S. and parodies the lifestyles, pop culture, and politics of this time period. The player controls Cryptosporidium 137, a member of the Furon race of aliens, who has come to Earth to harvest DNA from humans to continue the cloning process of his species. Destroy All Humans has gameplay similar to the Grand Theft Auto series.

[[Thylacinidae]]

CATEGORIES: Dasyuromorphia

Thylacinidae are family were all carnivorous marsupials from the order Dasyuromorphia.

[[Badjcinus]]

CATEGORIES: Dasyuromorphia

Badjcinus ("expert hunter dog") was an animal that belonged to the extinct marsupial family Thylacinidae.

It was one of the most primitive members of its group, living 33 to 32 million years ago in the early Oligocene. It was quite small, averaging 5.2 lbs (2.4 kg) in weight.

Its diet probably consisted of small mammals, amphibians, reptiles and insects.

Although Badjcinus was successful in its period, it probably was pushed out by other, better developed thylacinids. The fossils were found at Riversleigh in north-west Queensland, Australia.

[[Thylacinus]]

CATEGORIES: Dasyuromorphia, Miocene

Thylacinus is a genus of extinct carnivorous marsupials from the order Dasyuromorphia.

[[Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics]]

CATEGORIES: Geocodes, European Union

The Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics, (NUTS) for the French nomenclature d'unités territoriales statistiques, is a geocode standard that shows the administrative divisions of countries for statistical purposes. It was made by the European Union, so it only covers the member states of that union in detail. 

A NUTS code begins with a two-letter code referencing the country, and is identical to the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code (the only difference is UK instead of GB for the United Kingdom). The subdivision of the country is then displayed by one number. A second or third subdivision level is referred to with another number each. Each numbering starts with 1, as 0 is used for the upper level. In case the subdivision has more than 9 entities, capital letters are used to continue the numbering.

In addition to the full three levels for the European Union countries, all countries have a NUTS code with a two-letter code for a continent and two numbers for the country, and for the USA, Canada and Australia the states, provinces, and territories are numbered separately.

Some are not easily classified: for example, Gibraltar is listed as being outside the EU with the code EO21; while French Guiana is listed twice, once in France as FR930 and once in South America as AS13.

NUTS, in some ways are similar to the ISO 3166-2 standard, as well as the FIPS standard of the United States.

[[Fire blight]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria, Trees, Rosaceae

Fire blight is a contagious disease of rosaceous plants

Infections get into open blossoms and tender new shoots and leaves in the spring when blossoms are open. There is no known cure; prevention is the key.

Spraying plants with streptomycin or injecting plants with oxytetracycline can prevent new infections. That leads to antibiotic resistance. Spraying beneficial bacteria or yeast may also prevent fire blight from infecting new trees. The only effective treatment for plants already infected is to cut off the affected branches and dispose of them. 

[[Michael E. DeBakey]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 2008 deaths, American physicians, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Scientists from Louisiana, Scientists from Texas

Michael Ellis DeBakey (September 7, 1908 – July 11, 2008) was an American heart surgeon who was considered to be a very important name in his area. He was also among the early names of heart surgery.

DeBakey was born as Michel Dabaghi in Lake Charles, Louisiana on September 7, 1908. His parents were born in Lebanon, but moved to America before he was born.

DeBakey was involved with medicine from a young age and went to Tulane University. He held many medicine-related positions during his lifetime.

During World War II, DeBakey made wartime medicine much better than it used to be. He was for the idea of having doctors closer to the areas of battle in war, which worked very well and due to that, more badly hurt soldiers survived. Because of this, Mobile Army Surgical Hospitals (also known as MASH units) were made, and they were used during the Korean War.

In addition to MASH units, DeBakey made many important aspects to surgery, one of which was the roller pump, which DeBakey made at age 23 while still at Tulane University. This would later on make open-heart surgery able to be done, as roller pumps can make blood flow during surgery.

DeBakey worked with another important heart surgeon, Denton Cooley, but they had a disagreement related to the first artificial heart(a manmade heart) put in a human. They did not get along for a long time, but they went on good terms in 2007.

DeBakey did something rare by still practicing medicine in old age. People that he operated on included world leaders, such as Russian President Boris Yeltsin.

In 2005, a serious heart problem happened to DeBakey. Despite him having made the surgery for this problem, he, at first, did not want any surgery. As he got in worse condition, the surgical team had made the decision to perform surgery anyway. Once the surgery was done and he got in better health, DeBakey said that he was glad the surgery happened after all. 

On July 11, 2008, DeBakey died of natural causes at age 99. His first wife, two of his sons, and a brother died before him, while his second wife, a daughter, two sons, and two sisters outlive him.

[[Fire Emblem]]

CATEGORIES: Video game series

Fire Emblem is a series of video games made by Intelligent Systems. Nintendo began publishing the series on the NES console in 1990. The first six games were only released in Japan. Fire Emblem: The Blazing Sword was the first game to be released in North America and Europe. The series is a collection of turn-based strategy role-playing games. They used many characters going on a long journey to fight a common enemy.

[[Caitlin]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Caitlin is a female given name.  It means "pure." The name is of Irish origin.

[[12 Angry Men]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 drama movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Legal movies, Movies set in New York City, United States National Film Registry movies, Movies directed by Sidney Lumet

12 Angry Men is an American drama movie directed by Sidney Lumet. It is set in New York City and stars Henry Fonda and Reginald Rose. It was produced in 1957, and is based on a play by the same name also starring Reginald Rose. It's about 12 jurors having to decide whether a defendant is guilty or not, with only one person saying not guilty in the beginning and trying to convince everyone to vote the same.

[[BioShock]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, PlayStation 3 games, Windows games, Xbox 360 games, Shooter video games, Horror video games

BioShock is a first person shooter/survival horror video game made by 2K Games for the Xbox 360, Windows, PlayStation 3, and Nintendo Switch video game consoles. A very famous video game, it got very good reviews and sold very well. The game's story is about a man who is in a plane crash in the Atlantic Ocean and finds a lighthouse in the middle of the sea, which takes him to an underwater city created by a man named Andrew Ryan called Rapture, which is home to many violent creatures called Splicers, who are people became insane because of mutation.

[[Dilemma]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

A dilemma (Greek δί-λημμα "double proposition") is when two solutions or possibilities are present. If both solutions are undesirable or impossible, this may put a person on the horns of a dilemma, neither outcome is comfortable.

The dilemma is sometimes put as a choice "you must accept either A, or B". Here A and B are each leading to some undesirable conclusion. 

In formal logic, the definition of a dilemma differs from everyday usage.  Two options are still present, but choosing between them is immaterial because they both imply the same conclusion.  Symbolically expressed thus:

This can be translated informally as "one (or both) of A or B is known to be true, but they both imply C, so regardless of the truth values of A and B we can conclude C."

Horned dilemmas can present more than two choices.  The number of choices of horned dilemmas can be used in their alternative names, such as two-pronged (two-horned) or dilemma proper, or three-pronged (three-horned) or trilemma, and so on.

Constructive dilemmas

Destructive dilemmas

[[Dilemma (disambiguation)]]

Dilemma has several meanings:

[[Royal Society (disambiguation)]]

The Royal Society may mean:

Royal Society may also refer to :

[[Hapkido]]

CATEGORIES: Martial arts

Hapkido (합기도) is a Korean martial art.

To simple sight it is a combination of techniques of taekwondo with others of aikibudo. Its teaching is very much focused to the self-defence.

[[The Royal Society]]

CATEGORIES: Research, Royal Society, 1660 establishments, 1660s establishments in England

The Royal Society is a society for science and scientists. It was founded in 1660 by Charles II. It is the oldest  society of its kind still in existence.

[[West Midlands]]

West Midlands may mean either:

[[Fons, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Fons is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Freyssenet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Freyssenet is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Genestelle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Genestelle  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Gilhac-et-Bruzac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Gilhac-et-Bruzac  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Gluiras]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Gluiras is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France. It is mostly known for its food.

[[Gourdon, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Gourdon is a commune in of the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[You Am I]]

CATEGORIES: Australian alternative rock bands, Musical groups from Sydney

You Am I is a band from Sydney, Australia. It started in 1989 and plays alternative rock music. You Am I is famous for its lead singer Tim Rogers, for having lots of albums at number one on the ARIA Charts, and for their live music.

[[Italian Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix, Sport in Italy

The Italian Grand Prix (Gran Premio d'Italia) is one of the longest running motor racing events. The first Italian Grand Prix motor racing championship was on September 4, 1921 at Brescia. Now the race is run at the Monza track instead. This track was built in 1922 and was used for almost all other races from then on.

The Italian Grand Prix counted toward the European Championship from 1935 to 1938.

The Italian Grand Prix was one of the first Formula One championship races in 1950. It and has been held every year since then. The only other championship race like this is the British Grand Prix.

After winning the 2006 Italian Grand Prix, Michael Schumacher announced his retirement from Formula 1. It was the end of the 2006 season. Kimi Räikkönen took over from him at Ferrari for the 2007 season.

[[Vodafone]]

CATEGORIES: Mobile phone companies

Vodafone is a mobile phone network operator. Its headquarters are in Newbury, Berkshire, England. It is the largest mobile phone network company in the world; it has a market value of about £75 billion (June 2008).

[[Bratz]]

CATEGORIES: Dolls

Bratz is an American product line of fashion dolls and merchandise manufactured by MGA Entertainment. Bratz reached great success and the original line of dolls was expanded with a number of spin-offs like Bratz Kidz, and Bratz Babyz, as well as media featuring the Bratz characters, including a Web series, movie, TV series, music albums and video games. In 2005, global sales were two billion dollars and by 2006 Bratz had about forty percent of the fashion-doll market.

[[Game engine]]

CATEGORIES: Video game technology, Software

A game engine is a tool box that carries all the necessary equipment needed to rapidly build a consistent world just like the real world. For example, in real life you would expect an apple to fall to the floor if you let it go from your hand. Game makers use game engines to apply similar rules into their games which allow consistency across their game.

[[Mitsubishi Motors]]

CATEGORIES: Mitsubishi automobiles, 1970 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Japan

Mitsubishi Motors is the part of the Japanese company Mitsubishi that makes cars. It is based in Tokyo, Japan. Mitsubishi Motors started in 1970. Mitsubishi started making cars in 1917. After World War II, a Mitsubishi executive wanted a separate division to make cars. Mitsubishi was owned by Chrysler until 1992. Chrysler sold Mitsubishi cars in the United States in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. The two companies owned Diamond-Star Motors until 1995, when Mitsubishi owned all of the factory. The first Mitsubishis in the U.S. were sold by Chrysler as Dodge Colts, Plymouth Sapporos, and Dodge Stealths.

[[Autodromo Nazionale Monza]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Italy, Formula One circuits, Monza, 1922 establishments in Italy

Autodromo Nazionale Monza is a motorsport race track. It is near the town of Monza, Italy, north of Milan. It is one of the oldest motor racing tracks in the world.

It was built in 1922, and has been used for the Italian Grand Prix almost every year since.

[[Abe Vigoda]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2016 deaths, Disease-related deaths in New Jersey, American television actors, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American voice actors

Abe Vigoda (February 24, 1921 – January 26, 2016) was an actor in both television and movie. His most well known roles are playing mobster Sal Tessio in the movies The Godfather and The Godfather: Part II, and playing Detective Phil Fish on television shows Barney Miller and Fish, Fish having been a spinoff of Barney Miller.

[[924 Gilman Street]]

CATEGORIES: Punk rock, Non-profit organizations of California, Berkeley, California

The 924 Gilman Street project, used to be called the Alternative Music Foundation, is the Berkeley, California street address and official business name of the all-ages, non-profit, music club called "Gilman." 

[[Big Bird]]

CATEGORIES: Sesame Street characters, Muppets

Big Bird is a muppet character on the children's television show Sesame Street. He is a big, yellow bird. Unlike most other muppets, he is a full-body muppet, meaning that the person controlling him is completely inside the costume. The person who played the role of Big Bird was Caroll Spinney from 1969 to 2018. In 2018, Caroll Spinney retired, and Matt Vogel started playing Big Bird full time. Matt Vogel was Caroll Spinney's understudy for many years before he got the role.

[[Nimrod (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Green Day albums, Reprise Records albums, 1997 albums, Punk albums

Nimrod is the fifth album by the punk rock band Green Day, released on October 14, 1997 on Reprise Records.

[[Insomniac (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Green Day albums, 1995 albums, Reprise Records albums, Punk albums

Insomniac is the fourth studio album from the punk rock band Green Day.

[[Grammy Award for Best Alternative Music Album]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Awards, Alternative music

The Grammy Award for Best Alternative Music Album is an award given to recording artists for quality albums in the alternative rock genre at the Grammy Awards. The Grammy Awards were established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards. Honors in several categories are presented at the ceremony each year by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States to "honor artistic achievement, technical proficiency and overall excellence in the recording industry, without regard to album sales or chart position".

The definition of "alternative" has been debated. The award was first presented in 1991 to recognize non-mainstream rock albums "heavily played on college radio stations". According to the Academy, the award is presented to "vocal or instrumental alternative music albums containing at least 51% playing time of newly recorded music". The Academy defines "alternative" as a "non-traditional" genre that exists "outside of the mainstream music consciousness". In 1991, and from 1994 to 1999, the award was known as Best Alternative Music Performance. Beginning in 2001, award recipients included the producers, engineers, and/or mixers associated with the nominated work in addition to the recording artists.

As of 2011, Radiohead and The White Stripes share the record for the most wins in this category, having won three times each. Radiohead's lead singer, Thom Yorke, was also nominated for the 2007 award for his solo album. Beck and Coldplay have each received the award twice, the latter being the only group to win two years in a row. American artists have been presented with the award more than any other nationality, though it has been presented to musicians or groups from the United Kingdom five times, from Ireland twice, and from France once. Female musicians Tori Amos and Björk hold the record for the most nominations without a win, with five each.

[[Rock opera]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music

Rock operas, concept albums, song cycles and oratorios all are not the same from a rock album, which usually has songs that are unrelated to each other in storyline. Bands such as Nightwish and Green Day use rock opera in their music.

[[Record of the Year]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Awards

The Record of the Year is one of the four most special Grammy Awards given every year.  It has been awarded since 1959.

[[Ole Gunnar Solskjær]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Manchester United F.C. players, Norwegian footballers

Ole Gunnar Solskjær (born 26 February 1973 in Kristiansund) is a Norwegian former football player. He played most of his career for Manchester United. He also played for the Norway national team.

[[Grammy Award for Best Rock Album]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Awards, Rock albums

The Grammy Award for Best Rock Album has been awarded since 1995.  Below is the list of awards, given for musical works created in the previous year.

[[Boulevard of Broken Dreams]]

"Boulevard of Broken Dreams" might mean:

[[Boulevard of Broken Dreams (Green Day song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 songs, Green Day songs

"Boulevard of Broken Dreams" is a song by the American punk rock band Green Day, from their seventh studio album, American Idiot.

The song depicts a solemn walk of a lonely Jesus of Suburbia (The protagonist of the album) down a road after the happenings of Holiday. The song is considered by many to be the best song ever written by Green Day, and it has received many awards.

[[Vallejo, California]]

CATEGORIES: Vallejo, California, 1851 establishments in California

Vallejo (vəˈleɪoʊ or /vəˈleɪhoʊ/ in English; /baˈjeho/ in the original Spanish) is a city in Solano County, California,  United States.

[[George Best]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Infectious disease deaths in London, Manchester United F.C. players, Northern Irish footballers, Organ transplant recipients, People from Belfast

George Best (22 May 1946 – 25 November 2005) was a Northern Irish footballer who played many years for Manchester United. He is considered by many to have been the most talented Manchester United player and no one disagrees that he was the Northern Ireland national team's best ever player. In Belfast, where Best was born, they named the airport after him.

Both of Best's marriages ended in divorce. He was married to Angie Best from 1978-1986; the couple had a son, Calum Best. George Best was married to Alex Best from 1995-2004. 

Best was an alcoholic. He had a liver transplant in 2003. He died of a lung infection and multiple organ failure in London England

[[John Kiffmeyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Green Day members, American drummers, Musicians from California, American punk musicians

John Kiffmeyer (born July 11, 1969) also known as Al Sobrante is an American drummer. He was the first drummer for the punk rock band Green Day. He has also been the drummer for Isocracy. He got his nickname from the fact he is from El Sobrante (California).

[[Lookout! Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, Companies based in California, Independent record labels, Punk rock, Berkeley, California, 1987 establishments in California

Lookout! Records is an independent record label based in Berkeley, California.

[[Larry Livermore]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American journalists, American record producers, Musicians from Detroit, Michigan, Writers from Michigan

Larry Livermore (born 1947) is an American musician, record producer, and music journalist. He is best known as the founder of Lookout! Records.

[[1,000 Hours]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 albums, Green Day albums

1,000 Hours is the first release from American punk rock band Green Day and the first of several releases for the independent record label Lookout! Records.

[[Young Hercules]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 television series debuts, Fantasy television series, Xenaverse, Fox television series, English-language television programs

Young Hercules is a spin-off from Hercules: The Legendary Journeys. It was aired on FOX Kids Network from September 12, 1998 to May 12, 1999. It lasted only one season with 50 episodes, and starred Ryan Gosling, replacing Ian Bohen from the pilot movie as the title character. Ian Bohen was offered the part, but opted not to spend an entire year in New Zealand where the series would shoot principal photography.

[[Sweet Baby]]

CATEGORIES: American punk bands, Musicians from Berkeley, California, Musical groups established in 1986, Pop punk bands

Sweet Baby (also known as Sweetbabyjesus) was a pop punk group. They formed in Berkeley, California, and was part of the  924 Gilman Street scene.  They were signed to Ruby Records. 

[[East Bay]]

CATEGORIES: San Francisco Bay Area

The East Bay is a subregion of the San Francisco Bay Area, California, United States.

[[Liberation theology]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

Liberation theology is a movement within the theology of Christianity. It is particularly active in the Roman Catholic Church. The Jesuits are one of the orders who also follow it. Liberation Theology aims to help the poor people in the world. Often, its ideas are strongly coupled and influenced by those of Socialism and Marxism.

[[Promotion and relegation]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words

Promotion and relegation are terms used in many sports. 

Being promoted means moving up a league to one of a higher status. This usually happens when a team wins their league. Relegation normally happens to the team(s) at the bottom of the league at the end of the competition. They are moved down a league to one of a lower status.

For example:

[[Scottish Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Football competitions, Football in Scotland

The Scottish Football Association Challenge Cup (usually known as the Scottish Cup) is the national football cup competition of Scotland. The trophy is the oldest football national trophy in the world.

[[Setanta Sports]]

CATEGORIES: Sports media, Television networks

Setanta Sports (sɛˈtantə) is an Irish sports broadcaster, operating 12 channels in 24 countries.July 2008 Setanta Sports was formed in 1990.

Setanta covers various sports including golf, rugby and football.

[[America's Next Top Model, Cycle 2]]

CATEGORIES: America's Next Top Model

This is a list of the results from the second cycle of the reality television series America's Next Top Model.

[[Crissiumal]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Rio Grande do Sul

Crissiumal is a municipality in the state Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. It has a population of 14,726 people (2007 – IBGE). It has a river border with Argentina along the Uruguay River. 

In sports, Crissiumal is known as "The land of goalkeepers". This is because it was the home of several goalkeepers. The most known of them is Taffarel, who played in the Brazilian Soccer Team in the 1994 FIFA World Cup, in Italy.

The economy of Crissiumal is based on small rural properties. Crissiumal is one of the greatest Brazilian milk producers. It has a daily production of about 70,000 liters of milk.

[[Emmaus]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament, West Bank

Emmaus is a place in named in the Bible, where Jesus had supper with two followers. These two people met Jesus after his Resurrection. The two disciples walked together on the road. Jesus started walking together with them. But they never recognized Jesus. They started to tell him what happened in Jerusalem, when Jesus was crucified. Jesus continued walking with them until they got to a village called Emmaus. They started eating supper. The two disciples still did not recognize Jesus. But when Jesus blessed the food amnd broke the bread they recognized him. When they did recognize him, he vanished.

[[Alexander III of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: 1241 births, 1286 deaths, Kings and Queens of Scotland

Alexander III (Mediaeval Gaelic: Alaxandair mac Alaxandair; Modern Gaelic: Alasdair mac Alasdair), King of Scots, was born at Roxburgh on 4 September 1241 and died on 19 March, 1286. 

He was the only son of Alexander II with his second wife, Marie de Coucy. Alexander's father died on 6 July 1249 and he officially became king at the age of eight. This happened at Scone on 13 July, 1249.

[[Gras]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Gras is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Suceava County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Suceava (su.'ʧa.va) is a county (judeţ) of Romania in the historical regions Moldavia and Bukovina. The capital of Suceava County is Suceava.

[[Gravières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Gravières  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Grospierres]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Grospierres  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Issamoulenc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Issamoulenc  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Issanlas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Issanlas  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Issarlès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Issarlès  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Joannas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Joannas  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Juvinas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Juvinas  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[La Souche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 La Souche  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Labastide-de-Virac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Labastide-de-Virac is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Labastide-sur-Bésorgues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Labastide-sur-Bésorgues is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Labeaume]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Labeaume  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Greek numerals]]

CATEGORIES: Greek language, Numerals

Greek numerals are a system of representing numbers using letters of the Greek alphabet. They are also known by the names Milesian numerals, Alexandrian numerals, or alphabetic numerals. In modern Greece, they are still in use for ordinal numbers, and in much of the same way that Roman numerals are in the West; for ordinary (cardinal) numbers, Arabic numerals are used.

At first, before it was used more, the Greek alphabet, Linear A and Linear B had used a different system with symbols for 1, 10, 100, 1000 and 10000 operating with the following formula: | = 1, – = 10, ◦ = 100, ¤ = 1000, ☼ = 10000.

The earliest alphabet-related system of numerals used with the Greek letters was a set of the acrophonic Attic numerals, operating much like Roman numerals (which derived from this scheme), with the following formula: Ι = 1, Π = 5, Δ = 10, ΠΔ = 50, Η = 100, ΠΗ = 500, Χ = 1000, ΠΧ = 5000, Μ = 10000 and ΠΜ = 50000.

The acrophonic system was replaced by a new alphabetic system, sometimes called the Ionic numeral system, from the 4th century BC. Each unit (1, 2, …, 9) was assigned a separate letter, each tens (10, 20, …, 90) a separate letter, and each hundreds (100, 200, …, 900) a separate letter. This requires 27 letters, so the 24-letter Greek alphabet was extended by using three obsolete letters: fau ϝ, (also used are (letter)|sigma ϛ or, in modern Greek, ΣΤ) for 6, koppa ϟ for 90, and sampi ϡ for 900. To distinguish numerals from letters they are followed by the "keraia" (Greek κεραία—insect antenna), a symbol similar to an acute sign (Unicode U+0374).

This alphabetic system operates on the additive principle in which the numeric values of the letters are added together to form the total. For example, 241 is represented as ΣΜΑʹ (200 + 40 + 1).

To represent numbers from 1,000 to 999,999 the same letters are reused to serve as thousands, tens of thousands, and hundreds of thousands. A "left keraia" (Unicode U+0375, ‘Greek Lower Numeral Sign’) is put in front of thousands to distinguish.

[[Harlan Ellison]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Nebula Award winning writers, American novelists, American critics, American essayists, American screenwriters, Hugo Award winning writers, American science fiction writers, writers from Cleveland, Ohio

Harlan Jay Ellison (May 27, 1934 – June 27, 2018) was an award-winning American writer of short stories, novellas, teleplays, essays, and criticism. His most famous work is in the science fiction area, where he won many Hugo and Nebula awards.

Ellison died from cardiac arrest on June 27, 2018 at his Sherman Oaks, Los Angeles home, aged 84.

[[Hebrew numerals]]

CATEGORIES: Numerals, Hebrew language

The system of Hebrew numerals is a quasi-decimal alphabetic numeral system using the letters of the Hebrew alphabet.

In this system, zero does not have a place, and the number values for each letter are added together.  Each unit (1, 2, ..., 9) is assigned a separate letter, each tens (10, 20, ..., 90) a separate letter, and each hundreds (100, 200, ..., 900) a separate letter.

[[George R. R. Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, People from Bayonne, New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey, Science fiction writers, American bloggers

George Raymond Richard Martin (born George Raymond Martin; September 20, 1948), often called GRRM, is an American writer of fantasy, horror, and science fiction. He is best known for his A Song of Ice and Fire series. HBO made the series into a TV series called Game of Thrones.

[[Dying of the Light]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 books, Books by George R. R. Martin, Science fiction books

Dying of the Light is a 1977 science fiction book that was written by George R. R. Martin. It was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1978, and was published by Simon & Schuster

[[Windhaven]]

CATEGORIES: Books by George R. R. Martin, 1981 books, Science fiction books

Windhaven is a science-fiction and fantasy book that was written by George R.R. Martin and Lisa Tuttle. The book is about events that take place in a fictional space colony called Windhaven. The novel is a collection of short stories. Simon & Schuster collected the stories and published them for the first time in 1981. Bantam Spectra published it again in hardcover in 2001 and in mass market paperback in 2003.

[[Fevre Dream]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 books, Books by George R. R. Martin

Fevre Dream is a book written by George R. R. Martin in 1982. The book was first published in the US by Poseidon Press in 1982.  It was notably reprinted by Orion Books in 2001 as volume 13 of their Fantasy Masterworks series.

[[ChatZilla]]

CATEGORIES: Mozilla, IRC clients

ChatZilla is an IRC client made by Mozilla that is free of charge. It is programmed in JavaScript and XUL. Its first public release date was in 2001. The latest stable version (0.9.86) was made in 2009. It is licensed under MPL, GPL, and LGPL.

[[A Song of Ice and Fire]]

CATEGORIES: A Song of Ice and Fire

A Song of Ice and Fire is an award-winning series of fantasy books written by George R. R. Martin. He began writing the series in 1991. Five books were released in the series and two were unfinished. It was translated into over twenty languages and is a best-seller, with the fourth volume reaching the top of the New York Times bestseller lists when it came out. A fictional language, Dothraki, was introduced for the series. It was adapted into the Home Box Office television series Game of Thrones.

[[Great Bernera]]

CATEGORIES: Inner and Outer Hebrides

(Great) Bernera (Gaelic: Bearnaraigh (Mòr)) is an island in the Outer Hebrides in Scotland. 

[[Hercules and the Amazon Women]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 movies, Television movies, 1990s adventure movies, Xenaverse, Hercules movies

Hercules and the Amazon Women is a 1994 television movie starring Kevin Sorbo and Michael Hurst. This movie is loosely based on the labor of Hercules to get the Golden Girdle. Here instead of getting the Golden Girdle, he faces the Amazon women who are plaguing the men in their area. Hippolyte like in the Marvel comics and mythology falls in love with Hercules. But unlike in the myth, Hippolyte befriends Hercules.

[[Hercules and the Lost Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 movies, 1990s adventure movies, Television movies, Xenaverse, Hercules movies

Hercules and the Lost Kingdom is a 1994 television movie starring Kevin Sorbo and Renee O'Connor. Hercules comes to the aid of a young woman who is seeking the lost city of Troy. Eventually, Hercules leads her to a camp of refugees from the city, which has been taken over by Hera's Blue Monks. Hercules helps the refugees take back the city.

[[Treasure Island]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 books, Books by Robert Louis Stevenson, British novels, English-language novels

Treasure Island is a book by Robert Louis Stevenson. It was published in 1883. It is about pirates and a treasure hunt on a tropical isle. Famous characters include Jim Hawkins, Long John Silver, and Ben Gunn. The book has been adapted to movies, comic books, and other media.

[[Hercules and the Circle of Fire]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 movies, 1990s adventure movies, Television movies, Xenaverse, Hercules movies

Hercules and the Circle of Fire is a made for television movie. It was the third of five pre-series movies, so it may be considered part of the TV series Hercules: The Legendary Journeys. When all the earth's fire begins to go out, Hercules and Deianeira must go in search for fire to stop the world from cold.

[[Eyes Wide Shut]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 drama movies, 1999 mystery movies, American drama movies, American mystery movies, British drama movies, British mystery movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Stanley Kubrick, Movies set in New York City, Warner Bros. movies, 1990s thriller movies

Eyes Wide Shut is a 1999 drama movie directed by Stanley Kubrick. It stars Nicole Kidman and Tom Cruise and is set in New York City.

[[Edna Parker]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 2008 deaths, American supercentenarians, People from Indiana

Edna Ruth Scott Parker (April 20, 1893 – November 26, 2008) was an American woman who was the oldest living documented person from the death of Yone Minagawa on August 13, 2007 until November 26, 2008.

Parker was born on a farm in Morgan County, Indiana. She got a teaching certificate at Franklin College, and was a teacher for a few years until she married Earl Parker, who was her next door neighbor. He died on February 23, 1939. They had two sons, Clifford and Earl Jr.,, both of whom died before her.

After Earl's death, Parker lived by herself on a farm on Blueridge Road. She stayed there until she was 100, when she moved in to live with one of her sons. On a winter night, she was alone while her son and his wife went to a basketball game. When they came back, they found her in the back yard, in poor health, in the snow, and could only be seen as she had been wearing a red sweater that she liked a lot. Her family feared that she would die, but her health got much better. After that, the family thought that she needed to move to a nursing home.

Parker lived at Heritage House Convalescent Center, a retirement home in Shelbyville, Indiana. She remained in good health and was still able to walk. In April 2007, at age 114, she met with 113-year-old Bertha Fry, who was at the time the second-oldest person living in Indiana and the fifth-oldest living person. This set the highest total age for a meeting of two people.

Parker reached the age of 115 on April 20, 2008. There were two birthday parties held, the first of which was public, and the second private. The public one was celebrated on April 18, 2008, and the private on April 20. At both parties, one hundred fifteen balloons of many colors floated in the air, because she liked to see balloons in the air. This was Parker's final year, as she lived until November 26 of that year at age 115 years, 220 days.

[[Treasure Island (disambiguation)]]

Treasure Island is an adventure novel by Scottish author Robert Louis Stevenson.

Treasure Island may also mean:

[[39/Smooth]]

CATEGORIES: Green Day albums, 1989 albums, Debut albums, Pop rock albums, Pop punk albums

39/Smooth was released as the first album by Green Day in 1990 on Lookout! Records on vinyl and cassette.

[[Slappy]]

CATEGORIES: Green Day albums

Slappy is the second EP by Green Day, and was released on Lookout! Records in the summer of 1990 on seven-inch vinyl

[[Savate]]

CATEGORIES: Martial arts

Savate, also known as boxe française (French boxing) or French kickboxing, is a French martial art - a kind of boxe pieds-poings - which use the hands and the feet as weapons and includes elements of Western boxing, techniques of grappling and techniques of leg (only with the feet: neither knee, nor shin). The persons who perform savate are called savateurs or "tireurs" in case of the men, and savateuses in case of the women.

[[Sweet Children (EP)]]

CATEGORIES: Green Day albums

Sweet Children is the third EP released by punk rock band Green Day.

[[1,039/Smoothed Out Slappy Hours]]

CATEGORIES: Green Day albums

1,039/Smoothed Out Slappy Hours is a collection of early recordings by American punk rock band, Green Day.

[[Juan Diego Flórez]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Tenors, Opera singers, People from Lima

Juan Diego Flórez (born January 13, 1973 in Lima, Peru) is a Peruvian operatic tenor. He is famous for the roles he sings in bel canto operas.

[[The Lookouts]]

CATEGORIES: American punk bands, Musical groups from California

The Lookouts were an American punk rock band from 1985 to 1990. The members were Lawrence Livermore (more commonly known as Larry Livermore) on guitar and vocals, Kain Kong on bass and vocals and Tré Cool on drums and vocals. The band is most famous for being Tré Cool's first band before joining Green Day.

== Other websites == 

[[Kerplunk (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Green Day albums, 1992 albums, Punk albums

Kerplunk (also known as Kerplunk!) is the second full-length album by punk rock band Green Day. It was released on January 17, 1992 by Lookout! Records.

[[Cerium]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements, Metals

Cerium is a chemical element with an atomic number of 58. This means that the nucleus of cerium has 58 protons in it. The atomic mass of cerium is 140.12. The chemical symbol of cerium is Ce and it is a member of the lanthanide group.

[[Hallux]]

CATEGORIES: Feet, Human body features

The hallux, also called the big toe, is the toe innermost (closest to the middle of the body) of the foot. It is usually the biggest toe in the body. 

In humans, the hallux is longer than the toes next to it; this is inherited. Humans are unusual amongst hominids in walking upright, and their feet are adapted to their locomotion.

In other animals the foot is organised differently. Mammals usually move on four legs with paws. In some birds, the hallux is pointed backwards: it helps to grip. 

[[Dutch]]

Dutch can mean:

[[The Wachowskis]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s births, Living people, Sibling duos, Movie directors from Chicago, Movie producers from Chicago, Screenwriters from Illinois, Transgender and transsexual people

Lana Wachowski (born June 21, 1965) and Lilly Wachowski (born December 29, 1967), known together professionally as the Wachowskis and formerly as the Wachowski Brothers, are Polish American movie directors, writers and transgender women, most famous for creating The Matrix series. Their other projects include live-action adaptation of Speed Racer, Jupiter Ascending and the Netflix television series Sense-8.

Lana Wachowski had a sex change operation in 2008 and changed her name from Larry Wachowksi. Lilly changed her name from Andrew in 2016.

[[V for Vendetta]]

CATEGORIES: Comic books

V for Vendetta is a ten-issue graphic comic book series from DC Comics and Vertigo, written by Alan Moore and illustrated mostly by David Lloyd. It is set in a dystopian future United Kingdom imagined from the 1980s about the 1990s, which has become a totalitarian fascist dictatorship. It was published from 1982 to 1988.  

In 2005, it was made into a movie with the same name. Unlike in the comic book, the movie takes place in 2020. There are also a few differences from the comic book.

[[Mozilla Foundation]]

CATEGORIES: Mozilla, Mountain View, California, 2003 establishments in California

The Mozilla Foundation is a non-profit organization that was created to support and give leadership for the open source Mozilla project. The organization sets the policies that govern development, operate important things that keep Mozilla working and control trademarks and other intellectual property. It owns a taxable for-profit subsidiary, the Mozilla Corporation, which employs several Mozilla developers and sets releases of the Mozilla Firefox. The Mozilla Foundation is based in Mountain View, California, USA.

The Mozilla Foundation describes itself as "a non-profit organization dedicated to preserving choice and promoting innovation on the Internet". Mozilla Japan and Mozilla China are non-profit organizations whose mission is to help promote and deploy Mozilla products and projects. 

[[1812 Overture]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Overtures, Russian music

The 1812 Overture (French: Ouverture solennelle "L'Année 1812"; Russian: Торжественная увертюра 1812 года, Toržestvennaja uvertjura 1812 goda) (Op. 49) is an orchestral work by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky. It commemorates Russia's 1812 defense against Napoleon's advancing Grande Armée at the Battle of Borodino, during the French invasion of Russia.

The Overture's first public performance occurred on 20 August 1882 (NS; the OS date was 8 August). The venue was the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in Moscow. The overture is best known for its climactic volley of cannon fire and ringing chimes.

[[Guy Fawkes]]

CATEGORIES: British criminals, Criminals who committed suicide, English Roman Catholics, People from York, Suicides by jumping in the United Kingdom, Terrorists, 1570 births, 1606 deaths

Guy Fawkes (13 April 1570 – 31 January 1606), sometimes known as Guido Fawkes, was a member of a group of Roman Catholic revolutionaries from England who planned to carry out the Gunpowder Plot. Fawkes and the other plotters planned to kill the king, James I, and replace him with a Catholic monarch. 

The day 5 November 1605 is remembered each year in the UK during Guy Fawkes Night. People build large bonfires, light fireworks, and burn figures of Fawkes (known as 'the guy'). 

November 5 was the date when Parliament re-assembled after a long recess. The plot was uncovered quite late, in the night before the day of the 5th. Fawkes was arrested as he sat in a cellar, near the gunpowder, waiting for the right time to set it off. He was tortured to make him reveal the names of the other plotters. Later eight men, including Fawkes, stood trial for high treason. They were found guilty and executed by hanging in Westminster, London, except for Fawkes, who killed himself by jumping from the scaffold before he was to be hanged. Their remains were sent to the corners of the kingdom and displayed, as a warning to others. There were five other conspirators; the main man, Robert Catesby, was killed by the Sheriff of Worcester when he tried to flee.

==Literature== 

There are many places to find Fawkes in popular literature. Here are some important examples, listed in chronological order.

[[Graphic novel]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction genres, Fiction books, Comic books, Comics artists

A graphic novel is a type of comic book usually with a long storyline similar to those of novels. The term also encompasses comic short story anthologies, and in some cases bound collections of previously published comic book series (more commonly referred to as trade paperbacks).

Graphic novels are often bound in a better format than the comic magazines, using the same materials and methods as printed books, and are generally sold in bookstores and specialty comic book shops rather than at newsstands. Graphic novels are popular around the world. The graphic novel traditions are very strong in Japan and the United States. There are many Latino superheroes in American mainstream comics and graphic novels. 

[[Alan Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Comic books, English writers, Hugo Award winning writers, People from Northampton

Alan Moore (born 18 November 1953 in Northampton) is an English writer most famous for his influential work in comics, including the acclaimed graphic novels Watchmen, V for Vendetta and From Hell. 

[[Islamabad Capital Territory]]

CATEGORIES: Federal Capital Territory of Islamabad, Territories of Pakistan

The Islamabad Capital Territory (وفاقی دارالحکومت, ICT for short) is one of the two federal territories of Pakistan. The territory includes Islamabad, the capital city of Pakistan. It covers an area of 1165.5 sqkm; in terms of area the territory of Islamabad is greater in area than Faroe Islands but smaller than Mauritius. Of this area, Islamabad city covers an area of 906 sqkm.

[[Lablachère]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Lablachère  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Laboule]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Laboule  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Lachamp-Raphaël]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Lachamp-Raphaël  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Lachapelle-Graillouse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Lachapelle-Graillouse  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Official names of India]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of India, Government of India

India has 23 official languages. The its constitution lists the name of the country in each of the languages. Hindi and English (listed in boldface) are the "official languages of the union" (Union meaning the Federal Government located in Delhi); Tamil and Sanskrit are officially the "classical languages of India."

[[The Matrix Revolutions]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, Matrix series, Drone movies, IMAX movies, Sequel movies, Warner Bros. movies, English-language movies

The Matrix Revolutions is a 2003 movie that was written and directed by the Wachowski brothers. It is the sequel to The Matrix Reloaded.

[[Andy Wachowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births

[[Larry Wachowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births

[[Hercules in the Underworld]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 movies, 1990s adventure movies, Television movies, Xenaverse, Hercules movies

Hercules in the Underworld is the fourth made-for-TV movie in the series Hercules: The Legendary Journeys. When villagers begin disappearing it is discovered that they had fallen through a crack in the earth which goes straight to Hades. Hercules once again comes to the rescue and  faces one of his most difficult challenges, and must prove himself as a man as well as a god.

[[Lagorce, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Lagorce is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Lanarce]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Lanarce  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Hercules in the Maze of the Minotaur]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 movies, 1990s adventure movies, Television movies, Xenaverse, Hercules movies

Hercules in the Maze of the Minotaur is the fifth made for television movie based on the series Hercules: The Legendary Journeys. Hercules has given up his days of traveling. He has found a place to live and be with his family. When a far off village is in danger from an unseen monster, Hercules is goes to help save the village from the monster. The origin of the monster is a combination of the Greek myth and the myths of Tantalus and Lycaon.

[[Lanas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Lanas is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Larnas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Larnas is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Laurac-en-Vivarais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Laurac-en-Vivarais  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Marzahn]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Berlin

Marzahn is a locality within the borough Marzahn-Hellersdorf of Berlin. 

Marzahn became part of Greater Berlin in 1920, as a part of the Lichtenberg district. In 1979, the large housing estate of Marzahn was separated from Lichtenberg to become an East Berlin borough in its own right and in 1986 the new Hellersdorf district (including Kaulsdorf and Mahlsdorf) was split from it. Berlin's 2001 administrative reform led to the former boroughs of Marzahn and Hellersdorf fusing into a single new borough.

In the north the locality includes the neighbourhoods of Bürknersfelde and Ahrensfelde, an overbuilt strip of land which once belonged to the Brandenburg municipality of Ahrensfelde and was incorporated into Berlin in 1990.

The historic village of Marzahn was first mentioned as Morczane in a 1300 deed by Margrave Albert III of Brandenburg-Salzwedel, when he granted the estates to the Friedland Cistercian abbey (in today's Neuhardenberg). After the Thirty Years' War it fell to Elector Frederick William of Brandenburg.

Marzahn was the site of a labour camp (today a water treatment plant), where Roma were interned from July 16, 1936 on, two weeks prior to the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, away from visitor's eyes. As a part of the  Nazi Porajmos extermination policy, up to 2000 inmates remained there until in 1943 they were deported to Auschwitz-Birkenau, where most of them were gassed. In 1941 the large factory of the Carl Hasse & Wrede machine tool company (now Knorr-Bremse) was erected, where hundreds forced labourers were employed. The victims were buried at the nearby Parkfriedhof, a memorial marks the site.

In 1987, Marzahn hosted the Berliner Gartenschau a horticulture show on the occasion of Berlin's 750th anniversary. The area today called Erholungspark Marzahn includes the Gärten der Welt (Gardens of the World) project showing a Chinese, Japanese, Balinese and Korean garden, labyrinths modelled on Hampton Court Palace and Chartres Cathedral as well as a garden of the Italian Renaissance.

[[Helicobacter pylori]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori)  is a spiral shaped bacterium that lives in or on the lining of the stomach. It causes more than 90 percent of ulcers, which are sores in the lining of the stomach or the duodenum (the first part of the small intestine). Before 1982, when this bacterium was discovered, doctors thought that spicy food, acid, stress and lifestyle caused most ulcers. Because doctors now know that most ulcers are caused by an H. pylori infection, they can be cured with the correct antibiotics.

Heliobacter pylori was first discovered by Australian scientists, Barry J. Marshall and J. Robin Warren. They won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2005 for their work.

[[Schöneberg]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Berlin

Schöneberg is a locality of Berlin. Until Berlin's 2001 administrative reform it was a separate borough including the locality of Friedenau. Together with the former borough of Tempelhof it is now part of the new borough of Tempelhof-Schöneberg.

[[Schöneberg (disambiguation)]]

Schöneberg may refer to:

[[Uranus in fiction]]

CATEGORIES: Uranus (planet)

The planet Uranus has appeared in various forms of fiction:

[[Kevin Sorbo]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American television actors, Xenaverse actors, American movie actors, Actors from Minnesota

Kevin David Sorbo (born September 24, 1958) is an American actor. He is best known for the roles of Hercules on Hercules: The Legendary Journeys and Captain Dylan Hunt in Andromeda.

[[Oscar Niemeyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 2012 deaths, Brazilian architects, Centenarians, Communists, Deaths from respiratory tract infection, Deaths from cardiac arrest, People from Rio de Janeiro, Pritzker Prize winners

Oscar Ribeiro de Almeida Niemeyer Soares Filho (December 15, 1907  December 5, 2012) was a Brazilian architect who is thought to be an important name in worldwide modern architecture. He was a pioneer in the idea of using reinforced concrete for buildings.

Buildings made by Niemeyer often have a lot of empty space, making odd patterns. The biggest work he made was the plan for the city of Brasília.

Politically, Niemeyer was a communist, which sometimes had a bad effect for him: When the military dictatorship of Brazil happened in 1964, Niemeyer was forced into exile in Paris. Fidel Castro once said  "Niemeyer and I are the last Communists of this planet."

In 1988, Niemeyer won the Pritzker Prize.

In 2012, he died of cardiac arrest due to a respiratory tract infection.

[[Royal Ontario Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Toronto, Museums in Canada, Natural history museums

The Royal Ontario Museum or ROM, is a major museum for culture and natural history in the city of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 

It is the largest museum in Canada and fifth largest in North America. It has more than six million things on display and over 40 galleries. It has notable collections of dinosaurs, Near Eastern and African art, East Asian art, European history, and Canadian history.

[[Centenarian]]

CATEGORIES: Centenarians

A centenarian is a person who has lived to be at least 100. Because people normally die before this age, the word centenarian is usually linked to longevity. The United States has the most centenarians, while Japan is second. 

Much more rare is a supercentenarian, who is a person that has lived to be at least 110.  Famous supercentenarians have included Harry Patch, who was the last surviving British soldier of the First World War trenches.  He died on 25 July 2009 (aged 111).  For the last seven days of his life he was Britain's oldest man.  Henry Allingham, another First World War veteran, had died a week earlier (aged 113). 

[[Laval-d'Aurelle]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Ardèche

 Laval-d'Aurelle  is a former commune in the Ardèche département in southern France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Saint-Laurent-les-Bains-Laval-d'Aurelle.

[[Laveyrune]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Laveyrune  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Lavillatte]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Lavillatte  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Laviolle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Laviolle  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France with a population of 130 as of 1999.

[[Le Lac-d'Issarlès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Le Lac-d'Issarlès is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Le Plagnal]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Le Plagnal  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Le Roux, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Le Roux is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Le Teil]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Le Teil is a commune in the Ardèche department in southern France.

[[Lentillères]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Lentillères  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Les Ollières-sur-Eyrieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Les Ollières-sur-Eyrieux is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France. The nearest towns are Privas and Saint-Sauveur-de-Montagut.

[[Les Salelles, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Les Salelles is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Les Vans]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Les Vans  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Lespéron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Lespéron  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Loubaresse, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Loubaresse is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Auguste Comte]]

CATEGORIES: 1798 births, 1857 deaths, French philosophers, Burials at Père Lachaise Cemetery, People from Montpellier, French sociologists, Alumni of the École Polytechnique

Auguste Comte (full name:  Isidore Marie Auguste François Xavier Comte; January 17, 1798 – September 5, 1857) was a French thinker who was one of the founders of sociology (from the Latin: socius, "companion"; and the suffix -ology, "the study of", from Greek λόγος, lógos, "knowledge" ) and positivism.

It was recently discovered that the term 'sociology' had already been introduced in 1780, but with a different meaning, by the French essayist Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès (1748-1836).

[[George Berkeley]]

CATEGORIES: 1685 births, 1753 deaths, Irish philosophers

George Berkeley (12 March 1685 – 14 January 1753), or Bishop Berkeley, was an Irish bishop and philosopher.

Berkeley was one of the three 'British Empiricists', philosophers around the late 1600s and 1700s who believed in 'empiricism', the philosophy that everything we learn comes through our senses. The other British Empiricists included the Englishman John Locke and Scotsman David Hume.

[[Colombier-le-Vieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Colombier-le-Vieux is a commune in the Ardèche department in south France.

[[Sceautres]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Sceautres is a commune in the Ardèche department in south France.

[[Bakot]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Bakot is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Baldheri]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Baldheri is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan, the union council of Baldheri is named after the main village of the area.

[[Lussas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Lussas is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Bandi Atti Khan]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Bandi Atai Khan (also known as Banda Atai Khan) is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Lyas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Lyas  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Malarce-sur-la-Thines]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Malarce-sur-la-Thines  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Malbosc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Malbosc   is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Beerangali]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Beeran Gali (also known as 'Berin Gali' or 'Baran Gali') is a Union Council of Abbottabad District, in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Berote Kalan]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Birote Kalan is one of the 51 Union councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Boi, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Boi is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. Boi means "fragrance of roses".

[[Chamhad]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Chamad (also known as Chamhad) is one of the 51 Union Councils (subdivisions) of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Dalola]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Dalola is one of the 51 Union Councils (sub-divisions) of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Dewal Manal]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Dewal Manal is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The main tribe of this Union Council is the Karlal.

[[Ghari Phulgran]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Garhi Phulgran is one of the 51 Union Councils (administrative subdivisions) of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Goreeni]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Goreeni is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Haveliani Urban]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Haveliani Urban is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is at the west of the district.

[[Jarral, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

The Union Council of Jarral is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Marcols-les-Eaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Marcols-les-Eaux  is a commune in the Ardèche département of southern France.

[[Mayres, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Mayres is a commune in the Ardèche department in southern France.

[[Mazan-l'Abbaye]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Mazan-l'Abbaye is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Meyras]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Meyras  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Meysse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Meysse   is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Mirabel, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Mirabel is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Montpezat-sous-Bauzon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Montpezat-sous-Bauzon is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Montréal, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Montréal is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Montselgues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Montselgues  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Sanilhac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Sanilhac  is a commune in the Ardèche department in south France.

[[Colombier-le-Cardinal]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Colombier-le-Cardinal is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Colombier-le-Jeune]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Colombier-le-Jeune is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Le Crestet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Le Crestet is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Mézilhac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Mézilhac  is a commune in the Ardèche department and Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region of France.

[[Sampzon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Sampzon  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Salavas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Salavas is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Orgnac-l'Aven]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Orgnac-l'Aven is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

The Aven d'Orgnac cave is located near the village.

[[Payzac, Ardèche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Payzac is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[Planzolles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

 Planzolles  is a commune in the Ardèche département in southern France.

[[L'incoronazione di Poppea]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Claudio Monteverdi, 17th century operas

L'incoronazione di Poppea  (The Coronation of Poppea) is an opera in three acts by Claudio Monteverdi.  The libretto is by Giovanni Francesco Busenello.  The first performance was in the Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo, Venice in 1643. It was the last opera that Monteverdi composed.

Most operas in the early 17th century were about mythological stories or stories from the Christian religion.  This story, however, is about something that happened in the history of ancient Rome. It is about the evil emperor Nero and how he married Poppea.  The gods still play a part in the opera, especially Cupid.

Although the opera is called The Coronation of Poppea we do not actually see any coronation ceremony.

Monteverdi was an experienced composer when he wrote this and the opera has some of his best music.  The orchestra is only a small group of instruments: strings, recorders, cornetts (an old kind of trumpet), percussion, harp, lutes and gambas.  The music does not divide sharply between recitative (narrating music) and aria (set songs), but flows gently from one type to the other.

When listening to this opera it is important to remember that in the 17th century men often sang women’s parts and women sang men’s parts.  A part such as Nero would have been sung by a castrato.  Nowadays it can either be sung by a countertenor (a man) or a mezzo-soprano (a woman).  There are scenes in this opera where the actors disguise themselves as the opposite sex.  In the 17th century opera audiences did not find anything unusual about a man pretending to be a woman pretending to be a man or the other way round.

The duet between Nero and Poppea at the end of the opera may have been written by another composer. 

[[Queen's Park F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football clubs

Queen's Park Football Club is a famous football club based in Glasgow, Scotland, and is the oldest football club in Scotland, founded in 1867, and the oldest outside of England and Wales. The club has a lot of history and tradition, and is still the only amateur club in the Scottish League. The club's home is one of 29 UEFA five-star stadia, the all-seated Hampden Park in south east Glasgow, which is also the home of the Scottish national team. Queen's Park have won the Scottish Cup the third most amount of times, behind Rangers and Celtic.

The club's amateur status is reflected by their motto, "Ludere causa Ludendi". This means "to play for the sake of playing".

[[Jhangi]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Jhangi is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is also known as Jhangi Syedan to the local people. It is to the north of Abbottabad city (the district capital). It includes the northwestern parts of the city, its suburbs, and outlying villages.

Jhangi is at 34°12'0N 73°13'60E with a height of 1201 metres (3943 feet). To the south is the city of Abbottabad.

[[Jhangra]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Jhangra is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is in the southwest of the district.

[[Kakul]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Kakul is a hamlet and union council in the Kakul Valley of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is 5 km north of Abbottabad city near the Thandiani Hills at a height of 1300 metres. The Pakistan Military Academy is also located here.

[[Kehal Urban]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Kehal Urban is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is in the west of the district.

[[Kukmang]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Kukmang is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Kuthiala]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Kothiala is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[Kuthwal]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Kuthwal  is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is northwest of Abbottabad city (the district capital).

[[Langra, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Langra is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

[[2 (disambiguation)]]

2 and two may mean:

In music

In sports:

In television:

2 may also mean:

[[Langrial]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Langrial is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is in the south west of the district and borders Haripur District.

[[3 (disambiguation)]]

3 and three may mean:

In music and film:

3 can also mean:

[[Murree]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan, Hill Stations in Pakistan

Murree is a city in the Rawalpindi District of Punjab, Pakistan. It is in the north of Punjab and is near the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and Kashmir.

[[Malikpura Urban]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Malikpura Urban is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is in the west of the district.

Malikpura is the one of most populated union councils of Abbottabad city/urban area and an old settled area of the municipal committee.Many prominent people in the past have been residents of Malikpura at one time or the other, including ex-president of Pakistan General Mohammad Ayub Khan,Justice Sajjad Ahmad Jan, ex-Chief Minister of NWFP, Sahibzada Sir Abdul Qayyum Khan,Chaudhry Mohammad Ali ex-Vice Chancellor of the Peshawar University, famous local freedom movement activist Jalal-ud-din Baba,Sheikh Ghulam Khalid Sehgal and others.

[[Mirpur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Abbottabad District

Mirpur is one of the 51 Union Councils of Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is in the west of the district.

