[[Samuel Goldwyn, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Movie producers from California, People from Colorado Springs, Colorado, Businesspeople from Colorado

Samuel Goldwyn, Jr. (September 7, 1926 – January 9, 2015) is an American movie producer. His best known movies were Mystic Pizza (1988), Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World (2003), and The Secret Life of Walter Mitty (2013).

Goldwyn was born in Los Angeles, California. He was the son of actress Frances Howard and the pioneer motion picture mogul Samuel Goldwyn. He attended Fountain Valley School in Colorado Springs, Colorado and the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Virginia. He served in World War II. He was married twice and had six children including Tony Goldwyn and John Goldwyn.

Goldwyn died from congestive heart failure on January 9, 2015 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 88.

[[Imre Kertész]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Hungarian writers, People from Budapest, Hungarian Nobel Prize winners

LiteratureImre Kertész (9 November 1929 – 31 March 2016) was a Hungarian author. He was a Holocaust concentration camp survivor. He wrote his autobiographical roman fatelessness. In 2002, he won the Nobel Prize in Literature, "for writing that upholds the fragile experience of the individual against the barbaric arbitrariness of history". He was born in Budapest, Hungary.

Kertész died in Budapest, Hungary from complications of Parkinson's disease on 31 March 2016, aged 86.

[[Kosta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Kosta is a locality in Lessebo Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. There were 884 people living in 2010. The locality is located between the towns of Kalmar and Växjö. Kosta is known for the glassworks Kosta glasbruk.

[[Hovmantorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Hovmantorp is a locality in Lessebo Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,991 people lived in the locality.

[[Mark Burnett]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, English television producers, People from London

Mark Burnett (born 17 July 1960) is a television producer based in Los Angeles. He was born in London and raised in Dagenham. He has been married to the actress Roma Downey since 2007.

[[Haga Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Gothenburg

The Haga Church (Hagakyrkan) is an church building in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. It belongs to Gothenburg Haga Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened on Advent Sunday, 27 November, 1859.

[[The Voice (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 television series debuts, 2010s television series, 2010s establishments in the Netherlands, 2010 establishments in Europe

The Voice' is a singing competition created in the Netherlands by producer John de Mol and singer Roel van Velzen. The show is now a franchise with countries across the globe hosting their own version. The show first aired on 17 September 2010.

[[Ytterhogdal]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Ytterhogdal is a locality in Härjedalen Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 534 people lived in the locality.

[[Norr-Hede]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Norr-Hede is a locality in Härjedalen Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 261 people lived there.

[[Ulvkälla]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Ulvkälla is a locality in Härjedalen Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 456 people lived here.

[[Closure (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In mathematics, closure describes the case when the results of a mathematical operation are always defined. For example, in ordinary arithmetic, addition on real numbers has closure: whenever one adds two numbers, the answer is a number. The same is true of multiplication. Division does not have closure, because division by 0 is not defined. In the natural numbers, subtraction does not have closure, but in the integers, subtraction does have closure. Subtraction of two numbers can produce a negative number, which is not a natural number, but is an integer.

Ordinary closure is called finite closure. There is also infinite closure. The definition of a topological space mentions infinite closure. Open spaces have (finite) closure of intersection. Open sets have infinite closure of union. That is, in mathematical notation, if A0, and A1 and ... An ... are open sets, then B and C are open sets:

[[Asus]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 establishments in Taiwan, Companies based in California, Companies of Taiwan, Taipei

ASUSTeK Computer Inc., usually referred to as ASUS, is a computer hardware and electronics company. It was founded in Taipei in 1989 by T.H. Tung, Ted Hsu, Wayne Hsieh and M.T. Liao. ASUS is the world's fifth-largest PC vendor by 2013 unit sales (after Lenovo, Hewlett-Packard, Dell and Acer).

[[Acer Inc.]]

CATEGORIES: Technology companies of Asia, 1976 establishments in Asia, Taipei, Companies of Taiwan, 20th century establishments in Taiwan

Acer Inc. is a Taiwanese multinational hardware and electronics corporation headquartered in Xizhi, New Taipei City, Taiwan.

In 2013 Acer was the fourth largest personal computer vendor in the world.

[[Feza Gürsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 1992 deaths, Mathematicians, People from Istanbul, Theoretical physicists, Turkish scientists

Feza Gürsey (April 7, 1921 – April 13, 1992) was a Turkish mathematician and physicist. Among his most prominent contributions to theoretical physics,  his works on the Chiral model  and on SU(6)  are most popular.

[[Herding]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Herding is the act of bringing individual animals together into a group (herd). It is maintaining the group and moving the group from place to place. Many thousands of years ago herding became a way of life for many nomadic people. Today it is still a necessity for farmers, ranchers and those who raise domestic animals.

[[Continental AG]]

CATEGORIES: 1871 establishments in Europe, Companies of Germany, Hanover, 1870s establishments in Germany

Continental AG is a leading German automotive manufacturing company specializing in tires, brake systems, automotive safety, powertrain and chassis components, tachographs, and other parts for the automotive and transportation industries. Continental is based in Hanover, Lower Saxony, Germany.

Continental was founded in 1871 as a rubber manufacturer, Continental-Caoutchouc und Gutta-Percha Compagnie.

Continental is the world's 4th largest tire manufacturer.

[[The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 establishments in Europe, Mormonism, Protestantism in Sweden, 19th century establishments in Sweden

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Sweden (Jesu kristi kyrka i Sverige) is part of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been around in Sweden since 1850. It's headquarters are the Stockholm Sweden Temple. The Stockholm Sweden Temple is located in Västerhaninge.

[[Church of Sweden Youth]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 establishments in Europe, Church of Sweden, Uppsala, 1990s establishments in Sweden

The Church of Sweden Youth (Svenska kyrkans unga) is the children's and youth group of the Church of Sweden. It was established on 1 January 1993. The establishment came follwoing a merger of several youth groups within the denomination. In 2013 there were 13 000 members of various ages.

A merger was proposed alread in 1964. However, it didn't become reality until a meeting on 6 December 1992.

[[David Hewlett]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, English movie actors, English movie directors, English television actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian movie directors, Actors from Surrey

David Ian Hewlett (18 April 1968) He is an English-Canadian actor, writer and director. He is best known for his role as Dr. Meredith Rodney McKay on the science fiction TV shows Stargate SG-1, Stargate Atlantis and Stargate Universe.

Hewlett was born in Redhill, Surrey, UK. He moved to Canada when he was a child.

[[Jehovah's Witnesses in Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 establishments in Europe, Jehovah's Witnesses, Protestantism in Sweden, 1900s establishments in Sweden

The Jehovah’s Witnesses in Sweden (Jehovas vittnen i Sverige) is part of the international Jehovah's Witnesses religion. It has been around in Sweden since 1909. In the past, its headquarters were in Arboga. Later, the headquarters were moved to Denmark in 2012.

[[Karin Söder]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Teachers

Karin Ann-Marie Söder (30 November 1928 – 19 December 2015) was a Swedish Centre Party politician. She was a member of the Swedish cabinet between 1976-1978 and again in 1979. She was the first female leader of a major political party in Sweden. She also was of the first female foreign ministers in the world. She also worked successful for Systembolaget not being opened on Saturdays.

[[Roy Tarpley]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2015 deaths, African-American basketball players, Dallas Mavericks players, Sportspeople from New York City, American basketball players

Roy James Tarpley (November 28, 1964 – January 9, 2015) was an American professional basketball player. He played the power forward and center positions, earning an NBA Sixth Man of the Year Award in 1988. Tarpley became known during his career for being banned from the NBA because of his drug and alcohol abuse. He had some success playing in Europe.

Tarpley was born in New York City and died in Arlington, Texas.

[[Robert V. Keeley]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Ambassadors of the United States, People from Beirut

Robert Vossler Keeley (September 4, 1929 – January 9, 2015) was an American politician. He served in Foreign Service of the United States, from 1956 to 1989. He served three times as Ambassador: to Greece (1985–89), Zimbabwe (1980–84), and Mauritius (1976–78). In 1978–80 he was Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, in charge of southern and eastern Africa.

Keeley was born in Beirut, French Lebanon to American parents. He died in Washington, D.C. from a stroke at the age of 85.

[[Honda Pilot]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Honda automobiles

Honda Pilot is a mid-sized four-door crossover utility vehicle. It was first made in 2002 as a 2003 model. The vehicle replaced Honda's compact SUV the Passport, which was actually a rebadged Isuzu Rodeo. The Pilot is built on the Accord platform, which also underpins the Odyssey minivan and the Ridgeline pickup truck.

The vehicle was redesigned in 2009. It has three rows of seats. The vehicle has limited off-road capability but does allow wading through nineteen inches of water. The Pilot was Honda's largest crossover up until the introduction of the Crosstour, a station wagon based SUV built on the Accord platform. While it is longer than the Pilot it doesn't allow seating for 7-8 passengers.

The Pilot has been compared with other crossover cars and sport utility vehicles.

The Pilot was redesigned in 2015 for the 2016 model year. It no longer has a boxy crossover look. It now looks more like the Honda Odyssey. Its 6-cylinder engine is now more powerful and mated to 6- and 9-speed automatic transmissions.

[[Junior Malanda]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, 2015 deaths, Belgian footballers, Road accident deaths, Sportspeople from Brussels

Bernard Malanda-Adje (28 August 1994 – 10 January 2015), nicknamed Junior Malanda, was a Belgian professional footballer. He played as a defensive midfielder for VfL Wolfsburg in the Bundesliga. 

He was born in Brussels, Belgium.

Malanda died in a car accident in Porta Westfalica, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany at the age of 20.

[[Hubert Markl]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, German zoologists, People from Regensburg

Hubert Simon Markl (17 August 1938 – 8 January 2015) was a German biologist. He also served as President of the Max Planck Society from 1996 to 2002.

[[Ettore Scola]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Italian movie directors, Italian screenwriters, Writers from Campania

Ettore Scola (10 May 1931 – 19 January 2016) was an Italian screenwriter and movie director. He was known for his movies A Special Day (1977), That Night In Varennes (1982), What Time Is It? (1989) and Captain Fracassa's Journey (1990).

Scola died at a hospital in Rome, Italy from pneumonia on 19 January 2016 at the age of 84.

[[Costa-Gavras]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, French movie directors, French movie producers, French screenwriters, Greek movie directors, Greek movie producers, Greek screenwriters

Costa-Gavras (short for Konstantinos Gavras - Κωνσταντίνος Γαβράς; born 12 February 1933) is a Greek-French director, screenwriter, and producer. He is known for movies Missing (1982), Hannah K. (1983), Betrayed (1988), Music Box (1989), Mad City (1997) and Amen. (2002).

[[Michael Cacoyannis]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2011 deaths, Cypriot people, Greek movie directors, Greek movie producers, Greek screenwriters, People from Athens

Michael Cacoyannis (Μιχάλης Κακογιάννης, Michalis Kakogiannis; 11 June 1922spaced ndash25 July 2011) was a Cypriot-Greek director, producer, and screenwriter. He was best known for his 1964 movie Zorba the Greek.

[[The Holmes Brothers]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American blues musicians, American soul musicians, Musical groups established in 1979, 1979 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in New York (state), Musical groups from New York, Musical groups from Virginia, Musical trios, Vocal music, Musical groups disestablished in 2015, 2010s disestablishments in New York (state), 2015 disestablishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Virginia

The Holmes Brothers was a musical trio originally from Christchurch, Virginia. They perform blues, soul, gospel, country, and rhythm & blues music. Its members include Sherman Holmes, Popsy Dixon and Wendell Holmes.

[[Spencer Gulf]]

CATEGORIES: South Australia

The Spencer Gulf is the westernmost of two large inlets on the southern coast of Australia. It is in the state of South Australia facing the Great Australian Bight. The Gulf is 322 km (200 mi) long and 129 km (80 mi) wide at its mouth. The western shore of the Gulf is the Eyre Peninsula. The eastern side is the Yorke Peninsula which separates it from the smaller Gulf St Vincent. Its entrance was defined by Matthew Flinders as a line from Cape Catastrophe on Eyre Peninsula to Cape Spencer on Yorke Peninsula.

[[Peter Weller]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American educators, American movie directors, Actors from Wisconsin

Peter Frederick Weller, Ph.D. (born June 24, 1947) is an American movie director, actor and educator. He is known for his role as RoboCop in RoboCop and RoboCop 2.

[[Bruce Greenwood]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian voice actors, Actors from Quebec, Musicians from Quebec

Bruce Stuart Greenwood (born August 12, 1956) is a Canadian actor and musician. He is known for his roles as U.S. presidents in Thirteen Days and National Treasure: Book of Secrets, Ben Stevenson in Mao's Last Dancer and for his role as Captain Christopher Pike in the 2009 Star Trek movie and its sequel, Star Trek Into Darkness.

[[Michael Parks]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Riverside County, California, Singers from California

Michael Parks (Harry Samuel Parks; April 4, 1938 – May 9, 2017) was an American actor and singer. He was known for his roles in Kill Bill and in Django Unchained.

Parks died on May 10, 2017 in Los Angeles at the age of 77.

[[James Remar]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Boston, Massachusetts

William James Remar (born December 31, 1953), known professionally as James Remar, is an American actor and voice actor. He is known for his roles in Sex and the City, The Warriors, 48 Hrs., The Cotton Club, Mortal Kombat: Annihilation, Vampire Diaries, and in Dexter.

[[Dennis Christopher]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Dennis Christopher (born Dennis Carrelli; December 2, 1955 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is an American movie actor. He is known for his roles in Breaking Away, It and in Fade to Black. He also appeared as Leonide Moguy in Django Unchained.

[[Sophie Gengembre Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: British painters, 1823 births, 1903 deaths, Artists from Paris

Sophie Gengembre Anderson (1823 – 10 March 1903) was a French-born British artist. She created many paintings of children and women. Her work Elaine was the first public collection of a female artist.

Anderson also painted No Walk Today and many other paintings.

She was born in Paris, France. She died in Falmouth, England.

[[European turtle dove]]

CATEGORIES: Doves

The European turtle dove (also known as turtle dove) is a member of the Dove bird family. They are smaller than many other doves.

The turtle dove is native to Europe, Asia and Africa.

Turtle doves are talked about in the song "The Twelve Days of Christmas".

There aren't as many of these birds in Europe as there used to be.

[[Daytona International Speedway]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR tracks, Daytona Beach, Florida, 1959 establishments in Florida

The Daytona International Speedway is a race track in Daytona Beach, Florida. It is where the two exhibition races, the Advance Auto Parts Clash, Can-Am Duel, and the two points-paying races, the Daytona 500 and Coke Zero Sugar 400 is held. The track is also where the Rolex 24 at Daytona is held, and also two Xfinity Series races and one Camping World Truck Series race. 

[[Ehrenfried von Tschirnhaus]]

CATEGORIES: 1651 births, 1708 deaths, 17th century philosophers, 18th century philosophers, German doctors, German mathematicians, German philosophers, German physicists

Ehrenfried Walther von Tschirnhaus (or Tschirnhausen) (10 April 1651 – 11 October 1708) was a German mathematician, physicist, doctor, and philosopher. 

Late in the seventeenth century, he was charged with making a survey of the minerals of Saxony. He had a government position there.  He and his assistant, Johann Friedrich Böttger, discovered how to make porcelain. 

Before that, it had only been made in Asia.

Tschirnhaus's work in mathematics is remembered in the Tschirnhaus transformation. It removed some intermediate terms from a given algebraic equation.  He is also remembered in the Tschirnhausen cubic.

His work in physics included work in optics. Working  with Martin Knorr, he developed an improved polishing technique. This was used in the lenses and mirrors he made. He made burning glasses of high quality. He used these in experiments.

[[Hank Flamingo]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1988 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, Country bands, Musical groups established in 1988, Musical groups from Tennessee

Hank Flamingo was an American country music group formed in 1988.

[[Robert Stone (novelist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, American novelists, Deaths from COPD, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Journalists from New York, Writers from New York City

Robert Stone (August 21, 1937 – January 10, 2015) was an American novelist and journalist. He won the National Book Award for Fiction in 1975 for his novel Dog Soldiers. He was also twice a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize and once for the PEN/Faulkner Awards.

Stone was born in Brooklyn, New York. He was raised by his mother, who suffered from schizophrenia, until the age of six and was later raised in a Catholic orphanage. As a result of chain smoking, he had emphysema.

Stone died from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on January 10, 2015 in Key West, Florida, aged 77.

[[Taylor Negron]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Glendale, California, LGBT people from California, American movie actors, American painters, American stand-up comedians, American television actors, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Comedians from Los Angeles County, California, Deaths from liver cancer, LGBT actors, LGBT artists, LGBT comedians, LGBT writers, Writers from Los Angeles County, California

Brad Stephen "Taylor" Negron (August 1, 1957 – January 10, 2015) was an American writer, actor, painter, and stand-up comedian. His best known movies were Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982), The Last Boy Scout (1991), Angels in the Outfield (1994), Bio-Dome (1996), and Stuart Little (1999). He appeared in television shows such as Wizards of Waverly Place, Fresh Prince of Bel Air, Curb Your Enthusiasm, Reno 911, Friends, My Wife and Kids, Seinfeld, ER, and Party of Five.

Negron was born in Glendale, California. He grew up in La Cañada Flintridge, California. He was of Puerto Rican ancestry. He was also the cousin of singer Chuck Negron. He was openly gay.

Negron died from liver cancer on January 10, 2015 in Los Angeles. He was 57.

[[Bruzaholm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Bruzaholm is a locality in Eksjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 250 people lived there. Bruzaholm is one of two inhabited localities in Sweden (2010) whose name contain the letter z.

[[Mariannelund]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Mariannelund is a locality in  Eksjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,468 people lived there. Mariannelund appears as a place of setting for many of the stories of Swedish writer Astrid Lindgren's books Emil i Lönneberga.

[[Hjältevad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Hjältevad is a locality in Eksjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 335 people lived there.

[[Hult]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Hult is a locality in Eksjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 455 people lived there. Swedish writer Albert Engström grew up in Hult.

[[Ingatorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Ingatorp is a locality in Eksjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 453 people lived there.

[[Chen Ning Yang]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, Living people, American agnostics, American physicists, Nobel Prize in Physics winners, Theoretical physicists, Chinese Nobel Prize winners

PhysicsChen-Ning Franklin Yang (born October 1, 1922), also known as Yang Zhenning, is a Chinese-born American physicist and mathematician. He works on statistical mechanics and particle physics. Yang and Tsung-dao Lee received the 1957 Nobel prize in physics. This was for their work on parity nonconservation of weak interaction.

[[Frösön]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Sweden

Frösön (Frey's island; fɾøːsøːn; "fɾøːsœʏːa" in the local dialect, Jamtlandic) is the largest island in the lake of Storsjön. It is located west of the town of Östersund in Sweden, Sweden. On the island is the "Frösö Runestone". That Runestone is dated from 1030-1050 AD.

The Swedish composer Wilhelm Peterson-Berger had a summerhouse on the island. In 1930, he made it his permanent home.

[[Outlaws (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 establishments in the United States, Southern rock bands

The Outlaws is an American country rock band formed in 1972. They are a Southern rock/country rock band. Some of their best known hits were "There Goes Another Love Song" (1975), "Green Grass and High Tides" (1975) and "Ghost Riders In The Sky".

Like other southern rock bands, the Outlaws used two lead guitars. However, the Outlaws’ used three and four part vocal harmonies which made them different to other southern rock bands who usually had a single lead singer.

Over the years there has been many changes in the band's members. The current line up includes Henry Paul and Monte Yoho who were original band members. The other three original members, Hughie Thomasson, Billy Jones and Frank O'Keefe have all died.

[[Hawaiian Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 establishments in the United States, Airlines of the United States

Hawaiian Airlines, Inc. is Hawai'i's largest airline and the eighth largest airline in the United States.  The airline's name comes from its headquarters, which are in Honolulu, Hawaii. The airline flies between the major Hawaiian islands.  These are Kaua'i, O'ahu, Moloka'i, Maui, Lanai, and the Big Island of Hawai'i.  Hawaiian also flies to more distant locations, such as the U.S. mainland, Japan, Korea, and Australia.  These flights arrive and depart from Oahu and Maui.

Hawaiian is the oldest U.S. airline without a fatal accident. It is also the oldest U.S. airline that has never had a plane destroyed or damaged beyond repair.

[[Grimsås]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Grimsås is a locality in Tranemo Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 721 people lived there.

[[Önnestad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Önnestad is a locality in Kristianstad Municipality, in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,378 people lived there.

[[Väderstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Väderstad is a locality in Mjölby Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 583 people lived there.

[[Mjällby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Blekinge County

Mjällby is a locality in Sölvesborg Municipality in Blekinge County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,254 people lived there. Mjällby is in the Listerlandet peninsula.

[[Swedish Free Church Council]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 establishments in Sweden, Protestantism in Sweden

The Swedish Free Church Council (Sveriges frikyrkosamråd) is an association of free churches in Sweden. The association is part of the Christian Council of Sweden (Sveriges kristna råd). The Swedish Free Church Council was established in 1992.

[[Livets ord]]

CATEGORIES: Protestantism in Sweden, Uppsala, 1983 establishments in Sweden

Livets ord, literally Word of Life, is a congregation within the Swedish Word of Faith movement. It was founded in Uppsala by Ulf Ekman on 24 May 1983. Ulf Ekman left in March 2014 to join the Roman Catholic Church. Between 1994 and 2014 the congregation ran its own seminary.

[[Örebro Mission]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 establishments in Europe, 1997 disestablishments in Sweden, Protestantism in Sweden, Örebro, 1890s establishments in Sweden

The Örebro Mission (Örebromissionen) was a Protestant denomination in Sweden. It was founded in the town of Örebro in 1892 It was part of the Baptist Union of Sweden until 1936. In 1997 the denomination became part of the Evangelical Free Church in Sweden.

[[Mia Marianne och Per Filip]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish musical groups, Christian music bands

Mia Marianne och Per Filip is a Swedish Christian music duo consisting of Mia Marianne Waldenstad and Per Filip Waldenstad. The dueo has scored album chart successes in Sweden.

[[Lisbet Jagedal]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Swedish singers, Living people

Lisbet Jagedal, born 17 July 1964, is a Swedish singer who participated at Melodifestivalen 1990 with the song Varje natt. The song ended up third in that contest.

She has also scored Svensktoppen hits as a solo singer with the song "Varje natt" (1990) Also she has scored hits as together with Pools orkester. The song "Du har det där" charted in 1993 In 1994, the song "För varje andetag" charted.

[[Pools orkester]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, Swedish musical groups

Pools orkester was a dansband from Sweden. The band scored successes by the early 1990s. That was when Lisbet Jagedal used to sing with the band.

[[Without Me]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 songs, Eminem songs, Grammy Award winning songs

"Without Me" is the first single off American rapper Eminem's fourth studio album The Eminem Show. The song was released in May 14, 2002. 

Without Me is one of Eminem's most popular songs. It was able to peak at #2 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States. 

In 2003, the song was nominated for a Grammy Award for Record of the Year at the 45th Annual Grammy Awards but it lost to "Don't Know Why" by the Norah Jones. This made was the first song by Eminem to be nominated for a Grammy in a major category. The song was also nominated for Best Male Rap Solo Performance but lost to Nelly's "Hot in Herre". The music video for the song won the Grammy Award for Best Short Form Music Video.

[[Triad]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 disestablishments in Europe, Swedish musical groups, Swedish pop music groups, Musical groups established in 1987, Musical trios, 1987 establishments in Sweden, 1980s disestablishments in Sweden

Triad was a Swedish pop trio. The trio consisted of Janne Bark, Lasse Lindbom and Niklas Strömstedt. They mostly became famous for scoring a 1987-1988 Swedish number-one single hit with the Christmas song Tänd ett ljus

[[Brigadier]]

CATEGORIES: Army

Brigadier is an army rank, the seniority of which depends on the country. In the British tradition, this officer commands a brigade, which is one-third of a division. As well as the British Army and the Royal Marines, this also applies to the Australian Army, the Indian Army, the New Zealand Army and the Pakistan Army. The rank is above Colonel and below Major-General. The badge on the uniform is three pips with a national symbol on top.

In other countries it is a non-commissioned rank (e.g. Spain, Italy, France, the Netherlands). Instead, these countries use Brigadier general as equivalent. All NATO forces use OF-6 as the equivalent rank.

[[Åsa Jinder]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish musicians, 1963 births, Living people, Swedish writers

Åsa Tindra Jinder Otter, born 9 October 1963 in Danderyd, Sweden, is a Swedish nyckelharpa player, composer, producer, songwriter, author and lecturer. She has scored chart successes at the Swedish album chart.

[[CajsaStina Åkerström]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Swedish singers, Swedish writers, Living people

Cajsa Stina (CajsaStina) Åkerström, born 16 August 1967 in Stockholm, Sweden, is a Swedish singer, songwriter and author.  She is the daughter of singer Fred Åkerström.

She participated at Melodifestivalen 2014 in the third semifinal. Her song was called "En enkel sång".

[[The Way I Am]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 songs, Eminem songs

"The Way I Am" is the second single off American rapper Eminem's third studio album The Marshall Mathers LP. The song was released in December 27, 2000. The song is also featured on his 2005 greatest hits album Curtain Call: The Hits.

The Way I Am was able to peak at #58 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States. 

The song features Eminem being angry at people who he feels are putting too much pressure on him. This includes obsessive fans and record executives. The song contains the lyrics "When a dude's gettin bullied and shoots up his school...", which is a reference to either Eric Harris or Dylan Klebold, the two students that committed the Columbine High School massacre which took place the year before. The song was remixed by Danny Lohner featuring Marilyn Manson, who has also performed the song with Eminem live on stage. In 2008, Eminem released an autobiography which was titled The Way I Am.

[[Eva Dahlgren]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Swedish writers

Eva Charlotte Dahlgren (ˈ in English; born 9 June 1960 in Umeå, Sweden) is a Swedish pop singer and songwriter.

[[Molly Sandén]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Singers from Stockholm, Actors from Stockholm

Molly Sandén, born July 3, 1992 in Stockholm, Sweden is a Swedish pop and R&B singer, host and voice actress. She has scored chart successes in Sweden . Her sisters Frida and Mimmi Sandén are also singers.

[[Siv Pettersson]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 1975 deaths, Singers from Stockholm, Road accident deaths

Siv Pettersson, born 3 March 1955 in Saint Matthew Parish, Stockholm, Sweden, dead 12 January 1975 in Eriksfält Parish, Malmö, Sweden was a Swedish singer. She scored a major 1972-1973 Christmas hit with the song "Låt mig få tända ett ljus (Schlafe, mein Prinzchen, schlaf' ein)". In 1974 she socred aa minor success with Evert Taube's song "Så länge skutan kan gå". She died in a road accident.

[[Hit 'Em Up]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 songs, Tupac Shakur songs

"Hit 'Em Up" is a diss song by American rapper 2Pac. The song also features his group the Outlawz. It was released on June 4, 1996. The song is the B-side for the song "How Do U Want It", released on June 4, 1996, from 2Pac's fifth studio album All Eyez on Me.

The song attacks many East Coast rappers and mainly attacks 2Pac's former friend and rival The Notorious B.I.G. The song was a big part in causing the East Coast–West Coast hip hop rivalry to worsen. "Hit 'Em Up" is considered to be one of the greatest "diss songs" ever recorded because of the explicit lyrics and the seriousness of violent intent by 2Pac and his friends towards their rivals. 

Producer Johnny "J" said that Shakur was first fueled by his anger against Biggie and Bad Boy Records because he thought that they had a part in the November 30, 1994 ambush and attack on Shakur. Shakur was also angry at Biggie's release of "Who Shot Ya?" only months after the shooting happened, and even though it did not mention his name, Shakur believed that it was directed towards him, but it was not. Shakur admitted that he had released "Hit 'Em Up" as a response to "Who Shot Ya?", almost two months after the 1994 ambush.

[[McCulloch v. Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: United States Supreme Court cases, United States law, 1819, 1810s in the United States

McCulloch v. Maryland (1819) was a landmark decision by the Supreme Court of the United States. The US state of Maryland decided to tax all banknotes by banks not chartered by the state of Maryland. The only bank in Maryland at the time that did not have a state charter was the Second Bank of the United States. The bank was a branch of the federal bank established in 1816. 

[[Mauveine]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Mauveine was also known as aniline purple and Perkin's mauve. It was the first synthetic organic chemical dye, discovered by accident in 1856.

[[Chennai Express]]

CATEGORIES: Indian movies, 2013 action movies, 2013 comedy movies, 2013 romance movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Rohit Shetty

Chennai Express is a 2013 romantic action comedy movie. It was directed by Rohit Shetty. It was produced by Red Chillies Entertainment.

[[Rohit Shetty]]

CATEGORIES: Indian movie directors, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Rohit Shetty is an Indian movie director. He has created a number of movies such as Golmaal, Singham, and more. His most successful movie has been Chennai Express.

[[Stockholm Sweden Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm

The Stockholm Sweden Temple (Templet i Stockholm) is a temple of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Sweden. It is located in Västerhaninge.

In April 1981 it was announced the temple would be built. It was opened on 2 July 1985.

[[Sofia Albertina Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Sofia Albertina Church (Sofia Albertina kyrka) a church building in Landskrona in Sweden. It belongs to the Landskrona Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was opened in 1788. However the two towers were not completed until 1816.

[[Amanda Tapping]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Actors from Essex, Actors from Toronto, Canadian television directors, Canadian television producers, Living people, Twin people from Canada

Amanda Tapping (born 28 August 1965) is an English-Canadian actress, producer and director. She is best known for portraying Samantha Carter in the TV series Stargate SG-1. She also played Helen Magnus in Sanctuary.

Tapping was born in Rochford, Essex and moved to Ontario at age three. 

[[Angered]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Angered is a locality in Gothenburg Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. It is located 12 kilometers north of the town of Gothenburg. In 2010, 950 people lived there.

[[Joely Richardson]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, English movie actors, English television actors, 1965 births, Living people

Joely Richardson (born 9 January 1965) is an English actress. She played Margrete in Shining Through. She also played Christine in I'll Do Anything. She is the younger daughter of actress Vanessa Redgrave.

She was born in London, England.

[[Landmark decision]]

CATEGORIES: United States Supreme Court cases, United States law

A Landmark decision, or Landmark court decision, establishes new precedents that establish a significant new legal principle or concept. Or it changes the interpretation of existing law. In Commonwealth countries, a reported decision is said to be a leading decision. This is when it has come to be generally regarded as settling the law of the question involved. 

A landmark decision is "a most important case which has establish a law firmly in an area, usually referring to a U.S. Supreme Court case." A landmark decision may have either long-term or short-term significance. Politics, economics or other changes in society may reduce the effects of a landmark decision. A landmark decision is one that changes an entire area of the law during a period of time.

The United States Constitution did not provide for judicial review of laws and court decisions. It was a power the US Supreme court assumed (took) for itself with its first landmark decision. In the decision Marbury v. Madison (1803) the court established its "power to say what the law is". The court gave itself the right to interpret the constitution.

[[Primer (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 science fiction movies, American science fiction movies, Award winning movies, Cult movies, English-language movies, Time travel movies, American independent movies

Primer is an American science fiction drama movie. It is about friends who accidentally discover a way to time travel. The movie was released in 2004.

Shane Carruth, who made the movie by himself, also plays the starring role, because he could not find anyone else to do it. Some of his family members and friends are also in it.  The only actor he hired was David Sullivan.

Primer has a confusing plot. The dialogue is difficult to understand.  Carruth decided not to make the language simpler for the audience. The movie won the Grand Jury Prize at the 2004 Sundance Film Festival. It then played in a small number of theatres in the United States. It is also available on DVD. It is now popular as a cult movie. People still talk and write about how to figure out the plot.

[[All Saints Church, Gothenburg]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Gothenburg

All Saints Church (Allhelgonakyrkan) a church building in Kortedala in Gothenburg in Sweden. It belongs to the Kortedala Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was opened on All Saints' Day, 3 November 1956.

[[All Saints Church, Lund]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

All Saints Church (Allhelgonakyrkan) is a church building in the town of Lund in Sweden. It belongs to the Lund All Saints Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened on Al Saints Day 1891. The church is located circa 600 meters north of the Lund Cathedral.

[[All Saints Church]]

The All Saints Church or All Saints' Church may refer to:

[[Church of Our Lady]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Gothenburg

The Church of Our Lady (Vårfrukyrkan) a church building in Kortedala in Gothenburg in Sweden. It earlier belonging to the Kortdeala Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was inaugurated on 19 March 1972. In 2007, the Church of Sweden stopped using it. In 2008 it was sold to the Serbian Orthodox Parish. 

[[Cecilia Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden

The Cecilia Church (Ceciliakyrkan) a church building in Vilhelmsro outside the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It was built between 1880-1881 as a church for the Vilhelmsro Nursing Home. It is named after Ebba Ramsay's youth friend Cecilia Willerding. The church was opened in 1903 by Diocese of Växjö bishop Herman Lindström. It later under supervision by the Vicar of Jönköping. It was renovated in 1963. It later came under the Jönköping County Council. It was then, was transferred to municipal public housing Vätterhem. Vätterhem would sporadical rent it out for worship services, including weddings.

In 2014 it was purchased by the Romanian Orthodox Church of Sweden.

[[Jönköping Pentecostal Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

The Jönköping Pentecostal Church (Jönköpings pingstkyrka) is a church building in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It belongs to the Swedish Pentecostal Movement. Che current church is located near the Western Square. It was inaugurated on 1 February 1981.

[[Sophie, Countess of Wessex]]

CATEGORIES: House of Windsor, People from Kent, People from Oxford, Princes and princesses, 1965 births, Living people

Sophie, Countess of Wessex (born Sophie Helen Rhys-Jones; born 20 January 1965) is the wife of Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex. She assists her husband in his royal duties. She married him in 1999.

Rhys-Jones was born at John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford,  She was daughter of  Christopher Rhys Jones and Mary,

She was raised in Brenchley, Kent, She married with Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex in 1999, They have two children, Lady Louise Windsor and James, Viscount Severn, They are lived in Bagshot Park in Surrey.

[[Jenő Buzánszky]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Hungarian football managers, Hungarian footballers

Jenő Buzánszky (4 May 1925 – 11 January 2015) was a Hungarian footballer and coach. Buzánszky played as a right back for Hungary. During the 1950s he was a member of the legendary Hungarian national team known as the Mighty Magyars. 

He was the only member of the team not to play for either Honvéd or MTK Hungária FC. After 274 league games he retired as a player and became a coach. In 1996 he became a deputy chairman of the Hungarian Football Federation.

[[Frans Bolweg]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in the Netherlands, Deaths from eye neoplasm, Sailors, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Frans Bolweg (30 March 1950 – 10 January 2015) was a Dutch sailor, scout, speaker, National Race Officer, and since 1995 International Judge. Bolweg was Amsterdam, Netherlands. Bolweg had a short career, in Clipper, Europe and Laser, as regatta sailor however developed himself into a race organizer.

Bolweg died of eye cancer in Monnickendam, Netherlands, aged 64.

[[Jack Kemp]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2009 deaths, Cancer deaths in Maryland, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Politicians from Los Angeles, California, Politicians from New York, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, Sportspeople from New York, United States representatives from New York, United States Secretaries of Housing and Urban Development, 1988 United States presidential candidates, US Republican Party politicians

Jack French Kemp (July 13, 1935spaced ndashMay 2, 2009) was an American politician and a collegiate and professional football player. A Republican, he served as Housing Secretary in the administration of President George H. W. Bush from 1989 to 1993.

Kemp was known for being a top adviser to President Ronald Reagan. He helped Reagan pass the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981. Some people say that he helped create the Reagan Revolution during the 1980s.

Kemp served nine terms as a congressman for Western New York's 31st congressional district from 1971 to 1989. He was the Republican Party's nominee for Vice President in the 1996 election, where he was the running mate of presidential nominee Bob Dole.

Kemp had previously contended for the presidential nomination in the 1988 Republican primaries.

Kemp died of cancer of unknown primary origin in Bethesda, Maryland, aged 73.

[[Chic Littlewood]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from London, English movie actors, English television actors, New Zealand movie actors, New Zealand television actors

Cecil "Chic" Littlewood (17 November 1930 – 11 January 2015) was a New Zealand television entertainer and actor. He appeared as a regular on Shortland Street in the role of Laurie Brasch from 1993 to 1996, and had occasional roles in such series as Mercy Peak. In 2007 he played Isaac Bulosan in the horror film 30 Days of Night, and had a small role as a security guard in Peter Jackson's remake of King Kong.

Littlewood was born in London. He moved to New Zealand in 1964. He died in Auckland on 11 January 2015 after a long illness, aged 84.

[[Harry V. Jaffa]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2015 deaths, American educators, American philosophers, Republicans (United States), Writers from New York City, Writers from California

Harry V. Jaffa (October 7, 1918 – January 10, 2015) was Professor Emeritus at Claremont McKenna College and Claremont Graduate University and a distinguished fellow of the Claremont Institute.  He has written on  Aristotle, Thomas Aquinas, Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson, Winston Churchill, Leo Strauss, American constitutionalism, and natural law. His most famous work, Crisis of the House Divided: An Interpretation of the Issues in the Lincoln-Douglas Debates, written in 1959, has been described as "the greatest Lincoln book ever."

[[Walter Berns]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2015 deaths, American philosophers, American educators, Writers from Chicago

Walter Berns (May 3, 1919 – January 10, 2015) was an American constitutional law and political philosophy professor. He was a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and a professor emeritus at Georgetown University. Berns was born and raised in Chicago, Illinois.

Berns died on January 10, 2015 at the age of 95.

[[Walter Kistler]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2015 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Swiss scientists, Swiss philanthropists, Swiss businesspeople, American physicists, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from California

Walter P. Kistler (1918 – November 5, 2015) was a Swiss-American physicist, inventor, and philanthropist. He was born in Biel, Switzerland.  Kistler is a life member of the Swiss Physical Society and a member of AIAA and ISA, which presented him the Life Achievement Award in 2000.

He held patents on more than 50 inventions in the scientific and industrial instrumentation fields, and has published a number of papers published in scientific and trade journals.

[[Searchlight, Nevada]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Nevada, Unincorporated communities in Nevada

Searchlight is a census-designated place (CDP) and unincorporated town in Clark County, Nevada, United States, at the topographic saddle between two mountain ranges. As of the 2010 census it had a population of 539.

[[Basil John Mason]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, British scientists, People from Norfolk

Sir Basil John Mason, CB, FRCP, FRCPEd, FRFPS, FRS (18 August 1923 – 6 January 2015), better known as John Mason, was an expert on cloud physics and former Director of the UK Meteorological Office.  He was born in Docking, Norfolk.

[[Cher (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Centre-Val de Loire

The Cher is a river in central France. It is a left tributary of the Loire River. It flows through several regions of France.

The Cher and Loir-et-Cher departments are named after this river.

[[Nine Months]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 comedy movies, 1995 romance movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American movie remakes, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in California, Pregnancy movies, Movies directed by Chris Columbus

Nine Months is a 1995 American romantic comedy movie based on French movie Neuf mois. The movie is about a child psychologist having a romance with a ballet teacher. Julianne Moore plays Rebecca Taylor. Hugh Grant plays Samuel Faulkner. Joan Cusack plays Gail Dwyer.

The movie was released in July 1995. It earned back USD$138 million. Critics did not like the movie.

[[Suge Knight]]

CATEGORIES: African American players of American football, American people convicted of assault, American record producers, Criminals from California, People from Compton, California, 1965 births, Living people

Marion Hugh "Suge" Knight, Jr. (born April 19, 1965) is the founder and chief executive officer of Black Kapital Records. He is the former CEO of Death Row Records. He worked with Tupac Shakur, Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg and other rappers on the Death Row Record label.

Knight was born in Compton, California.

Knight has been convicted of assault. He has been in prison for violating parole.

[[Jack Thompson (activist)]]

CATEGORIES: American lawyers, American activists, Businesspeople from Cleveland, Ohio, 1951 births, Living people

Jack Thompson (born July 25, 1951) is an American activist and former lawyer. He is known for being an activist against sex and violence in video games. He has also fought against rap music, mainly because of its obscenity.

In July 2008, Thompson was permanently disbarred, meaning his license to be a lawyer was taken away. That was done because of bad behavior and saying things that were not true to tribunals.

Thompson was born in Cleveland, Ohio.

[[Brooklyn Decker]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Models from Ohio, Actors from Ohio, Actors from Charlotte, North Carolina, 1987 births, Living people

Brooklyn Decker (born April 12, 1987) is an American fashion model and actress. She appeared on Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue in 2010. She played Samantha Shane in the 2012 movie Battleship.She also played the part of Sklyer in   What to Expect When You Are Expecting.

Decker was born in Kettering, Ohio.

[[Kaolinite]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals

Kaolinite or Kaolin is a clay mineral. It is in a group with the chemical composition Al2Si2O5(OH)4. It is a layered silicate mineral, with one tetrahedral sheet linked through oxygen atoms to one octahedral sheet of alumina. Rocks that are rich in kaolinite are known as kaolin or china clay.

The name is after Kao-Ling, a village near Jingdezhen, Jiangxi province, China. The name entered English in 1727 from the French kaolin, used in a Jesuit priest's reports from Jingdezhen. In Africa, kaolin is sometimes known as kalaba or calaba.

Kaolinite is a soft, earthy, usually white mineral (dioctahedral phyllosilicate clay). It is produced by the chemical weathering of aluminium silicate minerals like feldspar. In many parts of the world, it is colored pink-orange-red by iron oxide, giving it a distinct rust hue. Lighter concentrations yield white, yellow or light orange colors. Alternating layers are sometimes found, as at Providence Canyon State Park in Georgia, United States. Commercial grades of kaolin are supplied and transported as dry powder, semi-dry noodle or as liquid slurry.

Kaolinite is said to have a low shrink-swell capacity and a low cation-exchange capacity, which makes it ideal for various industrial applications.

[[Roman Catholic Diocese of Stockholm]]

CATEGORIES: Christianity in Sweden, Roman Catholicism, 1953 establishments in Europe, 1950s establishments in Sweden

The Roman Catholic Diocese of Stockholm (Dioecesis Holmiensis; Stockholms katolska stift) is a Roman Catholic ecclesiastical territory in Sweden. The seat is in Stockholm. The diocese is the only Roman Catholic one in Sweden since the Protestant Reformation back in the 16th century.

In current form, the diocese has been around since 1953.

[[Diocese of Stockholm]]

The Diocese of Stockholm may refer to:

[[Royal chapel]]

CATEGORIES: Churches, Monarchy

A royal chapel is a chapel that is used, or historical has been, by a monarch or royal court or royal family. A royal chapel is often located inside or near a royal palace.

[[Anna Stadling]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Anna Stadling born 11 July 1970 in Sundsvall, Sweden is a Swedish musical artist. She contributes with background vocals and plays the guitar in the band Hovet. She has also played with Staffan Hellstrand. Also she has worked together with Idde Schultz. Anna Stadling has scored successes at the Swedish charts.

[[Vuollerim]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Vuollerim is a locality in Jokkmokk Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 732 people lived there.

[[Pyrenean Shepherd]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture, Pyrenees

The Pyrenean Shepherd is a medium-small breed of dog. It comes from the South of France, in the Pyrenees Mountains. The Pyrenean Shepherd is a herding dog.  The breed in the northern part of the mountains, where the climate is colder, was originally long-haired and all white.  In the Basque area of Spain, the smaller breed of the dog was primarily used to protect the sheep from bear and wolf attacks.

[[Raw Footage]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Hip hop albums

Raw Footage is the eighth studio album by American rapper, Ice Cube. Raw Footage was released on 19 August 2008 through Lench Mob Records. The album featured the singles "Gangsta Rap Made Me Do It" and "Do Ya Thang".

The album debuted at #1 on both the Billboard Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums and the Top Rap Albums Charts. It also debuted at #5 on the Billboard 200.

[[Habo Pentecostal Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Habo

The Habo Pentecostal Church (Habo pingstkyrka) is a church building in the locality of Habo in Sweden. It belongs to the Swedish Pentecostal Movement. The church was inaugurated in 11–12 October 1969. In 1995 it was renovated.

[[Jessie James Decker]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, American pop singers, American singer-songwriters, Italian singers, People from Veneto, 1988 births, Living people

[[Pentecostal Church (disambiguation)]]

The Pentecostal Church may refer to:

[[Wolff–Parkinson–White syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Syndromes

Wolff–Parkinson–White syndrome is a condition involving the human heart. WPW is caused by the presence of an abnormal pathway between the atria and the ventricles. 

Sudden cardiac death in people with WPW is rare. Some people may experience low blood pressure with WPW.

[[Country pop]]

CATEGORIES: Country music, Pop music

Country pop is a sub-genre of country music and pop music. This music emerged in the 1970s. Country pop acts either cross over to adult contemporary or Top 40.

Examples of country pop musicians include Taylor Swift, Shania Twain, Jessica Simpson, The Band Perry and Crystal Gayle.

[[Nashville sound]]

CATEGORIES: Country music

Nashville sound is a sub-genre of country music. It emerged in the late 1950s. It replaced the dominance of honky-tonk (popular during the 1940s and 1950s).

Examples of Nashville sound include Eddy Arnold, Brenda Lee and Patsy Cline. 

[[Habo Mission Covenant Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Habo

The Habo Mission Covenant Church (Habo missionskyrka) is a church building in the locality of Habo in Sweden. It belongs to both the Uniting Church in Sweden and the Swedish Alliance Mission. The current church building was opened in March 1983.

[[Salem Church in Habo]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Habo

The Salem Church in Habo (Salemkyrkan i Habo) is a church building in the locality of Habo in Sweden. It belongs to the Evangelical Free Church in Sweden  the churrent church building was opened on 31 May 1991.

[[Sammi Smith]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, Singer-songwriters from California, People from Orange County, California, 1943 births, 2005 deaths

[[Smyrna Church Habo]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Habo, 1975 establishments in Europe, 1970s establishments in Sweden

The Smyrna Church Habo (Smyrnakyrkan Habo) is a church building in the locality of Habo in Sweden. It belongs the Evangelical Free Church in Sweden. It was inaugurated on First Advent Sunday 1975.

[[Furusjö Alliance Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden

The Furusjö Alliance Church (Furusjö allianskyrka) is a church building in the locality of Furusjö in Sweden. The church was opened on 28 November 1920. It belongs to the Swedish Alliance Mission.

[[Saint Sava Serbian Orthodox Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm

The Saint Sava Serbian Orthodox Church (Sankt Sava serbisk-ortodoxa kyrka) is a church building in Enskede gård in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. It was taken into use in 1991. However it was not officially inaugurated until 5 October 2014.

[[Kim Matula]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Texas, 1988 births, Living people

[[Jönköping Catholic Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Jönköping, Roman Catholic churches

The Jönköping Catholic Church (Jönköpings katolska kyrka) is a church building in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It belongs to the Swedish Roman Catholic Church. The church was opened on 30 November 1974.

[[Kungsporten Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Huskvarna

The Kungsporten Church (Kungsportskyrkan) is a church building in Öxnehaga in Huskvarna in Sweden. It belongs to the Evangelical Free Church in Sweden. The church was opened in November 2001.

[[Asecs]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges, Buildings and structures in Jönköping, Malls

Asecs, earlier A6 center, is a shopping mall in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. The shopping mall was opened on 2 April 1987. That was following the 1985 disestablishment of the Småland Artillery Regiment.

The shopping mall is located on both the northern and the southern side of the E4 motorway. These parts are connected with a covered bridge that spans across the motorway. Major parts of the shopping mall are located at this bridge. The bridge also houses McDonald’s restaurant. From that restaurant, the motorway can be seen.

The mall changed its name  spelling-wise to Asecs on 26 October 2017.

Asecs can also be reached by train. The closest stationen is at Rocksjön.

[[Nyköpingsbro]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments in Sweden, Swedish restaurants

Nyköpingsbro is a rest area with restaurants. It is located near the E4 motorway southwest of the town Nyköping in Sweden. The facility was opened in 1986. The facility is built as a covered bridge restaurant.

[[Gävlebro]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 establishments in Sweden, Swedish restaurants

Gävlebro is a rest area with a restaurant, located near the E4 motorway outside Gävle in Sweden. It was opened in 1987. The facility is built as a covered bridge restaurant.

[[Platy]]

CATEGORIES: Aquarium fish

The platy fish is a small tropical fish that is found naturally in the warm waters of America. Today, platys are very popular as pets.

Platys are small fish. They grow to 2.5 centimeters. Their come from America. They live there in creeks, canals, ditches and swamps. These habitats have lots of plants, stones and branches to hide in. Platys like a tank with live plants on the sides and back. They hide in the plants. They also eat them. Their tank should have good lighting and lots of open area in the center for swimming.

[[Ansgar's Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

The Ansgar's Church (Ansgariikyrkan) was a church building in Vättersnäs in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It belonged to the Uniting Church in Sweden.

It was inaugurated on 17 October 1965. The church was destroyed by a fire on 3 August 2021.

According to a police report published on 12 August the same year a lightning strike cause the fire.

[[Umeå Pentecostal Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Umeå

The Umeå Pentecostal Church (Umeå pingstkyrka) is a church building in Umeå, Sweden. It belongs to the Swedish Pentecostal Movement. It is located in the eastern parts of town. The church was earlier known as the Philadelphia Church (Filadelfiakyrkan). The church hosted the broadcastings of Swedish TV programme Hela kyrkan sjunger.

[[Brian Clemens]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, English movie producers, English screenwriters, English television producers, English television writers, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Writers from Surrey

Brian Horace Clemens OBE (30 July 1931 – 10 January 2015) was an English screenwriter and television producer,. He was best known for his work on the television shows The Avengers and The Professionals. He also wrote and producer the movie Dr. Jekyll and Sister Hyde (1971).

Clemens was born in Croydon, Surrey. He was related to the American writer Mark Twain (1835–1910). He was married and had two sons.

Clemens died on 10 January 2015 at the age of 83.

[[Elena Obraztsova]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, Russian opera singers, People from Saint Petersburg, Russian singers, Sopranos

Elena Vasiliyevna Obraztsova (Елена Васильевна Образцова; 7 July 1939 – 12 January 2015) was a Russian mezzo-soprano. She said by some to be one of the greatest opera singers of all time because of her large stage presence and vocal talent. She won around fifteen award in her career.

Obraztsova was born in Leningrad (now Saint Petersburg). She also lived there during the siege in World War II from August 1941 until January 1943.

Obraztsova died on 12 January 2015 while having medical treatment in Leipzig, Saxony, Germany, aged 75.

[[Chevrolet Aveo]]

CATEGORIES: Chevrolet automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The North American Chevrolet Aveo was a subcompact car sold by General Motors (GM) since 2002 to 2011. It was first made by GM Korea (formerly GMDAT). Now it is made by GM in many places, except North America. The North American Aveo was replaced by the Chevrolet Sonic in 2011.

[[Elemér Hankiss]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Hungary, Hungarian educators, Hungarian people, Philosophers, Sociologists

Elemér Hankiss (4 May 1928 – 10 January 2015) was a Hungarian sociologist. He taught at universities such as Stanford University and Central European University. He also wrote over ten books. From 1990 until 1993, he was the President of Hungarian Television.

Hankiss was born in Debrecen. His father was literature professor. He studied the English and French languages at Eötvös Loránd University. His first wife was politician Ágnes Hankiss. He had two children.

Hankiss died after a short illness on 10 January 2015 in Budapest. He was 86.

[[Carl Long (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2015 deaths, African-American baseball players, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from stroke, Sportspeople from North Carolina, Sportspeople from South Carolina

Carl Long (May 9, 1935 – January 12, 2015) was an American baseball outfielder. He was a Negro league and minor league baseball player. He played from 1952 until 1957 for teams such as: the Birmingham Black Baron, the Philadelphia Stars, St. Jean Canadians, Billings Mustangs, Phoenix Stars, Kinston Eagles, Beaumont Pirates, and Mexico City Tigers.

Long was born in Rock Hill, South Carolina. He grew up in Kinston, North Carolina.

Long died on January 12, 2015 after having many strokes in November 2014. He was 79.

[[Doriemus]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2015 deaths, Thoroughbred racehorses

Doriemus (17 November 1990 – 11 January 2015) was a Thoroughbred racehorse. He began his career in New Zealand and became famous Australia by winning the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups in 1995. He became just the ninth horse to win both cups.

Doriemus was euthanised due to a hoof infection after a paddock accident on 11 January 2015. He was 24.

[[Mark Juddery]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s births, 2015 deaths, Australian journalists, Cancer deaths in Australia, Columnists, People from Canberra

Stanford Mark Juddery (c. 1971 – 13 January 2015) was an Australian freelance journalist, author, and columnist. His work has appeared in such newspapers as The Canberra Times, The Australian, and The Sydney Morning Herald. He also worked for magazines including The Bulletin, Empire, Inside Sport, Mad Magazine and Griffith Review. He also wrote the book Best. Times. Ever. (2014).

Juddery died from cancer on 13 January 2015 in Canberraat age 43.

[[Keith Wright (Australian politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, Australian criminals, Australian educators, Australian Labor Party politicians, Australian prisoners, Independent politicians in Australia, People convicted of assault, Politicians from Queensland, Rapists, Writers from Queensland

Keith Webb Wright (9 January 1942 – 13 January 2015) was an Australian politician, educator, and convicted child rapist. He was first a Labor politician before becoming independent. He served as the Leader of the Opposition of Queensland from 20 October 1982 until 29 August 1984. He was also an MP for Capricornia from 1 December 1984 until 13 March 1993. From December 1993, he served an eight year jail sentence for child rape.

Wright was born in Toowoomba, Queensland. He was educated at the University of Queensland and Kelvin Grove Teachers College in Brisbane before becoming a teacher and author. After serving his prison sentence, he lived in Vietnam and worked at a language academy.

Wright died on 13 January 2015 in Vietnam, aged 72.

[[John Snow]]

CATEGORIES: 1813 births, 1858 deaths, English physicians, Water pollution, Cholera pandemics, Water infrastructure, London

John Snow (15 March 1813 – 16 June 1858) was an English physician. He used anaesthesia and medical hygiene. He is a founder of modern epidemiology because he traced the source of a cholera outbreak in Soho, London, in 1854. His findings caused changes in the water and sewage systems of London. This led to similar changes in other cities, and a great improvement in general public health around the world.

In 1837 Snow began working at the Westminster Hospital. Admitted as a member of the Royal College of Surgeons of England on 2 May 1838, he graduated from the University of London in December 1844 and was admitted to the Royal College of Physicians in 1850.

[[Stealing Harvard]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 comedy movies, 2002 crime movies, 2000s criminal comedy movies, American criminal comedy movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Massachusetts

Stealing Harvard is a 2002 American criminal comedy movie. It was directed by Bruce McCulloch and was produced by Susan Cavan. Stealing Harvard was released on September 13, 2002.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 9% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. At the 2002 Golden Raspberry Awards, Tom Green was nominated for Worst Supporting Actor but lost to Hayden Christensen for his portrayal of Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones.

[[Just Married]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 comedy movies, 2003 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American romantic comedy movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, French-language movies, German-language movies, Italian-language movies, Movies set in Venice, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies set in the 1990s, Movies directed by Shawn Levy

Just Married is a 2003 American romantic comedy movie. It was directed by Shawn Levy and was produced by Robert Simonds and Lauren Shuler Donner. Just Married was released on January 10, 2003.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 19% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. At the 2004 Golden Raspberry Awards, Ashton Kutcher was nominated for Worst Actor, Brittany Murphy was nominated for Worst Supporting Actress and both Kutcher and Murphy were nominated for Worst Screen Couple. They did not win any of the awards they were nominated for.

[[Thor-Erics]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 establishments in Europe, 1999 disestablishments in Europe, Dansbands, Swedish musical groups, Musical groups established in 1963, 1960s establishments in Sweden, Musical groups disestablished in 1999, 1990s disestablishments in Sweden

Thor-Erics was a dansband in Hyssna in Sweden. The band was established in 1963. On 27 December 1999, the band performed for last time. The band appeared at TV in Sweden and Norway several times. Nick Borgen performed with the band by the late 1970s and early 1980s.

[[Curt Görans]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, Swedish musical groups

Curt Görans was a dansband from Eskilstuna in Sweden. The band scored Svensktoppen chart succcesses during the mid 1970s.

[[Small Town Singers]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 1967, Swedish musical groups

Small Town Singers is a musical group in Söderköping in Sweden. The group was established in 1967. They several sevral Svensktoppen successes during the mid-late 1970s and early 1980s. Sometimes, they still appear for sporadical performances.

[[Lina Sandell]]

CATEGORIES: 1832 births, 1903 deaths, Swedish musicians

Lina Sandell (full name: Karolina Wilhelmina Sandell-Berg), (born 3 October 1832 in Fröderyd, Sweden, dead 27 July 1903 in Stockholm, Sweden) was a Swedish writer of Christian songs.  She was the daughter of a Lutheran minister. She grew up in the rectory at Fröderyd. When she was 26 years old  she went with her father, Jonas Sandell, on a boat trip across lake of Vättern. Her father fell overboard and drowned in her presence. This incident inspired many of her songs.

She wrote famous songs like Tryggare kan ingen vara and Blott en dag. She was buried at the Solna Church.

[[Little Black Book]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 romance movies, 2004 comedy-drama movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New Jersey

Little Black Book is a 2004 American satirical comedy movie. It was directed by Nick Hurran and was produced by Elaine Goldsmith-Thomas, Deborah Schindler, William Sherak, and Jason Shuman. Little Black Book was released on August 6, 2004.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 21% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Scott Brown of Entertainment Weekly rated the movie a D and said "The big climax isn't climactic, just hysterical and incoherent. Murphy, with her bug-eyed, love-me mugging, is simply too slight and gawky to play the Everygirl."

[[Knut's party]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas, Swedish culture

A Knut's party or Knut's dance (Julgransplundring, literally: "Christmas tree pludering") is a tradition in Sweden on St. Knut's Day (13 January). It means the end of the Christmas and holiday season. The Christmas and holiday season has then spanned across Advent Sunday, Saint Lucy's Day, Christmas, New Year and Epiphany. In private homes, especially children often have a party. They dance around the Christmas tree and smash the gingerbread house into pieces. The Christmas decorations are then put aside. Such parties are even common at schools, Kindergartens, churches and other associations. In many towns the public Christmas tree is taken out of usage for the bypassed Christmas by holding an outdoor Knut's dance. The tradition originates from the Nordic region. It has changed very little since the 1870s.

[[Without a Paddle]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 comedy movies, American comedy movies, New Zealand movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Oregon, Paramount movies

Without a Paddle is a 2004 American comedy movie. It was directed by Steven Brill and was produced by Donald DeLine. Without a Paddle was released on 10 January 2003. The movie is about three childhood friends who reunite and go on a trip to a river to search for the treasure of a lost airplane hijacker. A spinoff was released direct-to-video on 13 January 2009 titled Without a Paddle: Nature's Calling.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 14% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

[[Landvetter]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Landvetter is a locality in Härryda Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 7,152 people lived there. The Göteborg Landvetter Airport is located near the locality. The airport is even named after the locality.

[[Immanuel Church, Norrköping]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Norrköping

The Immanuel Church (Immanuelskyrkan) is a church building in Norrköping, Sweden. It was built by the Immanuel Church Congregation in 1956. Since 2020 it is owned by the two congregations Baptistförsamlingen Saron-Korskyrkan (part of Evangelical Free Church in Sweden) and Norrköping Vineyard (part of Vineyard Nordic). The Immanuel Church Congregation is still active in it.

The Immanuel Church Congregation (Immanuelskyrkans församling) belongs to the Uniting Church in Sweden. It earlier belonged to the Mission Covenant Church of Sweden. It previously had a church building opened on 28 December 1884.

[[Cotton Club]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in New York (state), 1940 disestablishments, Entertainment in New York City, Entertainment venues, 1940s disestablishments in the United States, 20th-century disestablishments in New York (state)

The Cotton Club was a New York City night club in the 1920s and 30s.It was first in the Harlem neighborhood on 142nd St & Lenox Ave from 1923 to 1935. Then for a brief period from 1936 to 1940 it was in the midtown Theater District. The club was a big success in America's Prohibition Era.

The club had a whites-only policy for customers, but featured many of the best black entertainers  and jazz musicians of the era. Stars included (musicians) Cab Calloway, Andrew Preer, Fletcher Henderson, Duke Ellington, Jimmie Lunceford, Louis Armstrong, Count Basie, Fats Waller - (vocalists) Adelaide Hall, Lottie Gee, Ethel Waters, Avon Long, Aida Ward, Edith Wilson, the Dandridge Sisters, Avis Andrews, Will Vodery Choir, Berry Brothers, Nina Mae McKinney, Billie Holiday, Lena Horne and (dancers) Bill Robinson, The Nicholas Brothers, Stepin Fetchit, Butterbeans and Suzy, Earl Snakehips Tucker and Evelyn Welch.

During its heyday, the Cotton Club served as a hip meeting spot featuring regular "Celebrity Nights" on Sundays, which featured celebrity guests such as Jimmy Durante, George Gershwin, Sophie Tucker, Paul Robeson, Al Jolson, Mae West, Richard Rodgers, Irving Berlin, Eddie Cantor, Fanny Brice, Langston Hughes, Judy Garland, Moss Hart and Mayor Jimmy Walker among others.

The club was set up by world boxing champion Jack Johnson, but taken over by the Yorkshire-born gangster Owney Madden in 1923. Johnson stayed on as manager.

[[Israel Kolmodin]]

CATEGORIES: 1643 births, 1709 deaths, Swedish clergy, Lutherans, Priests

Israel Kolmodin, born 24 December 1643, dead 19 April 1709, was a Swedish hymnwriter and Lutheran priest. He was active within the Church of Sweden. He is usually credited for having written the song Den blomstertid nu kommer.

[[Sigrid Sköldberg-Pettersson]]

CATEGORIES: 1870 births, 1941 deaths, Musicians from Stockholm

Sigrid Sköldberg-Pettersson, born 7 October 1870 in Stockholm, Sweden, dead 15 October 1941 in Oscar Parish, Stockholm, Sweden was a Swedish song lyricist. She has written many children's songs. One of her most famous works is the lyrics for the Christmas song Raska fötter springa tripp, tripp, tripp ("Liten julvisa"). The music music was composed by Emmy Köhler.

[[Emmy Köhler]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 births, 1925 deaths, Musicians from Stockholm, Writers from Stockholm

Emmy Köhler, born 22 May 1858 in Stockholm, Sweden, died 2 February 1925 in Fresta, Sweden was a Swedish hymnwriter and writer. Among her more famous works is the Christmas carol Nu tändas tusen juleljus and the music for the children's Christmas song Raska fötter springa tripp, tripp, tripp ("Liten julvisa"). The lyrics of the later mentioned song were written by Sigrid Sköldberg-Pettersson.

[[Anna-Lisa Frykman]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1960 deaths, Musicians from Stockholm

Anna-Lisa Frykman born Anna Elisabet Frykman on 4 January 1889 in Stockholm, Sweden, dead 14 June 1960 in Stockholm, Sweden was a Swedish composer, song lyricist and teacher. One of her most famous works is the children's song Kungens lilla piga. She also wrote the Christmas song Julpolskan. She was also active under the pseudonym "Eolus".

[[Kristdala]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Kristdala is a locality in Oskarshamn Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 945 people lived there.

[[Curly Sue]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 comedy-drama movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Chicago, Illinois, Warner Bros. movies

Curly Sue is a 1991 American romantic comedy-drama movie. It is about a homeless man and his daughter who move from Detroit to Chicago. Alisan Porter plays Curly Sue. Kelly Lynch plays Grey. The movie received negative reviews from critics.

[[Jorgelina Aranda]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, Argentine movie actors, Argentine models, Argentine singers, Deaths from cancer, Actors from Buenos Aires

Jorgelina Julia Aranda (19 August 1942 – 10 January 2015) was an Argentine actress, model and singer. She was known for her role in Il Gaucho. Aranda was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Aranda died of cancer in Buenos Aries, aged 72.

[[Hara Patnaik]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in India, Indian movie actors, Indian movie directors

Hara Pattanaik (ହର ପଟ୍ଟନାୟକ, 12 October 1958 – 13 January 2015) was an Indian movie actor, director and screenplay writer. He has acted over 60 Oriya movies and directed about 19 others. Patnaik was known for his roles in Sathire (2004), Ganga Jamuna (1997) and Nari Bi Pindhipare Rakta Sindura (1997). 

Parranaik died on 13 January 2015 of cancer.

[[Michelle Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: English television actors, English movie actors, Actors from London, 1984 births, Living people

Michelle Ryan (born 22 April 1984) is an English actress. She played Zoe Slater on the BBC soap opera EastEnders.

She also played Lady Christina de Souza in 2009 on Doctor Who.

She was born in Enfield, Greater London.

[[The Buffalo Club]]

CATEGORIES: Country bands, Musical groups established in 1997, Musical groups disestablished in 1997

The Buffalo Club is an American country music group formed in 1997.

[[James B. Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, US Democratic Party politicians, Politicians from San Antonio, Texas

James Blackburn Adams (December 21, 1926 – April 25, 2020) was an American attorney and politician. He served as an acting director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation from February 15, 1978 through February 23, 1978.  He was born in Corsicana, Texas.

Adams died on April 25, 2020 in Kerrville, Texas of a suspected heart attack, aged 93.

[[Whiplash (2014 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 drama movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies about educators, Movies set in schools, American independent movies

Whiplash is a 2014 American drama movie about a jazz student and his teacher in New York City. It was written and directed by Damien Chazelle, and starring Miles Teller, J. K. Simmons and Paul Reiser. Filming of the movie took less than a month. It received positive reviews.

[[Freejack]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s science fiction movies, 1992 movies, Movies directed by Geoff Murphy, American science fiction movies, Post-apocalyptic movies, Dystopian movies

Freejack is a 1992 science fiction and action movie directed by Geoff Murphy. This movie is set in the year 2009. It is about very wealthy people becoming immortal. Rene Russo plays Julie. Mick Jagger plays Victor. Emilio Estevez plays Alex.

The movie got very bad reviews from movie critics.

[[Florence Chadwick]]

CATEGORIES: American swimmers, 1918 births, 1995 deaths, Sportspeople from San Diego, California

Florence May Chadwick (November 9, 1918 – March 15, 1995) was an American swimmer. She was known for long-distance swimming. At age 10 she was the first child to swim the Catalina Channel. Chadwick was the first woman to swim the English Channel in both directions. She set a time record each time. She was the first woman to swim the Straits of Gibraltar, the Bosporus (one way), and the Dardanelles (round trip).

[[Asa Hutchinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American Baptists, Bob Jones University alumni, Governors of Arkansas, United States representatives from Arkansas, US Republican Party politicians

Asa Hutchinson (born December 3, 1950) is an American politician. On January 13, 2015, he became the 46th Governor of Arkansas and was elected again on 11 November 2018. He is a Republican. He was the administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Hutchinson was born in Bentonville, Arkansas. He is a descendant of Alexander Simpson Hutchinson, a government official and slave owner in South Carolina and Arkansas. He lives there with his wife, Susan Burrell Hutchinson. He has four children.

[[United States Attorney]]

CATEGORIES: United States law, Law occupations

United States Attorneys, aka federal prosecutors or as United States District Attorneys, represent the United States federal government. They do this in U.S. district courts and U.S. courts of appeals. There are 93 U.S. Attorneys in United States, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam.

U.S. Attorneys and their offices are a part of United States Department of Justice.

The Office of the United States Attorney was created by Judiciary Act of 1789.

[[Regency era]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s in the United Kingdom, 1820s in the United Kingdom

The Regency era was nine years from 1811 to 1820 in Great Britain. It was the time when the future George IV of the United Kingdom was Prince Regent during the long illness of his father, George III. George IV was crowned after George III's death in 1820. The Regency era was notable for its excesses, its political uncertainty, and its style. Beau Brummell, Lord Byron and the architect John Nash were important people.

The final defeat of Napoleon happened during this era. A rapid growth in population led to the growth of criminal slums in cities like London. It was a great time for architecture.

[[J. P. Parisé]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2015 deaths, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Cancer deaths in Minnesota, Cleveland Barons (NHL) players, Deaths from lung cancer, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Minnesota North Stars players, New York Islanders players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Ontario Hockey League players

Jean-Paul Joseph-Louis Parisé (December 11, 1941 – January 7, 2015) was a Canadian ice hockey coach and left winger. He played 17 years in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Boston Bruins, Minnesota North Stars, Toronto Maple Leafs, New York Islanders, and the Cleveland Barons. His son Zach currently plays for the Minnesota Wild.

[[Frederik H. Kreuger]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Dutch academics, Dutch scientists, Dutch inventors, Novelists, Writers from Amsterdam

Frederik Hendrik Kreuger (14 May 1928 – 10 January 2015) was a Dutch high voltage scientist, writer, and inventor. He was a professor at the Delft University of Technology in Delft. He wrote about technical literature, nonfiction books, and thrillers. He also wrote a biography of the master forger Han van Meegeren.

Kreuger was born in Amsterdam, North Holland. He went to the Delft University of Technology.

On 10 January 2015, NRC Handelsblad announced Kreuger died in Delft, aged 86.

[[Statutory rape]]

CATEGORIES: Crime, Law

The term statutory rape means sexual activity with a minor that is not forced. It usually refers to when adults engage in sex with someone below the age of consent. In 95% of cases, the victim is female. Very few jurisdictions actually use the term statutory rape. They use terms like unlawful sex with a minor or unlawful carnal knowledge.

[[Minor (law)]]

CATEGORIES: Law

A minor is a person under age of majority, drinking age, voting age or age of consent. They are also called underage. The age of majority depends on jurisdiction, though it is usually 18. Minor may be also used for other reasons. 

For example, in most of the United States, it is against the law for anyone 20 and under to drink or have alcoholic beverages, such as beer.

In Australia, Ireland and United Kingdom, the drinking age is 18. 

In Japan, Taiwan and Thailand, anyone under age 20 is a minor unless emancipated. 

[[YWCA-YMCA of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 establishments in Sweden, Christianity in Sweden, Stockholm

YWCA-YMCA of Sweden (KFUK-KFUM Sverige) is the Sweden-branch of YMCA and YWCA. It was established in 1966 when YMCA of Sweden and YWCA of Sweden merged.

In 2011 the organization decided to use the term "KFUM" in promotion with "M" standing for "människor" ("people"). Earlier the "m" stood for "män" (men)

YWCA-YMCA of Sweden has 60 000 members. It has 4 000 local associations.

Several Swedish YWCA-YMCA associations have been successful in sports.

[[SummerSlam (2006)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in American television, 2006 in professional wrestling, Sports in Boston, Massachusetts, SummerSlam, 2006 in the United States, 2000s in Boston, Massachusetts

SummerSlam (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on August 20, 2006 at TD Banknorth Garden in Boston, Massachusetts. It was the nineteenth SummerSlam event held by the WWE. This was the first inter-branded pay-per-view that featured the ECW brand.

The main match for the Raw brand saw Edge defeat John Cena and successfully defend his WWE Championship. Edge defeated Cena by pinfall after he hit Cena in the back of the head with a pair of brass knuckles. The main match for the SmackDown! brand was a match between Batista and King Booker for the World Heavyweight Championship. Batista won the match by disqualification after Queen Sharmell interfered in the match. Since Batista won by disqualification, he did not win the championship. The main match for the ECW brand saw The Big Show defeat Sabu in an Extreme rules match for the ECW World Championship. Big Show won the match by pinfall and retained the title after he chokeslammed Sabu through a table.

[[Sons of the Desert]]

CATEGORIES: Country bands

Sons of the Desert was an American country music band founded in 1989 in Waco, Texas. It was started by brothers Drew Womack (lead vocals, rhythm guitar) and Tim Womack (lead guitar, background vocals). They were joined by Scott Saunders (keyboards), Doug Virden (bass guitar, background vocals) and Brian Westrum (drums). The band released Whatever Comes First for Epic Records Nashville in 1997. They recorded a second album for Epic which was not released. Change followed in 2000. Counting two singles from the unreleased album, Sons of the Desert charted eight times on the Billboard Hot Country Songs charts, including the top ten hit "Whatever Comes First".

[[William R. Cosentini]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1954 deaths, Engineers from New York, Businesspeople from New York City, Disease-related deaths in New York City, Deaths from appendicitis

William Randolph Cosentini (June 12, 1911 - January 28, 1954) was an American mechanical engineer and businessman. He founded Cosentini Associates.

[[Genevieve]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, 5th century births, 6th century deaths, French Roman Catholics

Saint Genevieve is a saint in Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox tradition. She is the patron saint of Paris. Her feast day is kept on January the 3rd.

In 451 she led a "prayer marathon" in Paris that was said to divert Attila's Huns away from the city. In 464 Childeric I besieged the city and conquered it. She negotiated to collect food and convinced Childeric to release his prisoners.

Clovis I founded an abbey where Genevieve could minister. She was later buried there. The church witnessed numerous miracles at her tomb. Genevieve was canonised.

[[Arthur E. Chase]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Businesspeople from Massachusetts, Politicians from Massachusetts, US Republican Party politicians

Arthur E. Chase (February 4, 1930 – January 5, 2015) was an American businessman and politician. He represented the Worcester District in the Massachusetts Senate from 1991–1995.  He co-founded the Central Massachusetts Legislative Caucus. In 1991 he designed the Massachusetts Academy of Math and Science at WPI and in 1992 sponsored legislation to create it. He was the Republican nominee for Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 1994, but lost in the general election to William F. Galvin.

[[Slobodan Martinović]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2015 deaths, Serbian sportspeople, Chess grandmasters

Slobodan Martinovic (25 July 1945 – 10 January 2015) was a Serbian chess Grandmaster. He began in 1963, and played until his death in 2015.

Martinović played 269 master games that were tracked by FIDE. Of them, 83 (31%) he won, 157 (58%) were draws, and 29 (11%) he lost.

[[Jack Hayward]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, English businesspeople, Members of the Order of the British Empire, People from Wolverhampton, English philanthropists

Sir Jack Arnold Hayward OBE (14 June 1923 – 13 January 2015) was an English businessman, property developer, and philanthropist. He was the president of football club Wolverhampton Wanderers from 1990 until 2007.

Hayward was born in Wolverhampton. He married Jean Mary Forder in 1948 and had two sons, Rick and Jonathan, and a daughter Susan.

Hayward died on 13 January 2015 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, United States. He was 91.

[[Double Dare (1976 game show)]]

CATEGORIES: Viacom, Television game shows

Double Dare is an American television game show. It was produced by Mark Goodson—Bill Todman Productions and ran from 1976 to 1977 on CBS. Alex Trebek was the host. Johnny Olson and later Gene Wood were the announcers.

[[Zhang Wannian]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Chinese communist politicians, Chinese generals

Zhang Wannian (张万年; August 1928 – January 14, 2015) was a Chinese general. He was born in Longkou, Shandong, China. 

He was a deputy to CPC's 9th National Congress, and an alternative member of 12th and 13th CPC's central committee. He became an alternate member of the 12th and 13th and a member of the 14th and 15th CPC's Central Committees, and a Politburo member and Secretary of the Secretariat in 15th central committee.

He was promoted to lieutenant general in September 1988, and to general in June 1993. He retired in 2003.

Wannain died in Beijing, China, aged 86.

[[Robert White (ambassador)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Deaths from bladder cancer, Ambassadors of the United States, American military people, Politicians from Massachusetts

Robert E. White (September 21, 1926 – January 13, 2015) was an American career diplomat. He served as U.S. Ambassador to Paraguay from 1977 until 1980 and to El Salvador from 1980 until 1981. He later became president of the Center for International Policy.

White was born in Melrose, Massachusetts. He served in the U.S. Navy from 1944 to 1946. He was married to Mary-Anne White and had five grown children.

White died on January 13, 2015 in Arlington, Virginia from prostate and bladder cancer, aged 88.

[[Birdman (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning movies, 2014 comedy-drama movies, 2010s black comedy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American black comedy movies, Movies set in New York City, Movies directed by Alejandro González Iñárritu

Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance) is a 2014 black comedy-drama movie directed, produced, and written by Alejandro González Iñárritu. It stars Michael Keaton, Zach Galifianakis, Edward Norton, Emma Stone, Amy Ryan, Andrea Riseborough, Lindsay Duncan, and Naomi Watts. It was released for a limited time on October 17, 2014. It received very positive reviews. The movie won the Academy Award for Best Picture, along with Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, and Best Cinematography from a total of nine nominations, tying it with The Grand Budapest Hotel for the most nominated and awarded movie at the Academy's 87th annual awards ceremony with four wins per movie.

[[Bob Boyd (basketball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Disease-related deaths in California, Sportspeople from California

William Robert "Bob" Boyd (June 7, 1930 - January 14, 2015) was an American former collegiate man's basketball coach. He was head coach at Seattle University, the University of Southern California (USC) and Mississippi State University.

Boyd died of natural causes in Palm Desert, California, aged 84.

[[Johannes de Villiers Graaff]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Afrikaner people, Economists, People from Cape Town, South African scientists, South African writers

Johannes de Villiers Graaff (also known as Jan de Van Graaff or Jannie Graaff; 19 February 1928 – 6 January 2015) was a South African neoclassical welfare economist. He was a former chairman of Nedbank.  Graaff was known for his work on optimal savings rates and contributions to the creation of the social welfare function.

Graaff graduated from the University of Cape Town and then went on to complete his PhD in economics at St John's College, Cambridge in 1950.

On 30 June 1951, he married Lillian Clare Thomson, daughter of Sir George Paget Thomson. They had six children.

He was the youngest son of Sir David Graaff, 1st Baronet. His eldest brother is Sir De Villiers Graaff, 2nd Baronet.

Graaff was one of South Africa's most active and accomplished mountaineers, pioneering mountain climbing routes in East Africa and the Himalayas.

He died on the 6 January 2015 in Kenilworth, Cape Town, aged 86.

[[Spire]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements

A spire is a tapering conical or pyramidal structure on the top of a building, particularly a church tower. Etymologically, the word comes from the Old English word spir, meaning a sprout, shoot, or stalk of grass.

Symbolically, spires have two effects. One is to show strength and power. A spire, with its spear point, gives the impression of strength. The other is to reach up toward the skies as a religious gesture. This is one reason for its association with religious buildings, and a similar reason has been given for the large pyramids in Egypt and early American civilisations. However, the tallest spires today are secular places of business or hotels, such as The Shard.

As an architectural ornament, spires are most often found on Christian churches.

[[Trevor Colbourn]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Australian academics, Australian Christians, Episcopalians, People from New South Wales

Harold Trevor Colbourn (24 February 1927 – 13 January 2015) was an Australian professor and academic administrator. He was the second President of the University of Central Florida (formerly named Florida Technological University) from 1978 until 1989.

Colbourn was born in Armidale, New South Wales. He was an Episcopalian. He married Beryl Evans in 1949, and had two daughters.

Colbourn died on 13 January 2015 in Winter Park, Florida, United States, aged 87.

[[Regnal year]]

CATEGORIES: History of Asia, Monarchy

A regnal year is a year of the reign of a monarch. It is from the Latin regnum meaning kingdom or rule. Some of the oldest dating systems were in regnal years. A regnal year usually begins on the date of a monarch's accession to the throne. Year one is counted from day one to the end of the first year of a monarch's reign. Then a second year of rule, a third, and so on. They would not have a zero year of rule. It is displayed as an ordinal, not a cardinal number.

[[Bettino Craxi]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2000 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Former MEPs, MEPs for Italy, People from Milan, Politicians from Lombardy, Prime Ministers of Italy, Socialist politicians, Italian Roman Catholics, Presidents of the European Council

Benedetto "Bettino" Craxi (betˈtiːno ˈkraksi; 24 February 1934 – 19 January 2000) was an Italian politician. He was Prime Minister of Italy from 1983 to 1987.

[[Rame Peninsula]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Cornwall

The Rame Peninsula ˈ is a peninsula in southeast Cornwall, England, in the United Kingdom. The peninsula is surrounded by the English Channel to the south. Plymouth Sound is to the east. The estuary of the River Lynher lies to the north.  The largest settlement is Torpoint. It is on the eastern coast, facing Devonport in Plymouth, Devon.

The peninsula is named after Rame Head, to the south of the peninsula. The peninsula also includes the village and parish of Rame. The whole area of the peninsula is designated an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty.

[[Kestrel]]

CATEGORIES: Falconiformes

The name kestrel is given to several different members of the falcon genus, Falco. Kestrels hover about 10 over open country, and swoop down on prey, usually small mammals, lizards or large insects. Other falcons are more adapted to active hunting on the wing. In addition, kestrels have much brown in their plumage.

Kestrels can fly in stationary air, even indoors in barns. While hovering they face towards any slight headwind. This leads to the common kestrel being called a "windhover" in some areas.

Unusually for falcons, plumage often differs between male and female, although as usual with monogamous raptors the female is slightly larger than the male. This allows a pair to eat slightly different prey on their home range. Kestrels are bold, and have adapted well to humans. They nest in buildings and hunt by main roads. Kestrels do not build their own nests, but use nests built by other birds.

Most kestrels form a distinct clade among the falcons, as suggested by comparison of mtDNA cytochrome b sequence data  and morphology. This clade diverged from other Falco around the Miocene to Pliocene about 7–3.5 million years ago (mya). The most basal "true" kestrels are three species from Africa and its surroundings.

About 2.5–2 mya, the main lineage of true kestrels emerged. This too seems to have evolved in Africa and subsequently spread across the Old World until they reached Australia some time during the Middle Pleistocene, less than one million years ago. This group contains several taxa found on Indian Ocean islands. A group of three mainly grey species from Africa and Madagascar are usually considered kestrels by their general shape and habits, but are probably distinct from the true kestrels discussed above.

There is only one kestrel in the Americas, with a wide range of habitats. It is Falco sparverius. The male is more brightly coloured than usual for kestrels, with a reddish back and tail.

[[Cytochrome]]

CATEGORIES: Iron compounds, Organometallic chemistry

Cytochromes are haemoproteins (or proteins containing haem groups). They make ATP by electron transport.

They are found either as single (monomeric) proteins (e.g., cytochrome c) or as part of bigger enzyme complexes which catalyze redox reactions.

The haem group does the redox reactions. These include all chemical reactions in which atoms have their oxidation state changed. In general, redox reactions involve the transfer of electrons.

[[Rosemary's Baby]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 drama movies, 1960s horror movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in New York City, Movies directed by Roman Polanski

Rosemary's Baby is a 1968 American horror movie directed by Roman Polanski. It is set in New York City. It is based on the novel of the same name. This movie is about a young housewife who has a baby. The baby turns out to be a child of the Devil. Mia Farrow plays Rosemary. Ruth Gordon plays Minnie.

The movie was well received by critics upon its release.

[[Enver Hoxha]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1985 deaths, Communist politicians, Former dictators, Prime Ministers of Albania, World War II people

Enver Halil Hoxha (ɛnˈvɛɾ ˈhɔdʒa; 16 October 1908spaced ndash11 April 1985) was an Albanian politician who was the prime minister of Albania from 1944 until his death in 1985. His title was First Secretary of the Party of Labour of Albania. He was a Communist and many regard him as a dictator.

[[Saw II]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, Saw movies, Lionsgate movies

Saw II is a 2005 Canadian-American horror movie. Saw II is a sequel to 2004's Saw. It is the second installment in the seven-part Saw franchise. It was released October 28, 2005. The movie was directed and co-written by Darren Lynn Bousman. It was Co-written with series creator Leigh Whannell. Saw II stars Donnie Wahlberg, Franky G, Dina Meyer, Erik Knudsen, and Tobin Bell as Jigsaw. Rotten Tomatoes gave it an audience score of 59%.

[[Ervin Drake]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from bladder cancer, American songwriters, Writers from New York City

Ervin Maurice Druckman (April 3, 1919 – January 15, 2015), better known as Ervin Drake, was an American songwriter. His works include such American Songbook standards as "I Believe" and "It Was a Very Good Year". 

He wrote in many styles and his work has been recorded by musicians from all over the world in many styles. In 1983, he was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame.

On January 15, 2015, Drake died at his home in Great Neck, New York due to complications from bladder cancer. He was 95.

[[Joseph Wapner]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, American judges, Television personalities from California, People from Los Angeles, California

Joseph Albert Wapner (November 15, 1919 – February 26, 2017) was an American judge and former television "judge." He is the first star of the ongoing reality courtroom series The People's Court.

Wapner died on February 26, 2017 under hospice care in Los Angeles after suffering from respiratory failure, aged 97.

[[Jerry Sheindlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, American judges, Writers from New York City, Television personalities from New York City

Gerald "Jerry" Sheindlin (born November 19, 1933) is an American author and television personality. He was a short-lived judge on the television program The People's Court from 1999 to 2000. 

Before that, he served on the New York State Supreme Court. He is the author of two books, Genetic Fingerprinting: The Law and Science of DNA Evidence and Blood Trail. 

[[Judy Sheindlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American judges, American lawyers, Jewish American entertainers, Jewish American writers, Jewish judges, Jewish lawyers, Television personalities from New York City, Writers from Brooklyn, Women judges

Judith Susan Sheindlin (née Blum; October 21, 1942), better known as Judge Judy, is an American lawyer, judge, television personality, and author. Since 1996, Sheindlin has presided over her own successful Daytime Emmy Award winning reality courtroom series named after her, Judge Judy.

She is of Jewish descent.

[[Kim Fowley]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from bladder cancer, Singers from Los Angeles, California, Musicians from Los Angeles, California

Kim Vincent Fowley (July 21, 1939 – January 15, 2015) was an American record producer, singer and musician. He was best known for his role behind a string of novelty and cult pop rock singles in the 1960s, and for managing The Runaways in the 1970s. He was born in Los Angeles, California.

Fowley died of bladder cancer in West Hollywood, California at the age of 75.

[[Evelyn Sanguinetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Lieutenant Governors of Illinois, Politicians from Miami, Florida, US Republican Party politicians

Evelyn Pacino Sanguinetti (born November 12, 1970) is an American politician. On January 12, 2015, she became the 47th Lieutenant Governor of Illinois. Before being elected alongside Governor Bruce Rauner on November 4, 2014, she served on the Wheaton City Council. On April 22, 2019, Sanguinetti announced her candidacy for the 2020 election in Illinois's 6th congressional district, challenging first-term Democratic incumbent Sean Casten. She dropped out of the race in October 2019.

[[Ramsey theory]]

CATEGORIES: Graph  theory

The Ramsey theory is named after the British mathematician and philosopher Frank Ramsey (19031930). It is a branch of mathematics that studies the conditions under which order must appear. 

[[Val Holten]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Australian cricketers, Sportspeople from Melbourne

Charles Valentine "Val" Holten (15 September 1927 – 15 January 2015) was an Australian cricketer. He played five first class cricket matches for Victoria between 1950 to 1951 and 1952 to 1953. He also played club cricket for the Victorian Premier Cricket teams Melbourne Cricket Club (1947–48) and Prahran Cricket Club (1948–49). He was a right hand batsman and right arm medium pace bowler.

Holten was born in Brighton, a suburb of Melbourne, Victoria.

Holten died on 15 January 2015 at the age of 87.

[[Captivity narrative]]

CATEGORIES: Literature

Captivity narratives are stories of people captured by enemies who are not civilized. Historians - people who study history - do not trust a lot of these stories. A lot of them are not written from a neutral point of view. Some historians that study Native American cultures are careful when they use these stories as sources.

Captivity narratives from North America were published through the 18th and 19th centuries. They are a part of English literature, and more stories were written in India and East Asia later on.

[[Escape reflex]]

CATEGORIES: Reflexes

Many animals have one or more special escape reflexes. These get the animal out of trouble quickly. They use special nervous structures to do this.

Examples:

Escape reflexes have high survival value.

[[The Wild Baby]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books

The Wild Baby (Den vilda bebin) is a children's book series about a wild young infant boy named Ben. The books were written in Swedish by Barbro Lindgren and illustrated by Eva Eriksson. It was made into puppetry in 2010.

[[Max (book series)]]

Den Max is a children's book series. The books were written by Barbro Lindgren. Eva Eriksson illustrated the books.

[[Nélida Romero]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Argentine movie actors, People from Buenos Aires, Argentine stage actors, Argentine television actors

Nélida Romero (17 January 1926 – 14 January 2015) was an Argentine actress. She starred in the movies Madame Bovary (1947), Arroz con leche (1950), and The Honourable Tenant (1951).

Romero was born in Lanús. She was married to the movie director Carlos Schlieper from 1944 to 1957.

Romero died on 14 January 2015 in Buenos Aires, aged 88.

[[Mordechai Shmuel Ashkenazi]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Israel, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Israeli chief rabbis, Jewish Israeli writers

Mordechai Shmuel Ashkenazi (מרדכי שמואל אשכנזי‎; 1943 – 14 January 2015) was an Israeli Orthodox rabbi and writer. He was a member of the Chabad Hasidic movement. He was the chief rabbi of the Chabad community of Kfar Chabad, Israel from 1983 until his death. He was also an authority on Halakha (Jewish law) and Hasidic philosophy.

Ashkenazi was educated in Tel Aviv and Brooklyn, New York in the United States. He had nine sons, some of whom also became rabbis.

Ashkenazi died from a heart attack on 14 January 2015, aged 71.

[[Sonja Härdin]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Swedish illustrators

Sonja Härdin, born 1945, is a Swedish illustrator. She illustrated all Bert books in the old series However, the first Bert book was illustrated by Sören Olsson. She also illustrated the reversion edition of the first Bert book. She gave Bert and the other figures in the Bert Diaries their cahracteristic looks. From Berts bekännelser the style was changed. Darker images were added. She has also illustrated articles in Kamratposten. Also, she illustrated school coursebooks like Nya Min matematik. Nya Min matematik is a series of mathematics books for Swedish elementary schools. She has also illustrated Trafik-Trolle.

[[Eva Eriksson]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Swedish illustrators

Eva Eriksson, born 1949 in Halmstad, Sweden is a Swedish illustrator and writer. She has illustrated several children's books Among her illustrations are books by writers like Barbro Lindgren and Viveca Lärn.

She educated herself at Konstfack in Stockholm. Between 2003-2012 she held seat number 1 of the Swedish Academy for Children's Books.

[[SummerSlam (2005)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in American television, 2005 in professional wrestling, SummerSlam, 2000s in Washington, D.C.

SummerSlam (2005) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on August 21, 2005 at MCI Center in Washington, D.C.. It was the eighteenth SummerSlam event held by the WWE.

The main match for the Raw brand saw Hulk Hogan defeat Shawn Michaels. Hogan defeated Michaels by pinfall after he hit Michaels with the leg drop. The main match for the SmackDown! brand saw Batista defeat John "Bradshaw" Layfield in a No Holds Barred match to retain his World Heavyweight Championship. Batista won the match by pinfall after he performed two Batista Bombs, with the second one on the steel ring steps. Another main match for the Raw brand saw John Cena defeat Chris Jericho and retain his WWE Championship. Cena won the match by pinfall after he hit Jericho with the FU. The main match on the undercard saw Rey Mysterio defeat Eddie Guerrero in a ladder match for the custody of Mysterio's son Dominick. Mysterio won the match after he climbed a ladder and grabbed the briefcase that was hanging above the ring.

[[Swedish Academy for Children's Books]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 establishments in Sweden, Children's literature, Stockholm

The Swedish Academy for Children's Books (Svenska barnboksakademin) is a nonprofit society. It was established on 26 May 1989 at the Skärholmen Library in Stockholm in Sweden. It is based on the Swedish Academy. Its ambitions is to promote children's and youth literature.

Since 1990, the society awards the Eldsjälen Award.

[[University of Copenhagen]]

CATEGORIES: Copenhagen, Colleges and universities in Europe, 1479 establishments, 1470s establishments in Europe, Establishments in Denmark

The University of Copenhagen was founded in 1479. It is the oldest university and research institution in Denmark. it is the second oldest institution for higher education in Scandinavia after Uppsala University (1477). The university has 23,473 undergraduate students, 17,398 postgraduate students, 2,968 doctoral students and more than 9,000 employees. It has four campuses located in and around Copenhagen. The headquarters are located in central Copenhagen. Most courses are taught in Danish. However, many courses are also offered in English. A few are taught in German. The university has several thousands of foreign students. About half come from Nordic countries.

The university is a member of the International Alliance of Research Universities (IARU). The Academic Ranking of World Universities, compiled by Shanghai Jiao Tong University, ranked the University of Copenhagen as the leading university in Scandinavia. It is ranked 39th best university in the world in 2014. It is ranked 45th in the 2014 QS World University Rankings. 

[[Desert Island Discs]]

CATEGORIES: BBC radio, Radio programs, 1942 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in the United Kingdom

Desert Island Discs is a biographical and factual radio programme produced by Bob Symes. It is broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in the United Kingdom. It was first broadcast on the BBC Home Service on 29 January 1942.

Each week a person (called a "castaway") is asked to choose eight pieces of music, a book and a luxury item that they would take if they were to be cast away on a desert island (an island that is not lived on by humans). They discuss their lives and the reasons for their choices.

More than 3,000 episodes have been recorded. There aren't that many castaways, though, because a few castaways have appeared more than once. Some programmes had two people as the castaway.

The programme was created by Roy Plomley. After Plomley's death in 1985, the programme was presented by Michael Parkinson. From 1988 to 2006, it was presented by Sue Lawley. Since 2006, the show has been presented by Kirsty Young. She interviewed illustrator Quentin Blake on her first show, broadcast on 1 October 2006.

The light music composition by Eric Coates called "By the Sleepy Lagoon" is the signature tune of the programme. 

[[Olympia Dukakis]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Massachusetts, 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, People from Lowell, Massachusetts

Olympia Dukakis (June 20, 1931 – May 1, 2021) was an American actress. She acted in movies and television and on stage. In 1987, she received an Academy Award, a Golden Globe Award and a BAFTA Award for her performance in the movie Moonstruck. She also received an Emmy Award nomination for her performance as Anna Madrigal in the miniseries Tales of the City.

Dukakis was the daughter of Greek immigrants. She was born in Lowell, Massachusetts on June 20, 1931. She was a cousin of 1988 presidential candidate Michael Dukakis. From 1962 until his death in 2018, she was married to actor Louis Zorich.

[[The Substitute (1996)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s crime drama movies, 1996 thriller movies, American crime drama movies, American thriller movies

The Substitute is a 1996 action and crime-thriller movie. The movie is about high school gangs in an inner-city area. Ernie Hudson plays Principal Claude. Glenn Plummer plays Darrell Sherman.

The movie got mixed to negative review from critics.

[[Gerard 't Hooft]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Dutch academics, Dutch Nobel Prize winners, Dutch physicists, People from North Holland, People from The Hague, Theoretical physicists, Wolf Prize winners

Gerardus 't Hooft (born July 5, 1946) is a Dutch physicist. He shared the 1999 Nobel Prize in Physics with his doctoral advisor Martinus J. G. Veltman.

'T Hooft is well known for his theories about gauge theory, black holes, and quantum gravity.

[[Johanna Thydell]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Swedish children's writers

Johanna Thydell, born 14 November 1980 in Nässjö, Sweden is a Swedish wrtier. Her 2003 book In the Ceiling the Stars Are Shining was given the August Prize.

She was born in Nässjö. She grew up in Värnamo. After secondary school she attended a writer's course. She then got contact with writer Magnus Utvik. He assisting her to become a writer. She was a 2004 Sommar host. She studied at the writer's line course at Fridhems Folk High School in Svalöv. She also studied culture-courses focusing at literature and film at the Stockholm University.

[[Max Lundgren]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2005 deaths, Swedish writers

Max Lundgren, born 22 March 1937, dead 27 May 2005, was a Swedish children's books writer. His debut book, Hunden som äntligen visslade, was released in 1962. He wrote totally circa 50 books. Some of his books also TV series. Among his more famous works are Pojken med guldbyxorna and the books about fictional Swedish soccer club Åshöjdens BK.

[[Åshöjdens BK]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books, Children's literature

Åshöjdens BK is a book series about a fictional soccer club in northwestern Scania in Sweden. The stories were created by Max Lundgren

[[1888 Sundsvall Fire]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 in Europe, 1880s in Sweden, Fires in Sweden, Sundsvall, June events

The 1888 Sundsvall Fire (branden i Sundsvall 1888) was a fire in the town of Sundsvall in Sweden. The fire happened on 25 June 1888. The fire occurred during a storm. The storm allowed the fire to spread fast among the wooden houses in town. The same day a fire also occurred in the town of Umeå.

[[Yao Beina]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from breast cancer, Chinese singers, Chinese movie actors

Yao Beina (born 姚贝娜; 26 September 1981 – 16 January 2015) was a Chinese singer and actress. She was born in Wuhan, Hubei. She sang "Let It Go" for the Chinese version of Frozen. She was known for her song "The Painted 2" and "Life in the River"

Beina died of breast cancer in Shenzhen, Guangdong, aged 33.

[[Ian Athfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2015 deaths, Architects, People from Christchurch

Sir Ian Charles Athfield (15 July 1940 – 16 January 2015) was a New Zealand architect. He was born in Christchurch. In 1963, he joined Structon Group Architects, and he became a partner in 1965. In 1968 he was a principal partner in setting up Athfield Architects with Ian Dickson and Graeme John Boucher (Manson).

[[Jean-Claude Baker]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, Businesspeople from New York, French businesspeople, People from Dijon, Suicides in the United States

Jean-Claude Baker (born Jean-Claude Julien Léon Tronville, April 18, 1943 – January 15, 2015) was a French-American restaurateur. He was born in Dijon, France.

He met U.S.-born French entertainer Josephine Baker while he was working as a bellhop in Paris at the age of fourteen in 1958. He became the last of twelve children adopted into Baker's Rainbow Family. In 1994 he co-authored a biography of Josephine Baker, Josephine: The Hungry Heart, described as a "shocking look into the star's seriously whitewashed past".

Baker was found dead at his home in East Hampton, New York on January 15, 2015, of an apparent suicide.  He was 71.

[[Malese Jow]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, American child actors, Musicians from Tulsa, Oklahoma, Actors from Tulsa, Oklahoma, 1991 births, Living people, Native American people, Singers from Tulsa, Oklahoma, American singer-songwriters

Malese Jow (born February 18, 1991) is an American actress and singer-songwriter. She played Geena in the sitcom Unfabulous. She played Julia in Star-Crossed.

She was born in Tulsa, Oklahoma.

[[SummerSlam (2004)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in professional wrestling, Sport in Toronto, SummerSlam, 2004 in Canada, 21st century in Toronto

SummerSlam (2004) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on August 15, 2004 at Air Canada Centre in Toronto, Ontario. It was the seventeenth SummerSlam event held by the WWE.

The main match for the Raw brand saw Randy Orton defeat Chris Benoit to win the World Heavyweight Championship. Orton won the match by pinfall after he performed an RKO on Benoit. By winning the championship, Orton became the youngest World Heavyweight Champion in WWE history. The main match for the SmackDown! brand was a match between John "Bradshaw" Layfield and The Undertaker for the WWE Championship. JBL won the match by disqualification after The Undertaker hit him with the championship.

[[Robert Gover]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, American journalists, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Robert Gover (November 2, 1929 – January 12, 2015) was an American journalist. He became a best-selling novelist at age 30. He was known for his books One Hundred Dollar Misunderstanding and Time and Money.

[[James Naanman Daman]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2015 deaths, Nigerian people, Roman Catholics

James Naanman Daman (April 10, 1956 – January 12, 2015) was a Nigerian Roman Catholic bishop. He was Ordained to the priesthood in 1982. Daman was named bishop of the Diocese of Jalingo, Nigeria, in 2000. He was named the first bishop of the Diocese of Shendam in 2007.

Daman died on January 12, 2015 at the age of 58 in Jalingo.

[[Frank Glazer]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2015 deaths, American pianists, American educators, American composers, Musicians from Wisconsin

Frank Glazer (February 19, 1915 – January 13, 2015) was an American pianist, composer and professor of music. In 1939 Glazer performed with the Boston Symphony Orchestra under Sergei Koussevitzky. Glazer served in the US Army as an interpreter from 1943 to 1945 in Germany and France. In 1980 Glazer left Eastman and became artist in residence at Bates College in Maine. In the 1960s he recorded the complete piano music of Erik Satie for the Vox label.

Glazer died in New York City, aged 99.

[[Ted Harrison]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Canadian painters, English painters

Edward Hardy "Ted" Harrison, CM (August 28, 1926 – January 16, 2015) was an English Canadian artist. He was known for his paintings of the Yukon. Harrison died in his sleep at the age of 88 on January 16, 2015.

[[Missy Franklin]]

CATEGORIES: Sportspeople from California, American swimmers, 1995 births, Living people, People from Pasadena, California, American Olympic gold medalists, American Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2016 Summer Olympics

Melissa Jeanette Franklin (born May 10, 1995) is an American competition swimmer. At the 2012 Olympics in London, she won five medals, four of them were gold. At the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, she won one gold medal.

Franklin also won medals at other sporting events.

Franklin was born in Pasadena, California.

[[Jerry Dempsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, American educators, Businesspeople from Minnesota, Politicians from Minnesota, US Republican Party politicians

Jerome Richard "Dick, Jerry" Dempsey (April 21, 1933 – January 14, 2015) was an American businessman, educator, and politician.

Dempsey was born in Henderson, Minnesota. Dempsey served in the United States Army from 1955 to 1957. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of St. Thomas. Dempsey was also in the banking business. From 1993 until 2006, Dempsey served in the Minnesota House of Representatives. He was a Republican. His brother Terry Dempsey also served in the Minnesota Legislature.

Dempsey died in Hastings, Minnesota where he had lived since 1960.

[[Rimma Markova]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Russian movie actors, Russian stage actors, Russian television actors

Rimma Vasilievna Markova (Римма Васильевна Маркова; 3 March 1925 – 15 January 2015) was a Russian movie actress. She began acting in 1951. She was named a People's Artist of Russia in 1994. Her younger brother Leonid Markov was named a People's Artist of the USSR in 1985. She was best known her her roles in the movies The Alive and the Dead (1964), The Pokrovsky Gate (1982), The Outskirts (1998), Night Watch (2004), Day Watch (2006), The Best Movie (2008), and Burnt by the Sun 2 (2010).

Markova was born in the Samara Oblast.

Markova died on 16 January 2015 in Moscow, aged 89.

[[Ethel Lang]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 2015 deaths, British supercentenarians, People from Yorkshire

Ethel Lang (née Lancaster; 27 May 1900 – 15 January 2015) was a British supercentenarian and, at the time of her death, the oldest living person in the United Kingdom (after the death of Grace Jones on 14 November 2013), the ninth oldest living person in the world and the second-oldest living person in Europe after Emma Morano.

Lang was born in Worsbrough, near Barnsley, to Charles and Sarah Lancaster. She left school at the age of 13 to work in a shirt factory. She married William Lang in 1922 and their daughter Margaret was born in 1923. Lang's mother lived to the age of 91, and her great-grandmother until 92.

Lang was the last living British person to have been born during the reign of Queen Victoria.

[[Joseph Mukasa Zuza]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2015 deaths, Malawian people, Roman Catholic bishops

Joseph Mukasa Zuza (2 October 1945 – 15 January 2015) was a Malawian Roman Catholic bishop. He became a priest on 2 July 1986. He was appointed the bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Mzuzu on 3 March 1995.

[[Emma Morano]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Italy, People from Piedmont, Supercentenarians

Emma Morano-Martinuzzi (29 November 1899 – 15 April 2017) was an Italian supercentenarian. At the age of 117, she was the oldest living person in the world from 13 May 2016 until her death on 15 April 2017. She was the 5th oldest person in history at her death. She is the oldest person from Italy or ever lived in Italy and the second oldest European person ever, after Jeanne Calment.

[[Arrondissements of the Allier department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Allier department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

The arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Allier department are:

[[Arrondissement of Montluçon]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Montluçon is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Allier département. Its capital is the city of Montluçon, a subprefecture of the department.

[[Arrondissement of Moulins]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Moulins is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Allier département. Its capital, and of the department, is the city of Moulins.

[[Arrondissement of Vichy]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Vichy is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Allier département. Its capital is the city of Vichy, a prefecture of the department.

[[Pamela Cundell]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2015 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, Actors from Surrey

Pamela Isabel Cundell (born 15 January 1920  – 14 February 2015) was an English character actress. Her best-known role was as Mrs Fox in the long-running TV comedy Dad's Army. She was born in Croydon, Surrey.

[[Reagan coalition]]

CATEGORIES: United States Republican Party, Ronald Reagan

Reagan coalition is a phrase that describes a kind of politician in the United States. Reagan coalitionists are Republicans who believe in the same ideas that President of the United States Ronald Reagan had. They are often from very conservative states. The term began during the Reagan Era when Reagan won his major landslide election in 1980 and in 1984.

[[Byron Janis]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, American pianists, Musicians from Pennsylvania

Byron Janis (born March 24, 1928) is an American classical pianist. He made several recordings for RCA Victor and Mercury Records, and occupies two volumes of the Philips series Great Pianists of the 20th Century.  

His discography covers music inspired by Beethoven to David W. Guion and includes major piano concertos from Mozart to Rachmaninoff and Prokofiev. 

[[Barbara Cook]]

CATEGORIES: Tony Award winning actors, 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in New York City, American pop singers, American stage actors, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia

Barbara Cook (October 25, 1927 – August 8, 2017) was an American singer and actress. She became known during the 1950s after starring in the original Broadway musicals Plain and Fancy (1955), Candide (1956) and The Music Man (1957) among others, winning a Tony Award for the last.

Cook died from respiratory failure on August 8, 2017 in New York City at the age of 89.

[[Dolores Gray]]

CATEGORIES: Tony Award winning actors, 1924 births, 2002 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Chicago

Dolores Gray (June 7, 1924 – June 26, 2002) was an American actress and singer. She was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Lead Actress in a Musical twice, winning once for her role in Carnival in Flanders.

Gray died of a heart attack in Manhattan, aged 78.

[[Mildred Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, Living people, Singers from Cleveland, Ohio

Mildred Miller (born December 16, 1924 in Cleveland, Ohio) is an American classical mezzo-soprano. He had a major career performing in operas, concerts, and recitals during the mid twentieth century. She was known as a principal artist at the Metropolitan Opera from 1951 through 1974. 

In 1978 she founded the Opera Theater of Pittsburgh, serving as the company's Artistic Director through 1999.

[[Jon Vickers]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Canadian singers, People from Saskatchewan

Jonathan Stewart Vickers, (October 29, 1926 – July 10, 2015), known professionally as Jon Vickers, was a Canadian heldentenor. In 1957 Vickers joined London’s Royal Opera House, Covent Garden company. In 1960 he joined the Metropolitan Opera. He became world famous for a wide range of German, French and Italian roles.

[[Philippe Entremont]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, French conductors

Philippe Entremont (born 7 June 1934 in Reims) is a French classical pianist and conductor. His recordings as a pianist include concertos by Tchaikovsky, Rachmaninoff, Saint-Saëns and others.

[[Echo and the Bunnymen]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 establishments in the United Kingdom, Musical groups disestablished in 1993, Musical groups established in 1978, 1993 disestablishments in England, 1996 establishments in England, Musical groups established in 1996, 1970s establishments in England, Warner Bros. Records artists

Echo and the Bunnymen is an English alternative rock band formed in Liverpool in 1978.

[[Andrew Chan]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2015 deaths, Australian Christians, Australian criminals, Australian drug dealers, Australian prisoners, People executed by firearm

Andrew Chan (12 January 1984 – 29 April 2015) was an Australian citizen convicted and executed in Indonesia for drug smuggling.

Chan was born in Sydney, New South Wales on 12 January 1984. He was the son of Cantonese-speaking Chinese immigrants. He was convicted in Indonesia for drug trafficking as a member of the Bali Nine. In 2005, he was arrested at Ngurah Rai International Airport in Denpasar, Bali. Chan and Myuran Sukumaran were believed to have arranged the heroin smuggling operation. After a criminal trial on 14 February 2006, Chan was sentenced to execution by firing squad. While in prison, Chan converted to Christianity.

On 16 January 2015, Chan and Sukumaran were ordered to be executed after nine years in jail. On 6 February 2015, the government said that this would take place at the end of the month.

On 11 February 2015 the government said that Chan and Sukumaran would be moved from Kerobokan prison to Nusakambangan Island where the execution would take place. On 24 February 2015 their lawyers challenged Indonesian President Joko Widodo's refusal to grant clemency. This legal challenge failed. The prisoners were moved to Nusakambangan Island on 4 March. On 6 April 2015, Chan and Sukumaran's lawyers went to the state administrative court in a last try to stop the executions; this was unsuccessful. On 24 April 2015, the government ordered the final preparations for the execution of Chan and Sukumaran, as well as eight others on death row. The pair, along with seven other death row inmates, were given a 72-hour notice of their executions on 25 April (ANZAC Day).

On 27 April 2015, Chan married his Indonesian fiancee Febyanti Herewila.

He was executed by firing squad on 29 April 2015. On 2 May 2015, the bodies of Chan and Sukumaran arrived back in Sydney along with the Sukumaran family and Chan's widow Febyanti Herewila, while the rest of Chan's family arrived back a day earlier.

[[Myuran Sukumaran]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2015 deaths, Artists from New South Wales, Australian criminals, Australian drug dealers, Australian painters, Australian prisoners, Criminals from London, Executed people, Martial artists, People executed by firearm, People from Sydney

Myuran Sukumaran (மயூரன் சுகுமாரன்; 17 April 1981 – 29 April 2015) was an Australian citizen who was executed in Indonesia for drug trafficking as a member of the Bali Nine. He was born in London, England. His parents were Sri Lankan immigrants. He moved to Australia at a young age.

In 2005, Sukumaran was arrested at Ngurah Rai International Airport in Denpasar, Bali. Sukumaran and Andrew Chan were the apparent co-ringleaders of the heroin smuggling operation. After a criminal trial on 14 February 2006, Sukumaran was sentenced to execution by firing squad.

On 30 December 2014, Sukumaran's request for clemency was rejected by the President of Indonesia, Joko Widodo. Sukumaran and Chan were in prison at Nusakambangan Island in isolation cells. On 16 January 2015, Sukumaran and Chan were ordered to be executed after nine years in jail. On 6 February 2015, it was stated that Chan and Sukumaran would be executed by the end of the month. On 11 February 2015, Indonesian authorities approved the move of Chan and Sukumaran from Kerobokan prison to Nusakambangan Island in preparation for execution. On 24 February 2015, a final appeal to save Chan and Sukumaran from execution, with their lawyers appeal bid to challenge President Widodo's refusal to grant clemency, failed.  The move from Kerobokan prison to Nusakambangan Island was on 4 March. On 6 April 2015, Chan and Sukumaran's lawyers faced the state administrative court to challenge President Joko Widodo's refusal to grant clemency, in a final attempt to stop the executions. This was also unsuccessful. On 24 April 2015, prosecutors ordered the final preparations for the execution of Chan and Sukumaran, as well as eight others on death row. On 25 April (ANZAC Day), the pair, along with 7 other death row prisoners, were given a 72-hour notice of their executions.

Sukumaran was executed by firing squad on 29 April 2015 along with Chan as well as Nigerians Raheem Agbaje Salami, Okwuduli Oyatanze, Sylvester Obiekwe Nwolise, Ghanaian Martin Anderson, Brazilian Rodrigo Gularte and Indonesian Zainal Abidin.

Sukumaran's funeral was conducted at Dayspring Church, Castle Hill on 9 May 2015.

[[Triunfo del amor]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 television series debuts, Telenovelas, Mexican television series, 2010s establishments in Mexico

Triunfo del amor (Triumph of Love) is a Mexican telenovela. It aired from October 25, 2010 to June 26, 2011. It is produced by Televisa.

[[1888 Umeå fire]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 in Europe, 1880s in Sweden, Fires in Sweden, Umeå, June events

The 1888 Umeå Fire (branden i Umeå 1888) was a fire in the town of Umeå in Sweden. The fire happened on 25 June 1888. The fire occurred during a storm. The storm allowed the fire to spread fast among the wooden houses in town. When the town was rebuilt, stone houses became more common than wooden houses. Birchtrees were planted between the streets. This was because birchtrees are thought to not catch fire so easy. This has led to Umeå becoming known as the "town of birchtrees" (Björkarnas stad). The same day a fire also occurred in the town of Sundsvall.

[[Union of Sweden and Norway]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in Sweden, History of Norway, 1814 establishments, 1900s disestablishments in Europe, 1810s establishments in Europe, 1905 disestablishments

The Union of Sweden and Norway (Svensk-norska unionen; Den svensk-norske union), officially the United Kingdoms of Sweden and Norway, was a personal union. It consisted of the separate kingdoms of Sweden and Norway under the same monarch. It lasted from 1814 to 1905. In 1905 Sweden accepted Norway leaving the union. Both states kept their separate constitutions, laws, legislatures, administrations, state churches, armed forces, and currencies. However the kings mostly resided in Stockholm. Stockholm was also the town where foreign diplomatic representations were located.

[[World Conference of Life and Work]]

CATEGORIES: 1925, 1920s in Europe, 20th century in Sweden, Christianity in Sweden, Church of Sweden, History of Stockholm

The World Conference of Life and Work (Stora ekumeniska mötet) was an ecumenic conference. It was held on the initiative of Church of Sweden archbishop Nathan Söderblom in the town of Stockholm in Sweden in 1925. It was held to discuss social cooperation. Most major Christian denominations attended the meeting. Some exceptions were the Roman Catholic Church and the Pentecostal movement.

[[November Storm of 1995]]

CATEGORIES: 1995, 1990s in Sweden, Severe weather, November events

The November Storm of 1995 (Novemberstormen 1995) was a snowstorm. It originated from the North Sea in mid-November 1995. It begun on Thursday 16 November 1995. The storm culminated on Friday morning, 17 November 1995. The storm stroke towards. the southern and western parts of Sweden. Traffic was heavily affected.

[[Christmas Hurricane of 1902]]

CATEGORIES: 1902, Hurricanes in Europe, 20th century in Denmark, 20th century in Sweden

The Christmas Hurricane of 1902 (Julestormen 1902, Julorkanen 1902) was a storm. It stroke against Denmark and Sweden on Christmas Day 1902.

In Sweden, it hit Scania, parts of southern Kronoberg County and the west coast of Sweden. Circa 50 fishermen were killed. On land, very few people were killed. Material damages, measured in millions of Swedish crowns (as of 1902), were reported. Among the destruction caused by the hurricane were the Varberg Open Air Bath and the Mölle Open Air Baths as well as the Ribergsborgs and the Sibbarp Open Air Baths in Malmö. The Örgryte Church tower spire fell off.

[[She's Funny That Way]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, German drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City, American independent movies

She's Funny That Way (originally Squirrels to the Nuts) is a 2015 American comedy-drama movie. The movie is about a prostitute-turned-Broadway actress. Imogen Poots plays Isabella "Izzy" Beatty. Owen Wilson plays Arnold Albertson. Austin Pendleton plays Judge Pendergast. Jennifer Aniston plays Jane Claremont. It was screened at the Venice Film Festival, Aug. 29, 2014. In a deal valued at $4.5 million, it was picked up by U.S. distributor Clarius Entertainment. The date of release is spring 2015.

[[Stone of Scone]]

CATEGORIES: Monarchy, United Kingdom, Scotland

The Stone of Scone, also known as the Stone of Destiny, and the Coronation Stone, is a stone used in the coronation ceremonies of England and Scotland. It is an oblong shaped block of red sandstone. It was kept at the now-ruined Scone Abbey in Scone, near Perth, Scotland. Its size is about 26 by 16.75 by 10.5 and weighs about 336. The Stone of Scone was last used in 1953 for the coronation of Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

[[SummerSlam (2002)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 in American television, 2002 in professional wrestling, Sports in New York City, SummerSlam, 2000s in New York (state)

SummerSlam (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on August 25, 2002 at Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale, New York. It was the fifteenth SummerSlam event held by the WWE.

The main match for the SmackDown! brand saw Brock Lesnar defeat The Rock to win the WWE Undisputed Championship. Lesnar won the match by pinfall after he hit The Rock with the F-5. The main match for the Raw brand saw Shawn Michaels defeat Triple H in an Unsanctioned Street Fight. Michaels won the match by pinfall after he reversed Triple H's pedigree attempt into a jackknife roll-up. The main match which was featured from both brands was an interpromotional match between Rob Van Dam and Chris Benoit for the WWE Intercontinental Championship. RVD won the match by pinfall after he hit the Five-Star Frog Splash on Benoit. By winning, RVD was able to win the championship.

[[Streisand effect]]

CATEGORIES: Media

The Streisand effect is the name for a phenomenon: When an attempt is made to remove a piece of information (because it is not meant for the specific audience), it gets much more publicity than intended, and becomes known more widely. The effect is named after Barbara Streisand; Streisand made an attempt to get a photo of her house removed from a collection of thousands of photos of Malibu, California in 2003. 

[[Amoeboid movement]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Protozoa

Amoeboid movement is the most common type of movement in eukaryotic cells. 

It is a crawling type of movement got by pushing out cell cytoplasm in the form of pseudopodia ("false feet"). The cytoplasm slides and forms a pseudopodium in front to move the cell forward. 

This type of movement is observed in amoebae, slime molds and some other protozoans such as Naegleria gruberi, as well as some cells in humans such as white blood cells. Sarcomas, or cancers arising from connective tissue cells, are particularly good at amoeboid movement, thus leading to their high rate of metastasis.

The exact mechanism is still unknown. It involves actin-myosin molecules inside the cytoplasm.

[[Arcsecond]]

CATEGORIES: Angles

[[David Oppegaard]]

CATEGORIES: American novelists, Writers from Minnesota, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

David Oppegaard (born in Lake Crystal, Minnesota) is an American novelist.

In 2008, Oppegaard wrote The Suicide Collectors. It was his first novel. He was nominated for the Bram Stoker Award for Best First Novel by the Horror Writers Association. One year later, he published his second work, Woormwood, Nevada.

[[Simple sentence]]

CATEGORIES: English language, Sentences

A simple sentence (sometimes called an independent clause) is a sentence that contains a subject and a predicate (a verb). It also must express a complete thought. This follows the rules of syntax in English grammar.

[[Peripheral artery disease]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases and disorders of the cardiovascular system

Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a disease of the blood vessels in the legs. It can cause leg pain with walking, or if it gets bad it can cause wounds on the skin of the feet and toes. Peripheral artery disease is a serious disease that can be fatal. Some people who get very sick from PAD may need surgery to improve blood flow in their legs and feet. If their feet get really sick they may need an amputation.

PA is also sometimes called peripheral artery occlusive disease (PAOD), peripheral obliterative arteriopathy, or peripheral vascular disease (PVD). 

[[Ashanti]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Africa

Ashanti, or Asante, are a nation and the largest subgroup of the Akan people. They live mostly in Ghana and Ivory Coast. They speak the Akan language and the Asante dialect, and are of Akan origin.

Before European colonization, the Ashanti people developed a large and influential empire in West Africa. The Ashanti later developed the powerful Ashanti Confederacy or 'Asanteman'. They were the dominant presence in the region. The Asantehene is the political and spiritual head of the Asantes.

[[Foreign Correspondent]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s thriller movies, Spy movies, 1940 movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by Alfred Hitchcock

Foreign Correspondent is a 1940 American spy movie. This movie is about a reporter who tries to expose enemy spies in Britain. Joel McCrea plays Johnny Jones. Laraine Day plays Carol. 

Alfred Hitchcock directed the movie.

This movie was nominated for six Academy Awards, including Best Picture. It did not win any.

[[Faten Hamama]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Egypt, Egyptian movie actors, Egyptian television actors, Movie producers

Faten Hamama (فاتن حمامة, ar faatin 7amaama.ogg, 27 May 1931 – 17 January 2015) was an Egyptian producer and actress of movie and television. She was known for her roles in Al-Tareeq al-Masdood, Sira` Fi al-Wadi, Ayyamna al-Holwa, La Anam, and in La Tutf'e al-Shams.

Hamama died 17 on January 2015 following a short illness, aged 83.

[[The Paradine Case]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s thriller movies, 1940s drama movies, 1947 movies, American drama movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by Alfred Hitchcock

The Paradine Case is an American 1947 courtroom thriller drama movie. This is about a lawyer who falls in love with a woman being accused of murder. Gregory Peck plays a lawyer. Ann Todd plays Gay. Alida Valli plays the woman accused of murder. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1948.

The movie received mixed reviews from critics.

[[Stuart Loory]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, American journalists, American educators, Writers from Pennsylvania

Stuart Hugh Loory (May 22, 1932 – January 16, 2015) was an American journalist and educator. He was born in Wilson, Pennsylvania.

In 1980, he joined the staff of Turner Broadcasting Systems' Cable News Network (as managing editor of  the Washington bureau, 1980–82; Moscow bureau chief, 1983–86; senior correspondent, 1986; executive producer, 1987–90; editor-in-chief of CNN World Report, 1990–91; vice-president of CNN, 1990–95; executive vice-president, Turner International Broadcasting, Russia, 1993–97).

Loory died of lung cancer in Brooklyn, New York on January 16, 2015, aged 82.

[[Ann Todd]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Cheshire, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from stroke, English movie actors, English television actors, 1909 births, 1993 deaths

Dorothy Anne Todd (24 January 1909 – 6 May 1993) was an English producer and actress. In the movie Perfect Strangers, she played a nurse. She played Kay in Ships with Wings.

Todd was born in Hartford, Cheshire, England. She died of a stroke in London at age eighty four.

[[Dial M for Murder]]

CATEGORIES: Thriller movies, 1950s drama movies, 1950s crime movies, 1954 movies, Movies directed by Alfred Hitchcock

Dial M for Murder is an American 1954 crime drama movie. It was directed by Alfred Hitchcock. The movie is about a plot to murder. Grace Kelly plays Margot. Ray Milland plays Tony.

The movie performed very well at the box office.

[[Claire Bloom]]

CATEGORIES: English stage actors, English movie actors, Actors from London, 1931 births, Living people

Claire Bloom (born February 15, 1931) is an English stage and movie actress. She has been working for over 60 years. She has played leading roles in many movies. She played Terry in the movie Limelight. She played Theodora in The Haunting (1963)

Bloom was born in London, England.

[[The Haunting (1963 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 movies, 1960s horror movies, British horror movies, English-language movies, Haunted house movies, Movies based on books, Supernatural movies, MGM movies, Movies directed by Robert Wise

The Haunting is a 1963 British horror movie. It is based on novel The Haunting of Hill House The movie is about a small group of people who come to a haunted house that comes to life. Julie Harris plays Eleanor. Claire Bloom plays Theodora. Richard Johnson plays Dr. Markway. It was released on 16 September 1963.

This movie was remade in 1999. Many critics did not like the remake.

[[Robert Wise]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning directors, American movie producers, American movie directors, People from Indiana, 1914 births, 2005 deaths

Robert Wise (September 10, 1914 – September 14, 2005) was an American movie director, editor and producer. He received Academy Awards for Best Director and Best Picture on both West Side Story (1961) and The Sound of Music (1965). He is also known for directing The Day the Earth Stood Still.

Wise was born in Winchester, Indiana. He died in Los Angeles from heart failure four days after his 91st birthday.

[[Tom Kinslow]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1901 deaths, 19th century baseball players

Thomas F. Kinslow (January 12, 1866 – February 22, 1901) was a professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1886 until 1898. He played the position catcher.  He played for eight teams in his ten-season career. He played four of his eight seasons with the Brooklyn Bridegrooms. During his playing days, his height was listed at 5, his weight was 160. He batted and threw right-handed, and had blonde hair.

[[West Side Story (1961 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s crime drama movies, 1961 drama movies, American crime drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Best Picture Oscar, Movies set in New York City, Movies directed by Robert Wise

West Side Story is a 1961 American romantic crime drama musical. It is an adaptation of the 1957 Broadway musical play of the same name. Natalie Wood plays Maria. Rita Moreno plays Anita. Robert Wise directed the movie. It is based on the play Romeo and Juliet by William Shakespeare. 

This movie won Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Sound and Best Director. It also won many other awards.

[[American]]

American might mean:

[[Robert Berner]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2015 deaths, American educators, American geologists, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Harvard University alumni, People from Erie, Pennsylvania, Scientists from Pennsylvania

Robert Arbuckle Berner (November 25, 1935 – January 10, 2015) was an American scientist and educator. He was known for his work to the modeling of the carbon cycle. He taught geology and geophysics from 1965 to 2007 at Yale University.

Berner was born in Erie, Pennsylvania. He married Elizabeth Marshall Kay in 1959 and had three children.

Berner died after a long illness on January 10, 2015 in New Haven, Connecticut. He was 79.

[[Inge Vermeulen]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, 2015 deaths, Brazilian sportspeople, Dutch sportspeople, Field hockey players, People who committed suicide

Inge Joanna Francisca Vermeulen (6 January 1985 – 10 January 2015) was a Brazilian-Dutch field hockey player. She played as a goalkeeper for three teams and two international teams: Brazil and the Netherlands.

Vermeulen was born in Americana, São Paulo and moved to the Netherlands at a young age.

Vermeulen committed suicide (killed herself) on 10 January 2015 in Utrecht. She was 30.

[[Natalino Pescarolo]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Italian Roman Catholics

Natalino Pescarolo (March 26, 1929 – January 4, 2015) was the Roman Catholic bishop.

He was ordained to the priesthood on June 29, 1952. Pescarolo was named auxiliary bishop of the Diocese of Cuneo in 1990. In 1992, he was appointed bishop of Fossano and in 1999, he was also appointed bishop of Cuneo. He retired in 2005.

[[Leif Rantala]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2015 deaths, Finnish people, Linguists

Leif Rantala (December 26, 1947, Liljendal – January 8, 2015, Rovaniemi) was a Finnish-Swedish linguist. He was a specialist of Sami languages, cultures of history, especially of the Kola Peninsula.

[[Paul Morgan (rugby)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2015 deaths, British rugby league players, Sportspeople from Glamorgan

Paul Morgan (3 October 1974 – 12 January 2015) was a Welsh professional rugby union and rugby league footballer, rugby union coach, and cricketer. He was born in Pencoed. He played club level rugby union (RU) for Pencoed RFC (twice), London Welsh RFC (while at Brunel University), Whitland RFC, Aberavon RFC (twice), Llanharan RFC, Bridgend Ravens, Maesteg RFC, as a Centre, i.e. number 12 or 13.

He played at a representative level rugby league (RL) for Wales (Heritage #432), and at club level for Aberavon Fighting Irish, Bridgend Blue Bulls (twice), Celtic Crusaders, as a WG, or CE, i.e. number 2 or 5, or, 3 or 4, playing cricket for Pencoed Cricket Clubhttp://pencoed.play-cricket.com (captain), and coaching club level rugby union (RU) for Neath Athletic RFChttp://www.pitchero.com/clubs/neathathletic, and Aberavon Quins RFC.

[[Paul O'Grady (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2015 deaths, Australian Labor Party politicians, Australian LGBT people, Cancer deaths in New South Wales, Gay men, LGBT politicians, Politicians from Sydney, Deaths from AIDS

Paul Thomas Francis O'Grady (14 July 1960 – 18 January 2015) was an Australian politician. He was a Labor member of the New South Wales Legislative Council from 1988 to 1996. He was the first openly gay member of the New South Wales Parliament.

O'Grady came out in 1990. In 1996 he resigned because of bad health. Later that year, he said that he had AIDS. He was diagnosed with cancer in 2011. He died at Sacred Heart Hospice in Darlinghurst on 18 January 2015, aged 54.

[[Don Harron]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Toronto, Cancer deaths in Ontario, Canadian journalists, Canadian movie actors, Canadian radio personalities, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian television directors, Comedians from Toronto, Canadian playwrights, Writers from Toronto

Donald Hugh (Don) Harron, (September 19, 1924 – January 17, 2015) was a Canadian comedian, actor, television director, journalist, author, playwright and composer. Harron was known for his roles in Charlie Farquharson and in Anne of Green Gables – The Musical. He hosted the radio program, Morningside. Harron was born in Toronto, Ontario.

Harron died in Toronto from cancer, aged 90. She was married to actress Virginia Leith.

[[Indio, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Riverside County, California

Indio is a city in Riverside County, California, United States. It is in the Coachella Valley of Southern California's Colorado Desert region. The population was 76,036 at the 2010 United States Census.

[[Lee J. Cobb]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1976 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City, People from the Bronx

Lee J. Cobb (December 8, 1911spaced ndashFebruary 11, 1976) was an American actor. He was best known for his roles in 12 Angry Men, On the Waterfront, and The Exorcist. Cobb was born in The Bronx, New York. His daughter, Julie Cobb, was also an actress.

Cobb died in Woodland Hills, California from a heart attack, aged 64.

[[The Family (2013 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 comedy movies, 2013 crime movies, 2010s criminal comedy movies, American criminal comedy movies, English-language movies, French comedy movies, French crime movies, French-language movies, Movies about murderers, Movies set in France, Normandy, Movies directed by Luc Besson

The Family is a 2013 American-French criminal comedy movie. It is set in Normandy and was directed by Luc Besson. It stars Robert De Niro, Michelle Pfeiffer, Tommy Lee Jones, Vincent Pastore, Dianna Agron, and John D'Leo. It was released to mostly positive reviews on 13 September 2013 in the United States and 23 October 2013 in France.

[[Where the Red Fern Grows]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 books, Children's books, American novels

Where the Red Fern Grows is a 1961 novel by American author Wilson Rawls. It is about the friendship between a boy and two Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs.

[[Euclidean space]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry

Euclidian space is sometimes called Cartesian space. A few other spaces and mathematical objects that are similar were added later. Euclid based his work Elements on certain axioms. Euclidean space can be described using such axioms. 

[[Julian Schwinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 1994 deaths, American Nobel Prize winners, American physicists, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Columbia University alumni, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Nobel Prize in Physics winners, Scientists from New York City, Theoretical physicists

Julian Seymour Schwinger (February 12, 1918 – July 16, 1994) was an American theoretical physicist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physics.

Schwinger is well known for his theories about quantum electrodynamics.

[[Sui iuris]]

CATEGORIES: Law

Sui iuris is a Latin phrase that is used in law. Sometimes, the phrase is also spelled sui juris. It literally means of its own right. It is used to say that the legal status of an institution or entity is not comparable to anything else, and there are special laws that say how this institution or entity should work. An example use is in Canon law: The Roman Catholic church say that certain churches are sui iuris. That way the Eastern Catholic churches have their own government, and laws. Despite this, these churches still recognize the Pope of Rome as their spiritual leader.

"The Eastern Catholic Churches are not 'experimental' or 'provisional' communities; these are sui iuris Churches; One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic, with the firm canonical base of the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches promulgated by Pope John Paul II." 

In Roman law, the phrase is used for someone who was independent, and that could become pater familias.

[[Parity of zero]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory

Parity of zero is the question whether the number zero is even or odd. General consensus is that the number is even. Even numbers are defined to be integer multiples of two. That way, the numbers two, four and six are even, because they are one times two, two times two, and three times two. With that explanation, zero is also even, because it is zero times two. 

Another explanation is from number theory: The integers are arranged in such a way that even numbers are followed by odd ones, and odd ones by even ones. Zero is preceded by minus one, and followed by one. Both numbers are odd. So it must be even.

There is also a problem: The term "even" meaning "integer multiple of two" is a convention; people agreed on it. It is not a formal definition. Another case where people used a convention they agreed on was that of prime number: Before the 20th century, there were many inconsistent definitions of prime: Mathematicians such as Goldbach, Lambert, Legendre, Cayley, and Kronecker wrote that 1 was prime. The modern definition of "prime number" is "positive integer with exactly 2 factors", so 1 is not prime. This definition is rational: it naturally suits mathematical theorems that concern the primes. For example, the fundamental theorem of arithmetic is easier to state when 1 is not considered prime

It would be possible to redefine "even" in a way that no longer includes zero. However, in this case, the new definition would make it more difficult to state theorems concerning the even numbers. Already the effect can be seen in the algebraic rules governing even and odd numbers. The most relevant rules concern addition, subtraction, and multiplication:

Inserting appropriate values into the left sides of these rules, one can produce 0 on the right sides:

The above rules would therefore be incorrect if zero were not even. At best they would have to be modified. For example, one test study guide asserts that even numbers are characterized as integer multiples of two, but zero is "neither even nor odd". Accordingly, the guide's rules for even and odd numbers contain exceptions:

Making an exception for zero in the definition of evenness forces one to make such exceptions in the rules for even numbers. From another perspective, taking the rules obeyed by positive even numbers and requiring that they continue to hold for integers forces the usual definition and the evenness of zero.

[[H. Rider Haggard]]

CATEGORIES: English novelists, 1856 births, 1925 deaths

Henry Rider Haggard (1856–1925) was an English writer. He is best known for his adventure novels. His novels were notable for their unusual invention and stories that kept people interested. His best novels were very popular in his lifetime. They made the genre of adventure fiction popular again. Haggard also wrote books about farming and emigration.

Haggard lived in South Africa for six years when he was a young man. Many of his novels were set in Africa, including King Solomon's Mines (1886), Allan Quatermain (1887) and She (1887).

In 1919, Haggard was knighted for his services to the British Empire. Haggard's autobiography, The Days of My Life, was published in 1926 after he died.  Morton Cohen's biography of Haggard was published in 1960.

[[White's illusion]]

CATEGORIES: Illusions

White's illusion is a brightness illusion. Here, some stripes of a black and white grating are replaced by gray rectangles (see Fig). All gray bars usually have same color and opacity. The brightness of the gray pieces appear to shift toward the brightness of the top and bottom bordering stripes, that is, the gray bars with horizontal black regions on their top and bottom appear darker and those with white regions on their top and bottom appear lighter. But this does not match with what lateral inhibition predicts. This illusion is mostly described for grayscale. A similar illusion occurs for colored patches. This is known as Munker-White's illusion or Munker's illusion.

[[Lateral inhibition]]

CATEGORIES: Neuroscience

In neurobiology, lateral inhibition is the ability of an excited neuron to reduce the activity of its neighbors. It stops action potentials from spreading in the lateral direction. It is called lateral inhibition as it stops (inhibits) neighboring neurons from firing. This creates a contrast in stimulation. This increases perception. For example, in vision, it helps in differentiating edges. It occurs primarily in visual processes. But it has also been seen in tactile, auditory, and even olfactory processing. Cells that use lateral inhibition are mainly present in cerebral cortex and thalamus. They make up lateral inhibitory networks (LINs). Artificial sensory systems have artificial lateral inhibition built in them. Examples are vision chips,   hearing systems, and optical mice.

[[Raif Badawi]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Saudi Arabian people

Raif Badawi (Arabic: رائف بدوي‎; born 13 January 1984) is a Saudi Arabian writer and activist. He started the website Free Saudi Liberals in 2008. He was arrested in 2012 because of the website. The website was then taken off the internet. Badawi was sentenced to 10 years in prison and 1000 lashes. Badawi has also been banned from any media work or foreign travel for 10 years after his release from prison. Badawi's first 50 lashes were given on January 9, 2015. After that, Badawi's lashes were postponed many times.  In June 2015, a Saudi high court ruled that Badawi should be lashed but the lashing was postponed hours before it was going to happen. 

Badawi's wife called Ensaf Haidar believes he is weak in body and suffering mentally.  She fears this may be a slow death sentence.

Badawi's sister Samar Badawi is also an activist. Her husband Waleed Abul-Khair is Raif's lawyer. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison in July 2014. Samar is working to get both her brother and husband released from prison.

[[Sweden–Finland]]

CATEGORIES: History of Finland, History of Sweden

Sweden–Finland (Ruotsi-Suomi, Sverige-Finland) is a historiographical term. It refers to the Kingdom of Sweden from the days of the Kalmar Union in the late 14th century up to the Napoleonic Wars in to the early 19th century. In 1809 it was split into two halves. The eastern half became the Grand Duchy of Finland in personal union with the Russian Empire. The western half remained as the Kingdom of Sweden.

[[Adventure fiction]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction genres

Adventure fiction is a type of fiction in which an adventure forms the main storyline. The adventure is usually an exciting undertaking involving risk and physical danger. Author Malins describes adventure fiction as the story "of the hero—individual or group—overcoming obstacles and dangers and accomplishing some important and moral mission." The characters in an adventure fiction are highly sympathetic. They are also ones the reader can easily relate to. There has to be a conflict to overcome and a clever villain to stop.

[[Anthony Trollope]]

CATEGORIES: English novelists, 1815 births, 1882 deaths

Anthony Trollope (1815–1882) was an English novelist who wrote 47 novels and a number of other books. 

His mother Frances Trollope was also a writer. Trollope became an official of the Post Office and lived in Ireland from 1841 to 1859; he left his Post Office job in 1867.

Trollope is well known for his series of novels set in the imaginary county of Barsetshire.  His first novel was published in 1847 and The Warden, the first Barsetshire novel, in 1855. The rest of the series were published during the next 12 years: The Barchester Chronicles (1857), Doctor Thorne (1858), Framley Parsonage (1861), The Small House at Allington (1864), and The Last Chronicle of Barset (1867). Barsetshire is imagined as a county in southwest England. The county town is Barchester, which is the seat of the Bishop of Barchester. 

Trollope also wrote a series of political novels featuring the Palliser family. These began in 1864 with Can You Forgive Her?. The rest of the series is Phineas Finn (1869), The Eustace Diamonds (1873), Phineas Redux (1876), The Prime Minister (1876), and The Duke's Children (1880). Trollope was an industrious and disciplined writer who wrote short stories, travel books and biographies as well as novels.

[[Sterling silver]]

CATEGORIES: Metals, Standards

Sterling silver is an alloy of silver containing 92.5% by mass of silver and 7.5% by mass of other metals, usually copper. The sterling silver standard has a minimum of 925 in continental European terms.

Pure silver, for example 99.9% pure, is generally too soft for making objects for use. Therefore, the silver is usually alloyed with copper to give it strength while keeping the ductility and beauty of the precious metal. Other metals can replace the copper, to improve various properties of the basic sterling alloy such as increasing resistance to tarnish. These replacement metals include germanium, zinc and platinum, as well as a variety of other additives, including silicon and boron. Alloys such as argentium silver have appeared in recent decades. Argentium silver has some germanium added, and resists tarnishing well.

The first legal definition of sterling silver appeared in 1275. A statute of Edward I specified that 12 ounces of silver for coinage should contain 11 ounces 2 pennyweights of silver and 17 pennyweights of alloy, with 20 pennyweights to the Troy ounce.

Sterling silver standards are protected by hallmarks stamped on pieces by officials.

[[Christina of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1626 births, 1654 deaths, Kings and Queens of Sweden

Queen Christina of Sweden (Kristina av Sverige; 18 December – 19 April 1689), was the queen of 

Sweden from 1632 to 1654. She then resigned to become a Roman Catholic.

She also liked humanities and had invited philosophers such as René Descartes in Sweden.

[[Richard Benson (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, English rock guitarists, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Rome, Musicians from Surrey, People from Woking

Richard Philip Henry John Benson, known as Richard Benson (born 10 March 1955, Woking, England) is an English–Italian guitarist.

[[Kjell Arnljot Wig]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Norway, Norwegian journalists, Norwegian writers, Novelists, Norwegian television personalities

Kjell Arnljot Wig (31 December 1924 – 18 January 2015) was a Norwegian media personality. He was a journalist for Morgenbladet from 1948. He was later with the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation from 1963 to 1992. He hosted a series of television shows, including Aktuell debatt, Vindu mot verden, and Åpen post. Some of his novels were Det skjulte Norge (1969), Kongen ser tilbake (1977), and Eventyret om Blaafarveværket (1995}.

Wig was born in Stjørdal. He was married and had children.

Wig died after an illness on 18 January 2015 at Bærum hospital. He was 90.

[[Bob Barr (1880s pitcher)]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1930 deaths, Washington Nationals players

Robert McClelland Barr (December, 1856 - March 11, 1930) was a Major League Baseball pitcher.  He also made some appearances as an outfielder, first baseman, and third baseman.

Barr played for the Pittsburgh Alleghenys, Washington Nationals, Indianapolis Hoosiers, and Rochester Broncos. He also played for the Washington Nationals and New York Giants.

[[Suspicion (1941 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 movies, 1940s mystery movies, 1940s thriller movies, Academy Award winning movies, American mystery movies, American thriller movies, English-language movies, Film noir, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Alfred Hitchcock

Suspicion is a 1941 romantic thriller movie. It is based on the novel Before the Fact. The movie was directed by Alfred Hitchcock. Cary Grant plays Johnnie, a gambler. Joan Fontaine plays Lina. Dame May Whitty plays Martha.

This movie was nominated for Academy Awards for the Best Picture and the Best Original Score. Fontaine won the Best Actress award.

[[Pike Place Fish Market]]

CATEGORIES: Fishing, Seattle, Washington, 1930 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Washington (state)

The Pike Place Fish Market is an open air fish market located in Seattle, Washington at the corner of Pike Street and Pike Place. It is known for their tradition of fishmongers throwing fish that customers have purchased, before they are wrapped. After nearing bankruptcy in 1986, the fish market owner and employees decided to become "world famous", changing their way of doing business by introducing their flying fish, games, and customer performances. Four years later, they were featured repeatedly in the national media and television shows.  The store is now a popular tourist destination in Seattle, attracting up to 10,000 daily visitors, and is often billed as world-famous.

[[Gustav I of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1650 deaths, Kings and Queens of Sweden

Gustav I of Sweden, born 14 May 1496, dead 29 September 1560, was the King of Sweden from 1523 until his death in 1560. During his reign, Sweden broke relationship with the Kalmar Union and the Roman Catholic Church.

[[Marie Hermanson]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Swedish writers

Marie Hermanson, born 1956, is a Swedish writer and journalist.

[[Pietra dura]]

CATEGORIES: Materials, Art

Pietra dura  is a term for using cut and fitted, highly polished colored stones to create images. 

The stonework is glued stone-by-stone to a base after being "sliced and cut in different shape sections; and then assembled together so precisely that the contact between each section was practically invisible". Stability was achieved by grooving the undersides of the stones so that they interlocked, rather like a jigsaw puzzle, with everything held in place by an encircling 'frame'. Many different colored stones, particularly marbles, were used, along with semiprecious, and even precious stones. 

The technique first appeared in Rome in the 16th century. It reached its peak in Florence.  Pietra dura items are generally crafted on green, white or black marble base stones. Typically the resulting panel is completely flat, but some examples have the image is in low relief.

There are a number of similar techniques which should not be called pietra dura. The English term "Florentine mosaic" is sometimes used for the work of Giovanni Montelatici (1864-1930). He was an Italian Florentine artist whose brilliant work has been distributed across the world by tourists and collectors.

Pietra dura is also different from mosaics because stones are mostly much larger and cut to a shape suiting their place in the image, not all of roughly equal size and shape as in mosaic. In pietra dura, the stones are not cemented together with grout, and works in pietra dura are often portable. Nor should it be confused with micromosaics, a form of mosaic using very small tesserae of the same size to create images for Byzantine icons, and later for furniture panels.

[[Pink cat]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional cats

Cats can be many different breeds and fur coat colours. A pink cat is not a color found in nature. But several pink cats have been reported about in the news  media. Sometimes the cat colour has changed to pink with chemicals or dyes. There are also several fictional pink cats in popular culture.

[[Noriko Ohara]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Actors from Tokyo, Japanese voice actors

Noriko Ohara is a Japanese voice actress. She is represented by Production Baobab. Her son is Sunrise animator Atsuo Tobe.

She is known for the roles of Nobita Nobi (Doraemon), all female lead villains in the Time Bokan series, Conan (Future Boy Conan), Peter (Heidi, Girl of the Alps), Oyuki and Claudia LaSalle. In the first ever Seiyu Awards in 2007, she won the Synergy award.

[[Tony Verna]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, American television producers, American inventors, People from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Anthony F. Verna (November 26, 1933 – January 18, 2015) was an American television producer. He was known for creating instant replay and for producing interviews with Pope John Paul II, Ronald Reagan, and Charlton Heston. Verna was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Verna died in Palm Desert, California from leukemia, aged 81.

[[Pedro María Iguaran]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2015 deaths, Spanish footballers

Pedro María Iguaran Arandia (2 July 1940 – 16 January 2015) commonly known as Pello Iguaran was a Spanish football defender.

Iguaran played for Deportivo Alavés in the 1963-1964 season. Iguaran served his new club for 7 years, being in most cases used as a reserve defender. He played a total of 85 games for Real Sociedad.

[[George Pataki]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 United States presidential candidates, 1945 births, Living people, Governors of New York, American mayors, People from Peekskill, New York, US Republican Party politicians

George Elmer Pataki (p; born June 24, 1945) is an American politician. He was the 53rd Governor of New York.  A member of the Republican Party, Pataki served three consecutive four-year terms from January 1, 1995, until December 31, 2006.

==Early life== 

Pataki was born in Peekskill, New York. He is of an Austrian-Hungarian ancestry. After graduating fom Peekskill High School, he entered Yale University in the same year as George W. Bush in 1964 on an academic scholarship and graduated in three years. While there he served as chairman of the Conservative Party of the Yale Political Union.

[[National Association of Evangelicals]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 establishments in the United States, Evangelicalism, Christianity in the United States

The National Association of Evangelicals (NAE) is a fellowship of member denominations, churches, organizations, and individuals. Its stated goal is to honor God by connecting and representing evangelicals in the United States. Today it works in four main areas: Church & Faith Partners, Government Relations, Chaplains Commission, and World Relief. The NAE is a member of the World Evangelical Alliance (WEA). 

[[Indian Institute of Science]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in India, 1909 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in India

Indian Institute of Science (IISc) is a public university for scientific research. It is located in Bangalore, India. Jamshetji Tata gave active support to establish this institute. He is one of the earliest industrialists of India. IISc is well known as India's finest research university.

[[Dan Waern]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Swedish sportspeople

Dan Waern (born 17 January 1933 in Sköldinge, Sweden) is a Swedish former middle-distance runner. In 1957, he became the first Swede to run the first sub-four-minute mile. 1957 was also the year he was awarded the Svenska Dagbladet Gold Medal.

In 1961, the IAAF disqualified him for professionalism.

[[Sköldinge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Sköldinge is a locality in Katrineholm Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 604 people lived there.

[[Toini Gustafsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Toini Gustafsson Rönnlund, born Toini Gustafsson, 17 January 1938 in Suomussalmi, Finland) is a Swedish former cross country skier. During the 1968 Winter Olympics in Grenoble she won two individual gold medals. In 1968, she was awarded the Svenska Dagbladet Gold Medal. She was married with Swedish cross-country skier Assar Rönnlund until he died in January 2011.

[[Lasse Granqvist]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Swedish journalists

Lasse Granqvist, born 25 October 1957 in Solna, Sweden is Swedish a sports journalist. He was active for Sveriges Radio from August 1987 to 15 January 2013. On 1 January 2000 became active for C More Entertainment. 

[[Michel Guimond]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Quebec, Deaths from heart failure, Politicians from Quebec

Michel Guimond (December 26, 1953 - January 19, 2015) was a Canadian politician. From 1987 to 1993 he served as a city councillor in Boischatel, Quebec. After this, he ran in the 1993 federal election for the Bloc Québécois.

[[Vladimir Kesarev]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, 1958 FIFA World Cup players, Russian footballers, Russian football managers, Soviet sportspeople, Sportspeople from Moscow

Vladimir Petrovich Kesarev (Владимир Петрович Кесарев; 26 February 1930 – 19 January 2015) was a Soviet Russian footballer.

He earned 14 caps for the USSR national football team, and participated in the 1958 FIFA World Cup. He was selected in the squad for the first ever European Nations' Cup in 1960, where the Soviets were champions, but did not play in any games at the tournament.

[[Miriam Akavia]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Holocaust survivors, Jewish Israeli writers, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Kraków, Polish Jews, Polish writers

Miriam Akavia (Matylda Weinfeld, 20 November 1927 – 16 January 2015) was a Polish-born Israeli writer and translator. She was a Holocaust survivor. Akavia served as president of the Platform for Jewish-Polish Dialogue. She was born in Kraków, Poland.

Akavia died in Warsaw, Poland of natural causes, aged 87.

[[Anne Kirkbride]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from breast cancer, Cancer deaths in England, English television actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, Actors from Lancashire, People from Oldham, Greater Manchester

Anne Kirkbride (21 June 1954 – 19 January 2015) was an English actress. She was best known for playing Deirdre Barlow in the long-running ITV soap opera, Coronation Street, from 1972 to 2014.

On 19 January 2015, Kirkbride died of breast cancer in a Manchester hospital. She was 60 years old. Before she died, Kirkbride was planning to go back to Coronation Street, but never had the chance to do so.

[[Arthit Kamlang-ek]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Thai generals

General Arthit Kamlang-ek (31 August 1925 - 19 January 2015; อาทิตย์ กำลังเอก, ʔaːtʰít kamlaŋʔèːk) was a Thai general.

He was the Commander-in-Chief of the Royal Thai Army from 1982 to 1986 and parallel the Supreme Commander of the Royal Thai Armed Forces from 1983 to 1986.

[[José Carrasco]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Peruvian politicians

José Carlos Carrasco Távara (1944 – 18 January 2015) was a Peruvian politician. He represented Piura from 2006 through 2011. Carrasco was a member of the Peruvian Aprista Party. He was born in the Sullana Province, Peru.

Carrasco died in Lima, Peru on 18 January 2015 from lung cancer, aged 70.

[[Marshmallow creme]]

CATEGORIES: Snack foods

Marshmallow creme (also called marshmallow fluff, marshmallow stuff, marshmallow spread, or marshmallow paste) is an American food item. It is a very sweet and spreadable. It is made out of marshmallows. Marshmallow creme and peanut butter are used to create a fluffernutter sandwich. In addition, marshmallow creme and Nutella can be spread on graham crackers to make s'mores.

Marshmallow creme has around 91.3 calories.

[[Chynna Phillips]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, Singers from Los Angeles, California, 1968 births, Living people

Chynna Phillips (born February 12, 1968) is an American actress and singer who performed with Wilson Phillips. In the movie Some Kind of Wonderful, she played Mia. She played Mimi in Say Anything.... She is the daughter of The Mamas & the Papas band members Michelle and John Phillips.

Phillips was born in Los Angeles.

[[Carnie Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians from California, American television personalities, 1968 births, Living people

Carnie Wilson (born April 29, 1968) is an American singer and television host. She sang with Wilson Phillips. She also hosted her own talk show.

Wilson was born in Los Angeles.

[[Assist (football)]]

CATEGORIES: Association football

In association football, an assist is a pass or a cross by a player which helps to score a goal. Most commonly, an assist is given to a player for passing or crossing the ball to the scorer.  It may also be awarded to a player whose shot rebounds (off a defender, goalkeeper or goalpost) to a teammate who scores. Some systems may give an assist to a player who wins a penalty kick or a free kick for another player to score. An attacking player for contributing to an own goal can also get an assist. A goal may be unassisted, or have one assist. In some systems, even two assists is possible.

[[Vejbystrand]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Vejbystrand is a bimunicipal locality in Skåne County, Sweden. In 2010,2,721 people lived there. Most people live in Ängelholm Municipality and some in Båstad Municipality.

[[Renzo De Felice]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1996 deaths, Italian historians

Renzo De Felice (8 April 1929 – 25 May 1996) was an Italian historian. He was born in Rieti and studied at the Sapienza University of Rome. In his youth De Felice joined the Italian Communist Party. He left the party after the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. He wrote more than 20 books and a large number of essays based on his extensive research. He was especially known for his studies on fascism. On this subject he was considered an expert.

He spent more than 40 years (1956-1996) of his life writing a biography of Benito Mussolini. He died before completing it. De Felice was considered an historical revisionist. He taught history at the Sapienza University of Rome. He was married to Livia De Ruggiero. De Felice died May 25, 1996 in Rome.

[[Nerd Corps Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian animation studios, DHX Media

Nerd Corps Entertainment is a Canadian computer-animation studio based in Vancouver, British Columbia. Nerd Corps has been world known for Slugterra television series. It airs on Disney XD in Canada and worldwide.

[[Hungarian Revolution of 1956]]

CATEGORIES: 1956, 1950s in the Soviet Union, 20th century in Hungary, Revolutions, Time People of the Year

The Hungarian Revolution of 1956 or Hungarian Uprising of 1956 (1956-os forradalom or felkelés) was a spontaneous nationwide revolt. It was against the government of the Hungarian People's Republic and its Soviet-imposed policies. It lasted from 23 October until 10 November 1956. It was the first major threat to Soviet control since the USSR's forces drove out the Nazis at the end of World War II and took over Eastern Europe. Despite the failure of the uprising, it was highly influential. It played a role in the fall of the Soviet Union decades later.

[[Substitute (association football)]]

CATEGORIES: Football (soccer) terminology

In association football, a substitute is a player who is brought on to the pitch during a match in exchange for a player who is currently playing. Substitutions can be made for many reasons. Sometimes, they are made to replace a player who has become tired or injured. Substitutes can also replace a player who is playing poorly, or can be for tactics. For example, substitute strikers can be brought on for defenders if the team needs to attack. The term "super-sub" refers to a substitution made by the manager that saves the game. This is generally done by scoring one or more late goals. The goals can equalize or win the team the match. Players who have been called "super-subs" include David Fairclough for Liverpool, Adam Le Fondre for Reading, Ole Gunnar Solskjær and Javier Hernández for Manchester United, and Edin Džeko for Manchester City  among others.

[[Water-mixable oil paint]]

CATEGORIES: Paints

Water-mixable oil paint (also called "water soluble" or "water miscible") is a modern type of oil paint.

It is designed to be thinned and cleaned up with water. This avoids using turps (turpentine), whose fumes may be harmful if inhaled, and is a fires risk. 

Water miscible oil paint can be mixed and used with the same techniques as traditional oil-based paint. When it is still wet, it can be removed from brushes, palettes, and rags with ordinary soap and water. Its water solubility comes from the use of an oil medium in which one end of the molecule has been altered to bind loosely to water molecules, as in a solution.

Another advantage of this type of oil paint is that it dries faster than traditional oils (but slower than acrylics). Also, painters can control the speed of drying with supplementary products from artistic paint suppliers.

[[Turpentine]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Turpentine (spirit of turpentine, oil of turpentine, wood turpentine) or  turps is a solvent and a source of materials for organic synthesis.

Turpentine is a solvent fluid got by distilling resin from live trees, mainly pines. It is a complex mixture of hydrocarbons. As a solvent, turpentine is used for thinning oil-based paints, for producing varnishes, and as a raw material for the chemical industry.

The word turpentine comes from the Greek word τερεβινθίνη terebinthine, the name of a species of tree, the terebinth tree. 

It is hazardous. It is dangerous to inhale, and can cause fires. Because of this, white spirit (mineral turps) or other substitutes are often used.

They are very different chemically.

[[American Sniper]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 drama movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Clint Eastwood, Movies based on the September 11 attacks

American Sniper is a 2014 American drama movie. It is directed by Clint Eastwood. It is based on a book by Chris Kyle called American Sniper: The Autobiography of the Most Lethal Sniper in U.S. Military History. It stars Bradley Cooper in the leading role with Sienna Miller. It was released to positive reviews on December 25, 2014. The movie was nominated for six awards at the 2015 Oscars.

[[Horrible Histories (2009 TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 British television series debuts, 2013 television series endings, 2000s British television series, 2010s British television series, BBC Television programmes, British children's television series, British comedy television series, English-language television programs

Horrible Histories is a British children's sketch comedy television series, part of the children's history franchise of the same name based on the books written by Terry Deary. The show was produced for CBBC by Lion Television with Citrus Television.

The TV show carries over the graphic style and much of the content of the Horrible Histories book series. It maintains the franchise's overall irreverent but accurate focus on the dark, gruesome or scatological aspects of British and other Western world history, spanning from the Stone Age to the post-World War II era. Individual historical eras or civilisations are defined and named as in the books, with sketches from several different time periods combined within a single episode.

In 2011, a spin-off game show, Horrible Histories: Gory Games, was launched on CBBC. In the same year, the original show was repackaged for main channel BBC One as Horrible Histories with Stephen Fry, with Fry replacing the puppet rat as presenter.

[[SummerSlam (2001)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 in professional wrestling, Sports in San Jose, California, SummerSlam, 2001 in California, 2001 in American television, August events, History of San Jose, California

SummerSlam (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on August 19, 2001 at Compaq Center in San Jose, California. It was the fourteenth SummerSlam event held by the WWF.

The main event saw The Rock defeat Booker T to win the WCW Championship. The Rock won the match by pinfall after he hit the Rock Bottom on Booker T. Another main match was between Steve Austin and Kurt Angle for the WWF Championship. Angle won the match by disqualification after Austin attacked referees. On the undercard, the main match was a steel cage match between the WCW Tag Team Champions Undertaker and Kane and the WWF Tag Team Champions Diamond Dallas Page and Kanyon. The Undertaker and Kane won the match by pinfall after Undertaker executed the Last Ride on Page.

[[SummerSlam (2000)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in American television, 2000 in professional wrestling, Sports in North Carolina, SummerSlam, 20th century in North Carolina

SummerSlam (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on August 27, 2000 at Raleigh Entertainment and Sports Arena in Raleigh, North Carolina. It was the thirteenth SummerSlam event held by the WWF.

The main event saw The Rock defeat Triple H and Kurt Angle in a Triple threat match to retain his WWF Championship. The Rock won the match by pinfall after he hit Triple H with the People's Elbow. A featured match on the undercard saw Kane and The Undertaker fight to a no contest. the match ended in a no contest after Undertaker unmasked Kane. Another main match on the undercard was Edge and Christian (c), The Hardy Boyz (Matt Hardy and Jeff Hardy) and The Dudley Boyz (Bubba Ray Dudley and D-Von Dudley) in the first Tables, Ladders, and Chairs match for the WWF Tag Team Championship. Edge and Christian won the match after they climbed the ladder and grabbed the belts that were hanging above the ring. 

[[Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour]]

CATEGORIES: 1810 births, 1861 deaths, Prime Ministers of Italy, People from Turin, Mayors

Camillo Paolo Filippo Giulio Benso, Count of Cavour, Isolabella and Leri (10 August 1810 – 6 June 1861), better known as Cavour (kaˈvur), was an Italian politician and statesman. He was an important person in the movement toward the Italian unification.

Cavour was born in Turin during Napoleonic rule. Until 1831, he was a military officer. Later, he decided to travel in Europe to learn more about the effects of the Industrial Revolution. The trips helped him to know and understand the principles of the British Liberal system.

After four years, he returned to Piedmont. He took charge of agriculture and the economy in general. He worked for the spread of schools. During that time, his business and banking activities made him one of the richest men in the Piedmont.

From 1832 to 1848, Cavour was the mayor of Grinzane (now called Grinzane Cavour to honor him). In 1847, he founded the newspaper Il Risorgimento. According to him, the process of economic and social development, which he had promoted for years, could be implemented only after a deep restructuring of  political institutions.

In 1850, Cavour became famous because he advocating the "Siccardi Law" that diminished the privileges of the Catholic clergy. In the same year, the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Sardinia, Massimo D'Azeglio, chose him as Minister of Agriculture, Trade and Navy. Later he also became Minister of Finance. After D'Azeglio resigned on November 4, 1852, Cavour became Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Sardinia.

Cavour's political program wanted to become the Kingdom of Sardinia a constitutional State based on moderate and progressive liberalism and so he dedicated himself to a radical renewal of the economy. He modernised and supported agriculture, strengthened the industrial system and promoted trade with the major European powers. However, his liberal program was criticized by both the "Historical Left", which cared for the poorest citizens, both the "Historical Right", which considered him as a destroyer of conservative traditions.

In 1858, he signed a treaty of alliance between the Kingdom of Sardinia and the French Empire against the Austrian Empire. The next year, the Second Italian War of Independence, the Piedmontese and the French defeated the Austrians, who then controlled Italy.

After the Armistice of Villafranca and Giuseppe Garibaldi's expedition in the South (1860-1861), the unification of Italy was completed. Cavour became the first president of the united Italy. He was also the first Minister of Foreign Affairs. He was the leader of the Liberal parliamentary group. He died of an illness in Turin.

[[Denis Mack Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, British historians, People from London

Denis Mack Smith CBE FBA FRSL (3 March 1920 – 11 July 2017) was a British historian. He has written many books and articles on the history of Italy from the Risorgimento onwards. He wrote biographies of famous Italians in history: Giuseppe Garibaldi, Camillo Cavour, Victor Emmanuel II, and Benito Mussolini. He was born in London.

[[Anatol Hrytskievich]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Historians, People from Minsk

Anatol Hrytskievich (Анатоль Грыцкевіч; January 31, 1929 – January 20, 2015) was a Belarusian historian. He was a correspondent member of the International Academy of Science of Eurasia (1996–2015), doctor of history (1986–2015), professor (1987–2015). He was born in  Minsk.

Hrytskievich died on January 20, 2015 in Minsk, aged 85.

[[Bob Symes]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from cancer, British inventors, British television producers, Austrian businesspeople, People from Vienna

Robert Alexander Schutzmann (6 May 1924 – 19 January 2015) was an Austrian-born British inventor and television presenter.

He was known for his works in Tomorrow's Land and on model railways. Symes was known for his relaxed and gentle but well-informed style on his shows. Symes was born in Vienna, Austria.

Symes died in west Wales from cancer, aged 90.

[[Australian twenty-cent coin]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of Australia

The twenty-cent coin was part of the Australian decimal currency system. It replaced the florin on the 14th of February, 1966. The florin was for two shillings. As the system changed, the Australian pound became worth two Australian dollars.

On the obverse side, there is the Queen Elizabeth of Australia. On the other side, there is a platypus, the mascot used for national events.

[[Trypanosoma]]

CATEGORIES: Parasites, Protozoa

Trypanosoma is a genus of parasitic protozoa. There are in the class Kinetoplastida. They are a monophyletic group of unicellular parasitic flagellate protozoa. All trypanosomes are need more than one particular host to complete life cycle. 

Most are transmitted by a vector, usually by blood-feeding invertebrates. There are different mechanisms among the various species. In an invertebrate host they are generally found in the intestine, but in their mammalian host they usually live in the bloodstream or inside cells.

Trypanosomes infect a variety of hosts and cause various diseases, including the fatal human diseases sleeping sickness, caused by Trypanosoma brucei, and Chagas disease, caused by Trypanosoma cruzi.

The mitochondrial genome of the Trypanosoma, and other kinetoplastids, is made of a highly complex series of circles and minicircles. It needs many proteins for organisation during cell division.

[[Robert Knox]]

CATEGORIES: 1791 births, 1862 deaths, People from Edinburgh, Anatomists

Robert Knox (4 September 1791 – 20 December 1862) was a Scottish anatomist, zoologist, ethnologist and doctor. He is best known for the Burke and Hare murders. Some of his work had controversy because he tried to prove that Anglo-Saxons were superior to other people.

[[Ambrosia beetle]]

CATEGORIES: Polyphaga

Ambrosia beetles are beetles of the weevil subfamilies Scolytinae and Platypodinae (Coleoptera, Curculionidae. They live in symbiosis with ambrosia fungi and bacteria. The beetles make tunnels in dead trees where they grow fungal gardens for nutrition.

During their evolution, most weevils became more or less dependant on fungi. Some bark beetles that ate phloem are using more fungi. These beetles are called mycophloeophages.

[[Platypus (weevil)]]

CATEGORIES: Polyphaga

Platypus is a weevil genus in the subfamily Platypodinae.

[[Michel Jeury]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2015 deaths, French writers, People from Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Science fiction writers

Michel Jeury (23 January 1934 – 9 January 2015), also known by his pseudonym Albert Higon, was a French science fiction writer. He wrote over seventy books between 1958 and 2013.

Jeury was born in Razac-d'Eymet, Dordogne.

Jeury died on 9 January 2015 in Vaison-la-Romaine, Vaucluse, aged 80.

[[Hypocenter]]

CATEGORIES: Earth sciences

The hypocenter (literally: 'below the center') is the site of an earthquake or a nuclear explosion. In an earthquake, it is a synonym of the focus. In the case of a nuclear explosion, it is a synonym of ground zero.

[[Bettino Ricasoli]]

CATEGORIES: 1809 births, 1880 deaths, Freemasons, Italian esotericists, Mayors, People from Florence, Politicians from Tuscany, Prime Ministers of Italy

Bettino Ricasoli, 1st Baron Ricasoli, 1st Count of Brolio (29 March 1809 - 23 October 1880) was an Italian statesman. He was born in Florence. Ricasoli served as Mayor of Florence from January 1848 to November of the same year. Member of the "Historic Right", after the Camillo Cavour's death Ricasoli became Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Italy. He was Prime Minister of Italy from 12 June 1861 to 3 March 1862 and from 20 June 1866 to 10 April 1867. He was also twice Foreign Minister, twice Interior Minister and once Minister of War.

In the last years of his life he was mayor of Gaiole in Chianti, a small town near Siena. Ricasoli died in his castle in Broglio, another village near Siena. Ricasoli's private life and public career were marked by the utmost integrity, and by a rigid austerity which earned him the name of the "Iron Baron". He was also a freemason.

[[Kinyarwanda]]

CATEGORIES: Rwanda, Languages of Africa

Kinyarwanda is the official language of Rwanda. Many natives in the country speak it.August 2018

[[Five Nights at Freddy's 2]]

CATEGORIES: Five Nights at Freddy's (series)

Five Nights at Freddy's 2 is a survival horror point and click video game. It was created by Scott Cawthon. It is canonically  a prequel to Five Nights at Freddy's. The game was released November 10, 2014.

[[SummerSlam (1999)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 in American television, 1999 in professional wrestling, Sports in Minneapolis, Minnesota, SummerSlam, 1999 in the United States, 1990s in Minnesota, History of Minneapolis, Minnesota

SummerSlam (1999) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on August 22, 1999 at Target Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota. It was the twelfth SummerSlam event held by the WWF.

The main event saw Mankind defeat Steve Austin and Triple H in a Triple threat match to win the WWF Championship. Mankind won the match by pinfall after hitting Austin with a Double arm DDT.

[[Alain LeRoy Locke]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1954 deaths, African American writers, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American educators, American philosophers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Gay men, Harvard University alumni, LGBT African Americans, LGBT people from Pennsylvania, LGBT writers, Rhodes scholars, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 20th century philosophers

Alain Leroy Locke (September 13, 1886 – June 9, 1954) was an American writer, philosopher, educator, and patron of the arts. He was the first African American Rhodes Scholar in 1907. Locke was called the "godfather" of the Harlem Renaissance. As a result, popular listings of influential African-Americans have repeatedly included him. On March 19, 1968, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said: "We're going to let our children know that the only philosophers that lived were not Plato and Aristotle, but W. E. B. Du Bois and Alain Locke came through the universe."

[[Urbano Rattazzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1808 births, 1873 deaths, People from Alessandria, Prime Ministers of Italy

Urbano Pio Francesco Rattazzi (29 June 1808 – 5 June 1873) was an Italian statesman.

He was born in Alessandria (Piedmont). He studied law at Turin and in 1838 began working as a lawyer. He began his political career in 1848, when he was elected deputy of the Kingdom of Sardinia.

Urbano Rattazzi served as President of the Chamber of Deputies three times: twice in the Kingdom of Sardinia (from 11 May 1852 to 27 October 1853 and from 10 January 1859 to 21 January 1860) and once in the Kingdom of Italy (from 18 February 1861 to March 3 1862).

Very moderate member of the "Historical Left", he was twice Prime Minister of Italy: from March 3 1862 to December 8 of the same year and from 10 April 1867 to 27 October of the same year.

When Giuseppe Garibaldi tried to join Rome to Italy with a forceful action, Rattazzi ordered that he be arrested. However, "the hero of two worlds" escaped: consequently, Rattazzi was forced to resign and retire from political life.

Rattazzi was also several times Minister and deputy, both in the Kingdom of Sardinia and in the Kingdom of Italy.

He died at Frosinone.

His wife, Maria Wyse Bonaparte, was a granddaughter of Lucien Bonaparte and a grandniece of Napoleon Bonaparte.

[[Västra Karup]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Västra Karup is a locality in Båstad Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 582 people lived there. Birgit Nilsson was born there 1918.

[[Östra Karup]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Östra Karup is a locality in Båstad Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 594 people lived there.

[[Torekov]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Torekov is a locality in Båstad Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 863 people lived there. While still a fishing village, it is today also a summer resort.

In August 1971 the "Torekov Compromise" was decided there. It stripped the Swedish monarchs of all remainind political power.

[[Hjärnarp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Hjärnarp is a locality in Ängelholm Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 975 people lived there.

[[Kattarp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Kattarp is a locality in Helsingborg Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, people lived there.

[[Arbrå]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Arbrå is a locality in Bollnäs Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,215 people lived there.

[[Kilafors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Kilafors is a locality in Bollnäs Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,126 people lived there.

[[Odd Olsen Ingerø]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Norwegian politicians

Odd Olsen Ingerø (born September 22, 1950) is a Norwegian civil servant. He is the current governor of Svalbard, Norway. Ingerø was governor from 2001-2005, and came back in 2009 for a second term. For 20 years he was the chief of police in Kirkenes.

[[Anna-Clara Tidholm]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Swedish children's writers

Anna-Clara Beatrice Tidholm (born Tjerneld on 7 January 1946 in Stockholm, Sweden) is a Swedish children's writer and illustrator. She grew up on the island of Djurgården in Stockholm. She has lived at a small farm in Arbrå since 1970.

[[Horse theft]]

CATEGORIES: Theft

Horse theft is the crime of stealing a horse. A person accused of stealing a horse is known as a horse thief. Horse theft was fairly common throughout the world prior to widespread car ownership. Punishments were often severe for horse theft. In several places the sentence of death was carried out. This was seen as a deterrent against horse theft. Death for an agricultural crime such as horse theft is seen as inhumane under most modern systems of law. Horse theft is an uncommon crime today.

[[Göingeflickorna]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 establishments in Sweden, Musical groups disestablished in 1975, Swedish musical groups, 20th century disestablishments in Sweden

Göingeflickorna was a girl vocal trio from Sweden. It was active between 1955-1955. The members were sisters Sonja Martinsson (1934–2013), Barbro Svensson (born 1941) and Agnetha Gardelid (born 1945). Their major breakthrough came in 1961 with the song Kära mor. Barbro left the trio in 1975. Sonja and Agnetha then continued appearing together.

[[Fellingsbro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Fellingsbro is a locality in Lindesberg Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,384 people lived there.

[[Åmotfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Åmotfors is a bimunicipal locality in Eda Municipality and Arvika Municipality in Värmland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,410 people lived there.

[[Justin Capră]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, Romanian people, Inventors, Romanian educators, Engineers

Virgilius Justin Capra (22 February 1933 – 19 January 2015) was a Romanian inventor, teacher and engineer. He was known for his many inventions including: the world's 1st first jetpack (named "flying backpack"), electric tricycle Oblio and Troty, the smallest car in the world Soleta (with a consumption of 0.5l / 100 km), first "rocketcar", car with a plane engine (Virgilius) and more.

[[Kemal Monteno]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from sepsis, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from surgical complications, Bosnia and Herzegovina writers, Singer-songwriters, Bosnia and Herzegovina entertainers

Kemal Monteno (17 September 1948 – 21 January 2015) was a Bosnian singer-songwriter. His career stretched back to the 1960s. He recorded his first song "Lidija" in 1967 and has enjoyed a prosperous career in the former Yugoslavia. He is perhaps best known for "Sarajevo ljubavi moja", a tribute to his home town.

Monteno died at a Zagreb hospital of pneumonia and sepsis on 21 January 2015 due to complications after the kidney transplant. He was 66 years old.

[[Austrian School]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

The Austrian School is a school of economic thought based on the actions of the individual person. It started in late 19th and early 20th century Vienna, Austria. It is referred to as Austrian economics, because the primary economists were Austrian although its followers are from all over the world today.

Followers of the Austrian school criticize central planning, government price controls and other state regulations. They say that it is impossible for government institutions to make comparatively better decisions about production or the prices of goods and services because they do not have the knowledge or flexibility that millions of individual consumers have. Followers of the Austrian school also criticize government inflation of the money supply.

[[The Hunchback of Notre Dame II]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 movies, 2002 animated movies, Disney animated movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Paris, Sequel movies, The Hunchback of Notre Dame (Disney), American movies

The Hunchback of Notre Dame II is a 2000 musical comedy movie. It is a direct-to-video sequel to the 1996 Disney animated movie The Hunchback of Notre Dame. It was produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios. It was released on December 31, 2001.

[[Calcaneus]]

CATEGORIES: Bones, Feet

The calcaneus is a bone of the foot and part of the heel. Its name came from the Latin word k, calcaneus or calcaneum, meaning heel.

[[Spur (zoology)]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy

A spur is a bone covered in horn that grows out of an animal's body. While claws or nails grow from the toes, spurs grow on other parts of the foot. These parts are usually connected with joints. Spurs are mostly found on the hindfeet, but some birds have spurs at the edge of their wings.

[[Ryan Adams]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians from North Carolina, American singer-songwriters, 1974 births, Living people

David Ryan Adams (born November 5, 1974) is an American singer-songwriter, musician and producer. He was a member of the alternative country band Whiskeytown. His first solo album, Heartbreaker, was released in 2000. 

Adams was born in Jacksonville, North Carolina.

[[Electroreception]]

CATEGORIES: Ethology, Physiology

Electroreception is the ability animals have to sense electrical sources. It is mostly found in aquatic or amphibious animals. This is because water helps the signals travel better than air. Some exceptions are the echidnas, cockroaches and bees.  Electroreception is used in electrolocation.

[[Rachael Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: Australian television actors, Australian movie actors, Australian models, 1984 births, Living people

Rachael Taylor (born 11 July 1984) is an Australian actress and model. She acts in both Australian and Hollywood movies. She played Maggie Madsen in the 2007 movie Transformers. She played Teri in Man-Thing.

Taylor was born in Launceston, Tasmania.

[[Hydrogen ion]]

CATEGORIES: Hydrogen

Hydrogen ion is recommended by IUPAC as a general term for all ions of hydrogen and its isotopes. 

Depending on the charge of the ion, there are two types: positively charged ions and negatively charged ions.

[[SummerSlam (1998)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 in professional wrestling, Sports in New York City, SummerSlam, 1998 in American television, 1990s in New York City

SummerSlam (1998) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on August 30, 1998 at Madison Square Garden in New York, New York. It was the eleventh SummerSlam event held by the WWF.

The main event saw Steve Austin defeat The Undertaker and retain his WWF Championship. Austin won the match by pinfall after he hit Undertaker with the Stunner. On the undercard, the main match was a ladder match between Triple H and The Rock for the WWF Intercontinental Championship. Triple H won the match by climbing a ladder and grabbing the title that was hanging above the ring.

[[Yours Faithfully]]

CATEGORIES: Pop albums, 1998 albums

Yours Faithfully is the final studio album as of 2015 by Rebbie Jackson. The album has the extended version of "Centipede" on it. The title track, along with "You Take Me Places" and the extended "Centipede" (original 1984 track) were released in 1998.

The song "Centipede" had been released fourteen years earlier.

[[Maria Rolf]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Maria Rolf, born 1970, is a Swedish singer. She is the singer of dansband Titanix.

In February 2010 she participated in the Sveriges dansband för Haiti aid. That happened following an earthquake in Haiti.

On 18 July 2010 she won a Guldklaven Award in the  category "female singer of the year". It was during Svenska dansbandsveckan in Malung she was given the award.

[[Emilia Ramboldt]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Stockholm, Swedish ice hockey players, Ice hockey defencemen

Emilia Ramboldt, earlier Emilia Andersson, born 31 August  1988 in Sollentuna, Sweden) is a Swedish female ice hockey defencewoman. She played for Sweden during the women's ice hockey tournament during the 2010 Olympic Winter Games.

[[Emilia]]

Emilia may refer to:

[[Louis Jean Marie de Bourbon, Duke of Penthièvre]]

CATEGORIES: 1725 births, 1793 deaths, House of Bourbon

Louis Jean Marie de Bourbon (16 November 1725 – 4 March 1793) was the son of Louis Alexandre de Bourbon and his wife Marie Victoire de Noailles. He was also a grandson of Louis XIV of France and his mistress, Madame de Montespan. From birth he was known as the Duke of Penthièvre. He also possessed many titles inherited from his father and was the richest man in France during his lifetime.  He was later the father in law of Philippe Égalité. Though his fsther was an illegitimate son of a king the young duke was still known as and given the rank of a Prince of the blood. A majority of his vast fortune had been inherited via La Grande Mademoiselle.  Hen was also famous for his incredible generosity to the poor of the time. He also owned the land where the future Royal Chapel of Dreux would be built.

[[Emilia (given name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Emilia is a feminine given name. It is of Romanic origin.

[[Lisa Riley]]

CATEGORIES: English television presenters, English television actors, 1976 births, Living people

Lisa Jane Riley (born 13 July 1976) is an English television presenter and actress. She is best known for playing the role of Mandy Dingle in the television soap opera Emmerdale. Riley succeeded Jeremy Beadle as presenter of You've Been Framed!.

[[Jessica Ennis-Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, British female athletes, British Olympic gold medalists, British Olympic silver medalists, Commonwealth Games medallists, World champions, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, Medalists at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire

Dame Jessica Ennis-Hill GBR (born 28 January 1986), is a British track and field athlete. She specializes in multi-eventing disciplines and 100 meter hurdles. She is a member of the City of Sheffield Athletic Club. Ennis-Hill is the current Olympic heptathlon champion. She is the former European and world heptathlon champion. Ennis-Hill is also the former world indoor Women's pentathlon champion. 

She is the current British national record holder for the heptathlon and the indoor pentathlon. She is a former British record holder in the 100 metres hurdles and the high jump.

Ennis won a gold medal in the indoor World Championships in Doha. This was for pentathlon. In Jessica's first competition in 2011 she set an indoor personal best of 14.11 metres in the shot put. She improved this record by 50 centimetres a week later at an indoor meeting in Loughborough. On 29 January 2012, Ennis captained the British team at an international meeting in Glasgow. She competed in the sixty-metres hurdles and won in a time of 7.97 seconds.

At the 2011 World Athletics Championships in Daegu, South Korea, Ennis originally finished second to Tatyana Chernova with a score of 6,751 points. This was 129 points behind Chernova and 72 points below her own personal best of 6,823 points. Although Ennis beat Chernova in five of the seven events, her defeat was largely due to Chernova scoring 251 more points in the javelin throw. Chernova was later disqualified for failing a later doping testing, On 29 November 2016 Ennis-Hill was upgraded to a Gold Medal.

She won gold in the Heptathlon at the 2012 London Olympics.

On 13 October 2016, Ennis-Hill announced her retirement from athletics.

[[Go Deep]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 songs, Janet Jackson songs, Songs about sexuality

"Go Deep" is a pop song from singer Janet Jackson. The song is about Jackson's plan to go to a nightclub to find a man to have sex with.January 2015 The song has many remixes. The original recording of this song is four minutes and 42 seconds. The longest version is ten minutes and 53 seconds. The single was given mixed reviews from music critics. It did well in many countries. "Go Deep" was released on June 15, 1998.

[[Ulvåker]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Ulvåker is a locality in Skövde Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 254 people lived there.

[[Anne Ottenbrite]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Canadian Olympic bronze medalists, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Canadian Olympic silver medalists, Canadian swimmers, Living people, Sportspeople from Ontario

Anne Ottenbrite-Muylaert, CM (born May 12, 1966) is a Canadian retired swimmer. She was a breaststroke swimmer.

Ottenbrite competed for Canada at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, California. She won a gold, silver, and a bronze medal for Canada. She won a gold medal in the 200 m breaststroke, a silver medal in the 100 m breaststroke, and a bronze medal in the 4 × 100 m medley relay with Reema Abdo, Michelle MacPherson, and Pamela Rai. She also won a gold and silver medal for Canada at the 1983 Pan American Games in the 100 m breaststroke and the 4 × 100 m medley.

In 1984, Ottenbrite attended the University of Southern California. She transferred to Wilfrid Laurier University in 1987 and graduated in 1990. She retired from the national team in 1986.

She was inducted into the Canadian Olympic Hall of Fame in 1985, Canadian Aquatic Hall of Fame in 1986, Canada's Sports Hall of Fame in 1994, and International Swim Hall of Fame in 1999. She was awarded the Order of Canada in 1984.

[[Svenska dansbandsveckan]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments in Sweden, Music festivals, Swedish music

Svenska dansbandsveckan is a dansband music festival. It is held in the Orrskogen folkpark of Malung in Sweden. It is held every Week 29. The event was first held in 1986. Usually the event is opened with the Guldklaven Awards being awarded.

In 2012 the event was visited by totally 50 700 people. That menat a new record had been broken.

[[Koskullskulle]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Koskullskulle is a locality in Gällivare Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 874 people lived there.

[[Tidan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Tidan is a locality in Skövde Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 935 people lived there.

[[Ölme]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Ölme is a locality in Kristinehamn Municipality in Värmland County in Sweden. In 2010, 224 people lived there.

[[Skultorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Skultorp is a locality in Skövde Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,642 people lived there.

[[Iggesund]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Iggesund is a locality in Hudiksvall Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,362 people lived there.

[[SummerSlam (1997)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 in professional wrestling, Sports in New Jersey, SummerSlam, 1990s in New Jersey, 1997 in the United States

SummerSlam (1997) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on August 3, 1997 at Continental Airlines Arena in East Rutherford, New Jersey. It was the tenth SummerSlam event held by the WWF.

The main event saw Bret Hart defeat The Undertaker and win the WWF Championship with Shawn Michaels acting as the special guest referee. Hart won the match by pinfall after he spit in Michaels face and Michaels swung a chair, which Hart was able to avoid, and hit The Undertaker.

During the Intercontinental title match between Owen Hart and Stone Cold Steve Austin, Owen botched a piledriver which had briefly paralyzed Austin and had left him with many years of neck issues which ultimately forced him to retire at age 37 in 2003. Austin has since said that his neck is in good shape and he is in zero pain after he had a successful neck surgery performed in 2000.

[[Delsbo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Delsbo (ˈdɛlsbʊ̀) is a locality in Hudiksvall Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,192 people lived there. It is located circa 25 kilometers west of Hudiksvall, near the two lakes of Dellen. The place is known for its assembly of musicians at Delsbo Ancient Farm (Delsbo Forngård) each year.

[[Hillared]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Hillared is a locality in Svenljunga Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 578 people lived there.

[[Överlida]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Överlida is a locality in Svenljunga Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 525 people lived there.

[[Luigi Carlo Farini]]

CATEGORIES: 1812 births, 1866 deaths, People from Emilia-Romagna, Prime Ministers of Italy

Luigi Carlo Farini (October 22, 1812 - August 1, 1866) was an Italian physician, statesman and historian. Farini was born at Russi, now in the province of Ravenna. He graduated with a degree in medicine in 1832 at the University of Bologna. Later he worked as a physician, researching intermittent fevers and rabies.

Farini was initially a republican and a supporter of Giuseppe Mazzini. Later he became a monarchist and member of the "Historic Right". In 1851 he was, for a few months, Minister of Education of the Kingdom of Sardinia in the government led by Massimo D'Azeglio.

He was dictator pro tempore of Emilia from July 20, 1859 to March 13, 1860. He had the same role in Romagna from November 9, 1859. Farini was appointed President of the Council of Ministers of the Kingdom of Italy in the December 8, 1862. However, he was struck by a nervous disease that would take him to madness. During the Polish uprising of January 1863, he threatened the king Victor Emmanuel II with a knife. This was because he wanted to force him to declare war against the Russian Empire. As a result of this act, he was commitmed to the asylu of Novalese, a small town near Turin. Farini died at Genoa in poverty in 1866.

[[Gimo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Gimo is a locality in Östhammar Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010 2,688 people lived there.

[[Näsviken]]

Näsviken may refer to:

[[Näsviken, Strömsund Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Näsviken is a locality in Strömsund Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 203 people lived there.

[[Näsviken, Hudiksvall Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Näsviken is a locality in Hudiksvall Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 924 people lived there.

[[Backe]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Backe is a locality in Strömsund Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 599 people lived there.

[[Lagan, Ljungby Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Lagan is a locality in Ljungby Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden,. In 2010, 1,744 people lived there. The place is named after the Lagan River.

[[Psychological trauma]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Psychological trauma is damage to the psyche that happens after a stressful event. It can be caused by things that make a person afraid. Common causes include humiliation, sexual abuse, bullying, and domestic violence. Living with any of those for a long time can cause psychological trauma.

People who have suffered psychological trauma, particularly in childhood and adolescence, are more likely to have psychological problems. Those problems can include posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and borderline personality disorder.

[[Nissan Cup]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 establishments in Europe, 1994 disestablishments in Europe, Ice hockey competitions, Ice hockey in Europe, Sport in Switzerland, Nissan

Nissan Cup (Coupe Nissan) was an ice hockey tournament for men's national teams. It was played in Switzerland between 1988-1994. The tournament was originally played in November. It was later moved to February. Finally, the tournament was moved back to November.

[[Moderate Women]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 establishments in Sweden, Politics of Sweden, Stockholm, Political organizations based in Europe

The Moderate Women (Moderatkvinnorna) is a women's faction of the Moderate Party in Sweden. It was established in 1912. That was following women had been allowing to vote in municipal elections from 1910.

[[SD Women]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Sweden, Stockholm, 2010 establishments in Sweden

The SD Women (SD-kvinnor)  is a Political faction of the Sweden Democrats. It consists of women. It was established in October 2010.

[[Stefanie Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago

Stefanie Scott (born December 6, 1996) is an American actress and singer. She is best known for her role as Lexi Reed in the television series, A.N.T. Farm. She has been in TV shows and movies on the Disney Channel. She had a role in the movie No Strings Attached. She has won two Young Artist Awards and a Behind the Voice Actors Award.

[[Vrigstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Vrigstad is a locality in Sävsjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,421 people lived there.

[[Irsta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Irsta is a locality in Västerås Municipality in Västmanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,717 people lived there.

[[Stockaryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Stockaryd is a locality in Sävsjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 958 people lived there.

[[Rörvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Rörvik is a locality in Sävsjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 523 people lived there.

[[Lammhult]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Lammhult is a locality in Växjö Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,459 people lived there.

[[Agunnaryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Agunnaryd is a locality in Ljungby Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 220 people lived there.

[[Gamleby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Gamleby is a locality in Västervik Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,775 people lived there.

[[Bella and the Bulldogs]]

CATEGORIES: Nickelodeon television series, Children's television series, 2010s American sitcoms, English-language television programs

Bella and the Bulldogs is an American sitcom airs on Nickelodeon. The series Premiered January 17, 2015.

On March 4, 2015, Nickelodeon ordered a second season.

[[Karlsborg, Kalix Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Karlsborg (Kalix Language: kjalsbåri) is a locality in Kalix Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 351 people lived there.

[[Nyborg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Nyborg is a locality in Kalix Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 833 people lived there 2010.

[[Seskarö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Seskarö (Finnish: Seittenkaari) is a locality in Haparanda Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 491 people lived there. It is located on the island with the same name in the Haparanda Archipelago. Since 1978, it has bridge connection to maninland Sweden.

[[Porjus]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Porjus is a locality in Jokkmokk Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2015, 240 people lived there. It is located near the shorelines of the Lule River.

[[Brottby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Brottby is a locality in Vallentuna Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 205 people lived there. In January 1998, the place was brought attention when Swedish police stroke against a Neo-Nazi rock concert.

[[Morjärv]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Morjärv (Kalix language: morajärv) is a locality in Kalix Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 201 people lived there.

[[Gammelgården]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Gammelgården is a locality in Kalix Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 297 people lived there.

[[Leon Brittan]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British lawyers, Cancer deaths in London, Civil servants, European Commissioners, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, Privy Councillors (UK), Knights Bachelor, Jewish British politicians, Jewish lawyers, Members of the House of Lords, Politicians from London, Secretaries of State for the Home Department

Leon Brittan, Baron Brittan of Spennithorne GBR (25 September 1939 – 21 January 2015) was a British politician and barrister. A member of the Conservative Party, he served as Home Secretary (1983–1985), a member of Parliament (MP) and subsequently of the European Commission.

Brittan died of cancer in London, aged 75.

In October 2014, a Labour MP used parliamentary privilege to refer to claims that Brittan had been linked to child abuse. On 21 March 2016, the Metropolitan Police confirmed that "Operation Midland", the investigation into the alleged paedophile ring, had been closed without any charges being brought.

[[Lotte Hass]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Austrian movie actors, Models, Actors from Vienna

Charlotte ("Lotte") Hildegard Hass (née Baierl; 6 November 1928 – 14 January 2015) was the second wife of the Austrian naturalist and diving pioneer Hans Hass (who died on 16 June 2013). She worked as an underwater model and actress in several of his underwater natural history movies.  She was added into the Women Divers Hall of Fame and the International Scuba Diving Hall of Fame in 2000.

[[Marcus Borg]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary fibrosis, American educators, American theologians, Writers from North Dakota, Writers from Minnesota, Writers from Oregon

Marcus J. Borg (March 11, 1942 – January 21, 2015) was an American New Testament scholar, theologian and author. He was a fellow of the Jesus Seminar and a former Hundere Distinguished Professor of Religion and Culture at Oregon State University. He was a major figure in scholarship related to the historical Jesus. He was born in Fergus Falls, Minnesota.

Borg died at the age of 72 on Wednesday, January 21, 2015 from pulmonary fibrosis in Powell Butte, Oregon.

[[Pauline Yates]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from Lancashire

Pauline Yates (16 June 1929 – 21 January 2015) was an English actress. She was best known for playing Elizabeth Perrin in the BBC television sitcom The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin. She also starred in Bachelor Father and Keep It in the Family.

Yates died on 21 January 2015, aged 85.

[[Vytautas Landsbergis]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Academics, Former MEPs, Speakers of the Seimas, Lutherans, People from Kaunas, Presidents of Lithuania

Professor Vytautas Landsbergis (born 18 October 1932) is a Lithuanian conservative politician and a former Member of the European Parliament. He was the first head of state of Lithuania after its independence declaration from the Soviet Union, and served as the Head of the Lithuanian Parliament Seimas.

[[Chalon-sur-Saône]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Saône-et-Loire

Chalon-sur-Saône is a city and a commune in the Saône-et-Loire department in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region of France. It is the largest city of the department; however, the department capital is the smaller city of Mâcon.

[[Dalia Grybauskaitė]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, European Commissioners, People from Vilnius, Presidents of Lithuania, Saint Petersburg State University alumni

Dalia Grybauskaitė (born 1 March 1956) is a Lithuanian politician. She became the President of Lithuania on 12 July 2009. She was re-elected in May 2014. She is the country's first female President and the first to be elected for a second term.

She was Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Finance, also European Commissioner for Financial Programming and the Budget from 2004 to 2009. She is often referred to as the "Iron Lady" or the "Steel Magnolia".

[[Arrondissements of the Saône-et-Loire department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Lists of arrondissements of France

There are 5 arrondissements in the Saône-et-Loire department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

The arrondissements are further divided into cantons and communes.

The arrondissements of the Saône-et-Loire department are:

[[Chris Kyle]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2013 deaths, American murder victims, People from Texas, American military people

Christopher Scott "Chris" Kyle (April 8, 1974 – February 2, 2013) was a United States Navy SEAL. Kyle was the most lethal sniper in U.S. military history. He had 160 confirmed kills out of 255 possible kills. Kyle was born in Odessa, Texas.

On February 2, 2013, Kyle was shot and killed at a shooting range near Chalk Mountain, Texas, aged 38.

[[Arrondissement of Autun]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Autun is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Saône-et-Loire département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital is the city of Autun.

[[Pietro Grasso]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Presidents of Italy, Italian politicians, Italian judges, Legislative speakers, People from Sicily

Pietro Grasso (ˌpjɛːtro ˈɡrasːo; born 1 January 1945), also known as Piero Grasso, is an Italian anti-mafia magistrate and politician who has been President of the Italian Senate since 16 March 2013. Grasso became Acting President of Italy on 14 January 2015, after the resignation of President Giorgio Napolitano. Sergio Mattarella succeeded Grasso as president when he was elected as the new president of Italy.

[[Arrondissement of Chalon-sur-Saône]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Chalon-sur-Saône is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Saône-et-Loire département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital is the city of Chalon-sur-Saône.

[[Arrondissement of Charolles]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Charolles is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Saône-et-Loire département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital is the city of Charolles.

[[Arrondissement of Louhans]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

The arrondissement of Louhans is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Saône-et-Loire département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital is the city of Louhans.

[[Arrondissement of Mâcon]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Mâcon is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Saône-et-Loire département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Mâcon.

[[Landslide victory]]

CATEGORIES: Elections

A landslide victory is when one candidate or political party in an election receives a lot more votes or seats than their opponent.

An example of a landslide victory is when Ronald Reagan won the 1984 United States presidential election by winning 49 out of the 50 states. Other examples include when Tony Blair and his Labour Party won the United Kingdom general elections of 1997 and 2001 and when Andrés Manuel López Obrador won the presidency by nearly 13,000,000 votes in the 2018 Mexican general election.

[[Olga Kurylenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Actresses who played Bond girls, French models, French movie actors, Ukrainian actors

Olga Kurylenko (born 14 November 1979) is a French actress and model. She started acting in 2005. She became famous by playing Bond girl Camille Montes in the movie Quantum of Solace. She also played Julia in the 2013 movie Oblivion. 

Kurylenko was born in Berdyansk, Ukrainian SSR, Soviet Union.

On 15 March 2020, Kurylenko announced she had tested positive for COVID-19.

[[Let's Wait Awhile]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 songs, 1980s ballads, Janet Jackson songs, Pop ballads, Songs about sexuality

"Let's Wait Awhile" is a 1987 pop ballad by singer Janet Jackson. The song reached #2 in the United States and #3 in the United Kingdom. This song is about sexual abstinence.

The song received mostly positive reviews from the music critics. It was released in early 1987. It is from 1986 album Control.

[[Love Will Never Do (Without You)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 songs, Janet Jackson songs

"Love Will Never Do (Without You)" is a 1990 hit single from Janet Jackson. The song was Jackson's fifth #1 single on the Billboard Hot 100. The song was from her record Rhythm Nation 1814.  The song was released in October 1990.

The song reached #19 on the Billboard Year-End Hot 100 of 1991.  It was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America.

[[Messier 81]]

CATEGORIES: Spiral galaxies

Messier 81 (also known as NGC 3031 or Bode's Galaxy) is a spiral galaxy. It is in the constellation Ursa Major. It is large. It is about 12 million light-years from Earth. It has an active galactic nucleus (which has a supermassive black hole). For these reasons Messier 81 has been well studied by professional astronomers. The galaxy is large and very bright. This makes it a popular object for amateur astronomers to look at.

Messier 81 was discovered by Johann Elert Bode in 1774.  The galaxy is sometimes called "Bode's Galaxy".  In 1779,  Pierre Méchain and Charles Messier reidentified Bode's object.  They listed it as Messier 81 in the Messier Catalogue.

M81 is dusty.  Interstellar dust is found in the galaxy's spiral arms.  It is connected with star formation areas.  The hot blue stars in star formation areas heat the dust and the hot dust emits infrared energy from these areas.

[[Come Back to Me (Janet Jackson song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 songs, 1980s ballads, Janet Jackson songs, Pop ballads, Rhythm and blues ballads

"Come Back to Me" is a 1990 ballad from singer Janet Jackson. The song is about trying to bring back a romance that ended a long time ago. The song hit #2 on the Billboard Hot 100.

The song was released on June 18, 1989 and is from Janet's 1989 studio album Janet Jackson's Rhythm Nation 1814

[[Sjöberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Sjöberg is a locality in Sollentuna Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,310 people lived there.

[[Borrby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Borrby is a locality in Simrishamn Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 930 people lived there.

[[Housemaid debate]]

CATEGORIES: 1993, 1990s in Sweden, Economics, Politics of Sweden

The housemaid debate  or maid debate  is a political discussion in Sweden. It begun on 18 July 1993 when Swedish economist Anne-Marie Pålsson proposed tax deductions for household services.

Many right-wing politicians supported the proposal. They thought it would reduce unreported employment. Many left-wing politicians expressed negative thoughts. They said it would increase social class gaps. The left-wing politicians pointed to the time before the 1970s, when many girls were employed to live-in and work for wealthier families. The discussion has later reappeared. Often, it has reappeared during elections in Sweden.

Tax deductions, so called RUT deductions for household services, were introducd in Sweden on 1 July 2007. That was during the centre-right Reinfeldt cabinet.

[[Brottby Concert]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 in music, 1990s in Sweden, Neo-Nazism, 1998 in Europe

The Brottby Concert (Brottbykonserten) was a Neo-Nazi rock concert. It was held at the Yesterday dancing venue in Brottby, Sweden on Saturday evening, 3 January 1998. Participating bands and audience came from several countries. Swedish police stroke against the concert. Several persons suspected for hate speech were arrested. Totally the police arrested circa 250 personer people. Participangs from other countries, for example the USA said during the trial that they didn't knew doing a nazi salute was considered hate speech in Sweden. The concert and the following trials were brought major attention by Swedish newspapers.

Many bands appeared at the concert. Major attention was brought to, among others Max Resist and Vit aggression. The police stroke as Vit aggression played. During their 2002 album Keep Fighting, Max Resist also recorded the song Battle of Brottby with references to the Brottby Concert.

[[Grillby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Grillby is a locality in Enköping Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 972 people lived there.

[[The Story of Doctor Dolittle]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books, British novels, 1920s books

The Story of Doctor Dolittle is a 1920 book about Doctor John Dolittle and his animals. This book is the first in a series of children's books by Hugh Lofting. The Story of Doctor Dolittle is about   a doctor who can speak with the animals in their own languages. He starts treating animals instead of human patients.

The book is set in Victorian England. Dolittle lives in the English village of Puddleby-on-the-Marsh in the West Country. He has many  friends, like Tommy Stubbins and Matthew Mugg, the Cats'-Meat Man. His house is filled with animals. He owns a parrot called Polynesia, a pig called Gub-Gub, a dog called Jip, a duck called Dab-Dab, a monkey called Chee-Chee,  an owl called Too-Too,  and a white mouse named  "Whitey". He also owns a gazelle-unicorn cross called "pushmi-pullyu" ("push-me—pull-you") that has  two heads, one at the back and one at the front of the body.

The doctor in this first book takes a ship to Africa to cure the animals there.

[[Planthopper]]

CATEGORIES: Hemiptera

Planthoppers are insects in the infraorder Fulgoromorpha. They are true bugs (Hemiptera), with over 12,500 described species. 

They are cryptic mimics: their body shape and colours look like leaves and other plant parts in their environment. They either walk very slowly or hop like grasshoppers. 

Members of this group are plant-feeders, and live world-wide. Few are pests, but some are vectors for plant diseases. Phytoplasmas which live in the phloem of plants can be transmitted by planthoppers when feeding.

Their nymphs have a biological gear mechanism at the base of the hind legs, which keeps the legs in synchrony when the insects jump.

[[Lynn Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: People from Grand Forks, North Dakota, American country musicians, Deaths from myocardial infarction, 1947 births, 2015 deaths

Lynn Anderson (September 26, 1947 – July 30, 2015) was an American country musician. She sang many hit songs in the 1970s and 1980s. She began in 1966 at age nineteen. Her first major hit was "If I Kiss You (Will You Go Away)". Other hit songs were "Promises, Promises", "Rose Garden" and "No Another Time".

Anderson was born in Grand Forks, North Dakota. She died on July 30, 2015 after suffering a heart attack at her Nashville, Tennessee home, aged 67.

[[Phytoplasma]]

CATEGORIES: Bacteria

Phytoplasmas are a type of parasitic bacteria. They are pathogens of economically important plants, including coconut, sugarcane, and sandalwood.

They are obligate parasites of plant phloem tissue. Their vectors are insects which inject then into the plant cells. They were discovered by scientists in 1967 and were named mycoplasma-like organisms or MLOs. They cannot be grown in vitro (in laboratory conditions), and that limits the information about them. They are described by the special term "Candidatus", reserved for such difficult organisms.

[[Sällskapet till belöning för trotjänare]]

CATEGORIES: 1828 establishments in Europe, Domestic work, Sweden, 19th century establishments in Sweden

Sällskapet till belöning av trotjänare is nonprofit organization in Sweden. It was established in 1828 It gives prizes and awards to domestic worker girls and women who have worked for at least 15 years for the same family in Stockholm County. The activite of the organization was brought attention on 4 March 1987 at SR P1.

The headquarters were in Saltsjö-Duvnäs. They were then relocated to Grillby.

In 1988 a newspaper announce about the organization holding annual meeting led to the making of the programme Frida, en trotjänarinna. The initiative to the establishment of the organization was taken by Carl Löwenhielm.

[[Division of Perth]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Western Australia, 1901 establishments in Australia

The Division of Perth is an Australian electoral division in Western Australia. It was one of the first 75 divisions set up for the first Australian election in 1901. It is named after Perth, the capital city of Western Australia.

It includes the suburbs of Ashfield, Bassendean, Bayswater, Bedford, Beechboro, East Perth, Eden Hill, Embleton, Highgate, Inglewood, Kiara, Lockridge, Maylands, Morley, Mount Lawley, Noranda, Northbridge, and parts of Coolbinia, Dianella, Menora, North Perth, Perth City, West Perth and Yokine.

[[Det Kvindelige Velgørende Selskab]]

CATEGORIES: 1815 establishments in Europe, 2004 disestablishments in Europe, Copenhagen, Domestic work, 2000s disestablishments in Denmark, 1810s establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in Denmark

Det Kvindelige Velgørende Selskab was an organization in Denmark. It was established in 1815 when king Frederick VI of Denmark had been inspired while visiting the Congress of Vienna in Austria The organization was finally disestablished on 28 October 2004 after a meeting inside the Garnison Church in Copenhagen. Queen Marie of Denmark was appointed protector of the organization. That position was then held by someone from the Danish royal family. Queen Marie's birthday was always celebrated as an observance by the organization. They gave awards to domestic workers who had been in long-time service. Most other domestic workers used to leave by the age of 25-30 to form their own family. The organization also ran a school for housemaid girls. In 1828 they also opened Denmark's first daycare center.

The organization was disestablished as their activity had been outdated. However the housemaid girls at some places had been replaced by modern nanny girls.

When the organization was disestablished, Niels Gustav Bardenfleth published the book For lang och tro tjeneste. Det Kvindelige Velgørende Selskab 1815-2004.

[[Bikont]]

CATEGORIES: Eukaryotes

A bikont ("two flagellae") is any eukaryotic organism in the group Bikonta. Many single-celled members of the group, and the presumed ancestor, have two flagella.

[[Stockholm Town Housemaid School]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 establishments in Sweden, Domestic work, Schools in Sweden

The Stockholm Town Housemaid School (Stockholms stads hembiträdesskola) was a vocational school. It was started in 1938 at Scheelegatan 8 on the island of Kungsholmen in Stockholm, Sweden. The school educated housemaids. It was established during a shortage of housemaids, and the idea was well received. The students were graded. The classes where phtographed wearing housemaid uniforms.

Harald Norbelie has depicted the school in a chapter of the 1993 book Mera gata upp och gata ner: människor och miljöer i Stockholm förr och nu.

[[Kungsholmen]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Sweden, Stockholm

Kungsholmen is an island in the Lake Mälaren in Sweden. It is north of Riddarfjärden. The island is often included in the historical Swedish province of Uppland.

[[Ullared]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Ullared is a locality in Falkenberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 791 people lived there. The locality is wellknown for housing the department store of Gekås.

[[Pourya Fayazi]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, Iranian sportspeople

Pourya Fayazi Damnabi (پوریا فیاضی, born 12 January 1993) is an Iranian volleyball player who plays for Shahrdari Urmia. He also plays for Iran men's national volleyball team. His debut game was against European champions Serbia at the FIVB Volleyball Men’s World Cup on November 22, 2011. 

[[Anne-Marie Pålsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Swedish economists, Swedish politicians

Anne-Marie Pålsson (born 23 April 1951) is a Swedish politician and economist. She was a member of the Swedish parliament for the Moderate Party between 2002-2010. She is also known for starting the Housemaid debate in July 1993.

[[Saman Faezi]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people

Saman Faezi (born August 23, 1991 in Tehran) is an Iranian volleyball player. He is currently a member of club Paykan. He was named a member of Iran's National volleyball team to play in the 2014 World Championship in Poland.

[[Air Berlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 establishments in Europe, Low-cost airlines, Airlines of Germany, 1970s establishments in Germany, 2010s disestablishments in Germany, 2017 disestablishments, Defunct airlines of Europe

Air Berlin was the second biggest airline in Germany. It was started in 1978. The first flight was in 1979. It became a low-cost carrier in 2002. It joined Oneworld in 2012. On 15 August 2017 Air Berlin stated it was filing for insolvency and on 9 October 2017 announced the end of its own operations by 28 October 2017. 

[[Gridlock'd]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 comedy movies, 1997 drama movies, 1997 crime movies, 1990s comedy-drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, 1990s criminal comedy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American crime drama movies, American criminal comedy movies, Buddy movies, English-language movies, Movies about drugs, Movies set in Detroit, Michigan, Universal Pictures movies, American independent movies

Gridlock'd is a 1997 American crime thriller comedy-drama movie set in Detroit. It was directed by Vondie Curtis-Hall and was produced by Damian Jones, Paul Webster, and Erica Huggins. Gridlock'd was released on January 31, 1997. The movie paid tribute to star Tupac Shakur, who was murdered four months before the release of the movie.

The movie gained positive reviews from critics and holds a 88% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Editor Janet Maslin of The New York Times praised Shakur's performance, saying: "He played this part with an appealing mix of presence, confidence and humor".

[[Clan McDuck]]

CATEGORIES: Disney characters, Fictional families

The Clan McDuck is a family of ducks in the Disney fictional universe, based on the style of Scottish families. The most famous member is Scrooge McDuck.

According to the timeline of Don Rosa, the clan has been known since 122 AD when a member yet unnamed clan sold the stone for the construction crew of Hadrian's Wall. The Clan 'Scrooge was originally called Clan MacDuich, but left the Gaelic spelling of the name in 1071 and became the Clan McDuck.

Donald, his sister Della Duck and his sons Huey, Dewey, and Louie are the descendants of the clan through their maternal lineage.

[[County Waterford]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of the Republic of Ireland, Munster

County Waterford (Contae Phort Láirge) is a county of Ireland. County Waterford is in the province of Munster. It is named after its county town, Waterford. The population of County Waterford was 113,795 in 2011.

[[Edgar Froese]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, Disease-related deaths in Austria, German musicians

Edgar Willmar Froese (6 June 1944 – 20 January 2015) was a German artist and electronic music pioneer. He was best known for founding the electronic music group Tangerine Dream.

Froese died suddenly in Vienna on 20 January 2015 from pulmonary embolism, aged 70.

[[Pedro Lemebel]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2015 deaths, Chilean writers, Deaths from throat cancer, Disease-related deaths in Chile, Gay men, LGBT novelists, People from Santiago

Pedro Segundo Mardones Lemebel (21 November 1952 – 23 January 2015) was an openly gay Chilean essayist, chronicler, and novelist.  He was known for writing books about Chilean culture based on the mind of a homosexual. He was nominated for Chile's National Literature Prize in 2014. 

Lemebel died of cancer of the larynx on January 23, 2015, aged 62.

[[Family Channel]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television networks, DHX Media

Family Channel is a Canadian English language television channel. It is Canada's most popular children's channel. Originally it was a joint venture between Allarcom Pay Television and the operators of First Choice (now The Movie Network). The network was most recently sold by Bell Media for $170 million.

==Programming== 

==References== 

== Other websites == 

[[Boyer Brothers]]

CATEGORIES: American food companies

Boyer Brothers, Inc., is a candy company in Altoona, Pennsylvania. The factory is located in the downtown district.

[[C. T. Vivian]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2020 deaths, American civil rights activists, Writers from Missouri, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients

Cordy Tindell "C. T." Vivian (July 30, 1924 – July 17, 2020) was an American minister and author. He was a close friend and lieutenant of Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. during the Civil Rights Movement. Vivian founded the C. T. Vivian Leadership Institute, Inc. Rev. Vivian was a member of Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity. 

On August 8, 2013, President Barack Obama named Rev. Vivian as a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

Vivian died on July 17, 2020 in Atlanta at the age of 95.

[[Garden City, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kansas, County seats in Kansas

Garden City is a city in and the county seat of Finney County, Kansas, United States.  As of the 2010 census, the city population was 26,658.

[[Larry Hogan]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Governors of Maryland, People with cancer, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Washington, D.C.

Lawrence Joseph "Larry" Hogan, Jr. (born May 25, 1956) is an American politician. A Republican, He is the 62nd Governor of Maryland. He was inaugurated on January 21, 2015.

On June 22, 2015, Hogan announced to the press that he has been diagnosed with an advanced and aggressive form of lymph node cancer.

Hogan won his re-election beating Democrat Benjamin Jealous.

[[Daniel Schorr]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winners, 1916 births, 2010 deaths, American journalists, Writers from New York City

Daniel Louis Schorr (August 31, 1916 – July 23, 2010) was an American journalist. He covered world news for more than 60 years. He was a Senior News Analyst for National Public Radio (NPR) before his death. Schorr won three Emmy Awards for his television journalism.

[[Division of Stirling]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Western Australia, 1955 establishments in Australia

The Division of Stirling is an Australian electoral division in the inner northern and beachside suburbs of Perth, Western Australia. It includes Balcatta, Balga, Carine, Innaloo, Nollamara, North Beach, Scarborough, Stirling, Trigg and Yokine. It was set up in 1955, and named after Sir James Stirling, the first Governor of Western Australia. 

[[New Riders of the Purple Sage]]

CATEGORIES: Country bands, Musical groups established in 1969, Musical groups disestablished in 1997

New Riders of the Purple Sage (NRPS) is an American country rock band formed in 1969. It grew out of jam sessions between Jerry Garcia and John "Marmaduke" Dawson. They soon became an opening act for the Grateful Dead. They branched out on their own by the early 1970s. The New Riders of the Purple Sage received a recording contract in 1971. They based their name on Foy Willing's earlier group, Riders of the Purple Sage adding "New" to their name.

[[Ricardo dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2015 deaths, Brazilian sportspeople, Deaths by firearm, Surfers

Ricardo "Ricardinho" dos Santos (23 May 1990 – 20 January 2015) was a Brazilian surfer. He reached the quarterfinals at the 2012 Billabong Pro event in Tahiti, defeating many people including Kelly Slater. After the event, he was presented with the Andy Irons award given to the most determined competitor. He also reached a career high Association of Surfing Professionals (ASP) QS ranking of 62 in 2011. He was sponsored by Australian surfing brand Billabong.

Ricardo dos Santos was born in Palhoça, Santa Catarina.

Ricardo dos Santos was shot dead by an off duty police officer on 20 January 2015 in São José, Santa Catarina, aged 24.

[[Ibn Saud]]

CATEGORIES: 1876 births, 1953 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Saudi Arabia, Kings of Saudi Arabia

Abdulaziz ibn Saud  (15 January 1876  – 9 November 1953), was the founder and first monarch of Saudi Arabia. He was usually known in the Arab world as Abdulaziz  and known outside it as Ibn Saud.

He reconquered his family's ancestral home city of Riyadh in 1902. This started 30 years which made him the ruler of nearly all of central Arabia. He consolidated his control over the Najd in 1922, then conquered the Hijaz in 1925. He united his dominions into the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 1932. As King, he presided over the discovery of petroleum in Saudi Arabia in 1938 and the beginning of large-scale oil production after World War II. He fathered many children, including 45 sons. He died of a heart attack. All the later kings of Saudi Arabia have been his children.

[[James Walker (writer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in Australia, Australian journalists, Australian screenwriters, People from Perth, Western Australia

James Walker (1973 – 20 January 2015) was an Australian journalist and television writer, editor, and researcher. He was best known for his work television series McLeod's Daughters, Home and Away, Wonderland, Sam Fox, and Neighbours.

Walker was born in Perth, Western Australia. He graduated from the Australian Film, Television and Radio School in Sydney, New South Wales. He was married and had two sons.

Walker died after falling into a diabetic coma on 20 January 2015, aged 41. His funeral took place on 24 January.

[[Kavum]]

CATEGORIES: Desserts

Kavum (Konda Kavum) is a sweet food often eaten in Sri Lanka. It may also be known as 'oil cakes'. They are made on the Sinhalese New Year's Day and on other special, traditional occasions. The main ingredients are rice flour and treacle, which are fried together.

[[Mullsjö Secondary School]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 establishments in Sweden, 2011 disestablishments in Europe, Mullsjö, Schools in Sweden, 21st century disestablishments in Sweden

The Mullsjö Secondary School (Mullsjö gymnasieskola) was a secondary school in Mullsjö, Sweden. It was opened for the 1997-1998 school year. The last years the school acted as a boarding school for young floorball players.

The school also won the Boys' Floorball World Championship in the years of 2007, 2009 and 2011.

On 26 October 2010 the Mullsjö Municipal Council voted to close down the school after the 2010-2011 school year.

[[Sanda Secondary School]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 establishments in Sweden, Huskvarna, Schools in Sweden

The Sanda Secondary School (Sandagymnasiet) is a secondary school in Huskvarna in Sweden. It was opened for the 1970-1971 school year. Since 1979 the school has a sports profile. Originally, it only had the sports of basketball and cross-country skiing. More sports were later added, for example ice hockey (starting in the 1995-1996 season/school year). In the 2005-2006 season/school year, the school won the Swedish Boys' Floorball Championship for boys born 1987.

[[Per Brahe Secondary School]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Jönköping, Schools in Sweden

The Per Brahe Secondary School (Per Brahegymnasiet) is a secondary school in Jönköping in Sweden. It has traditions dated back to the 17th century. The current building was opened on 18 October 1913.

Since 2007, the school has UN certification.

[[Erik Dahlberg Secondary School]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 establishments in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Jönköping, Schools in Sweden

The Erik Dahlberg Secondary School (Erik Dahlbergsgymnasiet) is a secondary school in Jönköping in Sweden. For many years the school focused in technical education. The school was opened in 1949 as the Jönköping Technical Secondary School (Jönköpings tekniska gymnasium). The current name was adopted from the 1966-1967 school year. The current buildings were completed, step by step, between 1961 and 1994.

[[Winch]]

CATEGORIES: Tools

A winch is a mechanical device that is used to adjust how tight a piece of rope is. It can also be used to pull something. The rope can be made of natural fibre, but when heavy loads need to be handled, special ropes made of iron or plastic are frequently used.

[[Sertraline]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs used in psychiatry

Sertraline (trade names Zoloft, Lustral) is an antidepressant. It was introduced by Pfizer in 1991. Sertraline is mainly prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients. It is also prescribed for obsessive–compulsive, panic, and social anxiety disorders in both adults and children. In 2011, it was the third-most prescribed antidepressant on the U.S. retail market, with 37 million prescriptions.

[[Ruislip]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Hillingdon, London Underground stations

Ruislip is a town on the northwest side of Greater London. It was in Middlesex until that county was abolished in 1965. It owes its present population to the Metropolitan Railway, built early in the 20th century. After that was built many Londoners moved out to places along the line.

Ruislip is now served by five stations on the London Underground network. These are:

Ruislip Lido is well known in the area. It has a small railway line that runs between two stations around the lake as well as a small beach that hosts some children's play equipment.

[[Jerry Garcia]]

CATEGORIES: American rock guitarists, American singer-songwriters, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Musicians from San Francisco, 1942 births, 1995 deaths

Jerome John Garcia (August 1, 1942 – August 9, 1995) was an American guitarist and singer-songwriter. He is best known as the founder and longtime lead guitarist (1965-1995) of the band the Grateful Dead. Garcia was seen as an icon of the Hippie counterculture of the 1960s. He was considered an almost mythic hero to his fans, called deadheads. Garcia was an innovator who was constantly experimenting with sound. He was one of the most recorded guitar players of all time.

[[Mullsjö Pentecostal Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Mullsjö

The Mullsjö Pentecostal Church (Mullsjö pingstkyrka) is a church building in Mullsjö, Sweden. It belongs to the Swedish Pentecostal Movement. The current building was opened in 1964. It was rebuilt to its current look in 1984.

[[Mullsjö AIS]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 establishments in Sweden, Mullsjö, Floorball clubs in Sweden

Mullsjö AIS is a floorball club in Mullsjö in Sweden. It was established on 1 November 1989 by a group from the Mullsjö Mission Covenant Church. On 2 March 2008, the men's team qualified for the Swedish top division.

[[Mullsjö Folk High School]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 establishments in Sweden, Mullsjö, Schools in Sweden

The Mullsjö Folk High School (Mullsjö folkhögskola) is a folk high school in Mullsjö in Sweden. The school was established in 1949 in Jönköping. In 1950 it was moved over to Mullsjö. The school is ran by a foundation consisting of the Swedish Alliance Mission, its youth association and "Mullsjö folkhögskolas Kamratförbund".

[[Jönköpings IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in Europe, Sport in Jönköping, Floorball clubs in Sweden, 1980s establishments in Sweden

Jönköpings IK is a floorball club in Jönköping, Sweden. it was established on 9 March 1985 after a merger of the SMU Immanuel Church and the Munksjö School teams. The men's team has played several seasons in the Swedish top division. The men's team lost the Swedish national finals in the years of 1986, 1988 and 1990. Also, the men's team earned the national championship bronze medals in the years of 1987, 1989 and 1991.

[[Storvreta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Storvreta is a locality in Uppsala Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 6,347 people lived there.

[[Thanin Kraivichien]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, People from Bangkok, Prime Ministers of Thailand

Thanin Kraivichien (born April 5, 1927 in Bangkok, ธานินทร์ กรัยวิเชียร Thanin Kraiwichian, tʰaː.nin krai.wí.t͡ɕʰian; first name also spelled "Tanin", last name "Kraivixien" or "Kraivichian") is a Thai lawyer and politician. He was the 14th prime minister of Thailand between 1976 and 1977.

[[Bill Sykes (chaplain)]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, Educators, Writers from Yorkshire

Revd William ("Bill") George David Sykes MA (1939 – 17 January 2015) was an English college fellow, chaplain, and book author. Sykes was born in Yorkshire, England.

Sykes wrote books and reflective thoughts on religious ideas, most notably Visions of Faith: An Anthology of Reflections. His portrait was painted by the artist Daphne Todd.

Sykes died on 17 January 2015 at the John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, England, aged 75.

[[Joan Hinde]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, British movie actors, Trumpeters, English musicians, Actors from Derbyshire

Joan Hinde (21 October 1933 - 22 January 2015) was a British trumpeter and entertainer. She was known for performing with Ken Dodd. For her entire career, she remained a radio, theatre and cabaret artiste, and never broke into the medium of television. In 2002 she made her first television appearance in many years on LWT's Another Audience with Ken Dodd. She retired in 2012.

[[KFUM Jönköping]]

CATEGORIES: 1855 establishments in Europe, Sport in Jönköping, Volleyball clubs in Sweden, 19th century establishments in Sweden

KFUM Jönköping is an YMCA association in Jönköping in Sweden. It was established in 1855. By the late 1980s and early 1990s the volleyboll team experienced a successful period. At that time, club club played in Elitserien at both the men's and women's sides.

[[Prosper Ego]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Dutch activists, Writers from The Hague

Prosper Joannes Gerardus Antonius Ego (17 July 1927 – 23 January 2015) was a Dutch activist and writer. He was the founder of the  Oud-Strijders Legioen (“Former Warriors Legion”). Ego was born in The Hague.

Ego died in Breda, aged 87.

[[Nol Heijerman]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2015 deaths, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Rotterdam

Nol Heijerman (10 October 1940 – 23 January 2015) was a Dutch footballer.

Heijerman played for HVC and Xerxes, with whom he won promotion to the Eredivisie in 1966 and where he played alongside Ab Fafié, Willem van Hanegem, Rob Jacobs and Eddy Treijtel. He made his debut for Xerxes on 25 August 1963 in a 2-2 Tweede Divisie draw with FC Wageningen.

[[Johan Ferner]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Medalists at the 1952 Summer Olympics, Norwegian sportspeople, Olympic silver medalists, Sailors

Johan Martin Ferner (né Johan Martin Jacobsen; 22 July 1927 – 24 January 2015) was a Norwegian sailor and Olympic medalist. He won a silver medal in the 6 metre class with the boat Elisabeth X at the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki, together with Finn Ferner (his brother), Erik Heiberg, Tor Arneberg and Carl Mortensen. He was married to Princess Astrid, the sister of King Harald V of Norway. He was also the brother-in-law of Princess Ragnhild.

[[Kåre Willoch]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Norway, People from Oslo

Kåre Isaachsen Willoch (ˈkɔːɾə ˈiːsaksən ˈʋɪlɔk; born 3 October 1928) is a Norwegian politician from the Conservative Party.  He served as Minister of Trade and Shipping in 1963 and 1965–1970, and as Prime Minister of Norway from 1981 to 1986. Willoch was Chairman of the Conservative Party 1970–1974. He was a member of the Norwegian Parliament from 1957 to 1989. He was also Director of the Nansen Institute.

[[Odvar Nordli]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Prime Ministers of Norway, Norwegian writers

Odvar Nordli.ogg (3 November 1927 – 9 January 2018) was a Norwegian politician and writer. He was a member of the Labour Party. He was Prime Minister of Norway from 1976 to 1981.

Nordli died in Oslo on 9 January 2018 of prostate cancer at the age of 90.

[[Candy (Mandy Moore song)]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 1999 songs

"Candy" is a 1999 pop ballad by musician Mandy Moore. The song has a melody and tune similar to Robyn's "Do You Know (What it Takes). The song was the lead single of Mandy's first record So Real.

The song was released in August 1999.

[[So Real]]

CATEGORIES: Pop albums, 1999 albums

So Real is a 1999 pop album from pop singer Mandy Moore. This album has the singles "Candy", "Walk Me Home" and the title track. This album went platinum within three months. It was her first album.

The song "Candy" talks about Moore's feelings and that she misses and craves her love "like candy". The album was released in December 1999.

[[Sävsjö HK]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 establishments in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden

Sävsjö HK is a handball club in Sävsjö in Sweden. The club was established on 1 August 1978. The women's team won six Swedish national championship gold meals in a row between the 1993-1994 and the 1998-1999 seasons. During the 2002/2003 season the women's team was relegated from Elitserien.

[[I Wanna Be with You (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Pop albums, 2000 albums

I Wanna Be with You is a 2000 studio album from musician Mandy Moore. The album contains several new songs and a few remixes from her first album. I Wanna Be with You sold over 805,000 copies in the United States.

The album's title song was Moore's only Top 40 song.

[[Amanda Leigh]]

CATEGORIES: Pop albums, 2009 albums

Amanda Leigh is a 2009 pop record from musician Mandy Moore. The album has eleven songs and five bonus tracks. Songs on the album include "Merrimack River", "Fern Dell" and "Love to Love Me Back".

[[Annedal Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Gothenburg

The Annedal Church (Annedalskyrkan) is a church building in Annedal in Gothenburg in Sweden. It belongs to the Gothenburg Annedal Parish of the Church of Sweden. Construction begun in 1908. The church was opened on Thanksgiving Day, 25 September 1910 by bishop Edvard Herman Rodhe.

[[Nyhem Week]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 establishments in Sweden, Protestantism in Sweden

The Nyhem Week (Nyhemsveckan) is a major annual conference by the Swedish Pentecostal Movement. It occurs during the Midsummer week every year. The conference is held in Nyhem in Mullsjö Municipality in Sweden. It was first held in 1917. Host is the Mullsjö-Nyhem Pentecostal Congregation.

Up to 2008 the conference were held inside a large tent. From 2009 the conference is instead held inside Nyhemshallen.

[[Lapland Week]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 establishments in Sweden, Protestantism in Sweden

The Lapland Week (Lapplandsveckan) is a major annual conference. It is held by the Swedish Pentecostal Movement. It occurs in June-July every year in Husbondliden in Lycksele Municipality in Sweden. It was first held in 1919 as a Bible studies week.

The event is one of the larger Christian festivals in northern Sweden.

[[KFUM Nässjö]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 establishments in Sweden, Basketball clubs in Sweden

KFUM Nässjö is an YMCA association in Nässjö in Sweden. The club has played in the men's Swedish top division. The club was established in 1939.

[[Brahe Basket]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball clubs in Sweden, Huskvarna, 1976 establishments in Sweden

Brahe Basket is a basketball club in Huskvarna in Sweden. The club was established in 1976. The club has played in the Swedish top division on both the men's and the women's sides. The women's team lost the Swedish national championship playoff finals in the season of 2003-2004. They lost to the Solna Vikings.

[[Stockholm Eagles]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 establishments in Sweden, Basketball clubs in Sweden, Sport in Stockholm

The Stockholm Eagles is a basketball club in Stockholm in Sweden. The club was established in December 2007. In 2012 the club qualified for the Swedish men's top division. After the 2012-2013 season the club was no longer allowed to play in the Swedish top division. The reason was that the club had failed to live up to the economic demands.

[[Julio Canessa]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Chilean politicians, Civil servants

Lieutenant General Julio Canessa Roberts (19 March 1925 – 24 January 2015) was a Chilean military and political figure. He was a member of the Government Junta that ruled Chile from 1973 to 1990, representing the Army. He was also a designated Senator between 1998 and 2006.

[[Barrie Ingham]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Yorkshire, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors

Barrie Ingham (10 February 1932 – 23 January 2015) was an English actor. He was known for his role as Alydon in Dr. Who and the Daleks, as St. Clair in The Day of the Jackal and as the voice of Basil Bartholomew in the Disney animated movie The Great Mouse Detective. Ingham was born in Halifax, West Riding of Yorkshire England.

Ingham died, two weeks before his 83rd birthday, in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, aged 82.

[[Piet van der Sanden]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Catholic People's Party politicians, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Dutch journalists, Dutch Roman Catholics, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Former MEPs, MEPs for the Netherlands, People from Gouda, Politicians from South Holland, Writers from South Holland

Petrus Joannes Antonius "Piet" van der Sanden (11 November 1924 – 18 January 2015) was a Dutch politician and journalist. He was a member of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands between 1971 and 1972 and again from 1973 to 1989 for the Catholic People's Party and later the Christian Democratic Appeal. He also served a stint as member of the European Parliament between 1973 and 1974.

Piet van der Sanden was born in Gouda, South Holland. He died on 18 January 2015 in The Hague, South Holland, aged 90.

[[Venette]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Oise

Venette is a village in Picardie, in the northern part of France. There are about 2,700 people living there. It is next to Compiègne. 

The village has a long history going back to the 14th century.

[[Compiègne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Oise, Subprefectures in France

Compiègne is a commune in the Oise department, in Picardy. It is also one of its sub-prefectures. The history of the city goes back to Roman times. In those times, there was a river crossing of the Oise River. The river was called Isara at the time. On the outskirts of the modern city, roman houses (villae) were found. Today, about 40.000 people live in the city and about 97.000 in its urban area.

[[Sandslåns SK]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Sandslåns SK is a now non-active sports club in Sandslån in Sweden. The club was established in 1927. It was known as the "bandy pride of Ångermanland". The club was also nicknamed Timmerkusarna. In 1950 the bandy team reached the Norrland Championship final. They lost the final to Haparandapojkarna. The bandy team played its home games at Flottarvallen.

The bandy team played in the Swedish top division in the seasons of 1961 and 1975-1976. In the 1977-1978 season Anders Wedin when playing for the club became the Swedish second division topscorer.

The club has even played once in the World Cup.

The soccer team played in the Swedish third division in 1962.

In 1949 the junior soccer team won the district championship.

For a short time during the early 1950s the club even ran ice hockey activity.

[[Accipitriformes]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes

Accipitriformes is an order which includes most of the diurnal birds of prey: hawks, eagles, vultures, and many others, about 225 species in all. 

For a long time, the majority view was to include them with the falcons in the Falconiformes. However, a recent DNA study has shown that falcons are not closely related to the Accipitriformes. Instead, they are related to parrots and passerines.

Since then putting the falcons next to the parrots in taxonomic order has been adopted by most ornithologists. The DNA-based proposal includes the New World vultures in the Accipitriformes, but the American Ornithologists' Union (AOU) classifies the New World vultures as a separate order, the Cathartiformes. 

[[Mullsjö Mission Covenant Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Mullsjö

The Mullsjö Mission Covenant Church (Mullsjö missionskyrka) is a church building in Mullsjö in Sweden. It belongs to both the Uniting Church in Sweden and the Swedish Alliance Mission. The current building was opened in 1992. It replaced an older building dated back to 1922.

[[Harrier]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes

Harriers are species of diurnal hawks. They are birds of prey.  Harriers usually hunt by flying low over open ground, feeding on small mammals, reptiles, or birds.  The young of the species are sometimes referred to as ring-tail harriers.

[[Gustaf Adolf Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Stockholm

The Gustaf Adolf Church (Gustaf Adolfskyrkan) is a church building in the Gustav Adolf Park at Östermalm in Stockholm in Sweden. The church belongs to the Oscar Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was inaugurated on 6 November 1892 by bishop Gottfrid Billing.

[[Hjorthagen Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Stockholm

The Hjorthagen Church (Hjorthagens kyrka) is a church building at Dianavägen at Hjorthagen in Stockholm in Sweden. It belongs to the Engelbrekt Parish of the Church of Sweden. Construction began in 1907. The church was inaugurated on 25 March 1909 by archbishop Johan August Ekman.

[[Kungsholmen Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Stockholm

The Kungsholmen Church (Kungsholmens kyrka) or the Ulrika Eleonora Church (Ulrika Eleonora kyrka) is a church building at Bergsgatan on the island of Kungsholmen in Stockholm in Sweden. The church belongs to the Västermalm Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was inaugurated on 2 December 1688 (Old Style).

[[Saint Nicholas Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Örebro

The Saint Nicholas Church (Sankt Nikolai kyrka) or the Nicholas Church (Nikolaikyrkan) is a church building in central Örebro, Sweden. It was originally called the Örebro Church (Örebro kyrka) because it was the only Church of Sweden church building in town until the early 20th century. It belongs to the Örebro Nicholas Parish of the Church of Sweden. Construction began in the late 13th century. The church is supposed to have been completed by the mid 14th century.

[[Timrå Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

The Timrå Church (Timrå kyrka) is a church building in Östrand in Timrå in Sweden. It belongs to the Timrå Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was inaugurated on 16 October 1796.

[[Stöde Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

The Stöde Church (Stöde kyrka) is a church building in Stöde in Sweden. It belongs to the Stöde Parish of the Church of Sweden. Construction begun in 1757. The church was completed in 1759.

[[Njurunda Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

The Njurunda Church (Njurunda kyrka) is a church building in Njurundabommen in Sweden. It belongs to the Njurunda Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened on 13 April 1865 by bishop Anders Fredrik Beckman.

[[Malung Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

The Malung Church (Malungs kyrka) is a church building in Malung, Sweden. Belonging to the Malung Parish of the Church of Sweden, it is supposed to have been built in 1365.

[[Web resource]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

A web resource is anything that can be obtained from the World Wide Web. Some examples are web pages, e-mail, information from databases, and web services. Web resources have changed since the Internet was first created. The early concept was of static (non moving) files or documents. The meaning of the term now has a wider use to include nearly everything that can be obtained via the Internet. Uniform resource locators or URLs, are used to identify a resource on the web.

[[Hälleforsnäs IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Hälleforsnäs IF is a sports club in Hälleforsnäs in Sweden. The club was once known for its bandy successes. Now the club now plays floorball and soccer. The club was established in 1925. The club and played 21 seasons in the Swedish men's bandy top division. The men's bandy team reached the semifinals during the season of 1978-1979. They lost the semifinal game series to Brobergs IF.

On 30 August 2005 it was announced that the bandy activity would be disestablished.

[[Lesjöfors IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Lesjöfors IF is a sports club in Lesjöfors in Sweden. The club was established in 1924 as a soccer and Nordic skiing club. It adopted the game of bandy by the late 1920s. The men's bandy team played 21 seasons in the Swedish bandy top division.

[[Radio Hall of Fame]]

CATEGORIES: Halls of fame, Museums in Chicago

The National Radio Hall of Fame is a museum dedicated to those who have helped he development of the radio medium throughout its history in the United States.  The Hall of Fame is housed in a wing of the Museum of Broadcast Communications building in Chicago, Illinois.

[[Honor killing]]

CATEGORIES: Domestic violence

An honor killing is a member of a family being killed by other members, because of the killers feeling that the victim has brought shame on the family. Reasons a woman could be targeted include refusing to enter an arranged marriage, having sex outside marriage, and being a victim of rape. Honor killings are associated with the Middle East and South Asia. They also happen in countries that have immigrants from those places. Murder is not the only honor crime. Acid attacks and beating are also done for the same reasons as honor killings. Victims of honor killings are mostly young women.

[[Order of the White Eagle (Poland)]]

CATEGORIES: Orders, decorations, and medals, Polish culture

The Order of the White Eagle (Order Orła Białego) is Poland's highest decoration awarded to both civilians and the military for their service. It was officially created on 1 November 1705 by Augustus II the Strong. It was given to eight of his closest, diplomatic and political supporters.

It is awarded to the most respected Poles and the highest-ranking representatives of foreign countries. The Order of the White Eagle is attached to a blue ribbon hung over the left shoulder to the right side. The star of the Order, once sown, is worn on the left side of the chest. 

[[Obstetric fistula]]

CATEGORIES: Pregnancy and childbirth

An obstetric fistula is an unwanted hole in a woman's body that was caused by having a baby.  It can happen when having the baby is difficult, especially if the mother does not receive good medical care.  The hole can go from the vagina to the bladder or from the vagina to the bowel.  A surgeon can fix the hole with surgery.

[[Jensen Ackles]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Actors from Dallas, Texas, American movie actors, American television actors

Jensen Ross Ackles (born March 1, 1978) is an American television actor. He is best known for his role as Dean Winchester in the television series Supernatural (2005–present). He has also appeared in other television shows such as Days of Our Lives, Dark Angel and Smallville.

Ackles was born in Dallas, Texas. He is the son of Alan Ackles, also an actor. He has been married to Danneel Harris since 2010. The couple have three children.

[[Ice Ice Baby]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop songs, 1990 songs

"Ice Ice Baby" is a hip hop single performed by Vanilla Ice. It samples the 1981 song "Under Pressure" by Queen and David Bowie. It appeared on his 1989 studio album Hooked. It later appeared on his other album To the Extreme.

"Ice Ice Baby" was first released as the B-side to a cover version of "Play That Funky Music". The original version of "Play That Funky Music" was a well-liked and popular song with the listening audiences. The cover version was not liked much, so the single was not selling well. But a disc jockey decided to play "Ice Ice Baby" instead of the single's A-side. Once the public heard this song, it became more successful than "Play That Funky Music".

The song hit #1 on Billboard Hot 100.

[[Two Wives]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 Philippine television series debuts, Philippine television series

Two Wives is a Philippine television drama series. It is broadcast by ABS-CBN.

[[Pro tempore]]

CATEGORIES: Latin phrases

Pro tempore (abbreviated pro tem or p.t.) is a Latin phrase which means "for the time being" in English.  This phrase is often used to describe a person who temporarily acts in place of an elected or appointed official. Should the official, a mayor for example, be absent or unavailable for any reason, the pro tempore becomes the acting official (acting mayor in this case). The president pro tempore of the United States Senate has been elected by the Senate since it began 1789. In academic use a professor pro tempore is usually a temporary position. In legal use a judge pro tempore is often an attorney who has been temporarily appointed by a judge. It is also found as a phrase in many kinds of documents to simply mean "for the time being."

[[Restriction enzyme]]

CATEGORIES: Enzymes, DNA, Immunology, Microbiology, Genetic engineering

A restriction enzyme is an enzyme that cuts DNA at particular places. It works at or near specific recognition nucleotide sequences known as "restriction sites".  To cut DNA, all restriction enzymes make two incisions, once through each strand of the DNA double helix.

These enzymes are found in bacteria and archaea and defend them against invading viruses, which are bacteriophages.

Inside a prokaryote, the restriction enzymes selectively cut up foreign DNA in a process called restriction. The host DNA is protected by another enzyme which protects the host DNA and blocks cleavage. Together, these two processes are the restriction modification system. It is the earliest and simplest immune system. They are also a kind of selfish, mobile genetic element.

Over 3000 restriction enzymes have been studied in detail, and more than 600 of these are available commercially. These enzymes are routinely used for DNA modification in laboratories, and are a vital tool in molecular cloning.

[[Population control in Singapore]]

CATEGORIES: Singapore, Contraception, Population

Population control in Singapore had two distinct phases. First, to slow and reverse the boom in births that started after World War II. Second, from the 1980s, to encourage parents to have more children because numbers had fallen below replacement levels.

In the 1960s and 1970s, The Family Planning and Population Board (FPPB) was set up. At first it favoured small families, and later ran the Stop at Two programme. This pushed for small two-children families and promoted sterilisation.

As birthrates fell, so the government introduced a policy that encouraged having three or more children.

[[Selfish DNA]]

CATEGORIES: DNA

Selfish DNA is a term for sequences of DNA that have two distinct properties: 

In his 1976 book, The Selfish Gene, Richard Dawkins suggested the idea of selfish DNA when the noncoding DNA in eukaryotic genomes was discovered. In 1980, two articles in the journal Nature expanded and discussed the concept. According to one of these articles:

Normal genetically functional DNA might be seen as "replicating entities" that effect their replication by manipulating the cell that they control. In contrast, units of selfish DNA  may exploit existing mechanisms in the cell, and multiply without affecting the fitness of the organism in other respects.

There is no sharp boundary between the concepts of selfish DNA and genetically functional DNA. Often it also is difficult to see if a unit of noncoding DNA is functionally important or not; or if important, in what way. What is more, it is not always easy to distinguish between some instances of selfish DNA and some types of viruses.

[[Jack Stewart (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1983 deaths, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, People from Manitoba, Detroit Red Wings players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, American Hockey League players

Jack Stewart was a Canadian professional ice hockey player. He played for the Detroit Red Wings and the Chicago Blackhawks. He is in the Hockey Hall of Fame.

[[Mullsjö, Nordmaling Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Mullsjö is a minor locality in Nordmaling Municipality, Sweden. In 2010, 76 people lived there.

[[Bruksvallsloppet]]

CATEGORIES: Sports competitions, Skiing in Sweden

Bruksvallsloppet is an international cross-country skiing event, held in Bruksvallarna, Sweden over a Friday-Sunday in November every year. The event acts as FIS World Cup preselection. The competitions are international. During some seasons the event is the final before the World Cup opens. During other seasons, the event instead occurs between World Cupe events. This depends on if the FIS World Cup starts by late October, or if it begins by mid-late November.

In Sweden, the event is generally considered the first major competition of the season.

[[Olsfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Olsfors is a locality in Bollebygd Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 623 people lived there.

[[Orrefors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Orrefors is a locality in Nybro Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 719 people lived there 2010. The Orrefors glassworks are located there.

[[Blomstermåla]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Blomstermåla is a locality in Mönsterås Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,527 people lived there.

[[Kode]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Kode is a locality in Kungälv Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,380 people lived there.

[[100 Things to Do Before High School]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 American television series debuts, 2010s American television series, American sitcoms, American teen television series, Nickelodeon television series, English-language television programs

100 Things to Do Before High School is an American sitcom airs on Nickelodeon. The series premiered November 11, 2014. It is created by Scott Fellows who also created Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide and Big Time Rush. It stars Isabela Moner, Jaheem Toombs and Owen Joyner.

[[Marco Minghetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 births, 1886 deaths, Italian economists, People from Bologna, Prime Ministers of Italy

Marco Minghetti (November 18, 1818 - December 10, 1886) was an Italian economist and statesman.

[[Roots Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England, Essex

Roots Hall is where Southend United play their home matches. It is near Southend Hospital and Southend High School for Boys (SHSB). It has one of the largest attendance in League 1.

[[Alexis Tsipras]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Greece, People from Athens

Alexis Tsipras (Αλέξης Τσίπρας, aˈleksis ˈt͡sipras; born 28 July 1974) is a Greek politician. He is thr Leader of the Opposition since 2019. He has been a member of Syriza since 2013. He was Prime Minister of Greece from 2015 to 2019.

Tsipras is a member of the Syriza party, and is a democratic socialist. A major issue of his term has been dealing with the Greek debt crisis.

[[Salman of Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Kings of Saudi Arabia, Current national leaders

Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud  born 31 December 1935) is the King of Saudi Arabia, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques since 2015. He had been Minister of Defence since 2011, and was Governor of Riyadh Province from 1963 to 2011. 

Salman became king on 23 January 2015 following the death of his half brother, King Abdullah. As a Sudairi Seven, his full brothers include king Fahd, and the crown princes Sultan and Nayef.

[[Chuck Locke]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, Baltimore Orioles players, Sportspeople from Missouri

Charles Edward Locke (May 5, 1932 - January 9, 2015) was an American professional baseball player. Locke was a right-handed pitcher. He only played for the Baltimore Orioles in 1955. He was born in Malden, Missouri.

Locke died in Poplar Bluff, Missouri, aged 82.

[[Andrew Benson]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2015 deaths, American biologists, American educators, Scientists from San Diego, California

Andrew Alm Benson (September 24, 1917 – January 16, 2015) was an American biologist and a professor of biology at the University of California, San Diego until his retirement in 1989. He was known for his work in understanding the carbon cycle in plants.

[[Dacia Valent]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Rome, Civil servants, Communist politicians, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Former MEPs, Italian politicians, MEPs for Italy, People from Mogadishu, Police officers

Dacia Soraya Valent (12 February 1963 - 22 January 2015) was a Somali-born Italian politician. She was a Member of the European Parliament from 1989 through 1994. She was born in Mogadishu, Somalia.

Valent died in Rome, Italy from a heart attack, aged 51.

[[Nick Koback]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2015 deaths, Pittsburgh Pirates players, Sportspeople from Hartford, Connecticut

Nicholas Nicholie "Nick" Koback (July 19, 1935 – January 23, 2015) was a Polish-American professional baseball player. His career spanned eight seasons, three of which were spent with the Major League Baseball (MLB) Pittsburgh Pirates from 1953 through 1955.

Koback died January 23, 2015 in Hartford, Connecticut, aged 79.

[[Link Byfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Politicians from Alberta, Canadian writers

Eric Linkord "Link" Byfield (c. 1952 – January 24, 2015) was a Canadian news columnist, author and politician. Byfield was editor and publisher for the Alberta Report magazine for eighteen years. Byfield helped found the Wildrose Party of Alberta in 2007. Byfield founded the Citizens Centre for Freedom and Democracy.

On January 24, 2015, Byfield died of liver and esophageal cancer, aged 63, in the Sturgeon Community Hospital in St. Albert, Alberta.

[[Demis Roussos]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, Greek singers, People from Alexandria, Rock singers

Artemios "Demis" Ventouris Roussos (Αρτέμιος "Ντέμης" Βεντούρης Ρούσσος,  15 June 1946 – 25 January 2015) was a Egyptian-born Greek singer and performer. He had international hit records as a solo performer in the 1970s after having been a member of Aphrodite's Child.

He sold over 60 million albums worldwide and became "an unlikely kaftan-wearing sex symbol".

Roussos died in Athens, Greece, aged 68.

[[Bill Monbouquette]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, Boston Red Sox players, Detroit Tigers players, New York Yankees players, San Francisco Giants players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts

William Charles Monbouquette (August 11, 1936 – January 25, 2015) was an American professional baseball pitcher. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Boston Red Sox (1958–1965), Detroit Tigers (1966–1967), New York Yankees (1967–1968), and the San Francisco Giants (1968). He was born in Medford, Massachusetts.

Monbouquette died on January 25, 2015 in Gloucester, Massachusetts, aged 78.

[[Medford, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Massachusetts

Medford is a city in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, in the United States, on the Mystic River. It is five miles northwest of downtown Boston. In the 2010 U.S. Census, Medford's population was 56,173. It is the home of Tufts University.

[[Malden, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Malden is a city in the northeast corner of Dunklin County, Missouri, United States. It is  located near the intersection of Missouri Route 25 and U.S. Route 62. The population was 4,277 at the 2010 census.

[[Lee Spick]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from liver disease, English sportspeople

Lee Spick (April 25, 1980 - January 26, 2015) was an English professional snooker player. A former English under-15 champion, he reached the last 48 of ranking events on five occasions, including twice in the World Championship. Spick was born in Mansfield, England.

Spick on 26 January 2015 from liver disease, aged 34.

[[R. K. Laxman]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Deaths from urinary tract infection, Indian cartoonists, Indian writers

Rasipuram Krishnaswamy Laxman (24 October 1921 – 26 January 2015) was an Indian cartoonist, writer, illustrator, and humorist. He was best known for his creation The Common Man. It was for his daily cartoon strip, "You Said It" in The Times of India. It started in 1951.

Laxman died from multiple organ failure caused by a urinary tract infection in Pune, Maharashtra, India, aged 93.

[[Tom Uren]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2015 deaths, Boxers, Civil servants, Politicians from Sydney, Sportspeople from Sydney

Thomas "Tom" Uren (28 May 1921 – 26 January 2015) was an Australian politician and former boxer. He was Deputy Leader of the Australian Labor Party. He helped create the heritage and conservation movement in Australia. Uren was a member of the House of Representatives for Reid serving from 1955 through 1990.

[[Paul Crouch]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2013 deaths, American Pentecostals, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, People from St. Joseph, Missouri, Television evangelists, Writers from Missouri

Paul Franklin Crouch (March 30, 1934 – November 30, 2013) was an American Christian broadcaster. Crouch, along with his wife Jan, and televangelist Jim Bakker and Tammy Faye Bakker, founded the Trinity Broadcasting Network in 1973 (TBN) along with his wife Jan Crouch. Crouch was born in St. Joseph, Missouri.

Crouch died in Orange, California from heart disease, aged 79.

[[Orange, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Orange County, California

Orange is a city in Orange County, California. It is 3 miles north from Santa Ana, California. The population was 136,891 as of 2014.

Find local reference to the town online jobs https://web.archive.org/web/20170505015804/http://www.grandsummit.company/onlinejobsearch applications.

[[UY Scuti]]

CATEGORIES: Red giants, Variable stars, Hypergiants

UY Scuti is a red supergiant (RSG) star. It is a pulsating variable star in the constellation Scutum and one of the largest known stars in the Milky Way Galaxy. It is also one of the most luminous and well-known of its kind.  

The star has an estimated average median radius of 1,708 times that of the Sun, or a diameter of 2.4 trillion m (1.5 billion mi; 15.9 AU); thus a volume 5 billion times that of the Sun.  

It is about 2.9 kiloparsecs (9,500 light years) from Earth, so it is one of the nearest known hypergiants. If placed at the center of the Solar system, its photosphere would engulf the orbit of Jupiter. The radius is not known for certain, and may be larger than the orbit of Saturn.

[[Karesuando Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Wooden churches

The Karesuando Church (Karesuando kyrka) is a wooden church building in Karesuando in Sweden. It belongs to the Karesuando Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was inaugurated on 3 December 1905 by Bishop Olof Bergqvist of the Diocese of Luleå. It then replaced an older church. The church is the northernmost church in Sweden.

[[Jakobsbergs GoIF]]

CATEGORIES: Handball clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Jakobsbergs GoIF is a sports club in Jakobsberg in Sweden. It is active within handball. The men's soccer merged with FC Järfälla in 1993. In 2003, the women's soccer also merged with FC Järfälla.

The club won the Swedish women's soccer national chapionship in 1977. The club also finished up second in 1975. They lost the 1975 final game against Öxabäcks IF on penalty kicks.

[[Alfonso La Marmora]]

CATEGORIES: 1804 births, 1878 deaths, Generals, Italian military people, People from Turin, Prime Ministers of Italy, Honorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, Italian politicians

Alfonso La Marmora (18 November 1804 – 5 January 1878), or Alfonso Ferrero La Marmora, Alfonso Lamarmora and Alfonso Ferrero, Cavaliere La Marmora, was an Italian general and statesman.

He was born at Turin in a rich and noble family: his father was a Marquis. In 1822 he graduated in the Military Academy of Turin; then began a military career, which led him to become general in 1856. In the Kingdom of Sardinia he was twice Minister of War in the governments led by Massimo D'Azeglio and Camillo Cavour.

In 1854 La Marmora made a law that improved the quality of the troops, created new academies for officers, retouched the recruitment system, bringing to 60,000 Army soldiers (of which only a quarter in active service, while the rest evaded the lever paying a substitute), doubled the units of riflemen and strengthened the light cavalry at the expense of heavy. Even the artillery, health and administrative apparatus were renovated, as well as logistics services.

In 1855 he resigned from the post of Minister of War because he went to fight in the Crimean War. He was Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Sardinia from 19 July 1859 to 21 January 1860. In the years immediately after the Italian unification, he was governor of Milan and Prefect of Naples.

Member of the "Historical Right", La Marmora was Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of the Kingdom of Italy from 18 September 1864 to 20 July 1866. He resigned from office to go fight the third Italian independence war: on this occasion, however, he committed several strategic errors, which cost a heavy defeat for Italy.

In 1870 he retired from political life. He died in Florence and was buried in Biella in the church of San Sebastiano. His brother, Alessandro La Marmora, founded the corps of Bersaglieri.

[[Luminous blue variable]]

CATEGORIES: Hypergiants, Variable stars, Types of stars

Luminous blue variables (LBVs) are massive evolved stars. They show unpredictable and sometimes dramatic variations in their spectra and their brightness. 

These unstable supergiants or hypergiants are also known as S Doradus variables. S Doradus is one of the brightest stars of the Large Magellanic Cloud. 

LBVs are extraordinarily rare with just 20 listed in the General Catalogue of Variable Stars as SDor, and some of these are no longer considered to be LBVs.

In their "quiescent" state they are typically B-type stars, occasionally slightly hotter, with unusual emission lines. They are found in a region of the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram known as the S Doradus instability strip. They are the least luminous have a temperature around 10,000 K and a luminosity about 250,000 times the Sun. The most luminous have a temperature around 25,000 K and a luminosity over a million times the Sun. These are some of the most luminous of all stars.

Their relationship to supernovae is unclear.

[[Smygehamn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Smygehamn is a locality in Trelleborg Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,278 inhabitants people lived there. It is the southernmost locality in Sweden.

[[Östra Torp Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

The Östra Torp Church (Östra Torps kyrka) is a church building in Smygehamn in Sweden. I belongs to the Källtorp Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was inaugurated on 14 June 1911. It replaced an older church which had been destroyed by a fire in 1909. The church is the southernmost in Sweden.

[[Marstrand Regatta]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, Sport in Sweden

The Marstrand Regatta (Marstrandsregattan) is a sailing event. It is held outside Marstrand in Sweden in July. It is hosted by the Gothenburg Royal Sailing Society.

[[Guelph]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ontario

Guelph is a city in southern Ontario. It is called the Royal City. It has often been rated as one of Canada's best places to live. This is because it has a low unemployment rate and a low crime rate. In the 2011 census, Guelph had a population of 121,688. Guelph has warm, humid summers that can reach up to 30 and cold winters coming down to -25. It is classified Dfb in the Köppen climate classification system.

[[Marstrand Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

The Marstrand Church (Marstrands kyrka) is a church building in Marstrand in Sweden. It belongs to the Marstrand Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church is supposed to have been built between the late 13th and the early 14th century. It was rebuilt in 1806. In 1912, the church was renovated.

[[Pistol Star]]

CATEGORIES: Hypergiants

The Pistol Star is a blue hypergiant.  It is one of the most luminous stars in the Milky Way galaxy.

It is one of many massive young stars in the Quintuplet cluster in the central region of our galaxy. It is about 25,000 light years from Earth in the direction of Sagittarius. It would be visible to the naked eye as a fourth magnitude star but interstellar gases have blocked it from view.

[[Löddeköpinge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Löddeköpinge is the second-largest locality in Kävlinge Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 6,290 people lived there.

[[Barsebäckshamn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Barsebäckshamn is a locality in Kävlinge Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 438 people lived there.

[[Bjärred]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Bjärred is a coastal locality in Lomma Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden, located circa 20 kilometers north of Malmö and 10 kilometers west of Lund. In 2010, 9,542 people lived there.

[[Clares]]

CATEGORIES: Villages, Settlements in Castile-La Mancha

Clares is a small village in the province of Guadalajara. It belongs to the region of de Molina-Alto Tajo in the autonomous community of Castile-La Mancha, Spain.

[[Tin Cup]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 romance movies, 1996 comedy movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American sports comedy movies

Tin Cup is a 1996 romantic comedy movie. This movie is about a golf pro. Kevin Costner plays Roy. Rene Russo plays Molly. Cheech Marin plays Romeo. This movie got mixed to positive reviews from the critics. It took in over $75.8 million USD. 

[[Barsebäck]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Barsebäck is a locality in Kävlinge Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. It is located circa 4 kilometers east of Barsebäckshamn. In 2010, 524 people lived there. The places also known for the former Barsebäck Nuclear Power Plant,

[[Furulund]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Furulund is a locality in Kävlinge Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,180 people lived there.

[[Getinge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Getinge is a locality in Halmstad Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,843 people lived there.

[[Laxvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Laxvik is a locality in Halmstad Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 475 people lived there.

[[Tyringe]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Tyringe is a locality in Hässleholm Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,658 people lived there.

[[Dalsjöfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Dalsjöfors is a locality in Borås Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,362 people lived there.

[[Sandared]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Sandared is a locality in Borås Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,160 people lived there.

[[Alsterbro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Alsterbro is a locality in Nybro Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 422 people lived there.

[[Veberöd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Veberöd is a locality in Lund Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 5,500 people lived there. The places is located near the lake of Vombsjön.

[[Sidensjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Sidensjö is a locality in Örnsköldsvik Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 399 people lived there.

[[Bredbyn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Bredbyn is a locality in Örnsköldsvik Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,186 people lived there.

[[Husum]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Husum is a locality in Örnsköldsvik Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,647 people lived there.

[[Dalby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Dalby is a locality in Lund Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 5,708 people lived there. The place is located about 10 kilometers east-south-east of Lund and about 20 kilometers east-north-east of Malmö.

[[Södra Sandby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Södra Sandby is the second largest locality in Lund Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 6,136 people lived there. It is located circa 10 kilometers east of Lund and 30 kilometers northeast of Malmö.

[[Genarp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Genarp is a locality in Lund Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,892 people lived there.

[[Mantorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Mantorp is a locality in Mjölby Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,671 people lived there 2010.

[[Skänninge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Skänninge is a locality in Mjölby Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,140 people lived there 2010. It is located circa 10 kilometers north of Mjölby.

[[Sya]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Sya is a locality in Mjölby Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 306 people lived there.

[[Bua]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Bua is a locality in Varberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,746 people lived there.

[[Veddige]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Veddige is a locality in Varberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,045 people lived there 2010. It is located near the river Viskan which is located 20 kilometers from Varberg.

[[Kareby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Kareby is a locality in Kungälv Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 292 people lived there.

[[Västra Karaby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Västra Karaby is a locality in Kävlinge Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 229 people lived there.

[[Västra Torup]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Västra Torup is a minor locality in Hässleholm Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 198 people lived there In 2005, 210 people lived there, Earlier, Västra Torup was classified as a locality by Statistics Sweden. The Ingelbo Moose Park is located in Hissmossa north of Västra Torup 

[[Ekerö sommarstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Ekerö sommarstad is a locality in Ekerö Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 544 people lived there.

[[Drottningholm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Drottningholm is a locality in Ekerö Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 398 people lived there. It is on the island of Lovön. The Swedish Royal Family have lived at the Drottningholm Palace since 1981.

[[Berga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Berga is a locality in Högsby Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 724 people lived there.

[[Ruda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Ruda is a locality in Högsby Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, with 613 people lived there.

[[Evertsberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Evertsberg is a locality in Älvdalen Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 267 people lived there.

[[Särna]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Särna is a locality in Älvdalen Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 719 people lived there.

[[Idre]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Idre is a locality and ski resort in Älvdalen Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 794 people lived there. It was also a historical parish and former municipality.

[[Cinderella (2015 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 romance movies, 2010s fantasy movies, American romance movies, American fantasy movies, British romance movies, British fantasy movies, Disney movie remakes

Cinderella is a 2015 romantic-fantasy movie. It stars Lily James as Cinderella. Cate Blanchett plays Lady Tremaine. Helena Bonham Carter plays the Fairy Godmother.

The movie was released on March 13, 2015.

[[Hollywood Canteen]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s comedy movies, American musical comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Delmer Daves

Hollywood Canteen is a 1944 musical romantic comedy movie. The movie is about two soldiers spending three nights at a Hollywood Canteen. Joan Leslie, The Andrews Sisters and Ida Lupino are in the cast.

[[Miguel Ángel Cascallana]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2015 deaths, 1972 Summer Olympics, Handball, People from Castile and León, Spanish Olympians

Miguel Ángel Cascallana Guerra (26 February 1948 – 26 January 2015) was a Spanish handball player. He competed for his country in team handball at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, West Germany. He finished 15th in the Olympic tournament. He played in all five matches and scored three goals.

Cascallana was born in Herrera de Pisuerga, Castile and León. He died on 26 January 2015 in Alicante, at the age of 66.

[[Modular programming]]

CATEGORIES: Computer programming

Modular programming is a way of organizing a computer program into smaller parts called modules. Each module contains the necessary code to run one specific part of the final computer program. Modular programs are simpler to understand. They are also more simple to maintain. Different programmers can each make different modules. Usually, each module is designed to do only one thing.

[[Noctiluca scintillans]]

CATEGORIES: Protista, Alveolata

Noctiluca scintillans, is the sea sparkle. It is a free-living marine-dwelling species of dinoflagellate. 

It shows bioluminescence when disturbed: this produces a "milky seas effect". The bioluminescence is produced in the cytoplasm of this single-celled protist. It is done by a luciferin-luciferase reaction in thousands of spherical organelles, called scintillons.  Nonluminescent populations in the genus Noctiluca lack these scintillons.

Noctiluca is a heterotroph (non-photosynthetic) that engulfs by phagocytosis. They eat plankton, diatoms, other dinoflagellates, fish eggs and bacteria. The diatom Thalassiosira is known as a favourite food source of Noctiluca.

N. scintillans also takes in tiny phytoplankton which live as endosymbionts. They do photosynthesis for their larger host. Diatoms are often found in the vacuoles (internal membrane-bound storage compartments) of Noctiluca. The green non-feeding symbionts can grow photoautotrophically for generations. 

[[Åsen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Åsen is a locality in Älvdalen Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 246 people lived there.

[[Rot]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Rot is a locality in Älvdalen Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 695 people lived there.

[[Grängesberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Grängesberg is a locality in Ludvika Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,481 people lived there 2010. From the 16th century and to 1989, there iron-ore extraction was carried out at the Grängesberg orefield.

[[Hemse]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Hemse is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,715 people lived there.

[[Norra Visby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Norra Visby is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 453 people lived there.

[[Stånga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Stånga is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 317 people lived there.

[[Vittjärv]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Vittjärv is a locality in Boden Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 445 people lived there.

[[Burgsvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Burgsvik ['buschvick] is a locality in the southern parts of Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 338 people lived there. The Burgsvik beds are located in the area.

[[Vibble]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Vibble is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,286 people lived there.

[[Sunnansjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Sunnansjö is a locality in Ludvika Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 560 people lived there.

[[Löttorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Löttorp is a locality in Borgholm Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden, In 2010, 438 people lived there.

[[Köpingsvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Köpingsvik is a locality in Borgholm Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 599 people lived there. It is located circa 4 kilometers east of Borgholm on the island Öland.

[[Björkviken]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Björkviken is a locality in Borgholm Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 208 people lived there.

[[Rälla]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Rälla is a locality in Borgholm Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 407 people lived there.

[[Gårdby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Gårdby is a locality in Mörbylånga Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 257 people lived there.

[[Degerhamn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Degerhamn is a locality in Mörbylånga Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 331 people lived there.

[[Skogsby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Skogsby is a locality in Mörbylånga Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 569 people lived there.

[[Vickleby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Vickleby is a locality in Mörbylånga Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 320 people lived there.

[[Algutsrum]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Algutsrum is a locality in Mörbylånga Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 532 people lived there.

[[Arontorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Arontorp is a locality in Mörbylånga Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 233 people lived there.

[[Kastlösa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Kastlösa is a locality in Mörbylånga Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 201 people lived there.

[[Lärbro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Lärbro is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 484 people lived there. It is located in the north approximately 10 away from Slite. The place had train connection with Visby between 1921 and 1960. One sight of the place is the medieval Lärbro Church..

[[Havdhem]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Havdhem is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 298 people lived there. The medieval Havdhem Church is located in Havdhem.

[[Västerhejde]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Västerhejde is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 313 people lived there.

[[Väskinde]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Väskinde is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 337 people lived there.

[[Tingstäde]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Tingstäde is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 265 people lived there.

[[Lövsta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Lövsta or Roma kyrkby is a locality in Gotland Municipality, in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 261 people lived there.

[[Övre Svartlå]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Övre Svartlå is a locality in Boden Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 201 people lived there.

[[Unbyn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Unbyn is a locality in Boden Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 468 people lived there.

[[Sävast]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Sävast is a village located in Boden Municipality, Norrbotten County, Sweden. It had a population of 3,148 in 2010.

[[Harads]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Harads is a locality in Boden Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. It is located approximately 50 kilometres south of the Arctic Circle. In 2010, 501 people lived there.

[[Kappelshamn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Kappelshamn is a smaller locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 115 people lived there.

[[Maluridae]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri, Birds of Australia, Birds of Oceania

Maluridae is a family of small, insectivorous passerine birds endemic to Australia and New Guinea. 

Commonly known as 'wrens', they are unrelated to the true wrens of the Northern Hemisphere. The family includes 15 species of fairywren, 3 emu-wrens, and 11 grasswrens. There are six genera.

The Maluridae are one of the many bird families to have evolved from a great adaptive radiation of what were crows to new ecological opportunities in Australasia. Their closest relatives are the Meliphagidae (honeyeaters), and the Pardalotidae. 

Their obvious similarity to the wrens of Europe and America is not genetic, but simply the consequence of convergent evolution between more-or-less unrelated species that share the same ecological niche.

Their behaviour is similar to many other passerine families. The males defend territory and attract females by song and bright coloured plumage.   Females are a dowdy brownish colour, better for camouflage. The males' colour is much less bright out of season. They are insectivorous, and nest in dense undergrowth. The parallels with Eurasian wrens are quite striking.

[[Kumla kyrkby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Kumla kyrkby is a locality in Sala Municipality in Västmanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 206 people lived there.

[[Fjärås kyrkby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Fjärås kyrkby is a locality in Kungsbacka Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,321 people lived there. The place is located at the shorelines of the lake of Lygnern.

[[Vansö kyrkby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Vansö kyrkby is a locality in Strängnäs Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 202 people lived there.

[[Vinbergs kyrkby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Vinbergs kyrkby is a locality in Falkenberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 208 people lived there.

[[Håbo-Tibble kyrkby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Håbo-Tibble kyrkby is a locality in Upplands-Bro Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 256 people lived there.

[[Skedvi kyrkby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Skedvi kyrkby is a locality in Säter Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 208 people lived there.

[[Vinberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Vinberg is a locality in Falkenberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 592 people lived there.

[[Möklinta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Möklinta is a locality in Sala Municipality in Västmanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 358 people lived there.

[[Ransta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Ransta is a locality in Sala Municipality in Västmanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 881 people lived there.

[[Salbohed]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Salbohed is a locality in Sala Municipality in Västmanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 259 people lived there.

[[Sätra brunn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Sätra brunn is a locality in Sala Municipality in Västmanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 335 people lived there.

[[Västerfärnebo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Västerfärnebo is a locality in Sala Municipality in Västmanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 477 people lived there.

[[Bonäs]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Bonäs is a locality in Mora Municipality, Dalarna County, Sweden with 457 inhabitants in 2010.

[[Färnäs]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Färnäs is a locality in Mora Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 988 people lived there.

[[Gesunda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Gesunda is a locality in Mora Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 229 people lived there.

[[Nusnäs]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Nusnäs is a locality in Mora Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 729 people lived there.

[[Östnor]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Östnor is a locality in Mora Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 534 people lived there.

[[Selja]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Selja is a locality in Mora Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 548 people lived there.

[[Sollerön]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Sollerön is a locality in Mora Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 901 people lived there. documentary photographer Karl Lärka (1892–1981) was born there.

[[Våmhus]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Våmhus is a locality in Mora Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 857 people lived there. It is situated by the northwestern shorlines of the Orsa Lake.

[[Vattnäs]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Vattnäs is a locality in Mora Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 294 people lived there.

[[Venjan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Venjan is a locality in Mora Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 295 people lived there.

[[Vinäs]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Vinäs is a locality in Mora Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 329 people lived there.

[[Solsidan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Solsidan is a locality in Ekerö Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 349 people lived there.

[[Stenhamra]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Stenhamra is a locality on the island of Färingsö in Ekerö Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,336 people lived there.

[[Kungsberga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Kungsberga is a locality on the Lake Mälaren island of Färingsö in Ekerö Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 406 people lived there.

[[Glommen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Glommen is a locality in Falkenberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 761 people lived there.

[[Ätran, Falkenberg Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Ätran is a locality in Falkenberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 417 people lived there.

[[Skrea]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Skrea is a locality in Falkenberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,064 people lived there 2010. The place was first mentioned in writing in 1447. The nature reserve of Grimsholmen is located near the village.

[[Skogstorp, Falkenberg Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Skogstorp is a locality in Falkenberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,124 people lived there.

[[Årstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Årstad is a locality in Falkenberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 284 people lived there.

[[Skogstorp]]

Skogstorp may refer to:

[[Skogstorp, Eskilstuna Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Skogstorp is a locality in Eskilstuna Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,860 people lived there.

[[Jonstorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Jonstorp is a locality in Höganäs Municipality in the northwestern parts of Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,880 people lived there.

[[Söderskogen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Söderskogen is a locality in Håbo Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 378 people lived there.

[[Råby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Råby is a locality in Håbo Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 885 people lived there.

[[Krägga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Krägga is a locality in Håbo Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 331 people lived there.

[[Häggeby och Vreta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Häggeby och Vreta is a locality in Håbo Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 224 people lived there.

[[Ingelstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Ingelstad is a locality in Växjö Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,674 people lived there.

[[Åby]]

Åby may refer to:

[[Åby, Växjö Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Åby is a locality in Växjö Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 456 people lived there.

[[Åryd]]

Åryd may refer to:

[[Åryd, Karlshamn Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Blekinge County

Åryd is a locality in Karlshamn Municipality in Blekinge County in Sweden. In 2001, 336 people lived there.

[[Billinge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County, Settlements in Sweden

Billinge is a locality in Eslöv Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 415 people lived there.

[[Rottne]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Rottne is a locality in Växjö Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,354 people lived there.

[[Norrhult-Klavreström]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Norrhult-Klavreström is a locality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, with 1,215 people lived there. The locality is bimunicipal, which means it spanns across the borders of two municipalities, Uppvidinge and Växjö.

[[Skanör med Falsterbo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Skanör med Falsterbo is a statistical locality in Vellinge Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 6,937 people lived there. It consists of the two former towns of Skanör and Falsterbo.

[[Tånga och Rögle]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Tånga och Rögle is a locality in Helsingborg Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 223 people lived there.

[[Seleucus I Nicator]]

CATEGORIES: History of the Middle East, Kings and queens, Generals, 4th century BC births, 281 BC deaths

Seleucus I Nicator ("Seleucus the Victor") (c. 358 BC – 281 BC) was one of the generals friends of Alexander who were given, or took control of, his empire. Having served as an infantry general under Alexander, he eventually took the title of basileus (~"king"). He set up the Seleucid Empire over much of the territory in the  Near East which Alexander had conquered.

After the death of Alexander in June 323 BC, Seleucus initially supported Perdiccas, the regent of Alexander's empire, and was made Commander of the Companions (the elite cavalry of Alexander) at the Partition of Babylon in 323 BC. 

The 'Wars of the Diadochi' in 322 were the wars of Alexander's successors. Perdiccas failed against Ptolemy in Egypt, which led to the mutiny of his troops. Perdiccas was betrayed and assassinated in a conspiracy by Seleucus and others sometime in either 321 or 320 BC.

In 321 BC, Seleucus was appointed Satrap of Babylon under the new regent Antipater. Almost immediately, the wars between the Diadochi resumed and Antigonus forced Seleucus to flee Babylon. Seleucus was only able to return to Babylon in 312 BC with the support of Ptolemy. 

From 312 BC, Seleucus ruthlessly expanded his dominions and eventually conquered the Persian and Median lands. Seleucus ruled not only  Babylonia, but the entire enormous eastern part of Alexander's empire:

Seleucus' wars took him as far as India, where, after two years of war (305-303 BC), he made peace with the Indian Emperor Chandragupta Maurya. Seleucus exchanged his eastern satrapies in the Indus River Valley for 500 war elephants. These would play a decisive role against Antigonus at the Battle of Ipsus in 301 BC and against Lysimachus at the Battle of Corupedium in 281 BC.

Seleucus' victories against Antigonus and Lysimachus left the Seleucid dynasty virtually unopposed in Asia and in Anatolia. However, Seleucus also hoped to take control of Lysimachus' European territories, primarily Thrace and Macedon itself. But upon arriving in Thrace in 281 BC, Seleucus was assassinated by Ptolemy Ceraunus, who had taken refuge at the Seleucid court with his sister Lysandra. The assassination of Seleucus destroyed Seleucid prospects in Thrace and Macedon, and paved the way for Ptolemy Ceraunus to absorb much of Lysimachus' former power in Macedon. Seleucus was succeeded by his son Antiochus I as ruler of the Seleucid Empire.

Seleucus founded a number of new cities during his reign, including Antioch (300 BC) and in particular Seleucia on the Tigris (ca. 305 BC), the new capital of the Seleucid Empire, a foundation that eventually depopulated Babylon.

[[Highland]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

The term highland or upland is used to mean any mountainous region or elevated mountainous plateau. Generally speaking, upland (or uplands) means ranges of hills, typically up to 500-600m. Highland (or highlands) usually is used to mean ranges of low mountains.

[[Mark Pickerel]]

CATEGORIES: American rock drummers, Living people, Musicians from Washington, Year of birth missing (living people)

Mark Pickerel is an American drummer. He is best known as the original drummer for the Screaming Trees. Pickerel played for the Screaming Trees on their first five studio albums and their extended play. He left the band in 1991. 

[[Jewel Staite]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Actors from British Columbia, Canadian child actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors

Jewel Belair Staite (born June 2, 1982) is a Canadian actress best known for her roles as Catalina in Space Cases, Kaylee Frye in Firefly and Dr. Jennifer Keller on Stargate Atlantis.

[[Transformers (disambiguation)]]

Transformers is a franchise centered on shapeshifting alien robots.

Transformers or The Transformers may also refer to:

[[Joel Grey]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, American dancers, American movie actors, American photographers, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Drama Desk Award winners, Gay men, Golden Globe Award winning actors, LGBT actors, LGBT dancers, LGBT people from Ohio, LGBT singers, Singers from Cleveland, Ohio, Tony Award winning actors, 1932 births, Living people

Joel Grey (born Joel David Katz; April 11, 1932) is an American actor, singer, dancer, and photographer. 

[[David Landau (journalist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2015 deaths, British Jews, Israeli journalists, Jewish Israeli writers, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Writers from London, Editors

Maurice David Landau OBE (22 June 1947 in England – 27 January 2015) was a British-Israeli journalist and newspaper editor. Landau was editor-in-chief of the Israeli newspaper Haaretz from 2004 to 2008. He was the founder and editor-in-chief of the paper's English edition from 1997 to 2004. After leaving Haaretz Landau became the Israel correspondent for The Economist.

[[Abscess]]

CATEGORIES: Medical signs

An abscess (abscessus) is pus that has built up within the tissue of the body. Signs and symptoms of abscesses include: redness, pain, warmth, and swelling. This swelling feels like it is filled with fluid if it is pressed. The area of redness is often bigger than the area of swelling. Carbuncles are an abscess in the hair follicles.

An abscess is usually caused by a bacterial infection. Often many different types of bacteria can be part of a single infection. In the United States and many other areas of the world the most common bacteria present is MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus). Rarely parasites can cause abscesses and this is more common in the developing world. Diagnosis of a skin abscess is usually made based on what it looks like and is proved by cutting it open. Ultrasound imaging may be useful in cases in which the diagnosis is not clear. In abscesses around the anus, computer tomography (CT) may be important to look for deeper infection.

Treatment for most skin or soft tissue abscesses is to cut it open and drain out the pus. Antibiotics are usually not needed for healthy people. New studies have found that it is better to close the wound after draining, instead of packing it with gauze. This can speed healing and not increase risk of the abscess returning.  Sometimes simply sucking out the pus with a needle is not enough.

Skin abscesses are common and have become more common in recent years. As many as 65% of people who take intravenous drugs get abscesses In 2005 in the United States 3.2 million people went to the emergency department for an abscess. In Australia around 13,000 people were put in hospital in 2008 for the disease.

[[Ernst Träger]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, German judges, People from Berlin

 Ernst Träger  (29 January 1926 – 25 January 2015) was a German judge. He was a judge in the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany between 1977 and 1989. He was born in Berlin, Germany.

Träger died in Berlin, aged 88.

[[Lucjan Lis]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2015 deaths, Cyclists, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Disease-related deaths in Poland, Medalists at the 1972 Summer Olympics, Olympic silver medalists, Polish sportspeople

Lucjan Roman Lis (8 August 1950 – 26 January 2015) was a Polish cyclist. He had his best achievements in the 100 km team time trial. In this event he won a silver medal at the 1972 Summer Olympics as well as a bronze and a gold medal at the world championships in 1971 and 1973.

Lis died of a ruptured aorta in Warsaw, Poland, aged 64.

[[Henk Faanhof]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Dutch cyclists, Sportspeople from Amsterdam, Tour de France cyclists

Henk Faanhof (29 August 1922 – 27 January 2015) was a Dutch professional road bicycle racer from Amsterdam. Faanhof won one stage in the 1954 Tour de France. In 1947, Faanhof was disqualified in the Dutch National Road Race Championship, after changing bicycles with a team mate.

He also competed in three events at the 1948 Summer Olympics. 

Faanhof died in Amsterdam on January 27, 2015, aged 92.

[[John T. Myers]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, United States representatives from Indiana, US Republican Party politicians

John Thomas Myers (February 8, 1927 – January 27, 2015) was an American politician. He was a Republican congressman from Indiana's 7th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives from 1967 to 1997.

Myers died at the age of 87 in his birthplace of Covington, Indiana.

[[Sly Cooper (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Sly Cooper, Video game series

Sly Cooper is a series of video games. It is named after the title character, Sly Cooper. They are available on the PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, and PS Vita. The series was created by Sucker Punch and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. All of the video games were also developed by them, except Sly Cooper: Thieves in Time, which was developed by Sanzaru Games. There are currently five games in the series, as well as a collection of the first three remastered:

[[Egyptian Armed Forces]]

CATEGORIES: Military, Egypt, 1922 establishments in Africa, 20th-century establishments in Egypt

The Egyptian Armed Forces are the military forces of Egypt. The Egyptian Armed Forces are the largest in Africa, and the Middle East. It was established in 1922. It consists of the Egyptian Army, Egyptian Navy, Egyptian Air Force and Egyptian Air Defense Forces. The Egyptian Armed Forces are the largest in Africa, and the Middle East. They are the 13th most powerful armed forces worldwide. Their combined strength is about 450,000.

According to the Egyptian Constitution, The Egyptian Armed Forces is led by the General command or by the Supreme Council formed in times of emergency and headed by the President who holds the title of the Supreme leader of the Egyptian armed forces, and consists of the 21 military officers who represent the different armies and departments of the armed forces.

[[Intermediate System to Intermediate System]]

CATEGORIES: Internet protocols

Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS) is a routing protocol used in larger office networks and parts of the Internet. It quickly decides how data gets from one place to another on a network or the Internet.

[[Funeral viewing]]

CATEGORIES: Death customs

A funeral viewing or body viewing is the time family and friends come to see the dead after the body has been prepared by a funeral home. the body is embalmed in order to keep the body looking as natural as possible. A viewing may take place at a funeral parlor, in a family home, or at a church. A funeral viewing may also be important to grieving process.

[[Örtofta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Örtofta is a locality in Eslöv Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 202 people lived there.

[[Hallstavik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Hallstavik is a locality in Norrtälje Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,476 people lived there. The locality is known for its paper-factory and the Rospiggarna speedway team .

[[Rimbo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Rimbo is a locality in Norrtälje Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,629 people lived there. It is located circa 20& kilometers west of Norrtälje.

[[Östhamra]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Östhamra is a locality in Norrtälje Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 255 people lived there.

[[Spillersboda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Spillersboda is a locality in Norrtälje Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2005, 314 people lived there. Swedish model Alexandra Larsson was born there.

[[Grisslehamn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Grisslehamn is a locality in Norrtälje Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 249 people lived there.

[[Mölle]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Mölle is a locality in Höganäs Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 715 people lived there.

[[Wilfred Agbonavbare]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2015 deaths, 1994 FIFA World Cup players, Cancer deaths in Spain, Nigerian footballers, People from Lagos

Wilfred Agbonavbare (5 October 1966 – 27 January 2015) was a Nigerian footballer who played as a goalkeeper.

In his country, Lagos-born Agbonavbare played for New Nigeria Bank F.C. and BCC Lions FC. In 1990 he moved to Spain where he would spend the rest of his career, starting with Rayo Vallecano in Segunda División.

Agbonavbare died at the age of 48 from cancer in Alcalá de Henares, Spain.

[[Ray Hathaway]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, American baseball players, Brooklyn Dodgers players, 2015 deaths, Sportspeople from Ohio

Ray Wilson Hathaway (October 13, 1916 – February 11, 2015) was an American baseball player. He played four games for the Brooklyn Dodgers of Major League Baseball (MLB) in 1945. He was listed at 6 ft 0 in and 165 lbs. He both batted and threw right-handed.

During his career, Hathaway played in 4 MLB games. He recorded a record of 0-1, he had 1 start, had 0 completed games, 3 games finished, and had an ERA of 4.00 in 9 innings pitched.

[[Will McBride (photographer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, American photographers, American journalists, American painters, Artists from Chicago, Writers from St. Louis, Missouri, Writers from Chicago, People from Berlin

Will McBride (January 10, 1931 – January 29, 2015) was an American photographer in reportage, art photography and book illustration, as well as, a painter and sculptor. He was known for his works that were against censorship in the United States by taking picture of people naked. McBride was born in St. Louis, Missouri and raised in Chicago, Illinois. His entire career was based in Berlin.

McBride died in his home in Berlin, Germany, aged 84.

[[Rod McKuen]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, American composers, American pianists, American poets, American singer-songwriters, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from respiratory arrest, Grammy Award winners, Infectious disease deaths in California, Musicians from Oakland, California, Singers from Oakland, California, Writers from Oakland, California

Rodney Marvin "Rod" McKuen (April 29, 1933 – January 29, 2015) was an American poet, singer-songwriter, and composer. He was one of the best-selling poets in the United States during the late 1960s. 

Throughout his career, McKuen produced a wide range of recordings, which included popular music, spoken word poetry, movie soundtracks, and classical music. He earned two Oscar nominations and one Pulitzer nomination for his serious music compositions.

McKuen died of respiratory arrest due to pneumonia.

[[Frances Lennon]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2015 deaths, British artists, British centenarians, People from Manchester

Frances Lennon, MBE (12 September 1912 – 24 January 2015) was an award winning British artist from Greater Manchester. She was best known for being the Official Artist of the 2002 Commonwealth Games. Her paintings have been described as "Lowry-esque, but with more humour".

[[Keith Emerson]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2016 deaths, People who committed suicide, English composers, English musicians, People from Yorkshire

Keith Noel Emerson (2 November 1944 – 10 March 2016) was an English keyboardist and composer. Emerson played in a number of bands before he found his first commercial success with P. P. Arnold's backing band the Nice in the late 1960s.

Emerson was born in Todmoreden, West Riding of Yorkshire. He was a founding member of Emerson, Lake & Palmer (ELP) in 1970. Emerson, Lake & Palmer were successful through much of the 1970s. They became one of the best-known progressive rock groups of the era.

Emerson committed suicide by shooting himself in the head at his Santa Monica, California home. He was aged 71.

[[Sibghatullah Mojaddedi]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2019 deaths, Presidents of Afghanistan

Sibghatullah Mojaddedi (صبغت الله مجددیlrm, 21 April 1925 – 11 February 2019) was a Afghan politician. He served as Interim President after the fall of Mohammad Najibullah's government in April 1992. He was also the founder of the Afghan National Liberation Front.

He served as the chairman of the 2003 loya jirga that approved Afghanistan's new constitution. In 2005 he was appointed chairman of the Meshrano Jirga, upper house of the National Assembly of Afghanistan. He was reappointed as a member in 2011. He also served on the Afghan High Peace Council.

It was reported on 12 February 2019 that Mojaddedi had died the day before at a Kabul hospital from a long-illness. He was 93.

[[Amparo Baró]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors, Spanish stage actors, People from Barcelona

Amparo Baró San Martín (21 September 1937 – 29 January 2015) was a Spanish actress. She starting working in theatres with Adolfo Marsillach. She was known for her role as "Sole" in 7 Vidas. Her career spanned more than 50 years.

Baró died from cancer in Madrid, Spain, aged 77.

[[Chevrolet Traverse]]

CATEGORIES: General Motors vehicles, Full-size vehicles

Chevrolet Traverse is a full-sized crossover (CUV) made by General Motors' Chevrolet division. It was introduced for the 2009 model year. Chevrolet markets the Traverse as a minivan (without sliding side doors). The design for the Traverse is loosely based off the concept vehicle the Chevrolet Sequel (a hybrid crossover SUV). It replaced the Uplander (a minivan) and the TrailBlazer (an SUV) in North America. After the Uplander and its siblings failed to match the sales quota of Toyota Sienna and Honda Odyssey GM announced it would target crossovers. In South America it replaced the Grand Blazer. This vehicle uses a unibody platform called the GM Lambda platform. In 2013 Traverse was updated with a brand new grille, fascia and Camaro inspired tail lights.

In 2017, a second generation Traverse was introduced for the 2018 model year, which followed a more SUV-like design similar to the Suburban/Tahoe. It also became the largest crossover SUV in the Chevrolet lineup due to the introduction of the mid-size Blazer in 2019.

[[Zhelyu Zhelev]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2015 deaths, Presidents of Bulgaria, Bulgarian writers, Philosophers

Zhelyu Mitev Zhelev (Желю Митев Желев; 3 March 1935 – 30 January 2015) was a Bulgarian politician, philosopher, writer, and dissident. He served as the second President of Bulgaria from 1 August 1990 to 22 January 1997. He was the first non-communist to hold office.

Zhelev was born in Smyadovo. He was married to Maria Zheleva and had two children.

Zhelev died on 30 January 2015 in Sofia, aged 79.

[[Malmköping]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Malmköping is a locality in Flen Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,977 people lived there.

[[Påskallavik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Påskallavik is a locality in Oskarshamn Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,083 people lived there.

[[Saltvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Saltvik is a locality in Oskarshamn Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 352 people lived there.

[[Bergkvara]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Bergkvara is a locality in Torsås Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 940 people lived there.

[[Figeholm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Figeholm is a locality in Oskarshamn Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 743 people lived there

[[Urban areas of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sweden

The Urban areas of Sweden are a common English term of the Swedish language-term tätort. The official term in English, used by Statistics Sweden, is however locality. The places can be compared with, for example, the census-designated places in the USA.

The localities of Sweden have at least 200 people lived there. But the concept is statistical, and not defined by any municipal or county borderlines. Urban areas referred to as towns (stad) for statistical purposes at least 10,000 inhabitants. In 2010 there was 1,956 urban areas in Sweden. They covered 85 % of the Swedish population.

[[Klevshult]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Klevshult is a locality in Vaggeryd Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 264 people lived there.

[[Hok]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Hok is a locality in Vaggeryd Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 637 people lived there. North of it is the Hok Mansion.

[[European Agreement on Au Pair Placement]]

CATEGORIES: 1969, 1971 in Europe, 1960s in France, Domestic work, Strasbourg, 1960s treaties, 1970s treaties

The European Agreement on Au Pair Placement is an international agreement within the Council of Europe. It was originally signed in Strasbourg, France on 24 November 1969. It came into force on 30 May 1971. The agreement regulates au pair placements. It states that the person in placement shall neither be seen as a traditional employed domestic worker nor as a traditional student. The issue of signing up Sweden to the agreement has been discussed.

[[Dictyostelid]]

CATEGORIES: Protista, Microbiology, Eukaryotes

The dictyostelids are a group of cellular slime molds, or "social amoebae". They are unusual eukaryote organisms. For much of their life they live as separate cells. Then in hard times they come together to reproduce as a fruiting body. The fruiting body produces spores with protective walls. They survive and open up in better times. So these organisms are both unicellular and multicellular.

As separate amoebae, they feed and divide normally. They mostly eat soil bacteria. When the food supply runs out, they come together to form a kind of slug-like thing. The slug has a definite front and rear. It responds to light and temperature differences, and can move. Under the right conditions the slug becomes a sporocarp (fruiting body). A stalk holds up one or more balls of spores.  These spores are inactive cells protected by tough cell walls. They become new amoebae when food is available.

Dictyostelium has been used as a model organism in molecular biology and genetics. It is studied as an example of cell communication, differentiation, and programmed cell death (apoptosis). Research on Dictyostelium is available on-line at dictyBase.

[[Full-size vehicle]]

CATEGORIES: Full-size vehicles

A full-size car is a marketing term used in North America for an automobile larger than a mid-size car. Traditional U.S. full-size passenger cars were designed to be comfortable for six occupants and their luggage for long-distance driving. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) currently uses the term "large car" to mean full-size cars based on their combined interior passenger and luggage volume. A full-size SUV (or CUV), is a utility vehicle that has over 100 of cargo volume. This is measured when the rear seats are folded or removed for more cargo capacity. Both full-size and mid-size SUVs and CUVs have three rows of seating (8 or 9 passengers). A full size van is a marketing term used for a van larger than a minivan. Seating is one difference. A full-size van may be equipped to seat up to 15 passengers. A minivan often seats up to 8.

[[Legionella]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

The genus Legionella is a pathogenic group of Gram-negative bacteria. It includes the species causing a pneumonia-type illness called Legionnaires' disease, and a mild flu-like illness called Pontiac fever.

It may be seen with a silver stain. Legionella is common in many environments, including soil and aquatic systems, with at least 50 species and 70 strains identified.

The side-chains of the cell wall carry the bases responsible for the somatic antigen specificity of these organisms. The chemical composition of these side chains both with respect to components as well as arrangement of the different sugars determines the nature of the somatic or O antigen determinants, which are essential means of serologically classifying many Gram-negative bacteria.

Legionella got its name after a 1976  outbreak of a then-unknown "mystery disease" sickened. 221 people were infected, with 34 deaths. The outbreak was first noticed among people attending a convention of the American Legion—an association of U.S. military veterans.

On January 18, 1977, the cause was identified as a previously unknown bacterium later named Legionella.

[[Frame (vehicle)]]

CATEGORIES: Auto parts

A vehicle frame, is the main structural element of a motor vehicle. All other components are connected to the frame.  Another term for this design is body-on-frame construction. A vehicle's frame is part of the chassis.

The first motor vehicles were almost all built on a frame.  Since then, nearly all cars have changed to unibody construction (see below). The last UK mass-produced car with a chassis was the Triumph Herald, which was discontinued in 1971.  By contrast, today nearly all trucks and buses still use chassis frames.

[[Hedesunda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Hedesunda is a locality in Gävle Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,028 people lived there.

[[Pedal steel guitar]]

CATEGORIES: Guitars

The pedal steel guitar is a type of electric steel guitar that is built on legs or a stand. It usually has foot pedals which adjust the sound of the instrument. Like other electric guitars, the musical instrument produces sound by the vibration of its strings which are converted by magnetic pickup connected to an amplifier.

Pedal steels may have one or two "necks" that typically have 10 strings each. Some may have as many as 14. Unlike most other guitars, pedal steel guitars have reference lines on the fretboard. This is where frets would be, but there are no actual frets. The player changes the pitch of one or more strings by sliding a steel from one position to another while plucking the strings. Pedal steels are typically plucked with a thumb pick and fingers, or two or three fingerpicks. The pedals are mounted on a cross bar below the body. The action of the pedals may be fixed or changed by the player to select which strings the pedals affects. While there are some fairly standard pedal assignments, many advanced players devise their own setups, called copedents. The pedal steel evolved from the console steel guitar and lap steel guitar. 

The pedal steel, with its smooth portamenti, bending chords and complex riffs, is one of the most easily recognized instruments of American country music.

[[Dimitar Iliev Popov]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Judges, Prime Ministers of Bulgaria

Dimitar Iliev Popov (Димитър Илиев Попов) (26 June 1927 in Kula – 5 December 2015) was a leading Bulgarian judge and politician. He was the first Prime Minister of the country not to be a member of the Bulgarian Communist Party since 1946.

[[Gerrit Voorting]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, Dutch cyclists, Dutch Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 1948 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from North Holland, Tour de France cyclists

Gerardus "Gerrit" Petrus Voorting (18 January 1923 – 30 January 2015) was a racing cyclist from the Netherlands. He was born in Velsen. He was active between 1947 and 1960. He won the silver medal in the individual road race at the 1948 Summer Olympics in London, United Kingdom. He died in Heemskerk.

He was the elder brother of Olympic cyclist Adrie Voorting.

[[Palais Bourbon]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces in France, Buildings and structures in Paris

The Palais Bourbon is a large building in Paris. It is on the left bank of the River Seine. Today it is the home of the French National Assembly. It was originally built by Louise Françoise de Bourbon as a large townhouse for her own personal use. It was later the main Parisian residence of the Princes of Condé. 

[[Reema Abdo]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Canadian Olympic bronze medalists, Canadian swimmers, Living people, Sportspeople from Ontario

Reema Abdo (born May 19, 1963) is a Canadian retired swimmer. She was a backstroke swimmer. 

Abdo competed for Canada at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, California. She was able to win a bronze medal for Canada. She won the bronze medal in the 4×100 m medley relay with Anne Ottenbrite, Michelle MacPherson, and Pamela Rai.

She was born in Aden in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. In 1976, Abdo and her family moved to Trenton, Ontario. She would then join the Trenton Dolphin Swim Club. She debuted with the Canadian national swimming team at the 1982 Commonwealth Games. There she was able to reach the final of the 200 metre backstroke event, but she did not win a medal. After she retired, she became a constable for the Ontario Provincial Police.

She was inducted into the Ontario Aquatic Hall of Fame in 1997.

[[Alexander Vraciu]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2015 deaths, American military people, People from East Chicago, Indiana

Alexander Vraciu (November 2, 1918 – January 29, 2015) was a United States Navy fighter ace. He was a Medal of Honor nominee. He served during World War II. He once shot down six Japanese dive bombers in eight minutes. Vraciu was born in East Chicago, Indiana.

Vraciu died on January 29, 2015 in his sleep at the age of 96 at his home in Danville, Illinois.

[[Israel Yinon]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2015 deaths, Israeli conductors, Jewish Israeli musicians

Israel Yinon (11 January 1956 – 29 January 2015) was an Israeli conductor. He was known for reviving works of forgotten German composers who were forbidden under Adolf Hitler.

Yinon died after collapsing onstage at a youth concert at the Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts in Switzerland. He was 59 years old. His cause of death is currently unknown.

[[Pamela Rai]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Canadian Olympic bronze medalists, Canadian swimmers, Living people, Sportspeople from British Columbia

Pamela Leila Rai (born March 29, 1966) is a Canadian retired swimmer. She was a freestyle and butterfly swimmer. 

Rai competed for Canada at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, California. She was able to win a bronze medal for Canada. She won the bronze medal in the 4×100 m medley relay with Anne Ottenbrite, Michelle MacPherson, and Reema Abdo. She also won a silver medal for Canada at the 1983 Pan American Games in the 4x100 m medley.

In 1984, Rai attended the University of Victoria. While there, Rai set five national university records and was named the 1985 Canadian University Swimmer of the Year. She retired in 1986 to finish her schooling.

She was inducted into the British Columbia Sports Hall of Fame in 1993, University of Victoria Vikes Hall of Fame in 2005, and the British Columbia Swimming Hall of Fame on October 3, 1998.

[[Duck family (Disney)]]

CATEGORIES: Disney characters

The Duck family is a fictional family of cartoon ducks. They are related to Disney character Donald Duck.

[[Tetraplegia]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems

Tetraplegia (or quadriplegia) is a condition in which a human loses use of all limbs and the torso. It usually affects both the ability to move and the use of the senses.

Quadriplegia is the common term in North America. Tetraplegia is the term in Europe.

Tetraplegia is caused by damage either to the brain or to the spinal cord at the level of the cervical vertebrae. People with an injury at the C1 vertebra may lose functions from the neck down. They may need a machine to breathe for them. People with injuries at the C7 vertebra may still be able to use their arms and hands.

[[Zapala]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Argentina

Zapala is a town in the Argentinian Neuquén Province. In 2010, 32,097 people lived there.

[[Cartier (jeweller)]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of France, Jewelry, 1847 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in France

Société Cartier makes and sells jewellery and watches. It was started in Paris, France in 1847 by Louis-François Cartier. The company is based in Paris.

Cartier has sold items to celebrities and royalty for many years. Edward VII said that Cartier is "the jeweller of kings and the king of jewellers". For his coronation in 1902, Edward VII ordered 27 tiaras from Cartier. He chose Cartier as a main provider to the royal family in 1904.

[[Neuquén]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Argentina, Capitals of Argentine provinces, 1904 establishments in Argentina

Neuquén (neuˈken) is the capital city of Neuquén Province, Argentina. It is at the confluence of the Limay and Neuquén rivers.

[[Air charter]]

CATEGORIES: aircraft

Air charter is the business of renting whole aircraft (i.e., chartering) instead of buying tickets and reserving single seat. Air charter is regulated by law. While the airlines sell places in seats, air charter companies focus on private wealthy customers, urgent cargo, air ambulance and others. These air charter companies have a lot of different types of aircrafts, such as helicopters and business jets. Charter jet categories include turbo props, light jets, mid-size jets, super mid-size jets, heavy jets, and airliners.

[[Court reporting]]

CATEGORIES: Courts (law), Occupations

A court reporter or court stenographer, also called stenotype operator, shorthand reporter or law reporter, is a person whose occupation is to transcribe spoken or recorded speech into written form, using shorthand, machine shorthand or voice writing equipment to produce official transcripts of court hearings, depositions and other official proceedings. Court reporting companies primarily serve private law firms, local, state and federal government agencies, courts, trade associations, meeting planners and nonprofits.

[[Vilnius Old Town]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Europe, Vilnius

The Old Town of Vilnius (Vilniaus senamiestis) is the historic part of the city of Vilnius, Lithuania. It is one of the largest and most beautiful medieval old towns in Europe. It has an area of 3.59 square kilometres (887 acres). The settlement became a town in the early 13th century. The old town is marked by narrow streets, old churches, museums and flower-decorated courtyards.

The central squares in the Old Town are the Cathedral Square and the Town Hall Square. In 1994 the Vilnius Old Town was included in the UNESCO World Heritage List.

[[Edi Rama]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Current national leaders, Mayors, Prime Ministers of Albania, Socialist politicians

Edvin "Edi" Rama (born 4 July 1964) is an Albanian politician, artist and writer. He has been the Prime Minister of Albania since 2013. Rama has been the leader of the Socialist Party of Albania since 2005. Rama was Minister of Culture, Youth, and Sports from 1998 to 2000. He was Mayor of Tirana from 2000 to 2011.

[[Tulancingo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Hidalgo (state)

Tulancingo, officially Tulancingo de Bravo, is a city in the state of Hidalgo in central Mexico. The city is in the Tulancingo Valley. It is 120 from Mexico City and 40 from Pachuca. It was founded by the Toltecs.

[[Amedeo Modigliani]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 births, 1920 deaths, Deaths from meningitis, Disease-related deaths in Paris, Italian painters, People from Livorno

Amedeo Modigliani (12 June 1884 - 24 January 1920) was an Italian painter and sculptor. Modigliani was born in Livorno. He spent his youth in Italy. From 1906, he was active in Paris, where he met other painters, such as Pablo Picasso and Constantin Brâncuși. Modigliani died from meningitis in Paris, at the age of 35. Today, he is mostly known for his artistic nudes, which were seen as scandalous at the time.

His works are on show at MoMA (New York City) and other museums.

[[Deaths in February 2015]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 deaths, February 2015 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in February 2015. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".

[[Maurizio Arcieri]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, Italian singers, People from Rome

Maurizio Arcieri (30 April 1942 – 29 January 2015) was an Italian singer. He was formerly the leader of The New Dada. Recently he was a member of Krisma. Arcieri was born in Milan, Italy. He was very active during the 1970s.

Arcieri died of cancer in Varese, Italy, aged 72.

[[Carl Djerassi]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, American chemists, American playwrights, Writers from Vienna, Cancer deaths in San Francisco, Deaths from bone cancer, Deaths from liver cancer, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Sofia, Scientists from Vienna

Carl Djerassi (October 29, 1923 – January 30, 2015) was a Bulgarian-Austrian-American chemist, novelist, and playwright. He was best known for his work to develop a oral contraceptive pills and the use of physical methods in organic chemistry.

[[Geraldine McEwan]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Berkshire, BAFTA Award winning actors, Deaths from stroke, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Geraldine McEwan (née McKeown; 9 May 1932 – 30 January 2015) was an English actress. McEwan was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play in 1998 for her performance in The Chairs. She also won a BAFTA Award for her performance in the television serial Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit (1990). From 2004 to 2009 she appeared as Miss Marple, the Agatha Christie sleuth, for the series Marple.

[[Old town]]

CATEGORIES: Towns

An Old Town of a city or town is its historic center or district. It is often the older town the newer parts were built around. It may also be an area built to resemble the older original town. Old towns usually have historical and architectural value that make them worth restoring. In Europe old towns are usually the medieval towns or villages that the newer city was built up around. Old towns may have cobblestone streets, old churches, and balconies hanging over narrow back streets. Because they are restrictive traffic traps many old town districts do not allow motor vehicles.

[[Ashraf Ghani]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Afghan scientists, Presidents of Afghanistan

Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai  (اشرف غني, اشرف غنی, born February 12, 1949) was the President of Afghanistan. He was elected as the President of Afghanistan on 21 September 2014. He resigned on 15 August 2021 after going into exile when the Taliban captured Kabul and the Afghan government collapsed. 

[[Gita Sahgal]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Living people, Atheists, Indian writers, People from Bombay

Gita Sahgal (born 1956 / 1957) is a writer on the subjects of feminism and fundamentalism. She was the leader of Amnesty International's gender unit from 2003 to 2010.

Sahgal was born in Bombay in India. Her mother is writer Nayantara Sahgal. She was raised as a Hindu. In 1972 she moved to London. In London she studied at the School of Oriental and African Studies. In 1977 Sahgal went back to India. She moved back to England in 1983. 

[[Emelie Öhrstig]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Emelie Öhrstig, born 27 February 1978 in Borås, Sweden, is a Swedish cross-country skier and road racing cyclist. As a country skier she who won a gold medal during the 2005 Nordic World Ski Championships in Oberstdorf, Germany.  She also won eleven additional victories up to 15 kilometers between 2002-2005. Her best individual finish in Turin during the 2006 Winter Olympics was 22nd in the women's individual sprint race.

In April 2006 she resigned as a member of the Piteå Elit SK team.

[[Kenji Goto]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2015 deaths, Japanese activists, Christians, Kidnapped people, Japanese journalists, Murders by blade weapons, People from Sendai

Kenji Goto was a Japanese freelance video journalist covering wars and conflicts, refugees, poverty, AIDS, and child education around the world. In October 2014, he was captured and held hostage in Syria by Islamic State (ISIL) militants. After being held for three months, on 31 January 2015, he was beheaded.

[[Origa]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2015 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Japan, Deaths from lung cancer, Russian singers, Songwriters

Olga Vital'evna Yakovleva (Ольга Витальевна Яковлева; 12 October 1970 – 17 January 2015), better known as Origa, was a Russian singer. She worked mostly in Japan from 1993 until her death. She was signed to the record label Gemmatika and sometimes worked with Yoko Kanno. She also released eleven albums and eight singles. She was most well known for singing the intro to the television series Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex and Fantastic Children.

Origa was born in Kochenyovsky District, Novosibirsk Oblast.

Origa died from lung cancer on 17 January 2015 in Tokyo, aged 44.

[[José Manuel Lara Bosch]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, Spanish businesspeople, Cancer deaths in Spain, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Disease-related deaths in Barcelona, People from Barcelona

José Manuel Lara Bosch (8 March 1946 – 31 January 2015) was a Spanish media executive and businessman. He was the CEO of Grupo Planeta since 2003 and Atresmedia since 2012. Bosch was born in Barcelona, Spain.

Bosch died in Barcelona, Spain from pancreatic cancer, aged 68. He is survived by his wife of 40 years, Consuelo García Píriz and his four children.

[[Rocky Bridges]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, American baseball players, American League All-Stars, Brooklyn Dodgers players, Cincinnati Reds players, Cleveland Indians players, Detroit Tigers players, St. Louis Cardinals players

Everett Lamar "Rocky" Bridges (August 7, 1927 – January 27, 2015) was an American baseball utility infielder. He played in Major League Baseball from 1951 to 1961. He played for the Brooklyn Dodgers, Cincinnati Reds, and St. Louis Cardinals of the National League. He also played for the Washington Senators, Detroit Tigers, Cleveland Indians, and Los Angeles Angels of the American League.

Bridges was born in Refugio, Texas. He was married to Mary who died in 2008 and had four children.

Bridges died on January 27, 2015 in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, aged 87.

[[Tenkoko Sonoda]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2015 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Japan, Politicians from Tokyo

Tenkōkō Sonoda was a Japanese politician. She was a member of the Japanese Diet from 1946 until 1952. In 1950, she became the first woman in Japanese political history to have a baby while in office.

Sonoda was born in Tokyo. She was married to Sunao Sonoda until his death in 1984. She was also the stepmother of Hiroyuki Sonoda.

Sonoda died on 29 January 2015 in a Tokyo hospital. She was 96.

[[Suraj Abdurrahman]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2015 deaths, Architects, Disease-related deaths in New York, Generals, Nigerian military people

Suraj Alao Abdurrahman (9 September 1954 – 28 January 2015) was a Nigerian architect, engineer officer of the Nigerian Army. He served as Command Officer in Charge of the Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL) in Liberia. He was married and had four children.

Abdurrahman died of an illness in a hospital in New York, United States, aged 60.

[[Ronald Davison]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2015 deaths, Chief justices, New Zealand judges, New Zealand lawyers, People from North Island

Sir Ronald Keith Davison (born  16 November 1920; died 2 July 2015) was a New Zealand lawyer and judge. He was the tenth Chief Justice of New Zealand from 1978 to 1989.

[[We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 2012 songs, Taylor Swift songs

"We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together" is a 2012 song recorded by American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift. Swift co-wrote the song with its producers Max Martin and Shellback. The song is about Swift being frustrated at her ex-lover wanting to fix their relationship. The song was the lead single from her album Red.

Rolling Stone named this song the second best song of 2012.

The song hit #1 on the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Catherine Tizard]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Governors General of New Zealand, People from Auckland

Dame Catherine Anne Tizard (née Maclean; born 4 April 1931) is New Zealand politician. She served as the Mayor of Auckland City and the 16th Governor-General of New Zealand. She the first woman to hold either office.

[[Paul Reeves]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Governors General of New Zealand, People from Wellington

Sir Paul Alfred Reeves (6 December 1932spaced ndash14 August 2011) was a New Zealand politician and archbishop. He was the Archbishop and Primate of New Zealand from 1980 to 1985 and the 15th Governor-General of New Zealand from 22 November 1985 to 20 November 1990. 

He was the first Chancellor of Auckland University of Technology.

In July 2011, Reeves announced that he had been diagnosed with cancer. He died of the disease in Auckland, New Zealand, aged 78.

[[Zulkifli Abdhir]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2015 deaths, Malaysian people, Muslim terrorists

Zulkifli Abdhir (5 October 1966 - 27 January 2015) was a Malaysian who was one of the FBI Most Wanted Terrorists. The Amercian FBI agency offered a USD 5 million reward for information leading to his capture. He was the maker of bombs delivered for usage to several terrorist groups. 

He was often referred to by the nom de guerre Marwan. He was suspected of being a leader of the Kumpulan Mujahidin Malaysia, being part of the central command of the Jemaah Islamiyah, and was hiding in Mindanao under the protection of the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters. 

Zulkifli Abdhir is thought to have possibly been killed in a recent PNP operation leading to militant clashes with the Philippine National Police.

[[Joe Rígoli]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from hypertension, Argentine comedians, Actors from Buenos Aires

Jorge Rígoli (Jorge Alberto Rípoli; 5 November 1936 – 27 January 2015) was an Argentine comedian and actor. He was known for starring in the popular Argentine animated series Un, dos, tres... responda otra vez. Rígoli was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Rígoli died in Mar del Plata, Argentina from heart failure after being in a medically induced coma after having high blood pressure. He was 78 years old.

[[Dennis Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 1983 deaths, Accidental deaths by drowning in the United States, American rock drummers, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Singer-songwriters from California, People from Inglewood, California

Dennis Carl Wilson (December 4, 1944 – December 28, 1983) was an American drummer, singer and songwriter. He is best known as being one of three brothers in the rock band, The Beach Boys. Wilson was a member from the beginning until he died in 1983.

The group made twenty-four studio albums. Wilson made one solo album, Pacific Ocean Blue. It stayed popular with critics over the years.

Dennis was born in Inglewood, California. He was the only surfer of the group and he lived the beach lifestyle that the Beach Boys wrote about in their songs.

[[Ekhlasuddin Ahmed]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2014 deaths, Bangladeshi journalists, Children's writers, Bangla Academy Literary Award winners, Recipients of the Ekushey Padak, Bangladeshi Muslims

Ekhlasuddin Ahmed (also Ekhlas Uddin Ahmed; 15 December 1940 – 24 December 2014) was a Bangladeshi writer of Children's literature.

[[José Arias]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Spanish skiers, Sportspeople from Madrid

José Arias (27 August 1922 – 7 January 2015) was a Spanish alpine skier who competed in the 1948 Winter Olympics in St. Moritz, Switzerland.

[[Tomás Bulat]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2015 deaths, Road accident deaths, Argentine academics, Argentine writers, Argentine journalists, Argentine economists, Television presenters, People from Buenos Aires

Tomás Ariel Bulat (12 September 1964 – 31 January 2015) was an Argentine economist, journalist, writer, and professor. He was known for his report on channel A24. He wrote some books about the economy, some of those books are La economía de tu vida and la Economía descubierta. Bulat was born in Buenos Aires.

Bulat died in Buenos Aires, Argentina after being killed in a car crash, aged 50.

[[George H. McKee]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, American military people, People from South Carolina

Lieutenant General George H. McKee (April 28, 1923 – January 6, 2015) was an American Air Force lieutenant general and command pilot. He was commander of Air Training Command with headquarters at Randolph Air Force Base, Texas.

[[Bonnie Christensen]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from ovarian cancer, American painters, Writers from New York, Cancer deaths in Vermont

Bonnie Christensen (January 23, 1951 – January 12, 2015) was an American author and illustrator. She best known for writing biographies and other illustrated non-fiction books for children and young adults. She was born in Saranac Lake, New York.

Christensen died of ovarian cancer in Williston, Vermont, aged 63.

[[Robert Adler]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2007 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American inventors, Scientists from Vienna

Robert Adler (December 4, 1913 – February 15, 2007) was an Austrian-born American inventor who held numerous patents. He was known for creating wireless remote control for televisions.

Adler died in a Boise, Idaho nursing home of heart failure at age 93 years old.

[[Utsunomiya Line]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese railways

The Utsunomiya Line is a 159.9 railway line in Japan. It runs from Ueno station in Tokyo Prefecture to Utsunomiya Station in Tochigi Prefecture. It runs diagonally from south to north in Saitama Prefecture. It is owned and operated by East Japan Railway Company (JR East Japan).

The colors of the cars are green and orange. It looks similar to the Takasaki line.

The maximum speed of this train is 120. It is possible to go to Kuroiso from Ueno in about an hour and a half.

The Takasaki line including local trains and rapid trains has about six standard-runs per hour in daytime. Sometimes the trains are crowded with students and company employees in major cities, for example Akabane, Urawa, Saitama-Shintoshin, Omiya, Hasuda, Kuki, Koga, Oyama, Utsunomiya, Nasu-Shiobara, Kuroiso.

[[Combination (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In mathematics, combination is used for picking a number of objects from a given set of objects. Combinatorics looks at the number of possibilities to pick k objects from a set of n. It does not take into account the order in which these are picked. People talk about finding permutations if the order in which the objects are picked matters. This explains why there are more permutations than combinations. One combination, picking the objects 1,3, and 5 in the example can be done in the following ways:  , , , ,  and .

[[George Hodgson]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1983 deaths, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Canadian swimmers, Sportspeople from Montreal

George Ritchie Hodgson (October 12, 1893 – May 1, 1983) was a Canadian swimmer. He was a freestyle swimmer. 

Hodgson competed for Canada at the 1912 Summer Olympics in Stockholm, Sweden. He won two gold medals for Canada. He won the gold in the 400 m freestyle and in the 1500 m freestyle. Hodgson set Olympic and World records in the events. He retired immediately after.

He attended McGill University. He swam and played water polo there until he graduated in 1916. After he graduated, he joined the Royal Naval Air Service and served in World War I. He earned the United Kingdom’s Air Force Cross. He would then spend the rest of his life working as a investment broker at his firm in Montreal. He died in Montreal on May 1, 1983.

He was inducted into the Canadian Amateur Sports Hall of Fame in 1949, Canada's Sports Hall of Fame in 1955, International Swimming Hall of Fame in 1968, McGill Sports Hall of Fame in 1996, and the Quebec Swimming Federation Hall of Fame in 1998.

[[George Vernot]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1962 deaths, Canadian Olympic bronze medalists, Canadian Olympic silver medalists, Canadian swimmers, Sportspeople from Montreal

George Edward Vernot (February 27, 1901 – November 22, 1962) was a Canadian swimmer. He was a freestyle swimmer. 

Vernot competed for Canada at both the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium and at the 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris, France. He won a silver and a bronze medal for Canada at the 1920 games. He won the silver in the 1500 m freestyle and the bronze in the 400 m freestyle.

He attended McGill University and studied civil engineering. He still competed in both amateur and intercollegiate swimming, as well as, water polo. He was chosen to compete for Canada at the 1924 Olympics, but he was eliminated in the semifinals for both the 1500 m freestyle and the 400 m freestyle events. In 1926, he graduated from McGill University and he decided to retire from swimming. After retiring, he worked for the City of Montreal and he became the chairman of the Board of Assessors in 1948. He died in Montreal on November 22, 1962. The city of Montreal named a park after him on April 10, 1969.

[[Victor Hambartsumian]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1996 deaths, Astrophysicists

Viktor Amazaspovich Ambartsumian (Վիկտոր Համբարձումյան; 18 September 1908 - August 12, 1996) was an Armenian Soviet astrophysicist. He was one of the founders of theoretical astrophysics. Ambartsumian worked in the field of physics of stars and nebulae and stellar astronomy. He was the founder of the Byurakan Astrophysical Observatory. He was a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences (1953, corresponding member since 1939). He was also a member of the Armenian National Academy of Sciences and its president (1947-1993).

[[Grand Hotel Saltsjöbaden]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 establishments in Europe, Buildings and structures in Sweden, Hotels, 19th century establishments in Sweden

The Grand Hotel Saltsjöbaden (officially: Grand Hôtel Saltsjöbaden) is a hotel in Saltsjöbaden, Sweden. It was built on the initiative of Knut Agathon Wallenberg. The hotel was opened in 1893 by king Oscar II of Sweden. The hotel was owned by the Wallenberg family up to 1999, when it was purchased by Nordisk Renting who sold it in 2002 to Danish-Egptian hotelowner Enan Galaly's chain Helnan Hotels. On 20 December 1938, the Saltsjöbaden Agreement was signed inside the hotel.

[[Iquique]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Chile, Towns in South America

Iquique is a port town in northern Chile. It is the capital of Iquique Province and Tarapacá Region. In the 2012 census, the town had a population of 180,601.

[[Vargön]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Vargön is a locality in Vänersborg Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,919 people lived there.

[[Boo, Nacka Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Boo, sometimes referred to as Saltsjö-Boo, is a locality in Nacka Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 24,052 people lived there. It was its own municipality until 1970, when it was incorporated into Nacka Municipality.

[[Nordkroken]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Nordkroken is a locality in Vänersborg Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 423 people lived there.

[[Älta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Älta is a locality in Nacka Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 9,989 people lived there.

[[Hästhagen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Hästhagen is a locality in Nacka Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 499 people lived there.

[[Kil]]

Kil may refer to:

[[Kil, Nacka Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Kil is a locality in Nacka Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 731 people lived there.

[[Fisksätra]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Fisksätra is a locality in Nacka Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 7,475 people lived there. It was built during the 1970s. There are people from various nationalities living in the locality.

[[Aldo Ciccolini]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Entertainers from Campania, French pianists, Italian educators, Italian musicians, People from Naples

Aldo Ciccolini (ˈaldo tʃikkoˈlini, 15 August 1925 – 1 February 2015), was an Italian-French pianist. He was born in Naples, Italy.

He taught at the Conservatoire de Paris from 1970 to 1988. His students included Akiko Ebi, Géry Moutier, Jean-Yves Thibaudet, Artur Pizarro, Nicholas Angelich, André Sayasov and Jean-Luc Kandyoti.

Ciccolini died at the age of 89 on 1 February 2015 at his home in Paris.

[[Federico Menabrea]]

CATEGORIES: 1809 births, 1896 deaths, Generals, Italian mathematicians, Italian military people, People from Piedmont, Prime Ministers of Italy

Luigi Federico Menabrea (September 4, 1809 – May 24, 1896), later made Count Menabrea and Marquis of Valdora, was an Italian general, statesman, mathematician and diplomat.

Menabrea was born at Chambéry, then part of the Kingdom of Sardinia. He was educated at the University of Turin, where he qualified as an engineer and became a doctor of mathematics. In 1842 he wrote Sketch of the Analytical Engine Invented by Charles Babbage, Esq., a publication that influenced Ada Lovelace.

In 1848 he began his political career, and was elected deputy in the Parliament of Piedmont; later he was Minister of War and Foreign Minister. Menabrea fought the Second Italian War of Independence; in 1860 he became lieutenant-general and conducted the siege of Gaeta: after this battle, he was appointed senator and received the title of count.

Member of the "Historical Right", in the Kingdom of Italy he was Minister of the Navy from June 12, 1861 to March 3, 1862 and Minister of Public Works from December 8, 1862 to September 28, 1864.

Luigi Federico Menabrea became Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Italy October 27, 1867 and remained in power until December 14, 1869. His government is remembered for three things:

He was very strict in enforcing his laws: in fact he ordered to the General Raffaele Cadorna to suppress in the blood the popular uprisings.

His government fell because the two ministers withdrew their support. Menabrea was later ambassador to London and Paris. He died in Saint-Cassin.

[[Ann Mara]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from New York City, Accidental deaths in New York, American socialites, People from Rye, New York, New York Giants, People from Manhattan

Ann Mara (June 18, 1929 – February 1, 2015) was an American businesswoman, socialite, and philanthropist. She was the widow of Wellington Mara, and the matriarch of the Mara family, which includes New York Giants CEO John Mara, and her granddaughters, actresses Rooney Mara and Kate Mara.

Mara died from pneumonia and from complications of a fall on February 1, 2015 in Rye, New York, aged 85.

[[Hog badger]]

CATEGORIES: Mustelids

The hog badger (Arctonyx collaris) is a species of badger. They are found in central and southeast Asia. It is listed as near threatened.

[[Division of Swan]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Western Australia, 1901 establishments in Australia

The Division of Swan is an Australian electoral division located in Western Australia. The division is named after the Swan River.

It was one of the 75 divisions set up for the first federal election in 1901. Historically, the electorate was a country seat extending north to Dongara, east to Merredin and south to the coast. New boundaries created a smaller area east of the Darling Range. The old area became the new seat of Moore, while Swan moved to its present position.

It covers the suburbs of Ascot, Beckenham, Belmont, Bentley, Burswood, Cannington, Carlisle, Cloverdale, Como, East Cannington, East Victoria Park, Ferndale, Karawara, Kensington, Kewdale, Langford, Lathlain, Lynward, Manning, Queens Park, Redcliffe, Rivervale, Salter Point, St James, South Perth, Victoria Park, Waterford, Welshpool and Wilson.

[[Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in Pennsylvania

Punxsutawney (ˌ; Lenape: Punkwsutènay) is a borough in Jefferson County, Pennsylvania, United States. It is 84 northeast of Pittsburgh. It is most well known for the Groundhog Day tradition and "Punxsutawney Phil", the groundhog that resides there. 

[[Wabash River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Illinois, Rivers of Indiana, Geography of Ohio

The Wabash River ˈ (French: Ouabache) is a  503 river in the Midwestern United States that flows southwest from northwest Ohio near Fort Recovery across northern Indiana to southern Illinois.

It forms the Illinois-Indiana border before draining into the Ohio River, of which it is the largest northern tributary.  From the dam near Huntington, Indiana to its terminus at the Ohio River, the Wabash flows freely for 411.

[[Sakematsuri]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture, Japanese food, Alcoholic drink

Saijo Sake Festival is a sake festival held in Hiroshima prefecture in west Japan. Sake is Japan's traditional alcoholic drink. The sake festival is held yearly on the second Saturday and Sunday of October. Every year between 100,000 and 200,000 people attend the festival. 

[[Izumo no Okuni]]

CATEGORIES: 1572 births, 17th century deaths, Japanese entertainers, People from Shimane Prefecture

Okuni was a Japanese woman from the warring states period (15th to 16th century) who began the Japanese entertainment called kabuki. Her name means "Okuni from Izumo". Her performing arts evolved from traditional dancing. Okuni founded kabuki.

[[Karl H. Pribram]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2015 deaths, American educators, Austrian Jews, Cancer deaths in Virginia, Jewish American scientists, Neuroscientists, Scientists from Vienna

Karl H. Pribram (ˈ; ˈpʀiːbram; February 25, 1919 – January 19, 2015) was an Austrian-born American neuroscientist and educator. He taught at Georgetown University, Yale University, Stanford University, and Radford University. He also did a lot of work on the meaning of the limbic system, the relationship of the frontal cortex to the limbic system, cortex discoveries of the parietal and temporal lobes, and the classical motor cortex of the human brain.

Pribram was born in Vienna to a Jewish Czechoslovakian father and an Indonesian mother. He attended school in Gstaad, Switzerland and in Indiana, United States. He was married and had five children.

Pribram died from cancer on January 19, 2015 in Virginia. He was 95.

[[Andriy Kuzmenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2015 deaths, Road accident deaths, Rock singers, Ukrainian singers

Andriy "Kuzma" Kuzmenko (Андрі́й Ві́кторович Кузьме́нко; 17 August 1968 – 2 February 2015) was a Ukrainian singer. He was best as the lead singer of the rock band Skryabin, founded in 1989.

Kuzmenko was born in Sambir, Lviv Oblast. He was married to Svetlana and had a daughter, Maria-Barbara, born in 1997.

Kuzmenko died in a car accident on 2 February 2015 in Lozuvatka, Dnipropetrovsk Oblast, aged 46.

[[Swedish Cross-Country Skiing Championships]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 establishments in Sweden, Sports competitions, Skiing in Sweden

The Swedish Cross-Country Skiing Championships (Svenska mästerskapen i längdskidåkning) were first held in Härnösand in 1910. It originally only featured men's competitions. Women's competitions were introduced in 1917.

[[County Offaly]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of the Republic of Ireland

County Offaly (Contae Uíbh Fhailí) is a county of Ireland. County Offaly is in the province of Leinster. It is named after the old kingdom of Uí Failghe. The population of County Offaly is 76,687 as of 2011.

[[Kummelnäs]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Kummelnäs is a locality in Nacka Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,848 people lived there.

[[Söråker]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Söråker is a locality in Timrå Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,312 people lived there.

[[Bergeforsen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Bergeforsen is a locality in Timrå Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,563 people lived there.

[[Stavreviken]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Stavreviken is a locality in Timrå Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 216 people lived there.

[[Billingsfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Billingsfors is a locality in Bengtsfors Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,134 people lived there.

[[Vidja]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Vidja is a locality in Huddinge Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 682 people lived there.

[[Parksidan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Parksidan is a locality in Ekerö Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 494 people lived there.

[[County Wexford]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of the Republic of Ireland

County Wexford (Contae Loch Gorman) is a county in Ireland. County Wexford is in the province of Leinster. It is named after the county town of Wexford. The population of County Wexford is 145,320 as of 2011. 

[[Ytternäs och Vreta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Ytternäs och Vreta is a locality in Uppsala Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 636 people lived there.

[[County Laois]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of the Republic of Ireland

County Laois (Contae Laoise) is a county of Ireland. County Laois is in the province of Leinster. County Laois takes its name from the medieval kingdom of Loígis. The population of County Laois is 80,559 as of 2011. 

[[Oblasts of Ukraine]]

CATEGORIES: Oblasts of Ukraine

The Oblasts of Ukraine are primary administrative units in Ukraine. There are 24 oblasts in Ukraine. Every oblast is further split into raions.

[[Berehomet]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ukraine, Towns in Europe, 1963 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Ukraine

Berehomet (Берегомет) is town in western Ukraine. The town is on the Siret River. As of 2001, 8,513 people lived in Berehomet.

[[Rafael Amaya]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, People from Sonora

Rafael Amaya (born on February 28, 1977, Hermosillo, Sonora, Mexico), is an Mexican actor and model. He is best known for his character Aurelio Casillas in the series El Señor de los Cielos'.

[[Ahmed El Aash]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Egyptian footballers, Living people, People from Cairo

Ahmed Mohamed El Aash (أحمد العش, born June 7, 1992)  is an Egyptian football player. He plays as a Centre-back for Ismaily SC in the Egyptian Premier League. He also played for Egypt's national team for people under the age of 20 years.

[[Storvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Storvik is a locality in Sandviken Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,165 people lived there.

[[Sorunda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Sorunda is a locality in Nynäshamn Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,307 people lived there.

[[Årsunda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Årsunda is a locality in Sandviken Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,008 people lived there.

[[Järbo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Järbo is a locality in Sandviken Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,801 people lived there.

[[Kungsgården]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Kungsgården is a locality in Sandviken Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,033 people lived there.

[[Lidatorp och Klövsta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Lidatorp och Klövsta is a locality in Nynäshamn Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 340 people lived there.

[[Ösmo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Ösmo is a locality in Nynäshamn Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,911 people lived there. It has a station of the Nynäshamn line of the Stockholm commuter rail.

[[Stora Vika]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Stora Vika is a locality in Nynäshamn Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 651 people lived there.

[[Charles Swenson]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Producers, Year of birth missing (living people)

Charles Swenson is a producer and director. He worked with animated film for many years. In 1978 he joined Fred Wolf Films, who worked with the 1987 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles animated series.

[[Emélie]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Emelie or Emélie is a feminine given name:

[[Ann-Louise]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Ann-Louise is a double-name:

[[Simhadri]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, Movies directed by S. S. Rajamouli

Simhadri is a 2003 action drama movie. It was released on 9 July 2003. It became the highest grossing Telugu language movie of 2003.

[[Alsike]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Alsike is a locality in Knivsta Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,681 people lived there. Alsike is located circa 50 kilometers north of Stockholm and 25 kilometers away from the Arlanda Airport. Alsike is located on the Ingegerdsleden, which is a historic pilgrimage route between the Uppsala Cathedral and the Stockholm Cathedral. The Alsike Abbey is also located here. Alsike clover gets its common name from the settlement.

[[Alstermo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Alstermo is a locality in Uppvidinge Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 829 people lived there.

[[Annelöv]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Annelöv is a locality in Landskrona Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 380 people lived there.

[[Moheda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Moheda is a locality in Alvesta Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,824 people lived there.

[[Bara]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Bara is a locality in Svedala Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,444 people lived there.

[[Backa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Backa is a locality in Kungsbacka Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,547 people lived there.

[[Frillesås]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Frillesås is a locality in Kungsbacka Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,044 people lived there.

[[Berghem]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Berghem is a locality in Mark Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 360 people lived there.

[[Bergshamra]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Bergshamra is a locality in Norrtälje Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 749 people lived there.

[[Bergvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Bergvik is a locality in Söderhamn Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 834 people lived there.

[[Ljusne]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Ljusne is a locality in Söderhamn Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,917 people lived there.

[[Bjursås]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Bjursås ˈbjʉː̠ˈʃɔs is a locality in Falun Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,839 people liec tehre.

[[Bjärnum]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Bjärnum is a locality in Hässleholm Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,674 people lived there.

[[Monty Oum]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from anaphylaxis, American animators, Deaths from surgical complications, People from Providence, Rhode Island

Monyreak "Monty" Oum (June 22, 1981 – February 1, 2015) was an American animator. He was known for his crossover fighting videos and worked for Rooster Teeth Productions to animate for Red vs. Blue and RWBY. He began working for Rooster Teeth in 2005.

Oum was born in Providence, Rhode Island. He was of Cambodian, Vietnamese, Chinese and Japanese ancestry. He was married to Sheena Duquette. He died from an allergic reaction as a result of the surgery on February 1, 2015.

[[Emmaljunga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Emmaljunga is a locality in Hässleholm Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 262 people lived there. It lies on Highway 117. The highway directly Emmaljunga with Hässleholm in the south.

[[Björkvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Björkvik is a locality in Katrineholm Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 492 people lived there. It is mostly a farming community interspersed by forests and lakes and some major estates dated back to the 17th century.

[[Bohus-Björkö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Bohus-Björkö is a locality in Öckerö Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,427 people lived there.

[[Bor]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Bor is a locality in Värnamo Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,256 people lived there.

[[Bredaryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Bredaryd is a locality in Värnamo Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,466 people lived there.

[[Forsheda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Forsheda is a locality in Värnamo Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,459 people lived there.

[[Rydaholm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Rydaholm is a locality in Värnamo Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,474 people lived there.

[[Äsköping]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Äsköping is a locality in Katrineholm Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 342 people lived there.

[[Burseryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Burseryd is a locality in Gislaved Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 854 people lived there.

[[Anderstorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Anderstorp is a locality in Gislaved Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,965 people lived there.

[[Skeppshult]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Skeppshult is a locality in Gislaved Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. It is located nearthe  Nissan River. In 2010, 365 people lived there.

[[Hestra]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Hestra is a locality in Gislaved Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,306 people lived there.

[[Reftele]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Reftele is a locality in Gislaved Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,282 people lived there.

[[Broaryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Broaryd is a 171 acre locality in Gislaved Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 271 people lived there.

[[Buskhyttan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Buskhyttan is a locality in Nyköping Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 225 people lived there.

[[Dalarö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Dalarö is a locality in Haninge Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,199 people lived there. It is situated southeast of Stockholm and is part of Metropolitan Stockholm. It serves as a recreational summer resort for people from Stockholm.

[[Dannemora]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

[[Ekängen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Ekängen is a locality in Linköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,037 people lived there.

[[List of Irish counties by area]]

CATEGORIES: Ireland

The list below is a list of all the counties of Ireland by area. Counties in the Republic of Ireland are shown in normal type and counties in Northern Ireland are in italics.

[[Shark fin soup]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese food, Soups

Shark fin soup (or shark's fin soup) is a popular soup in Chinese cuisine. It is usually served at special occasions such as weddings and banquets. The shark fins provide texture, while the taste comes from the other soup ingredients. The soup was first mentioned centuries ago as a favorite of Chinese Emperors. It costs up to $100 a bowl. But it has a much higher environmental cost. About 70 million sharks a year are killed for their fins. Currently about 25% of sharks are threatened species.

[[Joe Nichols]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American country musicians, Country guitarists, Musicians from Arkansas

Joseph Edward  "Joe" Nichols (born November 26, 1976) is an American country music artist. Nichols was born and grew up in Rogers, Arkansas. His father played in a local country music band. As a teenager he played in a rock band and was also a disc jockey. He signed with Intersound Records in 1996 and released his first album the same year. He didn't have his first hit record until 2002, however. In 2003 Nichols was named "Top New Male Vocalist" by the Academy of Country Music. He also received two Grammy Award nominations and a third in 2004.

[[Ankarsrum]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Ankarsrum is a locality in Västervik Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,254 people lived there.

[[Alby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Alby is a locality  in Ånge Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 367 people lived there.

[[Torpshammar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Torpshammar is a locality in Ånge Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 444 people lived there. It was founded in 1797 as an iron milling community.

[[Alster]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Alster is a locality in Karlstad Municipality in Värmland County in Sweden. In 2010, 586 people lived there.

[[Östra Ljungby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Östra Ljungby is a locality in Klippan Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 935 people lived there.

[[Åsa, Kungsbacka]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Åsa is a locality in Kungsbacka Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,369 people lied there.

[[Värmlandsbro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Värmlandsbro is a locality in Säffle Municipality in Värmland County in Sweden. In 2001, 501 people lived there.

[[Vik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Vik is a locality in Simrishamn Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 319 people lived there.

[[Kivik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Kivik is a locality in Simrishamn Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 960 people lived there. It is in Österlen. Kivik is known for its annual market in July every year.

[[Vi]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Vi is a locality on the island of Alnön in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,997 people lived there.

[[Valbo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Valbo is a locality in Gävle Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 7,065 people lived there. It is located southwest of Gävle. The Valbo shopping mall is located there.

[[Vagnhärad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Vagnhärad is a locality in Trosa Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,324 people lived there.

[[Knutby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Knutby is a locality in Uppsala Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 564 people lived there.

[[Malexander]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Malexander is a minor locality in Boxholm Municipality in Sweden. it is wellknown for the 1999 Malexander Police Murders. The place is located close to the lake of Sommen. It has,a jetty where the steamboat S/S Boxholm II stops.

[[Svartsjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Svartsjö is a smaller locality in Ekerö Municipality in Stockholm County in southeastern Sweden.

[[Ornäs]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Ornäs is a locality in Borlänge Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,068 people lived there.

[[Lotorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Lotorp is a locality in Finspång Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 701 people lived there.

[[Urshult]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Urshult is a locality in Tingsryd Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 794 people lived there.

[[Unnaryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Unnaryd is a locality in Hylte Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 759 people lived there.

[[Ulrika]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Ulrika is a locality in Linköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 200 people lived there.

[[Tvååker]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Tvååker is the second largest locality in Varberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,534 people lived there. It is located circa 15 kilometers southeast of Varberg.

[[Tystberga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Tystberga is a locality in Nyköping Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 828 people lived there.

[[Malmslätt]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Malmslätt is a locality in Linköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 5,214 people lived there.

[[Enea Zuffi]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1969 deaths, Italian footballers, Italian Olympians, People from Turin, Sportspeople from Piedmont

Enea Zuffi was an Italian football player. He played as a forward in 21 games. He was born in Turin in 1891. In the 1912 Summer Olympics, he played for Italy. He died in 1968.

[[Vikingstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Vikingstad is a locality in Linköping Municipality in, Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,096 people lived there.

[[Tofta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Tofta is a locality in Varberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 386 people lived there.

[[Tillberga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Tillberga is a locality in Västerås Municipality in Västmanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,180 people lived there.

[[Teckomatorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Teckomatorp is a locality in Svalöv Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,651 people lived there.

[[Sörvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Sörvik is a locality in Ludvika Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 743 peoplie lived there. It is located on the eastern shorelines of the Lake Väsman.

[[Säve]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Säve is a locality in Göteborg Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 743 people lived there.

[[Sätila]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Sätila is a locality in Mark Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,059 people lived there. It is located at the shorelines of lake Lygnern.

[[Särö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Särö is a locality in Kungsbacka Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,165 people lived there. It is located south of Gothenburg on the Särö peninsula.

[[Sysslebäck]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Sysslebäck is a locality in Torsby Municipality in Värmland County in Sweden. In 2010, 527 people lived there.

[[Svartå]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Svartå is a locality in Degerfors Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 495 people lived there.

[[Svartvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Svartvik is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 949 people lived there.

[[Tunadal]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Tunadal is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 360 people lived there.

[[Stockvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Stockvik is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,359 people lived there.

[[Sund]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Sunden is a locality in Trosa Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 329 people lived there.

[[Ställdalen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Ställdalen is a locality in Ljusnarsberg Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 539 people lived there.

[[Strömsholm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Strömsholm is a locality in Hallstahammar Municipality in Västmanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 664 people lived there.

[[Stjärnhov]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Stjärnhov is a locality in Gnesta Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 549 people lived there.

[[Spjutsbygd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Blekinge County

Spjutsbygd is a locality in Karlskrona Municipality in Blekinge County in Sweden. In 2010, 383 people lived there.

[[Skånes-Fagerhult]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Skånes-Fagerhult is a locality in Örkelljunga Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 856 people lived there.

[[Skog]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Skog is a locality in Söderhamn Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 302 people lived there.

[[Sjösa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Sjösa is a locality in Nyköping Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 483 people lived there.

[[Sankt Olof]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Sankt Olof is a locality in Simrishamn Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 624 people lived there. It is located northwest of Simrishamn. It is named after the church. The church is named after Olaf II of Norway. The place was originally called Lunkende.

[[Kälarne]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Kälarne is a locality in Bräcke Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 451 people lived there.

[[Ryssby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Ryssby is a locality in Ljungby Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 707 people lived there. It is located at an altitude of 313 metres (1030 feet). Ryssby lies on the north end of the Ryssby Lake.

[[Otterbäcken]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Otterbäcken is a locality in Gullspång Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. It is located on the shorelines of the lake Vänern. In 2010, 722 people lived there.

[[Norje]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Blekinge County

Norje is a locality in Sölvesborg Municipality in Blekinge County in Sweden. In 2010, 657 people lived there. Starting in 1998, the rock/metal festival Sweden Rock Festival has been held there since then.

[[Mellbystrand]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Mellbystrand is a locality in Laholm Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,619 people lived there.

[[Långshyttan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Långshyttan is a locality in Hedemora Municipalityin  Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,671 people lived there.

[[Lysvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Lysvik is a locality in Sunne Municipality in Värmland County in Sweden. In 2010, 341 people lived there.

[[Ljunghusen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Ljunghusen is a locality in Vellinge Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,555 people lived there. It is located west of Höllviken and east of Skanör-Falsterbo. The place is notable for its beaches and for its golf course.

[[Lindome]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Lindome is a locality in Mölndal Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 13,830 people lived there (11,037 inhabitants in the locality in 2010). Swedish comic creator Rune Andreasson was born there in 1925.

[[Lima, Malung-Sälen Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Lima is a locality in Malung-Sälen Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 398 people lived there.

[[Lima (disambiguation)]]

Lima may refer to:

[[Lenhovda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Lenhovda is a locality in Uppvidinge Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,744 people lived there.

[[Älghult]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Älghult is a locality in Uppvidinge Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 446 people lived there.

[[Kovland]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Kovland is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 486 people lived there.

[[Knäred]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Knäred is a locality in Laholm Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,088 people lived there. The Treaty of Knäred was signed there in 1613.

[[Järvsö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Järvsö (ˈjɛrvs.ˈø), locally known as Jarse (ˈjaʂ.ˈə), is a locality in Ljusdal Municipality in  Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,407 people lived there.

[[Jämtön]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Jämtön is a locality in Luleå Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 237 people lived there.

[[Insjön]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Insjön is a locality in Leksand Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,149 people lived there.

[[Hörvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Blekinge County

Hörvik is a locality in Sölvesborg Municipality in Blekinge County in Sweden. In 2010, 784 people lived there.

[[Hästholmen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Hästholmen is a locality in Ödeshög Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 342 people lived there.

[[Hällevik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Blekinge County

Hällevik is a locality in Sölvesborg Municipality in Blekinge County in Sweden. In 2010, 813 people lived there.

[[Husby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Husby is a locality in Hedemora Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 256 people lived there.

[[Hybo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Hybo is a locality in Ljusdal Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2001, 241 people lived there.

[[Hoting]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Hoting is a locality in Strömsund Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 667 people lived there. Hoting was mentioned in documents regarding the Sweden-Norway border rulings in 1273.

[[Holm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Holm is a locality in Halmstad Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 565 people lived there.

[[Harbo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Harbo is a locality in Heby Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 721 people lived there.

[[Hanaskog]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Hanaskog is a locality in Östra Göinge Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,251 people lived there.

[[Hammenhög]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Hammenhög is a locality in Simrishamn Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 908 people lived there.

[[Hammarby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Hammarby is a locality in Sandviken Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 552 people lived there.

[[Haga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Haga is a locality in Enköping Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 257 people lived there.

[[Hagby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Hagby is a locality in Kalmar Municipality in Kalmar County in Sweden. In 2010, 689 people lived there.

[[Hackås]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Hackås is a locality in Berg Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 480 people lived there.

[[Götlunda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Götlunda is a locality in Arboga Municipality in Västmanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 270 people lived there.

[[Anand Shukla]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2015 deaths, Indian sportspeople, Indian cricketers, People from Delhi

Anand Shukla (15 January 1941 – 2 February 2015) was a Indian cricketer. He played first-class cricket for a number of teams in India from 1960 to 1978.

[[Frank Borghi]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, American footballers, Sportspeople from St. Louis, Missouri

Frank Borghi (April 9, 1925 – February 3, 2015) was an American soccer player. He earned nine caps at goalkeeper for the United States national team. He played in the U.S. team's 1-0 victory over the hugely favored English in the 1950 FIFA World Cup.

[[Gerald Stern]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, Living people, American poets, American educators, Writers from New Jersey, Writers from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Gerald Stern (born February 22, 1925) is an American poet, essayist and educator. He is the author of twenty collections of poetry and four books of essays. Stern has taught literature and creative writing at Temple University, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, Raritan Valley Community College, and Iowa Writers' Workshop. 

Since 2009, Stern has been distinguished poet-in-residence and a member of the faculty of Drew University's graduate programme for a Master of Fine Arts (MFA) in poetry. In 2000, New Jersey Governor Christine Todd Whitman appointed Stern as the state's first poet laureate.

[[Kay Kyser]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1985 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American radio personalities, American movie actors, Singers from North Carolina, Actors from North Carolina

James Kern "Kay" Kyser (June 18, 1905 – July 23, 1985) was an American bandleader and radio personality. He was known for being the bandleader of Kollege of Musical Knowledge. Kyser was born in Rocky Mountain, North Carolina.

Kyser died in Chapel Hill, North Carolina from a heart attack at the age of 80.

[[WrestleMania 32]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2016 in Texas, April 2016 events, Arlington, Texas, Sports in Texas, WrestleMania

WrestleMania 32 was the thirty-second yearly WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event made by WWE. It happened on April 3, 2016 at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas. It was the third WrestleMania to take place in Texas. WWE also hoped that WrestleMania 32 would break the record for people to show up at a wrestling event, aiming for 100,000 people at AT&T Stadium. At the event they said 101,763 people showed up at WrestleMania 32, breaking 1987's WrestleMania III's record of 93,173. However, wrestling expert Dave Meltzer said only 93,730 people showed up. But this still would break WrestleMania III's record. But Meltzer adds that he believes the record was actually held by SummerSlam's (1992) 79,127 while only 78,000 actually showed up for WrestleMania III. Meltzer has also written that WWE would have said the attendance was higher than it actually was because they didn't want to let their fans down. 

Twelve matches took place at this event and at least two made history. Charlotte went into her match as the WWE Divas Champion, but became WWE Women's Champion at the end of the match and the Divas title has not existed since. After The Rock defeated Erick Rowan, ring announcer Lilian Garcia said that the match ended in six seconds, a WrestleMania record. The previous record wasKane versus Chavo Guerrero, Jr. from WrestleMania XXIV which lasted eleven seconds. 

[[Blood, Sweat & Tears]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 establishments in New York (state), 1960s American music groups, 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, Musical groups established in 1967, Musical groups from New York City

Blood, Sweat & Tears is an American jazz fusion band. It formed in 1967.

[[Michel Rocard]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, Former MEPs, Prime Ministers of France, Government ministers of France, MEPs for France, People from Ile-de-France, Socialist Party (France) politicians

Michel Rocard (miʃɛl ʁɔkaʁ; 23 August 1930 – 2 July 2016) was a French politician. He was a member of the Socialist Party (PS). He served as Prime Minister under François Mitterrand from 1988 to 1991.

[[Édouard Balladur]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of France, French Ministers of Finance

Édouard Balladur (e.dwaʁ ba.la.dyʁ; born 2 May 1929) is a French politician. He served as Prime Minister of France from 29 March 1993 to 10 May 1995.

[[Sergio Mattarella]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Current national leaders, People from Palermo, Presidents of Italy, Honorary Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire

Sergio Mattarella (ˈsɛrdʒo mattaˈrɛlla; born 23 July 1941) is a Italian politician. He became the 12th President of Italy on 3 February 2015. He was a member of Parliament from 1983 to 2008, serving as Minister of Education from 1989 to 1990. He served as Minister of Defence from 1999 to 2001. Later, in 2011, he became a judge on the Constitutional Court.

[[Hugo Banzer]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2002 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Presidents of Bolivia

Hugo Banzer Suárez (May 10, 1926 – May 5, 2002) was a Bolivian politician, military general, and dictator. He was the President of Bolivia. He held the Bolivian presidency twice: from 1971 to 1978, as a dictator; and then again from 1997 to his resignation in 2001.

Banzer was born in Concepción, Santa Cruz. He studied at the School of the Americas. Banzer died on May 5, 2002 in Santa Cruz, Bolivia from lung cancer, aged 75. 

[[Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Emirs of Kuwait, Prime Ministers of Kuwait

Sabah IV Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah GCB (Hon) (الشيخ صباح الأحمد الجابر الصباح;  16 June 1929 – 29 September 2020) was the 5th Emir of Kuwait and the Commander of the Military of Kuwait. He was sworn in on 29 January 2006 after confirmation by the National Assembly of Kuwait.

In July 2020, Al-Sabah was hospitalized at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota and had surgery. He died on 29 September 2020, aged 91.

[[Saud of Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1969 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Kings of Saudi Arabia

Saud bin Abdulaziz Al Saud (s; سعود بن عبد العزيز آل سعود ar; 15 January 1902 – 23 February 1969) was King of Saudi Arabia from 1953 to 1964.

[[Faisal of Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1975 deaths, Assassinated people, Kings of Saudi Arabia

Faisal bin Abdulaziz Al Saud (فيصل بن عبدالعزيز آل سعود ar; April 1906 – 25 March 1975) was King of Saudi Arabia from 1964 to 1975.

On 25 March 1975, King Faisal was shot point-blank and killed by his half-brother's son, Faisal bin Musaid. Faisal was 68 years old.

[[Khalid of Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1982 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Kings of Saudi Arabia

Khalid bin Abdulaziz Al Saud (خالد بن عبد العزيز آل سعود ar; 13 February 1913 – 13 June 1982) was the King of Saudi Arabia from 1975 to 1982. He was the fourth ruler of the country.

Khalid died of a heart attack in Ta'if, Saudi Arabia, aged 69.

[[Go Set a Watchman]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 books, 21st century American novels, English-language novels, To Kill a Mockingbird

Go Set a Watchman is a book by Harper Lee. It was published on July 14, 2015 by HarperCollins in the United States and by Heinemann in the United Kingdom. It is a sequel to Lee's classic book To Kill a Mockingbird. It was written before her published novel, To Kill a Mockingbird. 

[[Peter Cosgrove]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Australian Governors-General, Politicians from Sydney

General Sir Peter John Cosgrove, AUS (born 28 July 1947) is a retired senior Australian Army officer. He was the 26th Governor-General of Australia from 2014 to 2019.

[[Frances Oldham Kelsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2015 deaths, American centenarians, Scientists from Chicago, Canadian centenarians, Canadian scientists, Civil servants, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from British Columbia, University of Chicago alumni

Frances Kathleen Oldham Kelsey PhD MD (24 July 1914 – 7 August 2015) was an Canadian-American pharmacologist. She was a reviewer for the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). She refused to authorize thalidomide for market because she had concerns about the drug's safety.

Her concerns proved to be justified when it was proven that thalidomide caused serious birth defects. As a result of her blocking American approval of thalidomide, Kelsey was awarded the President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service by President John F. Kennedy, Kelsey retired from the FDA in 2005, at age 90, after 45 years of service.

Kelsey died at her daughter's home in London, Ontario at the age of 101.

[[Gardnar Mulloy]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American centenarians, American male tennis players, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C.

Gardnar Putnam "Gar" Mulloy (November 22, 1913 – November 14, 2016) was a former U.S. No. 1 tennis player primarily. He was known for playing in doubles matches with partner Billy Talbert. He was born in Washington, D.C.. Mulloy turned 100 in November 2013.

Mulloy died in Miami, Florida on November 14, 2016 from complications of a stroke, aged 102.

[[Richard L. Bare]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2015 deaths, American television directors, American television producers, Screenwriters from California

Richard Leland Bare (born August 12, 1913) is an American director, producer, and screenwriter of television shows. He is known for directing some of the Twilight Zone and Green Acres episodes.

[[Simon Ramo]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2016 deaths, American physicists, Engineers from Utah, American centenarians, Businesspeople from Salt Lake City, Utah, Scientists from Utah

Simon "Si" Ramo (May 7, 1913 – June 27, 2016) was an American physicist, engineer, business leader and author. He led development of microwave and missile technology and was sometimes known as the father of the intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). He also developed General Electric's electron microscope. He was born in Salt Lake City, Utah.

Ramo died on June 27, 2016 in Santa Monica, California at the age of 103.

[[Bobbi Kristina Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, African-American singers, African American television personalities, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, Musicians from New Jersey, Television personalities from New Jersey, People from Livingston, New Jersey

Bobbi Kristina Brown (March 4, 1993 – July 26, 2015) was an American television personality, heiress and singer. She was the daughter of singers Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown. Brown was born in Livingston, New Jersey.

[[Joe Medicine Crow]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2016 deaths, American centenarians, American military personnel of World War II, American writers, Native American people, People from Montana, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients

Joseph Medicine Crow-High Bird (October 27, 1913 – April 3, 2016) was a Crow historian and author. He was also an enrolled member of the Crow Nation of Native Americans. 

His writings on Native American history and reservation culture are thought to be his best known works, but he was best known for his writings and lectures about the Battle of the Little Bighorn. He was a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the Bronze Star Medal, and the Légion d'honneur.

He was a founding member of the Traditional Circle of Indian Elders & Youth. He turned 100 in October 2013. He died in Billings, Montana on April 3, 2016 at the age of 102.

[[Toronto streetcar system]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Ontario, Rail transport in Canada, Toronto Transit Commission

The Toronto streetcar system is a network of eleven streetcar routes in the Canadian city of Toronto, Ontario. It is by far the largest network of its kind in the Americas. It operates as part of the Toronto Transit Commission's public transport network, and shares a common fare system with buses and subway services.

Unlike modern light rail systems that are becoming more commonplace in North America, streetcars runs on city streets and call at frequent bus-type stops, where the passenger waits on the sidewalk for the next streetcar and pays his or her fare on board the vehicle. There are 685 of these stops, eight of which are shared with and connect to the subway system. The system mainly serves the downtown and waterfront areas of the city, and acts as feeder routes to the subway.

The system, which has been one of the longest in continuous operation, was opened in 1861 as a horse tramway. The system was bought by the Toronto Railway Company in 1891 and it was electrified in 1892. Vehicles run on 82 of tracks with a non-standard gauge of 1495 and collect power from overhead lines at 600 V DC using trolley poles mounted on each streetcar.

More than 300,000 people ride the system on an average weekday, and about 100 million on an annual basis, making it among the busiest systems in the world.

[[Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Costa Rica

Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla (4 October 1801, Cartago, Costa Rica - 23 May 1856) was head of state of Costa Rica from November to December 1844.

Bonilla studied law, but did not complete the course. He still worked as a lawyer, and was later a customs official, a judge, and a regional governor.

In 1843 he was elected to the Constituent Assembly. He was very quickly made Vice President, and was also president of the Congress.

In 1844 he became President and put in place the new Constitution drafted by the Assembly in March 1844. He was opposed by sectors of the Army, led by the military commander general of Costa Rica, General Pinto. After the coup failed, Bonilla removed Pinta from the army. 

He resigned in December, when the after the assembly refused to allow him to use force to settle problem between some of the provinces. His resignation was not accepted, but he was allowed to retire to his hometown. He was replaced on an interim basis by Rafael Mora Murillo and later by José Rafael Gallegos. 

He continued to serve as Vice President, and in 1856, brought in many laws and actions to try to control a cholera epidemic. He got cholera, and died on 23 May 1856.

[[Muath Al-Kasasbeh]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, 2015 deaths, Jordanian people, Kidnapped people, People murdered in Syria

Muath Safi Yousef Al-Kasasbeh (معاذ صافي يوسف الكساسبة; May 29, 1988 – January 3, 2015) was a Jordanian pilot. He was imprisoned and burnt alive by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.

Al-Kasasbeh was a First Lieutenant in the Royal Jordanian Air Force. The plane he was piloting, an F-16 fighter jet, crashed after mechanical problems on December 24, 2014, though Islamic State claimed it shot his aircraft down. He was captured by Islamic State militants near Raqqa, Syria.

He was threatened with execution, but there were negotiations to release him. However, Islamic State decapitated his co-prisoner, Japanese journalist Kenji Goto, and subsequently burned Al-Kasasbeh to death while he was locked in a cage.

[[Sajida Mubarak Atrous al-Rishawi]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s births, 2015 deaths, Al-Qaeda people, Executed people, Iraqi people

Sajida Mubarak Atrous al-Rishawi (ساجدة الريشاوي born c. 1970-4 February 2015) was a Iraqi failed suicide bomber. She has been convicted in the November 9, 2005 Amman bombings in Jordan but survived when her explosive belt failed to detonate. Al-Qaida in Iraq claimed responsibility for the triple bombings that hit three hotels.

She was sentenced to death as a result of her involvement in the hotel suicide bombings. Jordan executed her on February 4, 2015 in response for the execution of Jordanian pilot Muath Al-Kasasbeh by the ISIS terrorist organization. Jordan had expressed willingness to swap al-Rishawi in exchange for the pilot's safe return, however the pilot had already been killed.

[[Walter Isaacson]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Rhodes scholars, American journalists, American chief executives, Businesspeople from Louisiana, Writers from New Orleans, Louisiana

Walter Isaacson (born May 20, 1952) is an American businessman and journalist. In 2001 he became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of CNN. In 2003 he became the President and CEO of the Aspen Institute. He also has been the editor of Time Magazine.

Isaacson has written biographies of Benjamin Franklin, Albert Einstein, Steve Jobs and Henry Kissinger. He also co-authored the book The Wise Men: Six Friends and the World They Made. In 2012 Time Magazine named him one of the top 100 most influential people in the world.

[[Josephoartigasia]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

Josephoartigasia is an extinct genus of giant rodent from the Pliocene. It is related to the living pacarana. The genus includes the largest known rodent, Josephoartigasia monesi. 

The two species would have looked like gigantic pacarana, or capybaras the size of cows. However, Dr Virginie Millien, from McGill University in Montreal, said the mathematical models originally used to calculate the rodent's mass from its skull probably overestimated its body size.

A recent report said it had big front teeth, which it might have used for defence.

[[Rowland Evans]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2001 deaths, American journalists, American television news anchors, American political commentators, Deaths from esophageal cancer, CNN people

Rowland Evans (April 28, 1921 - March 23,2001) was a conservative Chicago Sun-Times columnist and co-host of the Cable News Network's (CNN) Evans & Novak, later Evans, Novak, Hunt, & Shields. He was also a political analyst for CNN, along with his partner on Evans and Novak and at the Chicago Sun Times, Robert Novak.

[[Allard Pierson Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in the Netherlands, Amsterdam, 1934 establishments in Europe, 1930s establishments in the Netherlands

The Allard Pierson Museum is a archaeological museum in Amsterdam. 

The museum was founded in 1934. It is part of the University of Amsterdam. Since 1976 it has been located the building of the former Dutch bank.

[[Muiderslot]]

CATEGORIES: Castles, World Heritage Sites in Europe, Museums in the Netherlands, Gooise Meren

The Muiderslot is a castle-museum in the Netherlands, in Muiden. It is 15 southeast of Amsterdam. It is one of the better known castles in the Netherlands. The Muiderslot is part of the defense line of Amsterdam. It is on the World Heritage list.

[[Ankarsvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Ankarsvik is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 944 people lived there.

[[Hovid]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Hovid is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 225 people lived there.

[[Gustavsberg]]

Gustavsberg may refer to:

[[Gustavsberg, Sundsvall Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Gustavsberg is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 254 people lived there.

[[Universal Esperanto Association]]

CATEGORIES: Esperanto

Universal Esperanto Association (in Esperanto Universala Esperanto-Asocio, UEA) is the largest organization of Esperanto speakers. Its main office is in Rotterdam, Netherlands and it also has an office at the United Nations building in New York City.

Swiss journalist Hector Hodler with other people founded the Universal Esperanto Association on 28 April in 1908. Today it has around 6,000 individual members and 70 country organizations.

[[David Duke]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, 1988 United States presidential candidates, 1992 United States presidential candidates, American activists, Politicians from Louisiana

David Ernest Duke (born July 1, 1950) is a right-wing American activist and politician. He ran for President of the United States in 1988 and again in 1992. He is a white supremacist. He states the Jews were responsible for communism. He was recently the subject of controversy because of his claim that Representative Scalise and other Republican leaders had links to him in the past. He was interviewed by Bill O'Reilly on the Fox News Channel and Michael Smerconish on the Cable News Network to discuss this.

[[International auxiliary language]]

CATEGORIES: Constructed languages, Interlinguistics

An International auxiliary language (shortly IAL or auxlang) is a language that is intended for communication between people who have different first languages.

Languages of large societies over the centuries have almost reached the international level, for example Latin, Greek, Standard Arabic, Standard Chinese, English, French, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish.

Some people have turned to the idea of promoting an artificial or constructed language as a possible IAL, for example Esperanto, Ido and Interlingua.

[[Prague Manifesto (Esperanto)]]

CATEGORIES: Esperanto

Prague Manifesto (Manifesto de Prago) is a manifesto in which are seven principles for Esperanto movement. It was published during World Esperanto Congress in Prague, Czech Republic in 1996 by the representative of UNESCO and participants of the meeting.

Because the manifesto shows advantages of accepting of Esperanto as international auxiliary language, people consider it as the modern manifesto of finvenkism (the movement which wants Esperanto to be an official international auxiliary language).

[[HLN (TV channel)]]

CATEGORIES: American television networks, Time Warner, Companies based in Atlanta, Georgia, 1982 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

HLN (formerly "CNN Headline News") is an American basic cable and satellite television channel. It is owned by CNN, a unit of the Turner Broadcasting System (TBS) division of Time Warner. It was first broadcast on television in 1982 as CNN2. The name was changed in 2008 to "HLN". This followed a pattern by Turner properties changing from their full names to acronyms. Turner Broadcasting System was changed to TBS, Turner Network Television became TNT, etc. It still runs quick news reports 24/7. It stll has more headline news than it's true crime shows. 

[[In the Lonely Hour]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 albums, Sam Smith (singer)

In the Lonely Hour is the debut studio album by British singer Sam Smith. It was released in the United Kingdom on 26 May 2014. In the United States, it was released on 17 June 2014.

The album includes the hit singles "Money on My Mind" and "Stay with Me", both of which were number one in the UK; the latter becoming a hit worldwide.

A deluxe edition of the album contains five bonus tracks, including a solo acoustic version of Disclosure's single "Latch" and Naughty Boy's number-one single "La La La", on both of which Smith provided guest vocals.

[[The New Classic]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 albums, Debut albums, Hip hop albums

The New Classic is the debut studio album by Australian rapper Iggy Azalea. The album was released on 21 April 2014, under Island in the US, Virgin EMI in the UK. The album features the Billboard Hot 100 number single "Fancy" which features English singer Charli XCX as well as guest appearances from R&B singer Rita Ora and rapper T.I.. Azalea also stated that the reason why she named it "The New Classic" by saying "I think people think of classic and they think of a Nas record or a Jay-Z record or The Chronic, what makes something classic is when you hear it and you have that moment that is a time capsule. When I say 'The New Classic,' I just want to make records that give you that moment for fans that they can remember where they were when they heard it."

[[Rena Owen]]

CATEGORIES: New Zealand television actors, New Zealand movie actors, 1962 births, Living people

Rena Owen (born 22 July 1962 in Bay of Islands, Northland in New Zealand) is a New Zealand actress. She works in movies, television and theatre. She played Beth Heke in Once Were Warriors. She also played Anna in Ocean of Pearls (2007).

The awards Owen has won include:

[[Tom Schilling]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1982 births, German movie actors, German television actors, German stage actors, Actors from Berlin

Tom Schilling  (born 10 February 1982, Berlin) is a German television and movie actor.

[[The Amityville Horror (2005 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 horror movies, 2000s movie remakes, American horror movies, American movie remakes, English-language movies, Movies set in New York, Movies set in the 1970s

The Amityville Horror is a 2005 American horror movie. It is a remake of the 1979 movie. Ryan Reynolds plays George Lutz. Chloë Grace Moretz plays Chelsea Lutz. Melissa George plays Kathy Lutz.

The movie is set on Amityville, Long Island, New York in 1974. It was filmed in Chicago.

The movie received negative reviews from critics. However, it made over $108 million overall in the box office

[[Melissa George]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Actors from Perth, Western Australia, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors

Melissa Suzanne George (born 6 August 1976) is an Australian actress. She played Angel Parrish in Home and Away. She then moved to the United States. After that, she acted in Friends, Grey's Anatomy and In Treatment.

George was born in Perth, Western Australia.

[[Martin Gilbert]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, British historians, Writers from London

Sir Martin John Gilbert, CBE, PC (25 October 1936 - 3 February 2015) was a British historian and honorary Fellow of Merton College, University of Oxford. He was the author of over eighty books, including works on the Holocaust and Jewish history.

[[Udo Lattek]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in North Rhine-Westphalia, German football managers, German footballers, People from former German territories

Udo Lattek (16 January 1935 – 1 February 2015) was a German football player, coach, and TV pundit.

Lattek was one of the most successful coaches in the history of the game, and the most successful coach with German teams, especially Bayern Munich. He won important trophies with Borussia Mönchengladbach and FC Barcelona. He coached Borussia Dortmund, Schalke 04 and 1. FC Köln.

Lattek died of Parkinson's disease in Cologne, Germany, aged 80.

[[Silvia Pinal]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican stage actors, Mexican television actors, People from Sonora

Silvia Pinal Hidalgo (born on September 12, 1931 in Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico) is a Mexican actress and producer. She is one of the most recognized and versatile Mexican actresses. 

[[Guaymas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Sonora, 1769 establishments, 18th-century establishments in Mexico

Guaymas (ˈɡwajmas) is a city in Sonora, Mexico. It is the main port for the state.

[[Hermosillo]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Mexico, Sonora, 1700s establishments in North America, 18th-century establishments in Mexico, 1700 establishments

Hermosillo (eɾmoˈsiʎo) is a city in Sonora, Mexico. It is the capital and main economic center for the state. It contains almost all of the state's manufacturing and has seventy percent of its population.

[[Mitchell Langerak]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Queensland

Mitchell James Langerak (General Australian pronunciation: ˈ, ˈmɪtʃˈɔːl ˈlænɡɑːr.ˈæk; born 22 August 1988) is an Australian footballer. He plays as a goalkeeper for the German Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart.

[[Roger Ailes]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from subdural hematoma, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, Fox News people, Republicans (United States), Businesspeople from Ohio, Ohio University alumni

Roger Eugene Ailes (May 15, 1940 – May 18, 2017) was a Republican political operative. He worked for United States Presidents George H. W. Bush and Richard Nixon. He founded Fox News Network with Rupert Murdoch. He is the president of Fox News Channel. He was chairman of Fox Television Stations Group. Ailes became President of NBC's Cable News and Business Channel in 1993. While working for NBC, he created a cable talk channel called America's Talking in 1994. That channel later became MSNBC. In 1996 he left to join News Corporation, owned by Rupert Murdoch, and launch News Corporation's Fox News Channel. He is Chief Executive Officer of Fox News Network.

Ailes died at his Palm Beach, Florida on May 18, 2017 from subdural hematoma caused by a fall at the age of 77.

[[CNBC]]

CATEGORIES: Television networks

CNBC (Consumer News and Business Channel) is an American business  television network. It is owned and operated by NBC. It was started in 1980 as the "Satellite Program Network". NBC purchased it in 1989 and renamed it CNBC. 

[[Microsoft Visio]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft software

Microsoft Visio is a vector graphics computer program made by Microsoft. The product was firstly made by Shapeware Corporation until it was bought by Microsoft in 2000. The first large version of Visio was sold in 2003. Visio is a popular program for drawing, making charts and flowcharts. Microsoft Visio files use the "VSD" file extension. Microsoft has launched a VSDX extension for Microsoft Visio 2010 and higher.

[[Vaná]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Brazilian association football goalkeepers, 1991 births

Vanailson Luciano de Souza Alves (Federal District, April 25 1991), commonly known as Vaná, is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Coritiba.

[[Game bird]]

CATEGORIES: Birds, Sports involving animals

A game bird is any of a number of species of wild birds which are hunted, killed and eaten by humans. Hunting game birds is a sport, and a way of getting food. Usually there are laws which govern the hunting. Usually, guns are used, and so there are gun laws. Also, regulations protect the birds' breeding season, so that another generation of birds will grow to replace the present generation.

Although the birds are wild, most of them are "managed" if they live on estates. Birds which migrate cannot be managed in the same way. Shooting game birds on Scottish estates is for them a major source of income. The managing consists of making sure there are enough birds for the next shooting season. 

In the United Kingdom game is defined in law by the Game Act 1831. It is illegal to shoot game on Sundays or at night.  Other (non-game birds) that are hunted for food in the UK are specified under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) and the Forestry Commission have a big say in how the hunting is regulated.

UK law defines game as including:

[[Royal Society for the Protection of Birds]]

CATEGORIES: Charities, Conservation, Birds, Royal Societies of the United Kingdom, 1889 establishments in the United Kingdom

The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) is an organisation registered in Great Britain as a charity. It was founded as the Plumage League in 1889 by Emily Williamson.

The RSPB works to promote conservation and protection of birds and the wider environment. It runs public awareness campaigns and petitions, and it operates nature reserves throughout the United Kingdom.

The RSPB has 2,000 employees, 17,600 volunteers and more than a million members (including 150,000 youth members). It is the largest wildlife conservation charity in Europe. The RSPB has many local groups and maintains 200 nature reserves.

The group gained popularity and eventually amalgamated with the Fur and Feather League in Croydon to form the RSPB.

The original members of the RSPB were all women. They campaigned against the fashion of  wearing exotic feathers in hats. To this end the Society had two simple rules:

At the time of founding, the trade in plumage for use in hats was very large: in the first quarter of 1884, almost 7,000 bird-of-paradise skins were being imported to Britain, along with 0.4 million birds from the West Indies and Brazil, and 0.36 million birds from British India.

The Society attracted support from some women of high social standing who belonged to the social classes that popularised the wearing of feathered hats, including the Duchess of Portland (who became the Society's first President) and the Ranee of Sarawak. The organisation began to attract the support of many other influential figures, both male and female, such as the ornithologist Professor Alfred Newton. The society received a Royal Charter in 1904 from Edward VII. It petitioned Parliament to introduce laws banning the use of plumage in clothing.

[[Eddie Boyd]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American blues musicians, American pianists, Musicians from Mississippi, 1914 births, 1994 deaths

Edward Riley Boyd (later Eddie Boyd; November 25, 1914 – July 13, 1994) was an American blues pianist. He wrote and recorded the songs "Five Long Years" (1952) "24 Hours" (1953) and "Third Degree" (also 1953).

He later moved to Europe because he was tired of the racial discrimination in the United States.

He was born in Clarksdale, Mississippi. He died in Helsinki, Finland. 

[[I Want It That Way]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 1999 songs

"I Want it That Way" is a dance-pop ballad from Backstreet Boys. It is about a relationship that is troubled by emotional or physical distance. In the United States, the song peaked at #6 on the Billboard Hot 100. It hit #1 in many other countries.

The song was nominated for three Grammy Awards.

It was released in April 1999.

[[William S. Paley]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1990 deaths, American philanthropists, American television producers, Businesspeople from Chicago, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in New York City

William Samuel Paley (September 28, 1901 – October 26, 1990) was an American businessman, philanthropist,  broadcaster and founder of CBS. A Chicago-born cigar salesman, in 1928 he purchased a small group of radio stations. From that start he built CBS into a dominant force in radio and television.

Paley died in New York City on October 26, 1990 from kidney failure, aged 89.

[[Show Me the Meaning of Being Lonely]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 1999 songs

"Show Me the Meaning of Being Lonely" is a pop ballad from the Backstreet Boys. The song is about missing someone you love and asking the meaning of living a lonely life. On the U.S. Billboard Hot 100, the song hit #6. It hit #2 on the Hot Adult Contemporary Chart.

The song was released on December 21, 1999.

[[Henri Coppens]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Belgian footballers, Belgian football managers, People from Antwerp

Henri 'Rik' François Louis Coppens (29 April 1930 – 5 February 2015) was a Belgian footballer. He played as a striker. He played 389 games and scored 261 goals for Beerschot AC. Coppens won the first Belgian Golden Shoe in 1954.

For many he's unknown but for others he's the famous creator of the 'Johan Cruyff' penalty.

[[Mexico, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine

Mexico is a town in Oxford County, Maine, United States. The population was 2,681 at the 2010 census.

[[Wes Cooley]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, People from Los Angeles, California, Politicians from California, Ranchers, United States representatives from Oregon, US Republican Party politicians

Wester Shadric "Wes" Cooley (March 28, 1932 – February 4, 2015) was an American politician and rancher. Cooley was a member of the Republican. He was a U.S. Representative from Oregon for the 1995–1997 term. Cooley was born in Los Angeles, California.

Cooley died on February 4, 2015 in Bend, Oregon.

[[Fitzhugh L. Fulton]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, American military people, Scientists from Georgia (U.S. state)

Fitzhugh L. "Fitz" Fulton, Jr. (June 6, 1925 – February 4, 2015) was an American civilian research pilot at NASA's Dryden Flight Research Center, Edwards, California. He worked at NASA from August 1, 1966 until July 3, 1986. Before working at NASA, Fulton served as a pilot in the U.S. Air Force for 23 years.

[[Mary Healy]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New Orleans, Louisiana, Singers from Louisiana

Mary Healy (April 14, 1918 – February 3, 2015) was an American actress and singer. She was known for her roles in Second Fiddle, Star Dust, and in The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T. Healy was born in New Orleans, Louisiana.

Healy died in Calabasas, California from natural causes, aged 96.

[[K. N. Choksy]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, Sri Lankan politicians, Civil servants

Kairshasp Nariman Choksy, PC, MP (7 February 1933 – 5 February 2015) (known as K. N. Choksy) was a Sri Lankan lawyer and politician. He was a former member of the Parliament of Sri Lanka.

He was Cabinet Minister of Finance under Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe. He had also served as Cabinet Minister of Constitutional & State Affairs from 1993 to 1994 under President D. B. Wijetunga and was a member of parliament from 1989 to 2010.

[[Street theatre]]

CATEGORIES: Theater

Street theatre is a form of theatre performed outdoors. Actors take their performances to street corners, town squares, and markets. They work in public places putting on plays Generally they perform without a paying audience but depend on money dropped in a hat. Street theatre ranges from individual performances to acting companies. In Guerrilla theatre the actors are usually not professionals. They often take on social and political issues. Street theatre uses a minimum of props, costumes and sets. They often have no microphones. This means the actors have to be loud enough for the audience to hear them. It has different names in different places. In Singapore for example it is called street opera.

[[Metro-North Railroad]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in New York City, Transport in Connecticut, Rail transport in the United States, 1983 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in New York (state), 20th-century establishments in Connecticut

The Metro-North Commuter Railroad, or Metro-North, is a suburban commuter rail service in New York. It is run by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA). It is the second largest commuter railroad in the United States. Metro–North goes from New York City to the New York Hudson Valley. It also has stops in Connecticut. Riding Metro-North in New York City costs less than riding it outside the city. There are 122 stations. There are five Metro-North Railroad lines. It has over 775 of track. The lines are more than 385 long.

The MTA also operates New York City Transit subways and buses, and the Long Island Rail Road. It has jurisdiction, through Metro-North, over railroad lines on the western and eastern portions of the Hudson River in New York State. Service on the western side of the Hudson is operated by New Jersey Transit under contract with the MTA. Metro-North operates 124 stations. 

The rolling stock used on the Harlem and Hudson lines consists of Budd M3As and Bombardier M7As, similar to LIRR trains, on the electrified portions of the lines, with Bombardier Shoreliner coaches pulled by GE Genesis and Brookville BL20GH locomotives on the electrified portions. The New Haven Line uses catenary wire since it’s route is shared with Amtrak; they use Kawasaki M8 EMUs on main line and New Canaan branch, and Shoreliner coaches pulled by GE and Brookville locomotives on the Danbury and Waterford branches.

[[Brown bread]]

CATEGORIES: Breads

Brown bread is a name for breads made with a lot of whole grain flour with usually rye or wheat. There are sometimes dark-coloured ingredients such as molasses or coffee.

[[White bread]]

CATEGORIES: Breads

White bread are breads made with a light color flour. The flour used in white breads may be bleached or lightened by chemicals like potassium bromate, azodicarbonamide, or chlorine dioxide.

[[Nutella]]

CATEGORIES: Spreads

Nutella is the brand name of an Italian sweetened hazelnut chocolate spread.   Manufactured by the Italian company Ferrero, it was introduced to the market in 1964. Nutella has 200 calories.

[[Kevin Stemke]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, American football punters, Living people, People from Green Bay, Wisconsin, Oakland Raiders players, Sportspeople from Wisconsin, St. Louis Rams players

Kevin Stemke (born November 23, 1978) is a retired American football punter. He played eight games in the National Football League (NFL). He played for the Oakland Raiders in 2002 and the St. Louis Rams in 2004. Stemke was born in Green Bay, Wisconsin. He is the son of U.S. Olympic soccer player Horst Stemke.

He played college football with the University of Wisconsin Badgers. During his first year, Stemke set the team punting record while averaging 43.9 yards per kick and in his second year, he was able to make the first team in the Big Ten Conference. In his senior year, he was able to break his own school record and averaged 44.5 yards per punt which was also the third best in the United States. He was awarded the very first Ray Guy Award for being the nation's top punter.

Stemke went undrafted in the 2001 NFL Draft but he was signed by the Green Bay Packers on April 23, 2001. The Raiders signed Stemke in August 2002. He played two games with them before he was cut from the team. He was then signed by the Miami Dolphins in January 2003. The Dolphins would send send him to play for the Scottish Claymores of the NFL Europe but they waived him before the start of the NFL regular season. The Washington Redskins cut Stemke along with 13 other players on August 30, 2004.

After being cut, Stemke was signed by the St. Louis Rams in November 2004 in replace of Sean Landeta. The Rams released him before the start of the 2005 season in favor of Reggie Hodges.

Stemke has an award named after him and it is awarded to the Wisconsin high school senior kicker/punter.

[[Andrew Heyward]]

CATEGORIES: Network management, 1950 births, Living people, Emmy Award winners

Andrew John Heyward is an independent media consultant in Manhattan, New York. Heyward is a principal in MarketspaceNext LLC and in his own practice, Heyward Advisory LLC. He is a senior advisor to Monitor Deloitte. He was formerly president of CBS News from January 1996 to November 2005. Before that he was an executive producer for the CBS Evening News (October 1994-January 1996). He has won 12 national Emmy Awards.

[[Marisa Del Frate]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Actors from Rome, Italian movie actors, Italian singers

Marisa Del Frate (11 March 1931 – 6 February 2015) was an Italian actress, singer and television personality.

She died in Rome on 6 February 2015 of cancer of unknown primary origin, aged 83.

[[Shawn Mullins]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, American country musicians, American folk musicians, American military people, American rock guitarists, American singer-songwriters, Living people, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia

Shawn Mullins (born March 8, 1968) is an American rock singer-songwriter. He is best known for his 1998 single "Lullaby". The song was able to reach #1 on the Adult Top 40 and was nominated for a Grammy Award in the category of Best Male Pop Vocal Performance. He also played in the band The Thorns before they broke up in 2004.

He was born in Atlanta, Georgia. Earlier in his life, Mullins served as an inactive Infantry officer in the Individual Ready Reserve component of the U.S. Army Reserve. He reached the rank of 1st lieutenant before he fulfilled his service obligation and resigned honorably.

[[Les Moonves]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Chief executives, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, Businesspeople from New York City

Leslie Roy "Les" Moonves (born 6 October 1949) was President and chief executive officer (CEO) of CBS Corporation. Moonves was born in New York City. He is a former vice-president of Lorimar Productions. In 1995 he resigned as president of Warner Brothers Television and became president of CBS Productions. In 2003 he became CEO of CBS Television. From 2003 he has been CEO of CBS Corporation. In 2016, he became Chairman and resigned in September 2018 after multiple women accused him of sexual harassment.

In July 2018, The New York Times reported that Moonves would be the subject of an investigation by the board of directors of CBS. According to The New Yorker, six women accuse Moonves of sexual harassment and intimidation.

In September 2018, The New Yorker reported that six more women had raised accusations against Moonves, going back to the 1980s. He resigned as Chair later that day. As of February 8, 2019, Moonves is now head of his own company in West Hollywood, California, named Moon Rise Unlimited.

[[Joe Scarborough]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American television talk show hosts, Entertainers from Georgia (U.S. state), Politicians from Atlanta, Georgia, United States representatives from Florida, University of Florida alumni, US Republican Party politicians

Charles Joseph "Joe" Scarborough (born April 9, 1963) is  the host of Morning Joe on National Broadcasting Company's (NBC) sister network MSNBC (Microsoft NBC). He previously hosted Scarborough Country on the same network. He is a former member of the United States House of RepresentativesUS House of Representatives.

On July 11, 2017, Scarborough announced on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert that he was leaving the Republican party to become an independent.

[[Meg Cabot]]

CATEGORIES: American novelists, Writers from Indiana, 1967 births, Living people

Meg Cabot (born Meggin Patricia Cabot on February 1, 1967) is an American writer. She writes romantic and paranormal fiction for teenagers and adults. She has published over fifty books. She is best known for The Princess Diaries. A movie was made based on that book.

Cabot was born in Bloomington, Indiana.

[[Lili Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Illinois, 1967 births, Living people

Lili Anne Taylor (born February 20, 1967) is an American actress. She appeared in many independent movies. She was also in big budget movies including Ransom (1996) and The Conjuring (2013). She played Grace Stalker in Arizona Dream. She played Jojo Barbosa in Mystic Pizza in 1988.

Taylor was born in Glencoe, Illinois.

[[Johannedal]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Johannedal is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,754 people lived there.

[[Juniskär]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Juniskär is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 397 people lived ther.

[[Nedansjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Nedansjö is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 257 people lived there.

[[John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C., Concert halls in the United States, John F. Kennedy

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts (commonly called the Kennedy Center) is a performing arts center in Washington, D.C. The Center opened on September 8, 1971. It shows theater, dance, ballet, orchestral, chamber, jazz, popular, and folk music performances.

It is the busiest performing arts center in the United States of America. Each year, it hosts about 2,000 performances, and almost two million people watch one of these performances. The Center presents music, dance, and theater to the public; helps artists make new works and does arts education.

The National Cultural Center Act of Congress in 1958 requires that its programming must be paid for through private money. The center is a public-private partnership. It mostly gets its money from ticket sales and gifts from individuals, corporations, and private foundations. It also gets federal funding each year to pay for the maintenance and operation of the building. It is both the nation's public memorial to President John F. Kennedy and the "national center for the performing arts."

The building was designed by architect Edward Durell Stone, built by Philadelphia contractor John McShain, and is administered by a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution.

[[Utansjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Utansjö is a locality in Härnösand Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 209 people lived there. It is located close to the High Coast Bridge.

[[Glanshammar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Glanshammar is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 727 people lived there.

[[Life (disambiguation)]]

Life is a quality of something that has biological processes, for example an animal or plant. It might also refer to:

[[Sin (disambiguation)]]

A sin is a morally wrong act.

Sin, sins, or SIN might also refer to:

[[Orlando Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, African American actors, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Orlando Brown (born December 4, 1987) is an American actor and rapper. He is best known for his roles as Eddie Thomas on the teen sitcom That's So Raven, the voice of Sticky Webb on the animated series The Proud Family, and as the voice of Cornelius Filmore on the animated series Fillmore!. Brown is also a singer and released his debut album Trade It All in 2006. He was born in Los Angeles, California.

[[Lizabeth Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Singers from Pennsylvania

Lizabeth Virginia Scott (September 29, 1922 – January 31, 2015) was an American actress and singer. 

Scott specialised in film noir roles of the 1940s and early 1950s. She was known for her roles in The Strange Love of Martha Ivers (1946) with Barbara Stanwyck, Dead Reckoning (1947) with Humphrey Bogart,  Desert Fury (1948) with John Hodiak, and Too Late for Tears (1949) with Don DeFore. Scott was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Of her 22 feature films, she was leading lady in all but one. In addition to stage and radio, she appeared on television from the late 1940s to early 1970s.

Scott died of congestive heart failure at the age of 92 on January 31, 2015 in Los Angeles, California.

[[Rebel Without a Cause]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 drama movies, American teen drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies directed by Nicholas Ray

Rebel Without a Cause is a 1955 American drama movie directed by Nicholas Ray. It was produced by David Weisbart. It was written by Stewart Scott and Irving Shulman. It stars James Dean, Natalie Wood, and Sal Mineo. It was released on October 27, 1955.

[[Pedro León Zapata]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Venezuelan people, Comics artists, Cartoonists

Pedro León Zapata (February 27, 1929 – February 6, 2015) was a prominent Venezuelan artist, humorist and cartoonist. He was born in La Grita, Táchira.

Zapata died in Caracas, Venezuela at the age of 85.

[[Richard Bonehill]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2015 deaths, British movie actors

Richard Bonehill (1948 – 4 February 2015) was a British actor and stuntman. He was also a swordsman. He played a number of different character extras in The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi, most notably the alien Nien Nunb.

[[Stewart Stern]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winners, 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, American screenwriters, Writers from Iowa

Stewart Henry Stern (March 22, 1922 – February 2, 2015) was a two-time Oscar-nominated and Emmy award winning American screenwriter. He was best known for writing the screenplay for the iconic movie Rebel Without a Cause (1955), starring James Dean.

[[Alan Nunnelee]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2015 deaths, American Baptists, Deaths from brain cancer, United States representatives from Mississippi, US Republican Party politicians, People from Tupelo, Mississippi

Patrick Alan Nunnelee (October 9, 1958 – February 6, 2015) was an American politician. He was the U.S. Representative for MS from 2011 until his death in 2015.

Before being a representative, he served in the Mississippi State Senate, representing the 6th district, from 1995 to 2011. He was a member of the Republican Party.

Nunnelee died in his birthplace of Tupelo, Mississippi from brain cancer, aged 56.

[[Stratford International station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in London

Stratford International is a railway station, located in Stratford, London, in the United Kingdom. It was originally planned and built for trains running through the Channel tunnel, but these trains currently do not stop there. It should not be confused with Stratford station, about 400 away. The Docklands Light Railway, and various regional trains also stop at Stratford International.

[[Annika Evaldsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, 1994 Winter Olympics, Swedish skiers

Annika Evaldsson, born 14 May 1970 in Åsarna, Sweden, is a Swedish cross country skier. She competed at international top level from 1992 to 2002. Her best World Cup finish was seventh in a sprint event in Sunne in Sweden on 11 March 1997.

During the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, she finished 25th in the 5 kilometers event and 29th in both the 5 km + 10 kilometers combined pursuit and the 15 kilometers events. Her best finish during the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships was when she ended up 14th in the 5 kilometer event at Trondheim in 1997.

During Swedish national championships she won the 5 kilometers events in the years of 1996 and 1997 and the sprint event in the year 2000. She was also part of Sollefteå SK's 3 x 5 kilometers relay-winning team in the years of 1994 and 1995. In the year 2000 she won Tjejvasan.

[[Sofia Bleckur]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Sofia Bleckur, born 3 July 1984, is a Swedish former cross-country skier. She competed at World Cup level. At club level she competed for IFK Mora. She won Tjejvasan in 2005 and 2014. She announced her retirenment from cross-country skiing on 5 August 2015.

[[Carina Görlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, 1992 Winter Olympics, Swedish skiers

Carina Görlin, born 17 February 1963 in Borlänge, Sweden, is a Swedish former cross country skier. She competed at international top level from 1991 to 1994. She participated during at the 1992 Winter Olympics in Albertville. She there had her best career finish of seventh in the 4 x 5 kilometers relay event. Her best individual finish was the 14th position during the 5 kilometers race.

Her best result during the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships was when she ended up 10th in the 15 kilometers event in Val di Fiemme in 1991.  Her best World Cup finish was two 12th places. They both occurred at 5 kilometers events in 1991.

In 1993, she won Tjejvasan.

[[Gällivare Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Wooden churches

The Gällivare Church (Gällivare kyrka) is a wooden church building in Gällivare in Sweden. It belongs to the Gällivare Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was inaugurated in February 1882. It then replaced an older church.

[[Stinsen Arena]]

CATEGORIES: Bandy in Sweden, 2012 establishments in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Sweden

Stinsen Arena is an indoor bandy venue in Nässjö in Sweden. Construction began on 27 April 2012. The arena was opened on 6 October 2012. 

The first game inside the arena was played on 11 October 2012. In that game, Nässjö IF lost, 2-7, to Vetlanda BK.

[[Jönköpings idrottshus]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 establishments in Sweden, Indoor arenas, Sport in Jönköping, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

Jönköpings idrottshus, nicknamed Kåken, is a sports hall in Väster in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It was opened on 19 November 1939 with a handball game between GoIF Fram and IFK Kristianstad. It also acts as home ground for club teams like Jönköping City IBK (floorball), IK Cyrus T/S, IF Hallby (handball), Jönköpings IK (floorball) and KFUM Jönköping.

Following criticism for being "too old" by the early 2000s, it was renovated and reopened on 8 September 2012.

[[Råslätts IP]]

CATEGORIES: Stadiums in Sweden, Bandy in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Jönköping, Sport in Jönköping

Råslätts IP is a sports ground in Råslätt in Jönköping in Sweden. It is mostly used for bandy, soccer and track and field athletics. It serves as home ground for Jönköping Bandy IF's bandy team and Råslätts SK's soccer team. The artificial ice rink was onoened on 15 January 1988. There are plans to build a multi arena with a indor bandy venue. It was originally thought to have been completed by 2009.

At Råslätts IP, international bandy games have been played between Sweden and Russia in 1993 (Swedish victory, 4-1) and 1997 (Swedish victory, 6-4). The seating capacity is 3,000 spectators.

On 19 January 2013, a practice game was played yhere where Månsarps IF defeated the Canadian national team 6-1., On 21 January the same year another similair game was played where Jönköping Bandy IF won, 5-4, over the Team USA.

[[GoIF Fram]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 establishments in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden, Sport in Jönköping

GoIF Fram is a sports club in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It was established in 1921. It played in the Swedish men's handball top division during the 1939-1940 season. The club later became more focused on bowling. The bowling section was established on 1 april 1960.

[[Ornäs BK]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Ornäs BK is a soccer club in Ornäs in Sweden. In was established in 1982. The women's team played in the Swedish top division in 1999. The women's soccer section was inactive for a while during the first decade of the 2000's. The women's soccer was then restarted.

[[IBF NB 87]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 establishments in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Karlstad

IBF NB 87  was a floorball club in the town of Karlstad in Sweden. It was established as a merger out of the Norrstands IF and Bengens IBF floorball sections in 1987. In 2001 it merged with Sjöstads IF, establishing Karlstads IBF.

The men's team played the 1996 Swedish national championship finals. They lost to Balrog IK.

[[Sjöstads IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Karlstad

Sjöstads IF is a floorball club in the town of Karlstad in Sweden. It was established in 1977 as a soccer club. In 1984 the floorball section was started. The soccer section was later disestablished. During the 1990's, both the men's and the women's teams played in the Swedish top division. The women's team even won the 1993-1994 Swedish national championship.

From the 2001-2002 season, the club became inactive. Instead, the club played floorball together with IBF NB 87 under the name Karlstads IBF. From the 2005-2006, Sjöstads IF as a club returned.

[[Guldstaden IB]]

CATEGORIES: Floorball clubs in Sweden, Skellefteå

Guldstaden IB  was a floorball club in the town of Skellefteå in Sweden. The men's team played 9 seasons in the Swedish top division, starting in 1989/1990. During the 1991/1992 season the team reached the Swedish national championship quarterfinals. However, they lost to IBK Lockerud, and the upcoming season the same thing happened again. This time, however, they lost against Balrog IK.

[[Olofströms IBK]]

CATEGORIES: Floorball clubs in Sweden, 1986 establishments in Sweden

Olofströms IBK is a floorball club in Olofström in Sweden. it was established in 1986. The men's team played in the Swedish top division during the 1989-1990 season.

[[Santaworld]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments in Sweden, Christmas, Theme parks in Sweden

Santaworld (Tomteland) is a Santa Claus-based theme park. It is based upon the myth that Sweden is the place for Santa's workshop. It is located on the Gesunda Mountain south of Mora in Sweden. It was opened on 8 December 1984.

[[André Brink]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2015 deaths, Afrikaner people, South African writers

André Philippus Brink, OIS (29 May 1935 – 6 February 2015) was a South African novelist. He wrote in both Afrikaans and English and was a Professor of English at the University of Cape Town.

Brink died on 6 February 2015 at the age of 79 on a flight from Belgium, where he had received an honorary doctorate from the Belgian Francophone Université Catholique de Louvain, to South Africa.

[[Assia Djebar]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, Algerian people, Writers

Assia Djebar (آسيا جبار) is the pen name of Fatima-Zohra Imalayen (30 June 1936 – 6 February 2015) was an Algerian novelist, translator and filmmaker. 

She was known for writing books about feminism. She was elected to the Académie française on 16 June 2005, the first writer from the Maghreb to achieve such recognition. For the entire body of her work she was awarded the 1996 Neustadt International Prize for Literature.

Djebar died in Paris, aged 78.

[[Uppsala City IBK]]

CATEGORIES: Floorball clubs in Sweden, Uppsala

Uppsala City IBK  was a floorball club in the town of Uppsala in Sweden. The men's team played in the Swedish top division during the 1990s. During the same decade, the women's team took over Storvreta IBK's place in the Swedish league system. The women's team's played successful during Swedish championship playoffs during the 1996-1997 season. During that season, the women's team won the first semifinal game against Högdalens IBF. However, they totally lost the semifinal series.

[[Liberty Heights]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Maryland, Movies set in the 1950s, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Barry Levinson

Liberty Heights is a 1999 American comedy-drama movie. It was directed by Barry Levinson and was produced by both Barry Levinson and Paula Weinstein. Liberty Heights was released on November 17, 1999. The movie was written by Levinson and it is semi-autobiographical account of his time growing up in Baltimore during the 1950s.

The movie gained positive reviews from critics and holds a 87% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

[[IBK Sundsvall]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments in Sweden, 2006 disestablishments in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Sundsvall

IBK Sundsvall was a floorball club in Sundsvall in Sweden. It was established in 1986. The men's team played in the Swedish top division during the 1990's. In 2006 the club merged with IBK Nordic becoming Sundsvall City.

In 1991 the club also played soccer in the men's Division 6.

[[Since You Went Away]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s drama movies, 1944 movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by John Cromwell

Since You Went Away is a 1944 drama movie. This movie is about life during World War II. Shirley Temple plays Bridget. Claudette Colbert plays Mrs. Anne. Jennifer Jones plays Jane.

This movie was released on July 20, 1944.

[[Tenhults IBK]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 establishments in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden

Tenhults IBK was a floorball club in Tenhult in Sweden. It was established in 1988.

The men's team played in the Swedish top division during the 1989-1990 season.

Later, Tenhults IF began to play floorball instead.

[[Caracara (subfamily)]]

CATEGORIES: Falconiformes

Caracara are birds of prey in the family Falconidae. They live in South and Central America, and the southern USA. Mostly they are not fast fliers, and are scavengers. One species, the red-throated caracara, eats insects and the larvae of bees and wasps.

Their classification is somewhat unclear, but some sources say there are five living genera and 11 species. They were all originally put within the genus Polyborus. Extinct species have been found in the La Brea tar pits.

[[Carlskrona IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 establishments in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden

Carlskrona IF is a floorball club in the town of Karlskrona in Sweden. It was established in 1988. The men's team played in the Swedish top division during the 1990's. The men's team won a bronze medal at the Swedish national championship playoffs during the 1992-1993 and 1993-1994 seasons.

[[Instinct (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 drama movies, 1999 thriller movies, 1990s drama thriller movies, American drama thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies composed by Danny Elfman

Instinct is a 1999 American psychological thriller movie. It was directed by Jon Turteltaub and was produced by Michael Taylor and Barbara Boyle. Instinct was released on June 4, 1999. It was the first movie to be produced by Spyglass Entertainment after Caravan Pictures shut down.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 27% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It was also a box office bomb and was only able to gain $34,105,207 of its $80 million budget. The movie won the Genesis Award for Best Feature at the 2000 Genesis Awards.

[[Dry mouth]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems

Xerostomia, or dry mouth, also dry mouth syndrome, is dryness in the mouth. It may be associated with a change in the composition of saliva, reduced salivary flow (also hyposalivation), or dehydration. Causes of hyposalivation include dental caries, oral candidiasis, damage to salivary glands, or certain other causes. Certan Drugs or medications may also cause dry mouth as a side effect.

Minor cases of dry mouth can be treated at home by hydration, re-balancing the minerals in the body, and avoiding acidic foods. More severe cases may need to be looked at by a doctor.

[[Rättvik Arena]]

CATEGORIES: Bandy in Sweden, 2010 establishments in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Sweden

Rättvik Arena is an indoor bandy venue and event arena for music and culture in Rättvik in Sweden. It was opened on 13 June 2010 with performances by music artsts like Kalle Moraeus and Ola Svensson. The arena was completed already by November 2009.

The arena originally planned to be taken into use for the 2009/2010 season.

[[Slättbergshallen]]

CATEGORIES: Bandy in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Sweden, 2009 establishments in Sweden

Slättbergshallen is a sports venue in the town of Trollhättan in Sweden. It was opened on 14 November 2009. It consists of an ice skating and an indoor bandy venue and an indoor ice hockey rink.

[[Jeff Smith]]

CATEGORIES: American chefs, 1939 births, 2004 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Washington (state), American television personalities, People from Tacoma, Washington, Writers from Washington

Jeffrey L. "Jeff" Smith (January 22, 1939 – July 7, 2004) was an American chef. He wrote several best-selling cookbooks. Smith was the host of The Frugal Gourmet, a long running American cooking show. He was called "the most visible gourmet" of the 1980s by Time Magazine.

[[Public interest]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Politics

Public interest is a term meaning something that benefits all the people. This is compared to a personal interest that only benefits one person. Something that is in the public interest is something that concerns the general public. It is something governments recognize, protect and serve. Thomas Aquinas stated the purpose of government and the law was to serve the  “common good” (bonum commune), meaning the public interest. The term can also be vague in its use. For example, 'public interest' can be used by governments for the purpose of state secrecy. It can also be misused to mean something that actually serves private interests.

[[Lake Placid (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 comedy movies, 1999 horror movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American comedy movies, American horror movies, American monster movies, Comedy horror movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Maine

Lake Placid is a 1999 American monster horror comedy movie. It was directed by Steve Miner and was produced by David E. Kelley, Michael Pressman, and Peter Bogart. Lake Placid was released on July 16, 1999. The movie is about a giant, 30-foot-long man-eating crocodile which terrorizes the fictional Black Lake, Maine, United States. Most of the movie was shot in British Columbia, Canada. The movie was financially successful at the box office and it spawned three made-for-television sequels.

The movie gained mixed reviews from critics and holds a 40% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Movie critic Roger Ebert described the movie as "completely wrong-headed from beginning to end".

[[Teaching Mrs. Tingle]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 comedy movies, 1990s black comedy movies, 1990s teen comedy movies, American black comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, English-language movies, Impact of the Columbine High School massacre, Movies set in California

Teaching Mrs. Tingle is a 1999 American black comedy-drama movie. It was directed by Kevin Williamson and was produced by Cathy Konrad. Teaching Mrs. Tingle was released on August 20, 1999. The movie was originally going to be called Killing Mrs. Tingle but it was delayed and retitled because of the Columbine High School massacre.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 19% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

[[Acacia cyclops]]

CATEGORIES: Fabaceae

The red-eyed wattle or western coastal wattle (Acacia cyclops) is an Australian tree. It is in the plant family Fabaceae. It is one of nearly 1000 species of Acacia in Australia. It is found along the west coast of Western Australia as far north as Jurien Bay, and along the south coast into South Australia. 

Almost all wattles have cream to golden colored flowers. The small flowers are arranged in round groups. Only the male part of the flower sticks out.

Red-eyed wattle can be used to help stabilise coastal sands. It was introduced into Africa for this purpose, but it has spread fast and is now a serious pest in South Africa, where it is known as 'rooikrans' (= 'red garland' in Afrikaans).

The green seed pods may be used as a natural soap, by crushing them and using the pods with water to wash with.

[[Relitahallen]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 establishments in Sweden, Bandy in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Sweden, Uppsala

Recoverhallen (former Relitahallen) is an indoor bandy venue the town of Uppsala in Sweden. It was opened on 11 September 2011 with the game IK Sirius-HK Jenisej Krasnojarsk 5-4.

On 6 and 7 September 2013, double international games between Sweden and Finland were played inside. Both A- and U23 international games were played.

In March and April 2021, the Swedish Bandy Championship final games for both women and men was played inside the arena.

[[Kälarne IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Ski clubs in Sweden

Kälarne IK is a sports club in Kälarne in Sweden. It was established on 14 February 1920.

The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1978.

Other famous people are track and field athletes Henry Kälarne and Gunder Hägg as well as cross-country skier Alfred Dahlqvist. At different occasions they all have competed for the club.

[[Howard Kurtz]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American journalists

Howard "Howie" Alan Kurtz (born August 1, 1953) is a media reporter. He was formerly the host of Cable News Network's media analysis show Reliable Sources. He currently hosts Media Buzz on Fox News Channel. He also is a former media reporter for the Washington Post.

[[Brian Stelter]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, American journalists, American bloggers

Brian Stelter  (born 3 September 1985) is the host of the Cable News Network's Reliable Sources. He was a former media reporter for New York Times.

[[The Bone Collector]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 crime movies, 1999 drama movies, 1999 mystery movies, American serial killer movies, American crime drama movies, American mystery movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City, Universal Pictures movies, Movies directed by Phillip Noyce

The Bone Collector is a 1999 American crime drama mystery movie. It was directed by Phillip Noyce and was produced by Martin Bregman, Michael Bregman, and Louis A. Stroller. and was released on November 5, 1999. The movie is based on the novel of the same name by Jeffery Deaver.

The movie gained mixed reviews from critics and holds a 28% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

[[Brit Hume]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, American journalists, Fox News people, American political commentators, American television news anchors

Alexander Britton "Brit" Hume (born June 22, 1943) is a political commentator and television journalist. Hume had a 23-year career with ABC News. There he contributed to World News Tonight, Nightline and This Week. He served as ABC's chief White House correspondent from 1989 through 1996. He then spent 12 years as the Washington, D.C., managing editor of the Fox News Channel. He was also the anchor of Special Report with Brit Hume. Since 2008, he has been the senior political analyst for Fox News and a regular public-affairs panelist for the television program Fox News Sunday.

[[CBS Evening News]]

CATEGORIES: Columbia Broadcasting System, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

The CBS Evening News is a daily evening newscast on CBS. It is the "flagship" program of the CBS News division. The program began in 1948 as "Douglas Edwards with the News." They were sponsored by General Motors. In 1963 the name was changed to the "CBS Evening News". It is currently anchored by Scott Pelley. He became the anchor and managing editor of CBS Evening News in 2011. 

[[Eda IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 establishments in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Ski clubs in Sweden

Eda IF  is a sports club in Eda in Sweden. It was established in November 1941 as a ski jumping and soccer club.

The women's soccer team was started in 1974. The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1982.

In 2007 the club began to play floorball.

[[Hols IF]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden, 1944 establishments in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden

Hols IF  is a sports club in Hol, Sweden. It was established on 30 April 1944.

The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1978.

[[Bjuråkers GIF]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, 1952 establishments in Europe, Ski clubs in Sweden, 1950s establishments in Sweden

Bjuråkers GIF  is a sports club in Bjuråker, Sweden. It was established on 26 November 1952.

The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1978.

[[Öjeby IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 establishments in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden

Öjeby IF is a sports club in Öjebyn in the town of Piteå in Sweden. It was established on 2 November 1922. The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1978.

[[Anderstorps IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Anderstorps IF is a sports club in Anderstorp, Sweden. it was established in 1927.

The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1979.

Billy Lansdowne and Billy Lansdowne Junior have both played games for the club.

[[Närkes Kils SK]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, Ski clubs in Sweden

Närkes Kils SK is a sports club in Närkes Kil in Sweden.

The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1978.

[[Väderstads IK]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, 1938 establishments in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden

Väderstads IK is a sports club in Väderstad in Sweden. It was established in 1938.

The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1980 and 1981.

[[Vittangi SK]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, Athletics clubs, Gymnastics, 1959 establishments in Europe, Ski clubs in Sweden, 1950s establishments in Sweden

 Vittangi SK is a sports club in Vittangi in Sweden. It was established in 1959.

The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1982.

[[Rävåsens IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

 Rävåsens IK is a sports club in Rävåsen in Karlskoga, Sweden. It was established in 1941.

The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1978 and 1979.

[[Bollsta IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Ski clubs in Sweden

Bollsta IK is a sports club in Bollstabruk in Sweden. It was established in 1912.

The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1978 and 1979.

[[Norbergs BK]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Norbergs BK is a soccer club in Norberg in Sweden. It was established in 1914 as Norbergs AIF. In 1985 the name was changed.

The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1981 and 1982. and the men's soccer team played in the Swedish third division in 1976.

[[Långsele AIF]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Athletics clubs, Gymnastics, Basketball clubs in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden, 1920 establishments in Sweden

Långsele AIF is a sports club in Långsele, Sweden. It was established on 11 June 1920 as IF Renen. It changed name on 25 October the same year. 10 years after establishment, it had became a bandy and soccer club only.

The women's soccer team began to play league games in 1975. The women's soccer also played three seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978-1982.

[[Wäija-Dynäs IK]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs

Wäija-Dynäs IK is a sports club in Väja, Sweden.

The women's soccer team played three seasons in the Swedish top division between 1979-1981.

[[Sätra SK]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Table tennis clubs in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Figure skating, 1967 establishments in Europe, Sport in Stockholm, 1960s establishments in Sweden

Sätra SK is a sports club in Sätra in Sweden. It was established in October 1967 as Sätrahöjdens SK before changing name some months later. 10 years after establishment, it had became a bandy and soccer-club only. Since the early 1980s club's main focus is women's and girls' soccer.

The women's soccer team was started in 1969. The women's soccer played three seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978-1980.

[[Korskrogens IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 establishments in Europe, Swedish football clubs, 1930s establishments in Sweden

Korskrogens IK is a sports club in Korskrogen in Sweden. It was established in 1931.

The women's soccer team played three seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978-1980.

[[Häggenås]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Häggenås is a locality in Östersund Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 320 people lived there.

[[CBSN]]

CBSN is an internet television news channel. It is operated by CBS News and CBS Interactive divisions of CBS Corporation. It was started on November 6, 2014. Their first sponsors were Microsoft and Amazon.com.

[[Häggenås SK]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball clubs in Sweden, Table tennis clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Ski clubs in Sweden, Athletics clubs, 1932 establishments in Sweden

Häggenås SK is a sports club in Häggenås in Sweden. It was established on 2 January 1932.

In 1951, the table tennis section was started.

The women's soccer team was stared in 1972. The women's soccer played three seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978-1980.

[[Korsträsks IK]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs

Korsträsk IK is a sports club in Korsträsk in Sweden.

The women's soccer team played three seasons in the Swedish top division between 1979-1981.

[[Korsträsk]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Korsträsk is a locality in Älvsbyn Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 323 people lived there.

[[SoGK Charlo]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, 1938 establishments in Sweden

SoGK Charlo is a sports club in Svarte in Sweden. It was established in 1938.

The women's soccer team played four seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978-1982.

[[Svarte]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Svarte is a locality in Ystad Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 902 people lived there.

[[Hornskrokens IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 establishments, Handball clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden, 1930s establishments in Sweden

Hornskrokens IF is a sports club in Boden, Sweden. It was established on 23 May 1933 It runs handball. It earlier even ran bandy, soccer, orienteering and skiing. In 1983, the club played in the qualifying rounds for the Handball Allsvenskan.

The women’s soccer team played five seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978-1986.

[[Sidensjö IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Athletics clubs, Gymnastics, Ski clubs in Sweden

Sidensjö IK is a sports club in Sidensjö in Sweden. The club was established in 1921. It runs soccer, track and field athletics, gymnastics, orienteering and skiing.

The women’s soccer team played five seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978-1986.

[[Hammenhögs IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Hammenhögs IF is a sports club in Hammenhög in Sweden. It was established in 1927.

The women’s soccer team played four seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978-1981.

[[Lönsboda GoIF]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Lönsboda GoIF is a sports club in Lönsboda in Sweden. It was established on 24 September 1930 as a merger out of Lönsboda IF, Lönsboda GF, Lönsboda CK and Lönsboda Pingpongklubb.

The women's soccer team played five seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978-1982.

[[Lönsboda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Lönsboda is a locality in Osby Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,903 people lived there. It located in northeastern Scania, circa 20 kilometers east of Osby and near Blekinge and Småland.

[[Främmestad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Främmestad is a locality in Essunga Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 393 people lived there.

[[Främmestads IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Främmestads IK is a sports club in Främmestad in Sweden. It was established in 1941. The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division between 1980-1987.

[[Rönninge SK]]

CATEGORIES: Table tennis clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Rönninge SK is a sports club in Rönninge in Sweden. The women's soccer team played six seasons in the Swedish top division between 1982-1987.

The club has also scored table tennis successes. The club won the Swedish women's national team championship in 2002.

[[Vilhelmina BK]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs

Vilhelmina BK  was a sports club in Vilhelmina in Sweden. The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1981.

[[Half Past Dead]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 action movies, American action movies, American prison movies, English-language movies, Gangster movies, Movies set in Germany, Movies set in San Francisco

Half Past Dead is a 2002 American action movie. It was directed by Don Michael Paul and was produced by Elie Samaha, Steven Seagal, and Andrew Stevens. Half Past Dead was released on November 15, 2002. It was the last theatrical release to feature Steven Seagal in many countries until Machete was released in 2010.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 3% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It was also ranked #19 on Rotten Tomatoes' 100 worst films of the 2000s. Movie critic Roger Ebert stated: "Half Past Dead is like an alarm that goes off with nobody in the room. It does its job, stops, and nobody cares." Seagal was nominated a Razzie Award in the category of Worst Actor at the 2003 Golden Raspberry Awards but lost to Roberto Benigni in Pinocchio.

[[Södertälje FC-72]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Södertälje FC-72 was a sports club in the town of Södertälje in Sweden. It was established in 1972.

The women's soccer team played three seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978-1980.

[[Timeline (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 action movies, 2000s adventure movies, 2000s science fiction movies, American adventure movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Paramount movies, Time travel movies

Timeline is a 2003 American science fiction adventure movie. It was directed by Richard Donner and was produced by Lauren Shuler Donner, Jim Van Wyck, and Richard Donner. Timeline was released on November 26, 2003. The movie is based on the novel of the same name by Michael Crichton.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 12% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It was also a box office bomb, only earning back $43,935,763 of its $80 million budget.

[[House of Este]]

CATEGORIES: Papal families, Royal dynasties, House of Este

The 'House of Este is a European princely dynasty. It is split into two branches. The elder branch known as the "House of Welf-Este" or "House of Welf" (Guelf or Guelph). The younger branch is known as the "House of Fulc-Este" or later simply as the "House of Este".

The elder branch of the House of Este included the dukes of Brunswick and Lüneburg (1208–1918). It also produced Britain's Hanoverian monarchs and one Emperor of Russia (Ivan VI). The younger branch of the House of Este included the Sovereign Dukes of Ferrara (1240–1597), and Modena and Reggio (1288–1796). Following the marriage of Maria Beatrice d'Este to Archduke Ferdinand of Austria (1771) the House of Austria-Este was formed. 

The House of Este has a long history. The earliest known ancestor is Albert of Este, who died in 938. He was the Count of Este and Marquis of Tuscany. His great-grandson Albert Azzo II, Margrave of Milan is considered the founder of the House of Este. 

[[Flatiron Building]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 establishments in the United States, Buildings and structures completed in the 20th century, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks, Skyscrapers in New York City, 1900s establishments in New York (state)

The Flatiron Building, originally called the Fuller Building, is at 175 Fifth Avenue in the borough of Manhattan, New York City.

It was one of the first skyscrapers. When it was finished in 1902, it was one of the tallest buildings in the city. The building sits on a triangular island-block. Most Manhattan streets are on a strict grid plan but Broadway is an exception. It crosses the streets and avenue at an angle. This makes it cut across Fifth Avenue, a large and important road running N/S. At the junction sits the Flatiron on a triangle of land. There are also two E/W roads, a main road, 23rd St. and a minor road, East 22nd St.

The name "Flatiron" is because it looks like a old-fashioned cast iron clothes iron. The building has been called "one of the world's most iconic skyscrapers, and a quintessential symbol of New York City". It gives its name to the neighborhood around it, known as the Flatiron District. It has become an icon of New York City.  The building was designated a New York City landmark in 1966. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979, and designated a National Historic Landmark in 1989.

[[Thomas the Tank Engine]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters, Thomas and Friends

Thomas the Tank Engine is a small fictional steam locomotive in The Railway Series books by the Reverend Wilbert Awdry and his son, Christopher. He became the most popular character in the series. He is the title character in the television spin-off series, Thomas and Friends.

[[Troye Sivan]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, Australian child actors, Australian Jews, Australian LGBT people, Australian singer-songwriters, Gay Jews, Jewish actors, Jewish musicians, LGBT actors, LGBT singers, LGBT songwriters, Naturalised citizens of Australia, People from Johannesburg, South African Jews, White South African people

Troye Sivan Mellet (t TROY; born 5 June 1995), better known as Troye Sivan, is a South African-born Australian actor, YouTuber and singer-songwriter. As an actor, he played young James Howlett in the 2009 X-Men film X-Men Origins: Wolverine. Most recently he starred as the title character in the Spud movie trilogy. Sivan also regularly makes YouTube videos. As of 14 December 2016, has over 4 million subscribers and over 248,00,0005 views. He is of Jewish descent.

On 7 August 2013, Sivan posted a video titled 'Coming Out'. This video announced that he was gay and this video changed lives of young LGBTQ+ people all over the world.

On 15 August 2014, Sivan released his first major label EP, TRXYE. It peaked at number five on the Billboard 200. The lead single from the EP, "Happy Little Pill", reached number 10 in the Australian charts.

His video, "The 'Boyfriend' Tag", with fellow vlogger Tyler Oakley earned the two a 2014 Teen Choice Award in the "Choice Web Collaboration" category. In October 2014, Time named Sivan as one of the "25 Most Influential Teens of 2014".

Sivan publicly came out as gay in 2013.

He released an EP titled Wild on 4 September 2015.

On 4 December 2015, he released his debut album titled Blue Neighbourhood.

On the 10th of January 2018 he released the Single 'My My My!' it was the lead single from his second studio album 'Bloom', released on the 31st of August 2018

[[Eduardo Laborde]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2015 deaths, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires, Road accident deaths, Rugby union players

Eduardo Horacio Laborde (19 October 1967 – 4 February 2015) was an Argentine rugby union player. He played three games for the national team Los Pumas in the 1991 Rugby World Cup.

Laborde died in February 2015 after the bicycle he was riding was hit with another vehicle in the coastal town of Pinamar.

[[Norm Drucker]]

CATEGORIES: 1290 births, 2015 deaths, Sportspeople from New York City

Norm Drucker (July 4, 1920 – February 6, 2015) was an American basketball referee. His NBA and ABA career as both a referee and Supervisor of Officials lasted for 35 years. He was born in New York City, New York.

Drucker died in East Norriton, Pennsylvania, aged 94.

[[Dean Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Sportspeople from Kansas, Sportspeople from North Carolina, People from Chapel Hill, North Carolina

Dean Edwards Smith (February 28, 1931 – February 7, 2015) was an American head coach of men's college basketball. He was born in Emporia, Kansas. Smith was called a "coaching legend" by the Basketball Hall of Fame.

Smith was best known for his 36-year coaching term at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.  Smith coached from 1961 to 1997 and retired with 879 victories, which was the NCAA Division I men's basketball record at that time.Note 1 

Smith had the 9th highest winning percentage of any men's college basketball coach (77.6%). During his tenure as head coach, North Carolina won two national championships and appeared in 11 Final Fours.

Hill died in Chapel Hill, North Carolina at the age of 83.

[[Clifton R. Wharton, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, United States Deputy Secretaries of State, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, Politicians from Chicago

Clifton Reginald Wharton, Jr. (born September 13, 1926) is an American university president, corporate executive and former United States Deputy Secretary of State

[[Charles W. Robinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2015 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, Businesspeople from Los Angeles County, California, People from Long Beach, California, Politicians from Los Angeles County, California, United States Deputy Secretaries of State, US Republican Party politicians

Charles Wesley Robinson (September 7, 1919 - May 20, 2014) was an American entrepreneur. He served as United States Deputy Secretary of State from 1975 through 1976 under the Gerald Ford administration.

[[United States Deputy Secretary of State]]

CATEGORIES: United States Deputy Secretaries of State

The Deputy Secretary of State of the United States is the chief assistant to the Secretary of State. If the Secretary of State resigns or dies, the Deputy Secretary of State becomes Acting Secretary of State until the President nominates and the Senate confirms a replacement. The position was created in 1972.

[[John C. Whitehead]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Businesspeople from Illinois, Businesspeople from New York City, Cancer deaths in New York City, Harvard University alumni, People from Evanston, Illinois, Politicians from Illinois, Politicians from New York City, United States Deputy Secretaries of State, US Republican Party politicians

John Cunningham Whitehead (April 2, 1922 – February 7, 2015) was an American banker and civil servant. He was a board member of the World Trade Center Memorial Foundation (WTC Memorial Foundation). He was chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. Whitehead served as United States Deputy Secretary of State under the Ronald Reagan administration from 1985 through 1989.

[[Joe B. Mauldin]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in the United States, American songwriters, Engineers from Texas, Writers from Texas, Musicians from Texas, People from Lubbock, Texas

Joe Benson Mauldin, Jr. (July 8, 1940 – February 7, 2015) was an American double-bassist, songwriter and audio engineer. He was best known as the double-bassist of rock and roll group The Crickets. Mauldin was born in Lubbock, Texas.

Mauldin died from cancer in Nashville, Tennessee, aged 74.

[[Billy Casper]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, American golfers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Utah, Sportspeople from San Diego, California

William Earl Casper, Jr. (June 24, 1931 – February 7, 2015) was an American professional golfer. He was one of the most prolific tournament winners on the PGA Tour from the mid-1950s to the mid-1970s.

Casper died at his home in Springville, Utah on February 7, 2015 after having pneumonia and a heart attack, aged 83.

[[Müzeyyen Senar]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Turkey, Turkish singers

Müzeyyen Senar (July 16, 1918 – February 8, 2015) was a Turkish classical music performer. She was known as the "Diva of the Turkish Republic".

Senar died in İzmir, Turkey from pneumonia, aged 96.

[[René Lavand]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Argentine entertainers, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Argentina, Magicians

Héctor René Lavandera, usually known as René Lavand (24 September 1928 – 7 February 2015), was a magician from Argentina. He appeared in Ed Sullivan's and Johnny Carson's television shows as well as shows at Hollywood's Magic Castle.

Lavand died of pneumonia at the Chacabuco Clinic in Tandil, Argentina aged 86.

[[Springville, Utah]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Utah

Springville is a city in Utah County, Utah, United States that is part of the Provo-Orem Metropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 29,466 at the 2010 census.

[[Emporia, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lyon County, Kansas, County seats in Kansas, 1857 establishments in Kansas Territory

Emporia is a city in Lyon County, Kansas, United States. It is also the county seat of Lyon County. In 2010, 24,916 people lived there. Emporia is between Topeka and Wichita at the intersection of U.S. Route 50, Interstates 335 and 35 on the Kansas Turnpike. Emporia is also a college town because it has Emporia State University and Flint Hills Technical College.

[[Arlington, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon

Arlington is a city in Gilliam County, Oregon,  United States. The population was 586 at the 2010 census.

[[Cheek to Cheek]]

CATEGORIES: Jazz albums, Pop albums, 2014 albums, Lady Gaga albums

Cheek to Cheek is a collaborative album between American pop singer-songwriter Lady Gaga and American jazz artist Tony Bennett.  The album won the 2015 Grammy Award for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album. It was Gaga's sixth Grammy win.  The album debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 chart. It was Gaga's third consecutive number-one album in the United States.

[[Basophil]]

CATEGORIES: Blood cells

Basophils, or basophil granulocytes, are rare granulocytes.  If you had 10,000 white blood cells, only 1–30 of them would be basophils.

Basophils contain large cytoplasmic granules. When stained, the granules hide the cell nucleus from sight. However, when unstained, the nucleus is visible and it usually has two lobes.

The mast cell, another granulocyte, is similar in appearance and function. Both cell types store histamine, a chemical that is secreted by the cells when stimulated. However, they come from different cell lines. Mast cells usually do not circulate in the blood stream, but instead stay in connective tissue. Like all circulating granulocytes, basophils go from the blood into a tissue when needed.

The name comes from the fact that these leukocytes are basophilic, i.e., they are stained by basic dyes, as shown in the illustrations.

How they work is not well understood. Basophils have protein receptors on their cell membrane which binds IgE, an immunoglobulin involved in macroparasite defence and allergy. They are found in unusually high numbers at sites of ectoparasite infection, for example, by ticks.

[[Staining]]

CATEGORIES: Cells, Laboratory techniques

Staining is used in microscopy to make cells and tissues easier to see and understand.

This is a way to improve contrast in the microscopic image. Stains and dyes are often used in biology and medicine to highlight structures in biological tissues, often with the aid of different microscopes.

Staining can be done on living tissues (in vivo) or on dead tissues (in vitro).

[[Lifestylez ov da Poor & Dangerous]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 albums, Debut albums, Hip hop albums

Lifestylez ov da Poor & Dangerous is the first studio album by American rapper, Big L. Lifestylez ov da Poor & Dangerous was released on March 28, 1995 through Columbia Records. The album featured the singles "Put It On", "M.V.P.", and "No Endz, No Skinz".

The album first appeared on the Billboard 200 at #149. It reached at #22 on the R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. Since August 2000, It has sold over 200,000 copies since August 2000

The album was well received. The Source gave the album 4 out of 5 mics and said "L comes with ill animated lyrics, combined with metaphors that stun; a combo sure to have suckas on the run".

[[Emmaboda IS]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Emmaboda IS is a sports club in Emmaboda in Sweden. It was established in 1927.

The men's soccer team has played three seasons in the Swedish second division.

[[Lunar calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Moon, Calendars

A lunar calendar is a calendar that is based on the phases of the Moon. Because there are slightly more than twelve lunar months (29.53 days each) in a solar year, the period of 12 lunar months (354.37 days) is sometimes referred to as a lunar year.

A common purely lunar calendar is the Islamic calendar. It is calculated from one crescent moon to the next crescent moon. A feature of the Islamic calendar is that a year is always 12 months. So the months are not linked with the seasons. They drift each solar year by 11 to 12 days. It comes back to the position it had in relation to the solar year approximately every 33 Islamic years. It is used mainly for religious purposes, but in Saudi Arabia it is the official calendar. Other lunar calendars often include extra months added occasionally to synchronize it with the solar calendar.

The oldest known lunar calendar was found in Scotland. It dates back to around 8,000 BC.

[[Jorge Sassi]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Argentine movie actors, People from Buenos Aires

Jorge Alberto Sassi (17 November 1950 – 9 February 2015) was an Argentine actor. He was known for his roles in  Valientes, Heartbreakers, and A dos aguas. Sassi was born in Rafaela, Santa Fe, Argentina.

Sassi died of renal failure at his home in Buenos Aires, Argentina, aged 64.

[[Rauni-Leena Luukanen-Kilde]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, Finnish scientists, Finnish writers, Physicians

Rauni-Leena Luukanen-Kilde (15 November 1939 – 8 February 2015) was a Finnish physician. She wrote and taught about parapsychology, ufology and mind control.

Luukanen-Kilde died in Vaasa in February 2015 after a long illness, aged 75.

[[Kathrine Windfeld]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2015 deaths, Danish movie directors, Television directors, People from Copenhagen

Kathrine Windfeld (21 August 1966 – 6 February 2015) was a Danish movie and television director. She was known for the 2012 Swedish spy movie Hamilton: In the Interest of the Nation.

Windfeld died in February 2015 after a short illness. She was 48.

[[Øyvind Bjorvatn]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Norwegian politicians

Øyvind Bjorvatn (26 April 1931 – 9 February 2015) was a Norwegian politician. He was a member of the Liberal Party and later the Liberal People's Party. He was born in Herefoss.

[[St. John's Park]]

CATEGORIES: Manhattan

St. John's Park used to be a park in Lower Manhattan, New York City. It was square-shaped. To the west, north, east, and south were Varick, Laight, Hudson, and Beach Streets. The park is now a traffic circle at the Manhattan end of the Holland Tunnel to New Jersey.

It used to be a farm belonging to a New Netherland farmer. Then, the country of England  gave the park to Trinity Church. The church built St. John's Chapel, as well as some townhouses, around the park. By 1827, people living in the area were very rich. In the 1850s, many rich people moved out. In 1866, Cornelius Vanderbilt bought the park for a railroad terminal. The terminal was destroyed in 1927. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey's Holland Tunnel was built in 1927.

[[IFK Öxnehaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 establishments in Sweden, Huskvarna, Swedish football clubs

IFK Öxnehaga is a sports club in Öxnehaga in Huskvarna in Sweden. It was established on 10 April 1955 as IFK Huskvarna.

The women's soccer team in the Swedish second division during the late 1990s and the early 2000s.

When IFK Jönköping was disbanded following the 1998 season the activity of that club was transfered to IFK Öxnehaga.

The club won both the Småland women's and girls' district championship in 1999.

[[IFK Jönköping]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Jönköping, 1989 establishments in Sweden, 1998 establishments in Europe, Swedish football clubs

IFK Jönköping was a sports club in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. Its women's soccer team played in the Swedish second division during the 1990's. The club was established in 1989 out of IK Tord's women's soccer section.

The club won the women's Småland district championship in the years of 1994, 1995 and 1997.

The women's soccer team was dissolved before the 1997. The activity was then transferred over to IFK Öxnehaga.

[[Viktor Andersson]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Swedish sportspeople

Viktor Andersson, born 28 September 1982, is a Swedish floorball player. He is a defender, he has represented several club teams. He has played in the SSL. His first club is Hagaboda SK.

[[Lotorps IF]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden, 1923 establishments in Sweden

Lotorps IF is a sports club in Lotorp in Sweden. It was established on 15 March 1923. The women's bandy team has played three seasons in the Swedish top division. The women's soccer team played three seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978 and 1997.

[[Hackås IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden

Hackås IF is a sports club in Hackås in Sweden. It was established in 1935. The women's bandy team has played two seasons in the Swedish top division. The women's soccer team played four seasons in the Swedish top division between 1978 and 1981.

[[Archaeoceti]]

CATEGORIES: Cetaceans, Fossils

The Archaeoceti ('ancient whales'), or Zeuglodontes in older literature, is a  group of primitive cetaceans. They lived from the early Eocene to the late Oligocene, 5523 million years ago (mya). They were the first cetacean radiation, and they include the first amphibious stages in cetacean evolution. So they are the ancestors of both modern cetacean suborders, Mysticeti and Odontoceti.

The group evolved in the shallow waters that separated India and Asia 55–45 mya. About 30 species have been found which were adapted to a fully oceanic life. Modern characters such as echolocation and filter-feeding evolved later, in a second radiation 36.

All archaeocetes from 55–48 mya are only from Indo-Pakistan. By 41–34 mya genera are known from across the Earth, including North America, Egypt, New Zealand, and Europe.  They were very unlikely to be as well-adapted to the open ocean as living cetaceans, so they probably got to North America along coastal waters. They could have gone around Africa and over to South America. More likely, over the Tethys Sea (between Eurasia and Africa) and along the coasts of Europe, Greenland, and North America.

The group is a paraphyletic because it gave rise to the two separate modern suborders.

[[Söderhöjdens BK]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Sport in Stockholm

Söderhöjdens BK was a sports club in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. It was established in 1971. The club played three seasons in the Swedish women's bandy top division.

[[Mosseruds GF]]

CATEGORIES: Bandy clubs in Sweden, 1938 establishments in Sweden

Mosseruds GF is a sports club in the town of Karlstad in Sweden. It was established on 8 September 1938. The men's bandy team qualified for the Swedish second division in 2010.

[[Random Hearts]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Sydney Pollack

Random Hearts is a 1999 American romantic drama movie. It was directed by Sydney Pollack and was produced by Martin Jurow and Marykay Powell. Random Hearts was released on October 8, 1999. The movie is based on the novel of the same name by Warren Adler.

The movie gained mixed reviews from critics and holds a 15% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Movie critic Roger Ebert said, "There are so many good things in Random Hearts, but they're side by side instead of one after the other. They exist in the same film, but they don't add up to the result of the film. Actually, the film has no result—just an ending, leaving us with all of those fine pieces, still waiting to come together. If this were a screenplay and not the final product, you could see how with one more rewrite, it might all fall into place."

[[Music of the Heart]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 drama movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Miramax movies, Movies based on real life events, Movies directed by Wes Craven, Movies set in New York City

Music of the Heart is a 1999 American drama movie. It was directed by Wes Craven and was produced by Susan Kaplan, Marianne Maddalena, Allan Miller, and Walter Scheuer. Music of the Heart was released on October 29, 1999. The movie is based on the true story of Roberta Guaspari, who was the co-founder the Opus 118 Harlem School of Music. It is director Wes Craven's movie outside of the horror/thriller genre to date. It was also his first movie to receive an Academy Award nomination.

The movie gained mixed reviews from critics and holds a 64% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Movie critic Roger Ebert gave the movie 3 out of 4 stars and said, "Meryl Streep is known for her mastery of accents; she may be the most versatile speaker in the movies. Here you might think she has no accent, unless you've heard her real speaking voice; then you realize that Guaspari's speaking style is no less a particular achievement than Streep's other accents. This is not Streep's voice, but someone else's - with a certain flat quality, as if later education and refinement came after a somewhat unsophisticated childhood."

The movie was nominated for two Academy Awards; Meryl Streep was nominated for Best Actress and scored songwriter Diane Warren was nominated for Best Original Song for the song "Music of My Heart". Streep was also nominated for a Golden Globe Award in the category of Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama.

[[Skellefteå Innebandy IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Skellefteå

Skellefteå Innebandy IF  is a floorball club in the town of Skellefteå in Sweden. The club was established in 1986. The women's team debuted in the SSL in the 2006-2007 season.

[[Manhattan Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in New York City, Steel bridges, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Suspension bridges, 1909 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in New York (state)

The Manhattan Bridge is a suspension bridge across the East River in New York City. It connects the New York City boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn. The bridge is 6855 long.

The bridge opened on December 31, 1909. It was designed by Leon Moisseiff. Its design was new for bridges at the time. Many longer suspension bridges are based on this bridge's design.

The bridge is officially landmarked. It was made a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark in 2009.

[[Queensboro Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in New York City, Steel bridges, Queens (New York City), Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks

The Queensboro Bridge is a cantilever bridge over the East River in New York City. The bridge is also named the 59th Street Bridge because, it's end in Manhattan is between 59th and 60th streets. It was finished in 1909. The Queensboro Bridge connects Midtown Manhattan with Long Island City in the borough of Queens. It goes over Roosevelt Island. The bridge is 7449 long. The bridge was renamed after New York City mayor Ed Koch in 2011. Its official name is now the Ed Koch Queensboro Bridge. 

To the north is a tramway that travels in the air. This tramway goes from Manhattan  to Roosevelt Island.  

From 1909 to 1917, the span of the bridge between Manhattan and Roosevelt Island was the longest cantilever span in North America.

The bridge used to carry elevated trains. It now carries cars. Since 2000, people can walk across the bridge.

The roadway that uses the bridge is numbered New York State Route 25.

[[Williamsburg Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in New York City, Steel bridges, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Suspension bridges, 1903 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in New York (state)

The Williamsburg Bridge is a suspension bridge in New York City. It goes between the boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn. The bridge opened on December 19, 1903. It is free to cross.

[[Long Island Rail Road]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in New York City, Transport in New York, Rail transport in the United States, 1834 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in New York (state)

The Long Island Rail Road, often called the LIRR, is a commuter rail system in New York. Its lines travel from Manhattan to Suffolk County on eastern Long Island. Over 334,000 people ride the LIRR every day. It is North America's busiest commuter railroad. It is also one of the few commuter systems in the world that runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.

The LIRR was created in 1834. It has never stopped operating since then. In the 1870s it was consolidated with the other railroads on Long Island. It is the oldest U.S. railroad that still has its original name. The LIRR has 124 stations and more than 700 of railroad tracks, The LIRR has a total of 319 of train routes.

It is owned by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. The LIRR is one of two commuter rail systems owned by the MTA. The MTA also runs the Metro-North Railroad to New York's Hudson Valley and to Connecticut.

It’s rolling stock consists of Budd M3 and Bombardier M7 EMUs from the 1980s and 2000s respectively, and Kawasaki M9 EMUs currently under construction. Diesel service is provided by Kawasaki C3 coaches pulled by EMD DE30AC and DM30AC locomotives, built in the late 1990s

[[Three to Tango]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Warner Bros. movies

Three to Tango is a 1999 American romantic comedy movie. It was directed by Damon Santostefano. Three to Tango was released on October 22, 1999.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 28% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

[[Roosevelt Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of New York, Manhattan

Roosevelt Island is a narrow island in the East River in New York City. To the west is Manhattan Island, and to the east is the New York City borough of Queens. Roosevelt Island is part of the borough of Manhattan.

[[Värnamo FK]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball clubs in Sweden

Värnamo FK is a sports club in the town of Värnamo in Sweden. The club won the Swedish women's national volleyball championship in the years of 1970, 1972, 1973 and 1974.

[[Bosöns IK]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball clubs in Sweden

Bosöns IK was a sports club in Bosön in Sweden. The club won the Swedish women's national volleyball championship in the years of 1962, 1963, 1964 samt 1966 and 1967.

[[Kallhälls BK]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball clubs in Sweden

Kallhälls BK was a sports club in Bosön in Sweden. The club won the Swedish men's national volleyball championship in the year of 1964.

[[Kungälvs VBK]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 establishments in Sweden, Volleyball clubs in Sweden

Kungälvs VBK is a volleyball club in Kungälv in Sweden. The club was established in 1973. The club won the Swedish men's national championship in the years of 1989, 1991, 1992 and 1993.

[[Progona VBK]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Gothenburg, Volleyball clubs in Sweden

Progona VBK is a volleyball club in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. The club won the Swedish men's national championship in the year of 1983.

[[Alingsås VBK]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 establishments in Sweden, Volleyball clubs in Sweden

Alingsås VBK is a volleyball club in the town of Alingsås in Sweden. It was established on 1 June 1961. The club joined the Swedish Volleyball Federation on 19 December the same year. The club won the Swedish women's national championship in the year of 1971.

[[Floby VK]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 establishments in Sweden, Volleyball clubs in Sweden

Floby VK is a volleyball club in Floby in Sweden. It was established on 12 February 1962. The club won the Swedish men's national championship in the years of 1982 and 1997.

[[Lindesbergs VBK]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 establishments in Sweden, Volleyball clubs in Sweden

Lindesbergs VBK is a volleyball club in Lindesberg, Sweden. It was established in 1971. The club won the Swedish women's national championship in 2012

[[Katrineholms VK]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball clubs in Sweden, 1977 establishments in Sweden

Katrineholms VK is a volleyball club in the town of Katrineholm in Sweden. It was established on 30 March 1977 as a breakout out of KFUM Katrineholm's volleyball section. The club won the Swedish women's national championship in the years of 2010, 2011 and 2013

[[Michael Smerconish]]

CATEGORIES: American television news anchors, American television talk show hosts, 1962 births, Living people, American journalists, American lawyers, CNN people

Michael A. Smerconish (born March 15, 1962) is a  talk show host. He has a radio program on Sirius XM Satellite Radio. He has a television program on Cable News Network (CNN). He is a lawyer in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania for the law firm Kline and Specter. Smerconish is a columnist for the Philadelphia Inquirer. He has often been a guest host for other talk show hosts. This includes Joe Scarborough of MSNBC and Bill O'Reilly of Fox News Network.   

Smerconish had worked for the campaigns of Republicans in the past. He had voted Republican. In 2008, he said he would vote for the Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama. He made this announcement on MSNBC's Hardball with Chris Matthews. On August 20, 2009, Smerconish became the first talk radio host to broadcast live from the Obama White House. That show which included an interview with the President. The interview was held in the Diplomatic Reception Room. That is where President Franklin D. Roosevelt's fireside chats were held. The President took questions from Smerconish and his listeners on a variety of subjects. One subject was the recent debates on the pending Healthcare Reform Bill. Smerconish has interviewed Obama six other times.

In 2010, Smerconish said in the Huffington Post that he had switched his party registration from Republican to independent. When it was said that David Duke had been tied to Republican House leader Steve Scalise in the past, Smerconish interviewed Duke to discuss this.

[[Swedish Volleyball Federation]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 establishments in Sweden, Sport in Sweden, Sports organizations, Volleyball

Swedish Volleyball Federation (Svenska Volleybollförbundet) is a special sports association for volleyball in Sweden. It was established on 3 June 1961 It was appointed into the Swedish Sports Confederation in 1961. It is based in Solna.

It represents Sweden with national teams like the Sweden men's national volleyball team and the Sweden women's national volleyball team.

[[Lidingö SK]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 establishments, Handball clubs in Sweden, Volleyball clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, 1930s establishments in Sweden

Lidingö SK is a sports club in Lidingö in Sweden. The men's volleyball team won the Swedish national championshis 18 times between 1966 and 1981. The team then won again in 1987 and 1990.

The men's junior volleyball team won the Swedish national championship for four times in a row between 1975 and 1978.

[[Metropolitan Transportation Authority]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in New York, Transport in Connecticut, 1965 establishments in New York (state), 20th-century establishments in Connecticut

The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) is a government-chartered corporation that operates public transportation in the U.S. state of New York. The MTA runs buses and trains in 12 counties in southeastern New York. It also runs in two counties in southwestern Connecticut. On weekdays, about 11 million passengers use MTA buses and trains. Over 800,000 vehicles use its seven tolled bridges and two tunnels daily.

[[Sävsjö BK]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden

Sävsjö BK was a bandy club in Sävsjö in Sweden. It was established in 1971. Jonas Claesson played for the team. He debuted for the team in Division 2 as a 13 years old. At age 14 he switched to Vetlanda BK.

The women's team has played two seasons in the Swedish top division., 1972/1973 and 1973/1974.

[[Deng Liqun]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2015 deaths, Chinese politicians, Communist politicians

Deng Liqun (November 27, 1915 – February 10, 2015) was a Chinese former official and high-ranking member of the Communist Party of China. Deng was born in Guidong County, Hunan province, and joined the Party in 1936. Later, he served as secretary to President Liu Shaoqi. 

[[Donald H. Clausen]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, United States representatives from California, US Republican Party politicians

Donald Holst "Don" Clausen (April 27, 1923 – February 7, 2015) is a former U.S. Representative from California. He served in the office for twenty years from 1963 through 1983. Clausen was a member of the Republican Party.

Clausen died on January 7, 2015 in Fortuna, California, aged 91.

[[Waterview Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in Chicago, 2014 establishments in the United States, 2010s establishments in Illinois

111 W. Wacker (formally Waterview Tower) is a skyscraper under construction in downtown Chicago, Illinois, United States.  The original plan called for it to be 1047 tall.

[[Regents Park (Chicago)]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in Chicago, 1970s establishments in Illinois

Regents Park is a 1,026 unit, upscale apartment complex in the Indian Village section of the Kenwood community area of Chicago in Cook County, Illinois, United States.

[[Gustaf Nordqvist]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1949 deaths, Swedish musicians

Gustaf Nordqvist, born 12 February 1886 in Stockholm, Sweden, dead 28 January 1949 in Stockholm, Sweden was a Swedish composer, church musician and professor. He wrote music for the Christmas song Jul, jul, strålande jul.

[[Edvard Evers]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 births, 1919 deaths, Swedish writers

Edvard Evers (born May 12, 1853 in Uddevalla, Sweden, died October 22, 1919  in Stockholm) was a Swedish hymn writer and priest. He is best known for writing the lyrics  for the Christmas song Jul, jul, strålande jul.

[[Gideonsbergs IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Gideonsbergs IF is a sports club in the town of Västerås in Sweden. The club was established in 1955. It started a women's soccer section in 1971. The women's soccer team won the Swedish national championship in 1992.  and the Swedish Cup in 1993.

The women's bandy team has played two seasons in the Swedish top division,

[[Öxabäcks IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 establishments in Europe, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, 1930s establishments in Sweden

Öxabäcks IF is a sports club in Öxabäck in Sweden. It was established in 1931. The women's soccer section was established in 1966 as one of the earliest women's soccer teams in Sweden. The club adopted the name "Öxabäck/Marks IF" in 1991 to show up more of its connections with Mark Municipality. Some years later it adopted the previous name.

The women's soccer team won the Swedish national championship in the years of 1972 (unofficial), 1973, 1975, 1978, 1983, 1987 and 1988. and the Swedish Cup in the years of 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 and 1991. The club was relegated from Damallsvenskan during the 1998 season.

The floorball section merged with Örby IF and Berghems IF in 1999 to create Team Tygriket 99.Team Tygriket 99 later became IBK Tygriket 99.

[[Transcription factor]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, RNA, DNA, Molecular biology, Proteins

Transcription factors help to regulate genes. Each transcription factor binds to a specific DNA sequence. That is how they control the rate of transcription of genetic information from DNA to messenger RNA.

A transcription factor is sometimes called a 'sequence-specific DNA-binding factor'. Alone or with other proteins, they promote or block RNA polymerase. RNA polymerase is the enzyme that copies genetic information from DNA to RNA for specific genes.

Transcription factors have one or more DNA-binding domains (DBDs). These attach to sequences of DNA next to the genes they regulate. Other proteins (such as coactivators, chromatin remodellers, histone acetylases or deacetylases, kinases, and methylases) also play crucial roles in gene regulation. Because they lack DNA-binding domains, they are not called transcription factors.

Glossary:

[[Norman Stansfield]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional murderers

Norman Stansfield (also known as Stansfield) is a fictional character and the main villain of Luc Besson's 1994 movie Léon: The Professional. He is played by Gary Oldman.

He is a corrupt and mentally unstable Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) agent. He has been named as one of cinema's greatest villains. In honor of its influence, Noah Walden of MSN Movies described the Stansfield character as "the role that launched a thousand villains".

[[Carlo Giustini]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, Living people, Actors from Lazio, Italian movie actors

Carlo Giustini (born 4 May 1923) is an Italian former actor. He was sometimes called as Carlo Justini. Giustini is known for his roles in Wild, Wild Planet and War of the Planets.

[[Marshall Rosenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2015 deaths, American psychologists, Scientists from Ohio, Writers from Ohio, Scientists from New Mexico, Writers from Albuquerque, New Mexico

Marshall Rosenberg (October 6, 1934 – February 7, 2015) was an American psychologist. He was the creator of Nonviolent Communication.

[[Roger Hanin]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, French movie actors, French movie directors, French movie producers, People from Algiers

Roger Hanin (20 October 1925 – 11 February 2015) was a French actor and movie director. He was best known for playing the title role in the 1989–2006 TV police drama, Navarro.

[[Peter Marshall]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, 1926 births, Living people, American television personalities, American radio personalities, American television presenters, Actors from West Virginia, People from Huntington, West Virginia

Ralph Pierre LaCock, better known by his stage name Peter Marshall (born March 30, 1926), is an American television and radio personality, singer, and actor. He was the original host of The Hollywood Squares, from 1966 to 1981.

[[Joseph Campanella]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City

Joseph Anthony Campanella (November 21, 1924 – May 16, 2018) was an American character actor. He appeared in more than two hundred television and movie roles from 1955 to 2009. He was known for his role as John Turino in The Guiding Light. He also starred as Harper Deveraux on the soap opera Days of Our Lives from 1987 to 1988.

Campanella voiced the character of Dr. Curt Connors/The Lizard on Spider-Man: The Animated Series (1994–97). He narrated the Discover science series on the Disney Channel from 1992-94.

Campanella died at the age of 93 on May 16, 2018 at his home in Sherman Oaks, Los Angeles, California of complications from Parkinson's disease.

[[Andrea Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: Journalists from New York, Television personalities from New York, American television news anchors, 1946 births, Living people, People from New Rochelle, New York

Andrea Mitchell (born October 30, 1946) is an American journalist, news reporter and anchor for NBC News. She is the Chief Foreign Affairs Correspondent. She anchors Andrea Mitchell Reports on the MSNBC Network. She guest hosts Meet the Press and Hardball with Chris Matthews.Mitchell was raised in a Jewish family.

Mitchell was born in New Rochelle, New York.

[[Miller Brewing Company]]

CATEGORIES: Drink companies, Beer, 1855 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Miller Brewing Company is an American beer company. They are owned by SABMiller. The headquarters is in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It was founded in 1855 by Frederick Miller.

The beers sold by Miller include Miller Lite, Miller High Life and Miller Genuine Draft.

[[Joint Direct Attack Munition]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

The Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) is a guidance kit that converts unguided bombs, or "dumb bombs" into all-weather "smart" bombs. JDAM-equipped bombs are guided by an inertial guidance system connected to a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver. This gives them a range of up to 15. JDAM-equipped bombs range from 500 to 2000. When installed on a bomb, the JDAM kit is given a GBU (Guided Bomb Unit) nomenclature which takes the place of the normal "dumb bomb" nomenclature to which it is attached. JDAM is a joint project of the United States Air Force and the United States Navy.

[[Assis]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in São Paulo (state), 1905 establishments in South America, 1900s establishments in Brazil

Assis is a Brazilian city in the southwestern part of the state of São Paulo. Its population, in 2013, was 100,911 inhabitants. It has an area of  462 km². It was named for the city's founder Captain Francisco Nogueira Acis.

[[Kittery, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine

Kittery is a town in York County, Maine, United States. The population was 9,490 at the 2010 census.

[[Bob Simon]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2015 deaths, American war correspondents, American television news anchors, People from the Bronx, Road accident deaths in New York, Television personalities from New York City, Writers from New York City

Bob Simon (May 29, 1941 – February 11, 2015) was an American television journalist. He was an award winning CBS News television correspondent. He was known for his appearances in 60 Minutes.

On February 11, 2015, Simon was killed in a car crash. He was a passenger in a livery cab that collided with another car and then crashed into a middle barrier of the West Side Highway in Manhattan. Simon went into cardiac arrest and was taken to St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital, where he died.

[[Treaty of New Echota]]

CATEGORIES: 1835, 1830s in the United States

The Treaty of New Echota (7 Stat. 488) was a treaty signed on December 29, 1835, in New Echota, Georgia by officials of the United States government and representatives of a minority Cherokee faction, the Treaty Party.

The treaty of New Echota essentially made the Indians move out of the southeast United States and into Indian Territory. This move was called the Trail of Tears.

[[National Hero of Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: National Hero of Azerbaijan, Azerbaijani awards

The National Hero of Azerbaijan is the highest title in Azerbaijan. The law on the title has been in effect since December 25, 1995. The title is awarded for courage and exceptional service to the people of the Republic of Azerbaijan. It can be given only once to the same person.

[[Strahler number]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In mathematics, the Strahler number or Horton–Strahler number of any tree shape measures its complexity. It can be applied to any tree shape including real trees, lungs, human relationships and blood flow systems. These numbers allow these shapes to be handled in computer programming languages. These numbers were created to study the flow of liquids by Robert E. Horton and Arthur Newell Strahler.

[[Columbus Circle]]

CATEGORIES: Town squares, Manhattan

Columbus Circle is a traffic circle named for Christopher Columbus. The circle is in Manhattan, New York City. It is at the southwest corner of Central Park. This is where Eighth Avenue, Broadway, Central Park South, and Central Park West all meet. Hell's Kitchen is next to the circle on the south. The Upper West Side is to the north.

[[Duke of Nemours]]

CATEGORIES: Dukes and duchesses of France, Dukes and Duchesses of Nemours

The title of Duke of Nemours was originally given to a French family of minor nobility. It was originally a small lordship. It was later made a county in 1364. It is most famous for being held by a branch of the House of Savoy that eventually settled in France. Following the death of the last Savoyard duke (1659) the title went back to the crown of France. It was eventually passed on to the only brother of Louis XIV in 1672. It remained with his descendants. A son of King Louis Philippe of the French was given the title in 1850.

[[Deli Fuad Pasha]]

CATEGORIES: Ottoman people

Fuad (18351931) was a Ottoman soldier and stateman, also known as Mushir (marshall) Deli Fuad Pasha.

Fuad Pasha was born in 1835 in Egypt and belongend to the Turkic peoples. He was the son of Müsür Hasan Pasha. He ascended to colonel rank in Egyptian army. He came Istanbul in 1869. He won Liva rank in Ottoman Army in 1872. He took office 1877–1877 in Tuna frontline Ottoman-Russsian War. He was commander in Elena Conflict in side of Ottoman troops and gained "Elena Hero" title for his achievements. Also gained "Deli" title which means exactly "Crazy" because of his courage. But in 1902 he sent into exile by Abdulhamid II to Damascus. He returned Istanbul in 1908 when The Second Constitutional Era announcement.

He was 96 years old when he died in Istanbul.

[[Alternaria brassicicola]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi

Alternaria brassicicola is a fungus which belongs to the family Pleosporaceae. The species has branched hyphae which are between 1.5 and 7.5 micrometre wide. In the beginning the hyphae are transparent but later their colour turns to brown or olive brown. The conidium are between the 5 and 8 micrometre wide and can be up to 70 micrometre long. 

[[2015 Chapel Hill shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 murders in the United States, Murders by firearm in the United States, 21st century in North Carolina

The 2015 Chapel Hill shooting was an incident that happened on February 10, 2015 in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Three Muslim college students were shot dead. Their neighbor Craig Stephen Hicks was arrested for it. Families of the victims called it a hate crime. 

[[Alexander Cools]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2013 deaths, Dutch academics, Dutch scientists, Neuroscientists, People from The Hague, Pharmacologists

Alexander Rudolf "Lex" Cools (The Hague, 1941 – Nijmegen, 7 September 2013) was a Dutch neuroscientist. He was interested in the pharmacology of behavior. 

Cools got his Doctor of Philosophy in 1973 at the Radboud University Nijmegen. He was a professor in Nijmegen from 1985 until his retirement in 2006. 

A special issue of the scientific journal Behavioural Pharmacology was dedicated to his memory in 2014. Cools was one of the founders of the European Behavioural Pharmacology Society. He became its second president. He received that society's Distinguished Achievement Award in 2003. 

Cools was the first to propose (1976) the existence of different types of dopamine receptors. This claim is correct but was initially not believed. Cools is also known for his work on the basal ganglia.

[[Fristad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Fristad is a locality in Borås Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,924 people lived there.

[[Larry King Live]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 American television series debuts, 2010 American television series endings, American television talk shows, CNN

Larry King Live was an American television talk show that was hosted by Larry King on CNN from 1985 to 2010. It was the station's most watched and longest-running program, with over one million viewers nightly.

On June 29, 2010, King announced that the program would end. The last episode aired on December 16, 2010, and a new episode on the war against cancer aired two days later on December 18.

[[2014 Sweden mosques arson attack series]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 crimes, 2014 in Europe, 2010s in Sweden, Arson, Islamophobic attacks and incidents

The 2014 Sweden mosques arson attack series were a series of arson attacks on three mosques in one week. They started on Christmas Day and ended on new year. The mosques were struck by petrol bombs and molotov cocktails while others were vandalised with racist graffiti.

[[Cake (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 drama movies, American drama movies, American independent movies

Cake is a 2014 American drama movie. It is about a pleasant woman who has become unhappy with her life after a car accident that killed her child. 

Jennifer Aniston plays Claire. Mamie Gummer plays Bonnie. Felicity Huffman plays Annette.

This movie was released in some theaters in December 2014.

[[Join (SQL)]]

CATEGORIES: Query languages

A SQL Join clause is a way to retrieve information from two or more tables in a database.  When a database programmer wants to do a join command, they will type about the databases they want to get information from, and the type of join they want to use.  There are five types of joins.  A normal JOIN, which is also called an INNER JOIN, a LEFT OUTER JOIN,  aRIGHT OUTER JOIN,  aFULL OUTER JOIN and CROSS JOIN. 

In order for a join to work, there must be information in the tables to be joined that is the same between them. 

[[David Carr (journalist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2015 deaths, American academics, American journalists, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Deaths from lung cancer, Writers from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Writers from New York City, Writers from New Jersey, People from Montclair, New Jersey, Disease-related deaths in the United States, American bloggers

David Michael Carr (September 8, 1956 – February 12, 2015) was an American columnist and author. He wrote the Media Equation column and covered culture for The New York Times. In 2014, he was named the Lack Professor of Media Studies at Boston University, a part-time position.

Carr died on February 12, 2015 following a collapse in the New York Times newsroom at the age of 58. His cause of death was lung cancer and heart disease.

[[Greenville, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Greenville is a city in and county seat of Darke County, Ohio, United States. The population was 13,227 at the 2010 census.

[[Nik Abdul Aziz Nik Mat]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Malaysian politicians, Civil servants

Tuan Guru Dato' Bentara Setia Haji Nik Abdul Aziz Nik Mat (10 January 1931 – 12 February 2015) was a Malaysian politician and Muslim cleric.

He was the Menteri Besar of Kelantan from 1990 to 2013 and the Mursyidul Am or Spiritual Leader of the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS) from 1991 until his death in 2015.

Overall, career as an elected politician lasted for some 48 years following his election to the Parliament of Malaysia in 1967.

Nik Mat died of prostate cancer in Kota Bharu, Malaysia at the age of 84.

[[Tomie Ohtake]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Japanese artists, Japanese centenarians, People from São Paulo, People from Kyoto Prefecture

Tomie Ohtake was a Japanese-born Brazilian artist. Her work includes paintings, prints and sculptures. She was one of the main representatives of informal abstractionism in Brazil.

Ohtake died in São Paulo, Brazil at the age of 101 from heart failure.

[[Steve Strange]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Egypt, Welsh pop singers

Steve Strange (born Steven John Harrington, 28 May 1959 – 12 February 2015) was a Welsh pop singer. He was born in Newbridge, Caerphilly. He was best known as the lead singer and frontman of the 1980s pop group Visage. From the late 1970s he was also a very well known nightclub host and promoter. He died of a heart attack in Sharm-el-Sheikh, Egypt.

[[Big Eyes]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, Movies set in San Francisco, Movies set in the 1950s, 2010s feminist movies

Big Eyes is a 2014 American biographical drama movie directed by Tim Burton and produced by Burton and Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski. 

It is based on the careers of American artists Margaret and her husband Walter Keane. It is set in San Francisco, California during the 1950s. They are played by Amy Adams and Christoph Waltz. It also stars Krysten Ritter, Jason Schwartzman, Danny Huston, Jon Polito and Terence Stamp. The music was composed by Danny Elfman.

It was released to very positive reviews on December 25, 2014.

[[La sombra del pasado]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 Mexican television series debuts, Telenovelas, Mexican television series

La sombra del pasado is a Mexican telenovela. It is produced by Televisa. Production started on August 18, 2014.

[[VietJet Air]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia

VietJet Air is a Vietnamese budget airline. The headquarters are in Hanoi. The center of activity is from Tan Son Nhat International Airport in Ho Chi Minh City. The company was founded in 2007. VietJet Air began operation in 2011. It has flights to most of airports in Vietnam and some international airports. From its first flight to 31 December 2014, the airline has served 10 million passenger. In February 2014, it signed a purchase order with Airbus to buy 63 aircraft. It has plans to purchase 30 more and to lease seven more.

[[Jordyn Wieber]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, American Olympic gold medalists

Jordyn Marie Wieber (born July 12, 1995) is an American artistic gymnast. She was a member of the gold medal-winning US women's gymnastics teams at the 2011 World Championships. Wieber was a team gold medalist at the 2012 Summer Olympics. She was also the 2011 world women's all-around champion.

[[Eloise Mumford]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Actors from Washington, American movie actors, American television actors, People from Olympia, Washington

Eloise Mumford (born September 24, 1986) is an American actress. She played Sue Lawson in Drones. She played Kate Kavanagh in Fifty Shades of Grey.

The actress was born in Olympia, Washington.

[[San Andreas (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s action movies, 2015 movies, Movies set in San Francisco

San Andreas is a 2015 adventure and disaster movie. It is about an earthquake hitting California. Dwayne Johnson plays Ray. Carla Gugino plays Emma, his ex-wife. Kylie Minogue plays Beth Riddick.  Paul Giamatti plays Caltech seismologist Lawrence Hayes.

The movie was released on May 29, 2015.

[[Tone]]

CATEGORIES: Music

A musical tone is a repeating sound.  Musical tones  are different in duration, loudness, and timbre. The notes used in music can have many complex forms, such as short bursts, changes in pitch, and shifts in noise.

A simple tone, or pure tone, has a steady noise.  A complex tone is a musical tone that is not steady. Simple tones are added together to make complex tones.

[[Agilodocodon]]

CATEGORIES: Docodonts

Agilodocodon was a shrew-sized docodont from the Middle Jurassic. It is the earliest known tree-climbing mammal-like therapsid.

Agilodocodon scansorius was about 13 centimeters from head to tail, and weighed about 27 grams. Its appearance was similar to a squirrel, with a long snout, curved, horny claws and flexible ankle and wrist joints typical of modern arboreal mammals. The front teeth were spade-like, indicating that Agilodocodon scansorius could gnaw tree bark and eat gum or sap.

This interpretation is questioned by another palaeontologist. He thinks Agilodocodon's teeth "are quite different" from the modern sap-eating monkeys, and the long, thin lower jaw seems too weak for gnawing tree bark.

[[Docodonta]]

CATEGORIES: Docodonts

Docodonta is an order or suborder of extinct mammaliaforms. They lived during the mid- to late-Mesozoic era.  

They had sophisticated molars, from which the suborder gets its name. In the fossil record, isolated teeth and bits of jawbones are found.  

Docodonts are not quite as closely related to the placentals and marsupials as the monotremes are, so they are not included among the  crown-group mammals. 

Because of their molars and their lower jaw being a single bone (the dentary), they are generally regarded as mammals. However, those authors who limit the term "Mammalia" to the (living) crown group exclude docodonts. They use the term mammaliaformes instead.

Docodonts were primarily herbivorous or insectivorous. However, Castorocauda, adapted to a semi-aquatic life, has teeth which suggest it ate fish.

Castorocauda is important because the first find was an almost complete skeleton (a real luxury in paleontology). It breaks the "small nocturnal insectivore" stereotype.

It was noticeably larger than most Mesozoic mammaliaform fossils, and gives absolutely certain evidence of hair and fur. Of course, this strongly suggests mammalian-type temperature regulation.

[[Squamosal bone]]

CATEGORIES: Bones, Bones of the skull

The squamosal is a bone of the head of higher vertebrates. It is the main part of the cheek region in the skull, towards the back and lower part of the skull.

In mammals, including humans, it fuses with other bones to form the temporal bone. It is then called the 'squama temporalis'. 

In therapsids (including mammal ancestors) the lower jaw is simplified into just the dentary. This hinges against the squamous part of the temporal bone. It is referred to as a 'dentary-squamosal jaw'.

[[Kallinge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Blekinge County

Kallinge is a locality in Ronneby Municipality in Blekinge County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,561 people lived there.

[[Antoine of Navarre]]

CATEGORIES: 1518 births, 1562 deaths, House of Bourbon

Antoine de Bourbon, duc de Vendôme, also called Antoine of Navarre (22 April 1518 – 17 November 1562) was the King of Navarre through his marriage (jure uxoris) to Queen Jeanne III, from 1555 until his death. He was the founder of the Royal House of Bourbon. Antoine was the father of Henry IV of France.

[[I See Fire]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 2013 songs

"I See Fire" is a song from the movie The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug. It is played during the end credits. It was performed by Ed Sheeran. The song hit #1 in New Zealand.

The song was released in November 2013.

[[Assistant secretary]]

CATEGORIES: Government

Assistant Secretary is a title used by politicians or government officials in certain countries. These are often junior ministers assigned to a specific cabinet minister.

[[Jure uxoris]]

CATEGORIES: Latin phrases, Law

Iure uxoris (or Jure uxrois) is a Latin term that was mainly used in the Middle Ages. It was used to refer to a title of nobility a man used, but which originally belonged to his wife, who also had that title.

[[Anne Cuneo]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, French journalists, French screenwriters, French movie directors, Swiss screenwriters, Swiss movie directors, Writers from Paris, Swiss theatre directors, French theatre directors

Anne Cuneo (September 1936 – 11 February 2015) was a French-born Swiss journalist, novelist, theatre and movie director and screenwriter.

She was born in Paris. She studied in Lausanne. Her first novel came in 1967 and was called Gravé au diamant. In 1979 she received the lesser prize of the Schweizerische Schillerstiftung and by 1987 she worked for Télévision Suisse Romande.

[[Kesava Reddy]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, Indian writers

Kesava Reddy (పి కేశవ రెడ్డి) (10 March 1946 – 13 February 2015) was a Telugu novelist. He was from Andhra Pradesh state in India. In his writings, he talked about many of the important social problems in India like poverty, prejudices, and superstitions, and encourages people to be socially responsible.

[[Stan Chambers]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winners, 1923 births, 2015 deaths, American television presenters, Writers from Los Angeles, California

Stanley Holroyd "Stan" Chambers (August 11, 1923 – February 13, 2015) was an American television reporter. He worked for KTLA in Los Angeles from 1947 to 2010. Chambers has earned several Emmy Awards, Golden Mike Awards, LA City and County Proclamations, an LA Press Club Award, and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.

He retired on August 11, 2010 on his 87th birthday, marking 63 years as a reporter at KTLA. Chambers died on February 13, 2015 in Los Angeles, at the age of 91.

[[Wim Ruska]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2015 deaths, Olympic gold medalists, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Willem "Wim" Ruska (29 August 1940 – 14 February 2015) was a Dutch judoka. He was the only athlete to win two judo medals in one Olympics – in the heavyweight and absolute categories in 1972.

Ruska was admitted to a nursing home in 2014, he died on 14 February 2015, aged 74.

[[Franjo Mihalić]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2015 deaths, Croatian sportspeople, Olympic silver medalists, Yugoslavian sportspeople

Franjo Mihalić (fraːɲɔ ˈmixalitɕ; March 9, 1920 – February 14, 2015) was a Croatian Yugoslav long-distance runner. He was best known for his 1958 win at the Boston Marathon and his marathon silver medal in the 1956 Summer Olympics. 

[[Marko Brainović]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Living people, Croatian sportspeople, Olympic silver medalists, Yugoslavian sportspeople, 1952 Summer Olympics

Marko Brainović (born 17 July 1920) is a Croatian water polo player. He competed for Yugoslavia in the 1948 Summer Olympics and in the 1952 Summer Olympics. He won a silver medal in 1952.

[[Cornelis Pieter van den Hoek]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2015 deaths, Dutch people of World War II, People from Utrecht (province)

Cornelis Pieter van den Hoek (June 7, 1921 in Leerdam – February 12, 2015 in Werkendam) was a Dutch resistance fighter during World War II. He was born in Leerdam. Van den Hoek was one of the few knights of the Dutch Military William Order.

On October 30, 1948, by Royal Decree, Van den Hoek was knighted by Queen Juliana of the Netherlands, receiving the fourth class (Knight) of the Military William Order.

[[Kingdom of Navarre]]

CATEGORIES: History of France, History of Europe, 16th century in Spain, 17th century in Spain, 18th century in Spain, 19th century in Spain

The Kingodom of Navarre was a small kingdom in Europe. It was independent from 841 to 1820. The kingdom was roughly in the Basque Country on both sides of the Pyrenees mountains. In 1512, it was split into two parts:  a Spanish part and a French part. In 1620, the French part, called Lower Navarre, became part of France. The Spanish part was independent until 1820. The capital of the kingdom was Pamplona.

[[Åkarp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Åkarp is a locality in Burlöv Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 5,617 people lived there.

[[Sanitation]]

CATEGORIES: Waste management

Sanitation means dealing with human waste (feces and urine) safely . It also includes ways to maintain hygiene by disposing of garbage, treating wastewater and managing hazardous waste. Sanitation is important because it helps prevent the spread of germs and diseases. In past centuries it meant "health" and later "cleanliness". 

In poor countries, many people have poor sanitation because they do not have good toilets. They also do not have good sewage systems. In developed countries, people usually have good sanitation because they have a sewage system to filter disease and toxins from the water. The use of toilets protects the health of a community by keeping germs out of the environment.

There are also other types of toilets that are more economical, better for the environment, and do not need big sewer systems or wastewater treatment plants. Examples are dry toilets and twin-pit pour-flush toilets (of which many have been installed in India).

[[Vint Cerf]]

CATEGORIES: Turing Award winners, 1943 births, Living people, American computer scientists, Scientists from New Haven, Connecticut

Vinton Gray "Vint" Cerf (ˈ; born June 23, 1943) is an American internet pioneer. He is thought of as one of "the fathers of the Internet", sharing this title with American engineer Bob Kahn. 

In March 2020 during the coronavirus pandemic, Cerf had tested positive for COVID-19.

[[Leonard Kleinrock]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, American computer scientists, Scientists from New York City

Leonard Kleinrock (born June 13, 1934) is an American engineer and computer scientist. He played an influential role in the creation of the ARPANET, the precursor to the Internet, at UCLA.

[[Bob Kahn]]

CATEGORIES: Turing Award winners, 1938 births, Living people, American computer scientists, Scientists from New York City

Robert Elliot "Bob" Kahn (born December 23, 1938) is an American electrical engineer. Along with Vint Cerf, he invented the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and the Internet Protocol (IP), the fundamental communication protocols at the heart of the Internet.

[[Oliver Rackham]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, British educators, British writers, People from Norwich

Oliver Rackham (17 October 1939 – 12 February 2015) was a British academic. He studied the British countryside, especially trees, woodlands and wood pasture, Rackham wrote a number of books, including The History of the Countryside (1986) and one on Hatfield Forest.

He died on 12 February 2015 at the age of 75.

[[Bess Myerson]]

CATEGORIES: American Jews, American television actors, Cancer survivors, Miss America winners, Models from the Bronx, 1924 births, Living people

Bess Myerson (July 16, 1924 – December 14, 2014) was an American model and television actress. She was also a former Miss America 1945. She was the only Jewish Miss America. She won the pageant not long after World War II ended.

She was seen often on television in the 1950s and 1960s.

She became a city commissioner in 1969. Her career, however, stalled in the late 1980s due to scandal.

Myerson was born in The Bronx, New York City. She had ovarian cancer in th 1970s and dementia at the end of her life. She died in Santa Monica, California, aged ninety.

[[Eryops]]

CATEGORIES: Amphibians, Fossils

Eryops  is a genus of extinct, semi-aquatic temnospondyl.

They are found mostly in the Lower Permian-aged (about 295 million years ago) red beds of Texas. Fossils are also found in New Mexico and parts of the eastern United States. Eryops also occurs in older Pennsylvanian strata of the Conemaugh Group in West Virginia 

Eryops averaged a little over 1.5-2.0 meters (5–6.5 ft) long, so it was one of the largest land animals of its time.  It weighed about 90 kilograms (200 lb). It probably had few predators, although the apex predator of the time was the synapsid Dimetrodon, which was even larger. Several complete skeletons of Eryops have been found in the Lower Permian, but skull bones and teeth are the most common fossils.

Eryops was better adapted to a terrestrial environment than its ancestors. Sturdy limbs and a strong spine supported the body while out of water.

[[Bryan Henderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, People from Olympia, Washington, Wikipedia people

Bryan Henderson is an American Wikipedia editor. He is known for changing "comprised of" on the English Wikipedia. On Wikipedia, his user name is "Giraffedata". In February 2015, his edits for changing "comprised of" became national news in the US. Most media coverage liked his edits as a "unique effort for correctness", while others criticized it as being wrong. By August 2010, Henderson removed all – around 18,000 – occurrences of the term. He continues to monitor new content for instances of "comprised of" and removes them, except when occurring within a quotation. As per Wikipedia logs, he has made over 47,000 edits to the English Wikipedia.

[[Naseer Aruri]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2015 deaths, American academics, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Palestinian people, People from Jerusalem

Naseer H. Aruri (7 January 1934 – 10 February 2015) was a Palestinian scholar-activist. He was an expert on Middle East politics, U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East and human rights. He was born in Jerusalem. 

Aruri was a Chancellor Professor (Emeritus) of Political Science, having served on the faculty of the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth from 1965-1998. 

Aruri died of Parkinson's disease at the age of 81.

[[David Walker (journalist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, American television news anchors, CNN people, Journalists from New Jersey, Television personalities from New Jersey

David Edward Walker (born on May 21, 1941 in Edgewater, New Jersey) is an award-winning former television news anchor at KCRA in Sacramento, California. Walker first worked at WESH-TV in Orlando, Florida. He then moved to Sacramento in the 1970s with KOVR and KCRA. In 1980, Walker and co-anchor (and wife) Lois Hart left Sacramento to join CNN. They co-anchored CNN's first news broadcast on June 1, 1980. 

In 1989, he joined NBC's cable news channel Consumer News and Business Channel and anchored its first news program. In 1990, Walker and Hart decided to return to Sacramento, where they anchored evening news broadcasts until 2008. In November 2008 he retired from KCRA. 

[[2015 Copenhagen attacks]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in Europe, 2010s in Denmark, 21st century in Copenhagen, February 2015 events, Islamic terrorist incidents in Europe, Islamic terrorist incidents in the 2010s, Murder in 2015, Murder in Europe, Murders by firearm, Terrorist incidents in 2015, Terrorist incidents in Europe in the 2010s

The 2015 Copenhagen attacks were two spree shootings in Copenhagen, Denmark, starting in the afternoon of 14 February 2015.

[[Lou Dobbs]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American television news anchors, Journalists from Texas, CNN people, Fox News people, Emmy Award winners, Peabody Award winners

Louis Carl "Lou" Dobbs (born September 24, 1945) is a television journalist, business writer and news anchor. He was the host of the program Lou Dobbs Tonight on the Fox Business Network. The show was cancelled in February 2021.

Before Fox, Dobbs was an anchor, managing editor, an executive vice president at CNN. Dobbs is an award-winning journalist. 

He has won an Emmy, a Peabody Award and a Luminary Award (from the Business Journalism Review).

[[Hoyt Wilhelm]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2002 deaths, Sportspeople from North Carolina, New York Giants (NL) players, St. Louis Cardinals players, Cleveland Indians players, Baltimore Orioles players, Chicago White Sox players, California Angels players, Atlanta Braves players, Chicago Cubs players, Los Angeles Dodgers players, National Baseball Hall of Fame members

James Hoyt Wilhelm (July 26, 1922 – August 23, 2002), nicknamed "Old Sarge", was an American Major League Baseball pitcher. Wilhelm played with the New York Giants, St. Louis Cardinals, Cleveland Indians, Baltimore Orioles, Chicago White Sox, California Angels, Atlanta Braves, Chicago Cubs, and Los Angeles Dodgers. He played between 1952 and 1972. He was the first relief pitcher in the Baseball Hall of Fame.

Wilhelm did not enter the major leagues until his late twenties. He fought in World War II before playing Major League Baseball. He was known to throw a knuckleball. He sometimes played as a starting pitcher but most of the time played as a relief pitcher. Wilhem won 124 games which is more than any other relief pitcher. He was also the first pitcher to reach 200 saves and play in 1,000 games.  

He pitched until he was almost 50 years old. Wilhelm retired with one of the lowest career earned run averages in baseball history. Wilhelm coached the New York Yankees and Atlanta Braves many years after his retirement. He was a resident of Sarasota, Florida for a long time and died in a nursing home of heart failure in 2002.

[[Västra Husby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Västra Husby is a locality in Söderköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 486 people lived there.

[[Östra Ryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Östra Ryd is a locality in Söderköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 457 people lived there.

[[Vätterstads IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 establishments in Europe, 1971 disestablishments, Huskvarna, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Sport in Jönköping, 1960s establishments in Sweden

Vätterstads IK was an ice hockey club in Jönköping-Huskvarna in Sweden. The club was established in-mid 1967 whenIK Stefa and Vättersnäs IF merged. The club played its home games in Rosenlundshallen. The club played in the Swedish second division during the seasons of 1967-1968 and 1968-1969

In 1971 the club merged with Husqvarna IF's ice hockey section. This led to the establishment of HV71.

[[Söderhamns UIF]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 establishments in Europe, Table tennis clubs in Sweden, 1960s establishments in Sweden

Söderhamns UIF is a sports club in the town of Söderhamn in Sweden. The club was established in 1960. The club won the Swedish national men's table tennis team championship in the years of 1978, 1982, 1985, 2001 and 2010.

[[Donald Hall]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2018 deaths, American poets, Writers from Connecticut

Donald Andrew Hall, Jr. (September 20, 1928 – June 23, 2018), known as Donald Hall was an American poet, writer, editor and literary critic. He became the first poetry editor of The Paris Review (1953–1961). On June 14, 2006, Hall was appointed as the Library of Congress's 14th Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry (commonly known as "Poet Laureate of the United States"). Hall served as poet laureate for one year.

[[Michele Ferrero]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Italian businesspeople, People from Piedmont

Michele Ferrero (miˈkɛːle ferˈrɛːro) (26 April 1925 – 14 February 2015) was an Italian businessman.

He was born in Dogliani, Piedmont, the son of Pietro Ferrero. He had two sons: Pietro Ferrero Jr. and Giovanni Ferrero.

He was the owner of the eponymous chocolate maker Ferrero SpA, one of Europe's largest with estimated 2012 sales of $19 billion. This made Ferrero the richest man in Italy and one of the richest in Europe.

[[Halmstads BTK]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 establishments in Europe, Table tennis clubs in Sweden, 1930s establishments in Sweden

Halmstad BTK is a table tennis club in Halmstad, Sweden. It was established on 27 October 1937. The club won the Swedish national men's team championship in 1993 and 2003 and the Swedish women's national team championship in 1991, 1992, 1995 and 1996. Jörgen Persson and Åsa Svensson have played for the club.

[[Kalmar BTK]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 establishments in Europe, Table tennis clubs in Sweden, 1960s establishments in Sweden

Kalmar BTK is a table tennis club in the town of Kalmar in Sweden. It was established on 14 June 1960. The club won the Swedish national men's team championship in the years of 1996, 1999, 2000 and 2002. Jan-Ove Waldner played for the club between 1996 and 2006.

[[Ängby SK]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 establishments in Sweden, Sport in Stockholm, Table tennis clubs in Sweden

Ängby SK is a sports club in Vällingby in Sweden. It was established in 1956. The club won the Swedish national men's table tennis team championship in the years of 1992 and 1995. The women's team won the Swedish national championship during the season of 2014-2015. Jan-Ove Waldner and Mikael Appelgren have played for the club.

[[Lyckeby BTK]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 establishments in Europe, Table tennis clubs in Sweden, 1940s establishments in Sweden

Lyckeby BTK is a table tennis club in Lyckeby in the town of Karlskrona in Sweden. it was established on 16 December 1946. The club won the Swedish national women's team championship in the years of 1994 and 1997. The club was known as Lösens BTK up to 1995.

[[Relief pitcher]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball positions

In baseball and softball, a relief pitcher or reliever is a pitcher who enters the game after the starting pitcher is removed. There are different kinds of relief pitchers such as closers, set-up relief pitchers, middle relief pitchers, left/right-handed specialists, and long relievers. Relief pitchers are expected to pitch many games but in fewer innings than starters.

[[Putty]]

CATEGORIES: Materials

Putty is a squeezy dough-like material used for filling small spaces. It is often used for woodwork repair. Painters use it to fill holes and cracks in wood. Fireproof putties can be used round electrical boxes in drywall setups. 

Plumber's putty is waterproof, used to make watertight seals in plumbing. Putty is always used for traditional glazing. It fixes and seal panes of glass into wooden frames (or sashes). PVC and metal window frames use synthetic sealants such as silicone. 

Glazing putty is traditionally made by mixing a base of whiting (finely ground chalk) with linseed oil in various proportions. In woodworking, water-based putties are more often used: they have no odour, and are easy to clean up. They work just as well with water-based and latex sealers. There are now synthetic putties of various types. There are epoxy (two-part) putties which dry hard as iron, and holes can be drilled in if needed.

[[Ärtemarks IF]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, Table tennis clubs in Sweden

Ärtemarks IF is a sports club in Ärtemark in Sweden. The club's table tennis section won the Swedish women's national championships during the seasons of 2005-2006 and 2006-2007. The men's team qualified for the 2007-2008 Elitserien. The men's table tennis team also played som home games in the People's Republic of China. The club's table tennis activity was transfered  over to Dals BTK in 2014.

[[Norrköpings BTK]]

CATEGORIES: Norrköping, Table tennis clubs in Sweden

Norrköpings BTK was a table tennis club in the town of Norrköping in Sweden. The club won the Swedish national women's team championship during the season of 1997-1998.

[[Öråns SK]]

CATEGORIES: Table tennis clubs in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden, Athletics clubs, 1970 establishments in Sweden

Öråns SK is a sports club in the town of Lycksele in Sweden. It was established in 1970, The club won the Swedish national women's team table tennis championship during the season of 1998-1999.

[[MFF Bordtennis]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 establishments in Europe, 2006 disestablishments in Sweden, Sport in Malmö, Table tennis clubs in Sweden, 1970s establishments in Sweden

MFF Bordtennis was the table tennis section of Malmö FF. The section was set up in 1975. The club won the Swedish national men's team championship during the seasons of 1988/1989, 1989-1990, 1990-1991, 1993-1994, 1996-1997, 1997-1998 and 2003-2004. The men's team became silver medalists at the Swedish national men's team championship during the season of 2004-2005. Jörgen Persson and Thomas von Scheele have both played for the club.

The table tennis section applied for bankruptcy on 3 July 2006. The table tennis section was then closed. Some attempts to keep the youth activity were done.

[[Jetstar Pacific Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia

Jetstar Pacific Airlines is a low-cost airline of Vietnam. It was established by Vietnam Airlines in 1991. It flies to many domestic and some international destinations (Macau, Bangkok, Singapore). Its main airport is Tan Son Nhat International Airport in Ho Chi Minh City. It has 10 Airbus A320 aircraft and will have 15 aircraft later in 2015.

[[Stone Forest]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in China, Carbonates, Sedimentary rocks, Yunnan

Stone Forest (Shilin) is a remarkable region of limestone columns. It is in Yunnan Province, China. Two parts of the site, the Naigu Stone Forest and Suogeyi Village are UNESCO World Heritage Sites. They are part of the South China Karst. The site is classified as a AAAAA-class tourist site. This is the highest rating in the Chinese tourist system.

[[Jonathan Klein]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), CNN people

Jonathan Klein was president of Cable News Network (CNN) for 6 years. He was fired in 2010. He was replaced by Ken Jautz, leader of CNN's sister network, CNN Headline News. Klein hired Eliot Spitzer as a talk show host. He fired Larry King and replaced him with Piers Morgan. While at CNN, he tried to hire Keith Olbermann away from NBC's cable news channel MSNBC. CNN exceutive Jim Walton did not want that, and it did not happen.

[[Aaron Brown]]

CATEGORIES: CNN people, Living people, American television news anchors, 1948 births

Aaron Brown  (born November 10, 1948) is an American broadcast journalist. He anchored Newsnight with Aaron Brown, CNN's main newscast. He is noted for his reporting of the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center. Previously he worked at ABC News as a weekend news anchor. He was a local television reporter in Seattle prior to this. Brown is now a professor of journalism at Arizona State University.

[[Johan Jüngling]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Swedish sportspeople, Squash (sport)

Johan Jüngling, born 1977, is a Swedish former squash player. He represented Växjö SK and lived in the town of Jönköping. He represented Sweden at several European championships and world championships.

He played for the Swedish national team for 10 years and was ranked number-one in Sweden. He won the Swedish national championship eight times as a junior. As a senior he bcame Swedish national champion four times. He also won the Andalucian team championship in 2005.

[[Managing editor]]

CATEGORIES: Journalism

A Managing Editor is a senior member of a Mass media management team. In radio and television networks the managing editor is the top executive. At local stations, a managing editor works directly under the news director. In newspaper publishing the Managing Editor (ME) reports directly to the editor-in-chief. In most organizations the managing editor can hire, fire, or promote staff members. In network broadcasting, the job of managing editor may be combined with other jobs. For example on NBC, Tom Brokaw was both anchor and managing editor of NBC Nightly News. At CNN Lou Dobbs was an anchor, managing editor and executive vice president. At the Fox News Channel, Brit Hume was an anchor and the Washington DC division's managing editor.

[[Chocolate Hills]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the Philippines, Carbonate rocks, National parks in Asia

The Chocolate Hills  are a geological formation in Bohol Province, Philippines. There are at least 1,260 hills (and maybe more) spread over an area of more than 50. They are covered in green grass that turns brown (like chocolate) during the dry season, hence the name.

The Chocolate Hills are a famous tourist attraction of Bohol. They are on the provincial flag and seal as natural attractions of the province. They are in the Philippine Tourism Authority's list of tourist destinations in the Philippines. They have been declared the country's third National Geological Monument and proposed for inclusion in the UNESCO World Heritage List.

The Chocolate Hills are conical karst hills similar to those seen in the limestone regions of Slovenia, Croatia, northern Puerto Rico, and Pinar del Río Province, Cuba. They probably started as corals growing in a warm, shallow sea about two million years ago. The hills consist of sandy to rubbly marine limestones. These limestones contain abundant fossils of foraminifera, coral, molluscs, and algae. These conical hills were created by limestone dissolving in rainfall and groundwater. There was erosion by rivers and streams after they were lifted above sea level. The hills are separated by flat plains and have numerous caves and springs. The Chocolate Hills are a remarkable example of conical karst topography.

[[Bill Kristol]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, American journalists, American political commentators, Fox News people

William Kristol (born December 23, 1952) is an American political analyst and commentator. He was the editor and publisher of the political magazine The Weekly Standard until it closed. Kristol was a Fox News political analyst until friction with Fox News Chief Executive Officer Roger Ailes caused him to switch to the news division of ABC, where he is a political analyst.

[[Richie Pratt]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, American drummers, American jazz musicians, Musicians from Kansas, People from Olathe, Kansas

Richie Pratt (March 11, 1943 – February 12, 2015, born Richard Dean Tyree) was an American jazz drummer. He began his career as a professional musician on the New York scene in the early 1970s. He was born in Olathe, Kansas.

Pratt died in Leavenworth, Kansas, aged 71.

[[R. R. Patil]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in India, Civil servants, Deaths from oral cancer, Indian politicians

Raosaheb Ramrao Patil, better known as R. R. Patil (रावसाहेब रामराव पाटील) (16 August 1957 – 16 February 2015), was an Indian politician from the state of Maharashtra. He was a leader of the Nationalist Congress Party. He became Home Minister of Maharashtra. He was also the former Deputy Chief Minister of Maharashtra. He won assembly election from Tasgaon Constituency.

[[Uri Orbach]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2015 deaths, Children's writers, Deaths from blood disease, Disease-related deaths in Israel, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, Israeli journalists, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish Israeli writers, People from Petah Tikva

Uri Shraga Orbach, Hebrew: אורי שרגא אורבך , (March 28, 1960 – February 16, 2015) was an Israeli Religious Zionist writer, journalist and politician. He served as a Member of Knesset for The Jewish Home party and as Pensioner Affairs Minister.

Orbach was born in Petah Tikva and died of blood disease in Jerusalem, aged 54.

[[Haron Amin]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2015 deaths, Ambassadors of Afghanistan, Cancer deaths in the United States, People from Kabul

Haron Amin (Dari: هارون امین‎; June 19, 1969 – February 15, 2015) was the Afghan ambassador to Japan and non-resident ambassador to Thailand, the Philippines and Singapore from 2004 to 2009. Amin was born in Kabul, Afghanistan.

Amin died of cancer at a U.S. hospital, aged 47.

[[John Davies (historian)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, British historians, British television presenters, Writers from Glamorgan

John Davies (1938 – 16 February 2015) was  a Welsh historian, and a television and radio broadcaster. He worked for the BBC during his entire career.

Davies died at the age of 76.

[[Walter Keane]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2000 deaths, American painters, Businesspeople from Nebraska

Walter Stanley Keane (October 7, 1915 – December 27, 2000) was an American painter and plagiarist. He became famous in the 1950s for claiming he had painted a series of widely-reproduced paintings depicting vulnerable waifs with enormous eyes. The paintings were in fact painted by his wife Margaret Keane.

[[Margaret Keane]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, American painters, People from Nashville, Tennessee

Margaret D. H. Keane (born Peggy Doris Hawkins; September 15, 1927) is an American artist. She mainly paints women, children, and animals in oil or mixed media. 

Keane's works are recognizable by the big, doe-like eyes of her subjects.

In the 1960s, her artwork was sold under the name of her husband, Walter Keane, who claimed credit for it. They went to court and Margaret won the case.

[[Wayne Allwine]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2009 deaths, Actors from Glendale, California, American voice actors, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Emmy Award winners

Wayne Anthony Allwine (February 7, 1947 - May 18, 2009) was an American voice actor, sound effects editor and foley artist for The Walt Disney Company. He was best known for his role as the voice of Mickey Mouse from 1977 to 2009. He was married to voice actress Russi Taylor, who was the voice of Minnie Mouse. He died on May 18, 2009 of complications of diabetes. He received an Emmy Award for sound editing in 1986.

[[Clinamen]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

Clinamen is the word Lucretius gave to the unpredictable swerve of atoms. He means that these atoms don't just fall down, but because of the swerve collisions happen. Lucretius wrote that without this slight swerve (atoms) would "fall like raindrops and never touch and the world would have never been made". Lucretius was the first to write about Chaos theory.  

[[Pyramidion]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Egypt, Architectural elements

A pyramidion (plural pyramidia) is the very top piece of an Egyptian pyramid. They were called benbenet in the Ancient Egyptian language.  In Egypt's Old Kingdom, pyramidia were made of diorite, granite, or limestone. These were then covered in gold or electrum. The gold would reflect the rays of the sun. In later times they were made from granite which had royal titles and religious symbols cut into them.

Very few pyramidia still exist. Most of those that have are made of polished black granite, with the name of the pyramid's owner cut into them. There are four pyramidia on show in the main hall of the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. They include the pyramidia from the Black Pyramid of Amenemhat III at Dahshur and the Pyramid of Khendjer at Saqqara.115

A badly damaged white Tura limestone pyramidion is thought to have been made for the Red Pyramid of Sneferu at Dahshur. It has been rebuilt and put on show at the side of the pyramid. However it does not match, as its angles are steeper than that of the sides of the pyramid.

[[University of the Humanities]]

CATEGORIES: Mongolia

The University of the Humanities   is a public university in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. The Mongolian name is Хүмүүнлэгийн ухааны их сургууль. It has undergraduate and graduate programs. Fields of study include foreign languages, translation, education, journalism, computer science, economics and  business.

The school is in downtown Ulaanbaatar at Grand Chinggis Khaan Square. The university is accredited by the Mongolian National Council for Education Accreditation.

[[Movita Castaneda]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2015 deaths, American movie actors, Actors from Arizona

Maria "Movita" Castaneda (April 12, 1916 – February 12, 2015) was an American actress. She was known for being the second wife of actor Marlon Brando. She was known for her roles in Flying Down to Rio (1933) and Mutiny on the Bounty.

Castaneda died in Los Angeles, California from complications of a neck injury, aged 98.http://www.latimes.com/local/obituaries/la-me-movita-castaneda-20150217-story.html/ref

[[Frank Lloyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1960 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Scottish writers, American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, People from Glasgow

Frank Lloyd (2 February 1886 – 10 August 1960) was a Scottish-American movie director, scriptwriter and producer. Lloyd was among the founders of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and its president between 1934 and 1935.

[[Saqqara]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Egypt, World Heritage Sites in Egypt

Saqqara (سقارة), or Sakkara, is a vast, ancient burial ground in Egypt, an area of 7.  It was the necropolis for the Ancient Egyptian capital, Memphis.  Saqqara has numerous pyramids, including the world famous Pyramid of Djoser. This is sometimes referred to as the Step Tomb due to its rectangular base, and its 'steps' (mastabas: the Arabic word for 'bench'). It is some 30 south of modern-day Cairo.

Djoser's pyramid is the oldest complete stone building complex known in history, built in the Third Dynasty. Another 16 Egyptian kings built pyramids at Saqqara, now in various states of preservation or dilapidation. High officials added private funeral monuments to this necropolis during the whole pharaonic period. It was an important complex for non-royal burials and cult ceremonies for more than 3,000 years, well into Ptolemaic and Roman times.

In 2018, an undisturbed tomb was discovered. It is believed to be the tomb of the royal priest Wahtye. The intact interior includes figures with colors on sculptures and wall carvings. Mustafa Abdo is the director of the excavation of the tomb. 

The area from Giza to Dahshur was designated as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1979. The official name is Memphis and its Necropolis – the Pyramid Fields from Giza to Dahshur. 

Some scholars think the name 'Saqqara' is not derived from the ancient Egyptian funerary god Sokar, but from a supposed local Berber Tribe called Beni Saqqar.

[[Bramble Cay melomys]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Australia, Old World rats and mice

The Bramble Cay melomys, or Bramble Cay mosaic-tailed rat (Melomys rubicola), is an extinct species of rodent in the family Muridae.  While it was similar to the Cape York melomys it had some protein differences and a coarser tail. It was genetically different to species from Australia and New Guinea. It lived in burrows it had dug among plants, or under branches and leaves on the ground. It was a nocturnal animal, and scientists believe it was a vegetarian.

The Bramble Cay melomys was known only from a small population in Bramble Cay, a vegetated coral cay of 340. The cay is in the eastern part of Torres Strait, off the northern tip of Australia. It is only 50 km from New Guinea. The melomys were probably trapped on the island by rising sea levels after the last ice age. It is also possible to have come from the Fly River, perhaps floating on branches. Scientists do not know much about the animals that live in the Fly River area.

In the 1800s, there were lots of melomys on the island. A search in 1998 found 42 animals. Another search in 2002 found 10 animals. In 2004 a search found 12, but the melomys have not been seen since. During this time, the sea level has risen, making the island smaller, and turtles and sea birds have eaten most of the plants. Scientists believe the Bramble Cay melomys is extinct. It is possible that the species may be found on nearby islands as many of these have never been searched. However, in June 2016, researchers from  Queensland's Department of Environment and Heritage Protection, and the University of Queensland reported that the species had indeed become extinct.

[[Aleksandr Melentyev]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2015 deaths, 1980 Summer Olympics, 1988 Summer Olympics, Kyrgyzstani people, Russian sportspeople, Soviet Olympic gold medalists, Soviet sportspeople, Sport shooters

Aleksandr Remmovich Melentyev (Александр Реммович Мелентьев, born June 27, 1954 in Penza, died Feb 16, 2015 in Bishkek) was a Soviet/Kyrgyz sport shooter. He competed in the 1980 Summer Olympics (where he won a gold medal) and in the 1988 Summer Olympics. 

[[Heinrich Windelen]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2015 deaths, Former members of the German Bundestag, Government ministers of Germany, People from former German territories, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany

Heinrich Windelen (25 June 1921 in Bolkenhain - 16 February 2015 in Warendorf) was a German politician of the Christian Democratic Union. He served as a Member of the Bundestag from 1957 to 1990, and as Federal Minister for Displaced Persons, Refugees and War Victims in the Cabinet Kiesinger in 1969 and as Federal Minister of Intra-German Relations in the Cabinet Kohl II from 1983 to 1987.

[[Brooklyn (disambiguation)]]

Brooklyn is one of the five boroughs of New York City.

Brooklyn might also refer to:

[[Stephen Furst]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Virginia, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American voice actors, People from Norfolk, Virginia, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in California, 1955 births, 2017 deaths

Stephen Furst (May 8, 1954 – June 16, 2017) was an American actor. He played Kent in National Lampoon's Animal House. He also acted in other movies and other television shows.

On June 16, 2017, Furst died from complications related to diabetes at his home in Moorpark, California, at age 63.

[[Linda Ellerbee]]

CATEGORIES: American television presenters, Journalists from Texas, Television personalities from Texas, 1944 births, Living people

Linda Ellerbee (born August 15, 1944) is an American journalist. She worked for Nick News with Linda Ellerbee. She also worked on NBC News. At NBC, she worked on The Today Show.

She was born in Bryan, Texas.

[[Stratford Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals in Canada

The Stratford Festival, formerly called the Stratford Shakespeare Festival, is an annual theatre festival held in Stratford, Ontario, Canada. It runs from April to October. About a third of the plays are by William Shakespeare. The remainder range from Greek tragedy to contemporary theatre. The theme for the 2015 season is called eureka moments. Featured plays will include Shakespeare's Hamlet, The Taming of the Shrew and Love's Labour's Lost.

[[Sea Life Minnesota Aquarium]]

CATEGORIES: Aquariums, Minnesota

Sea Life Minnesota Aquarium is a public aquarium located in the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minnesota, USA. It holds over 10,000 aquatic creatures. This includes a large collection of sharks, sea turtles, stingrays and fresh water fish.  The 1200000 aquarium also features sea turtles, octopuses, and lobsters. Freshwater exhibits include game fish from the northern United States. There are several giant catfish and a 180 alligator gar. The aquarium has 30 tanks. The aquarium includes a 300 clear acrylic tunnel. It has the "world's largest jellyfish collection" and the "world's largest underground shark exhibit".

[[Perro de Presa Canario]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds, Molossers

The Perro de Presa Canario is a large  Mastiff-type dog breed from the Canary Islands. It was bred for working livestock. Also to run off or kill other dogs. They are often on the list of outlawed dogs in places that ban dangerous breeds. They are a working breed that can weigh 85-130. If trained and socialized early they can make a good family pet. They make excellent guard dogs.

The name of the breed is Spanish and means "Canarian catch dog". The name is often shortened to "Presa Canario" or simply "Presa".  The breed is sometimes also called Dogo Canario or Canary Dog.

[[Claude Criquielion]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2015 deaths, Belgian cyclists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Belgium, Deaths from stroke, People from Hainaut (province), Tour de France cyclists

Claude Criquielion (11 January 1957 – 18 February 2015) was a  Belgian professional road bicycle racer. He raced between 1979 and 1990. In 1984, Criquielion became the world road race champion in Barcelona, Spain on a gruelling course.  He had five top-ten finishes in the Tour de France.

[[Cass Ballenger]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, United States representatives from North Carolina, US Republican Party politicians

Thomas Cass Ballenger (December 6, 1926 – February 18, 2015) was an American politician. He was a Republican. He represented North Carolina's 10th Congressional district in the United States House of Representatives from 1986 to 2005.

[[Lasse Braun]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in Italy, Italian movie directors, Italian movie producers, Italian screenwriters

Lasse Braun was an Italian pornographer, movie director, producer, screenwriter, novelist and researcher. He was known for creating hardcore pornography movies and selling them to peep shows in the United States.

Braun died from complications of diabetes on February 16, 2015 in Rome, Italy at the age of 78.

[[Andrzej Koszewski]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, Musicologists, People from Poznań, Polish academics, Polish composers

Andrzej Koszewski (Poznań, 26 July 1922 – 17 February 2015) was a Polish composer, musicologist and teacher. His students included Lidia Zielińska, Krzesimir Dębski and Bettina Skrzypczak.

[[Koyaanisqatsi]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 movies, American movies, Documentary movies

Koyaanisqatsi is a 1982 movie. It was produced and directed by Godfrey Reggio. The music for the movie was composed by Philip Glass. The movie is a collection of shots from a wide range of places. Most of them show modern life as an unstoppable, almost mechanical sequence of events. The title of the movie, Koyaanisqatsi comes from the Hopi Indian language and means "life out of balance" or "crazy life". The movie is designed to make us question our modern way of life and to see that the way we live now is not in balance with nature. The movie shows a number of images, such as the organised demolition of the Pruit Igoe housing complex, the inside of a factory producing endless copies, the faces of strangers in crowded streets and time-lapse images of cars and other vehicles speeding along cities. The effect of the music and the movie together is very powerful. The movie is part of the Qatsi trilogy.

[[Peanut butter and jelly sandwich]]

CATEGORIES: Sandwiches

The peanut butter and jelly sandwich or PB&J is a sandwich, popular in North America. It has a layer of peanut butter and either jelly or jam usually on 2 slices of bread.

Peanut Butter and Jelly sandwiches have around 376 calories.

[[Ice cream cone]]

CATEGORIES: Ice cream

An ice cream cone, poke or cornet is a dry, cone-shaped pastry used to hold ice cream. It is usually made of a wafer similar in texture to a waffle. Ice cream cones let you eat without a bowl or a spoon. Different types of ice cream cones include wafer (or cake) cones, waffle cones, and sugar cones.

[[Scholz's Star]]

CATEGORIES: Stars

Scholz's Star is a nearby star which flew through the Solar System's Oort cloud about 70,000 years ago. It is also called WISE 0720-0846 (more fully: WISE J072003.20-084651.2.

This binary star system is now about 5.1-7.2 from the Sun. It is in the southern constellation Monoceros near the Galactic plane. The primary is a red dwarf with 86 times the mass of Jupiter. The secondary is probably a T5 brown dwarf. The system has 0.15 solar masses. The system has an apparent magnitude of 18.3, and is about 3–10 billion years old.

Stars probably pass through the Oort cloud every 100,000 years or so. Comets disturbed by the Oort cloud will take about two million years to get to the inner Solar System.

[[Ross 248]]

CATEGORIES: Variable stars, Red dwarfs

Ross 248 (HH Andromedae) is a small star about 10.30 from Earth. It is in the direction of the northern constellation of Andromeda. Despite its proximity to the Earth, this star is too dim to be seen with the naked eye. Ross 248 was first catalogued by Frank Elmore Ross in 1926 with his second list of proper motion stars.

The star is a UV Ceti-type variable star and a red dwarf

[[Koç Holding]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 establishments

Koç Holding, the largest Turkish industrial conglomerate  and Turkey's largest group of companies.  Koç Holding was founded in 1926 by Vehbi Koç. Its headquarters in Nakkaştepe, Istanbul.

Koç Holding is the only Turkish company to be listed in Fortune Global 500 list.

Currently, Koç Holding’s Chairman is Mustafa Koç.

[[Amor à Vida]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 television series debuts, Telenovelas, Brazilian television series, 21st century establishments in Brazil

Amor à Vida (Trail of Lies) is a Brazilian telenovela. It is produced by Rede Globo. It was Written by Walcyr Carrasco. It's stars include Paolla Oliveira, Mateus Solano and Juliano Cazarré.

[[Marianne Berglund]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Swedish sportspeople

Marianne Berglund, born 23 June 1963 in Skellefteå, Sweden is a Swedish former road racing cyclinst. She won the women's road race during the UCI Road World Championships in Altenrhein, Switzerland on 3 September. She has also won the Tour of Texas. She won the first edition of Tjejtrampet in the year of 1990.

[[Örkelljunga VK]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 establishments in Sweden, Volleyball clubs in Sweden

Örkelljunga VK is a volleyball club in Örkelljunga in Sweden. It was established in August 1982. The club won the Swedish men's national championship in the years of 1999 2002, 2003 and 2004.

[[Hylte VBK]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 establishments in Sweden, Volleyball clubs in Sweden

Hylte VBK is a volleyball club in Hyltebruk, Sweden. It was established in 1980. The club won the Swedish men's national championship in the years of 1995, 1996 2000, 2001, 2005, 2006, 2013 and 2018. The women's team won the Swedish national championship in 2014.

[[Vingåkers VK]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball clubs in Sweden, 1972 establishments in Sweden

Vingåkers VK is a volleyball club in Vingåker in Sweden. It was established in 1972. The club lost the Swedish men's national championship finals against Örkelljunga VK in the years 0f 2003.

[[Väröbacka]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Väröbacka is a locality in Varberg Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 630 people lived there.

[[Innuendo (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 songs, Queen songs

Innuendo is the first single from the 1991 album Innuendo, by the English rock band Queen. This single is one of the longest released by Queen. The video is contains animation and clips from other Queen songs, like "The Miracle", "Breakthru", "The Invisible Man", "Scandal" and "I Want It All". The single "Innuendo" reached #1 on the UK Singles Chart in 1991.

[[Cathy Ubels-Veen]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Anti-Revolutionary Party politicians, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch civil servants, Dutch councillors, Dutch women politicians, Former leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Politicians from Overijssel

Catharina "Cathy" Ubels-Veen (28 October 1928 – 17 February 2015) was a Dutch politician. She was a member of the Second Chamber of the Netherlands for the Evangelical People's Party between 1982 and 1986.

Ubels-Veen  died in Amsterdam, aged 86.

[[Ernest J. Sternglass]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, American educators, American physicists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York, Deaths from heart failure, Naturalized citizens of the United States, German physicists, Scientists from Berlin, Scientists from New York, Writers from Berlin, Writers from New York

Ernest Joachim Sternglass (September 24, 1923 – February 12, 2015) was an German-American physicist and writer. He was the emeritus professor at the University of Pittsburgh and Director of the Radiation and Public Health Project.

Sternglass was best known for his controversial research on the health risks of low-level radiation from atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons and from nuclear power plants.

Sternglass died in Ithaca, New York from heart failure, aged 91.

[[Kvinnliga IK Sport]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 establishments in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden, Gothenburg

Kvinnliga IK Sport is a sports club in Gothenburg in Sweden. Just as the name says the club only runs women's activity. Since the late 1970s men are however allowed to be board members. The club nowadays only runs handball activity., The handball team won 14 Swedish national indoor championship titles between 1951 and 1972 (1951, 1952, 1953, 1954, 1955, 1957, 1958, 1959, 1960, 1961, 1964, 1969, 1971 and 1972). Earlier the club even ran cycling, gymnastics, track and field athletics, speedskating and orienteering.

[[Jerome Kersey]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2015 deaths, African-American basketball players, Deaths from blood clot, Golden State Warriors players, Los Angeles Lakers players, Milwaukee Bucks players, Portland Trail Blazers players, San Antonio Spurs players, Seattle SuperSonics players, Sportspeople from Virginia, American basketball players

Jerome Kersey (June 26, 1962 – February 18, 2015) was an American professional basketball player in the National Basketball Association. He was born in Clarksville, Virginia. He was known for playing with the Portland Trail Blazers from 1984 until 1995. He also served in various coaching roles in the NBA. He died in Tualatin, Oregon.

[[Bengt Ohlson]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Swedish ice hockey players

Bengt Ohlson, born 10 March 1943, is a Swedish former ice hockey player and manager. He acted as the head coach for the Swedish national team during the 1980-1981 season. During that season Sweden won the silver medal during the 1981 IIHF World Championship. Otherwise that season had been less successful for the Swedes. He resigned after being threatened to death.

When Sweden won the silver medal he became popular known as "Silverfisken" by the Swedes. He had been called "Torsken" after the Swedish fiasco during the 1980 Izvestia Tournament.

[[Hickory, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Carolina

Hickory is a city in Catawba County, North Carolina, United States. It had a population of 365,497 as of 2010.

[[Kabe sommarland]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments in Sweden, 1995 disestablishments in Sweden, Fires, Jönköping, Theme parks in Sweden

Kabe sommarland or just Kabeland was a summertime-based amusement park in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. What once was a summer park is now deserted and ruined. It was located at Haga near the Jönköping paintball park.

The facility was built by KABE Husvagnar AB back in the early 1980s. The park was opened in 1984 by Gösta Gunnarsson. He was back then Jönköping County governor. The first years were successful. By the early 1990s economic recession stroke hard against the economy. A pyrmaniac was roaming the neighbourhoods some years later. In September 1995 a fire destroyed the restaurant. Following the 1995 season the park was closed down, deserted and devastated.

[[Summer park]]

CATEGORIES: Theme parks

A summer park is a form of theme park with a summertime theme. A summer park is only opened during the summertime season. Playgrounds and swimming pool make up most attractions instead of carousels,.

Several summer parks have been built in Denmark.

The phenomenon was booming in Sweden by the late and mid 1980s. It expanded during the economic boom before a decrease began in the early 1990s during the economc recession. The phenomenon was  also decreasing because of the introduction of a wider entertainment market.

[[Kate Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American LGBT people, Bisexual people, Governors of Oregon, LGBT politicians, Politicians from Minnesota, US Democratic Party politicians, Women politicians

Katherine "Kate" Brown (born June 21, 1960) is an American politician. She was raised in Minnesota. She became the 38th Governor of Oregon on February 18, 2015 after the resignation of John Kitzhaber. 

Brown is the state's second female governor, after Barbara Roberts. She is the first openly  bisexual governor in United States history.

[[Clu Gulager]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Actors from Oklahoma, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors

Clu Gulager (born November 16, 1928) is an American actor and director. He was born in Holdenville, Oklahoma. He is known for his co-starring role as William H. Bonney (Billy the Kid) in the 1960–1962 NBC television series The Tall Man and for his role as Emmett Ryker in another NBC western series, The Virginian.

[[Hope Emerson]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Iowa, Deaths from liver disease, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, 1897 births, 1960 deaths

Hope Emerson (October 29, 1897 – April 25, 1960) was an American actress. She acted in television and movies and on the stage. She played Evelyn Harper in Caged (1950). She also played a mail order bride in Westward the Women (1952).

Emerson was born in Hawarden, Iowa. She died from liver disease at age 62.

[[Johnny "Guitar" Watson]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B musicians, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Japan, Musicians from Houston, Texas, 1935 births, 1996 deaths

Johnny "Guitar" Watson (February 3, 1935 – May 17, 1996) was an American singer. He sang blues, soul and funk music. He had hit songs in the 1970s with "Ain't That a Bitch" and "Superman Lover". He had many other hits. 

Watson was born in Houston, Texas. He died from a heart attack in Japan.

[[Sex assignment]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality, Gender

Sex assignment or gender assignment is the process of determining the sex of a baby, whether it is a boy or a girl.  Usually, the doctor, parents or midwife look at the sex organs of a newborn baby to do this.  The assigned sex is written on the birth certificate, passport and other identification papers.

Even though it is called "assignment," these adults are not literally assigning (choosing) whether the child is male or female.  In most people, the sex assigned at birth matches the person's own gender identity. If the assigned sex does not match a person's gender identity, the person is transgender.  In a very small number of newborn babies, it is not possible to tell whether the child's body is male or female by looking at the sex organs.  These people are intersex.

[[Official Museums of Amsterdam]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in the Netherlands, Amsterdam, 1994 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in the Netherlands

The Official Museums of Amsterdam (OAM) is an organization of museums in Amsterdam, Netherlands. It was founded in 1994. All member museums belong to the Dutch museum association.

[[Ciudad del Este]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraguay

Ciudad del Este (Spanish for City of the East) is the second largest city in Paraguay and capital of the Alto Paraná Department, situated on the Paraná River.

[[Simborgarmärket]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 establishments in Sweden, Swedish culture

Simborgarmärket is an award given to any person who can swim at least 200 meter. He or she can choose which stroke to use. The award was first awarded on 8 July 1934. It was established on the initiative of David Jonason. The ambition was increase the number of people able to swim. It was originally only awarded to people aged 16 and older. Girls and women originally only needed to swim 150 meters.

[[Rickard Fagerlund]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2009 deaths, Swedish ice hockey players, Ice hockey defencemen

Rickard Fagerlund, born 25 January 1937 in Södertälje, Sweden, dead 31 December 2009, was a Swedish ice hockey player and manager. He played as a defenseman for Södertälje SK. He won the Swedish national championship in 1956. He also played for GAIS, IFK Norrköping and IK Oskarshamn. He later coached HC Vita Hästen.

He was the chairman of the Swedish Ice Hockey Association between 17 September 1983 and 15 June 2002.

[[Show and Prove]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Debut albums, Wiz Khalifa albums

Show and Prove is the first studio album by American rapper, Wiz Khalifa. Show and Prove was released on September 5, 2006 through Rostrum Records. The album featured the single "Pittsburgh Sound".

[[Curt Lundmark]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Swedish ice hockey players, Ice hockey defencemen, Living people

Curt "Curre" Lundmark, born 9 September 1944 in Byske, Sweden is a Swedish former ice hockey player and manager. He acted as the for the Swedish men's national team when it won the gold medal during the 1994 Olympic Winter Games in Lillehammer. Earlier he had also assisted Conny Evensson when Sweden won the 1991 IIHF World Championship in Turku and the 1992 IIHF World Championship in Prague. Curt Lundmark also led the to a silver medal during the 1995 IIHF World Championship in Stockholm. The Swedes lost the final game against Finland (1-4) during that tournament. Curt Lundmark resigned after that tournament. He was replaced by Kent Forsberg.

He has also coached club teams like Västerås IK, HV 71, Jokerit and Leksands IF. For some years he was also the SVT Sport expert commentator. As an expert commentator he often worked with Åsa E. Jönsson or Staffan Lindeborg.

[[Sune Bergman]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Swedish ice hockey goaltenders, 2021 deaths

Sune Bergman (5 December 1952 – August 2021) was a Swedish ice hockey player and manager. When coaching HV71 the club won the 1995 Swedish national championship.

Bergman died in August 2021, aged 68.

[[Borlänge HK]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 establishments in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden

Borlänge HK is a handball club in the town of Borlänge in Sweden. It was established in 1947. The club won the Swedish women's national championship in the years of 1970, 1973 and 1978. The women's team played 11 seasons in the Swedish top division between 1971-1972 and 1995-1996. and the men's team played in the Swedish top division during the 1984-1985 season.

[[Eslövs IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 establishments in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden

Eslövs IK is a sports club in Eslöv in Sweden. It was established in 1961. Nowadays the club mostly runs handball activity. The women's team won the Swedish national indoor championship titles in 2002 and 2003.

The women's team plays under the name Eslövs IK (up to 2002 Team Skåne EIK). The club also runs the women's Division 2 team Eslövstjejerna.

[[Skuru IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 establishments in Sweden, Basketball clubs in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden

Skuru IK is a sports club in Skuru in Nacka in Sweden. It was established on 22 October 1922. The club runs basketball, gymnastics, handball and swimming activity. Earlier it even ran bowling and ice hockey. The club began to play handball in 1950. The women's handball team won the Swedish national indoor championship titles in the years of 2001, 2004 and 2005.

[[Skånela IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 establishments in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden

Skånela IF is a sports club in Märsta in Sweden. It was established in 1949. The club mostly plays handball. The club won the Swedish women's national indoor handball championship in 1992.

[[SoIK Hellas]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 establishments in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden, Sport in Stockholm, Tennis, Water polo, Swedish football clubs

SoIK Hellas is a sports club located in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. It was established on 14 May 1899 as Pastorns gossar by Katarina Parish confirmation priest Ernst Klefbeck. The club then changed its name to SoIK Hellas in 1912. The name change also came on the initiative of Ernst Klefbeck. Nowadays the club runs bowling, track and field athletics, handball, swimming, orienteering, tennis and water polo. The club earlier even ran soccer, table tennis, fencing, gymnastics, cross-country skiing, diving, ski orienteering and squash.

The men's handball team won the Swedish National Indoor Handball championship in the years of 1936, 1937, 1969, 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1977. Even the men's water polo team has won Swedish championship titles.

The club decided in 2009 to become an alliance club from 2010.

[[National Society for Road Safety]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 establishments in Sweden, Transport in Sweden

The National Society for Road Safety (Nationalföreningen för trafiksäkerhetens främjande)  is a road traffic safety organization in Sweden. The organization was established in 1934.

[[Motormännens riksförbund]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 establishments in Sweden, Transport in Sweden

Riksförbundet M Sverige (M Sverige), formerly Motormännens riksförbund is an organization for motor vehicle-owners in Sweden. It was established in 1922. in Malmö as "Sveriges förenade motormän". The name was changed in 1924.

[[Stuart Varney]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Alumni of the London School of Economics, Fox News people, People from Derby

Stuart Varney (born July 7, 1949) is a British economic journalist. Varney joined Fox News Channel in January, 2004 as a business contributor on other shows including Your World with Neil Cavuto. He joined the Fox Business Network as an anchor when the network started in October 2007. He was also a guest host and contributor for FOX News Channel's Your World with Neil Cavuto.

[[Luleå BBK]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball clubs in Sweden, Luleå, 1978 establishments in Sweden

Luleå BBK is a basketball club in the town of Luleå in Sweden. The club was established in 1978. Before the 2011-2012 season the club changed its names to Northland Basket. The club changed back to its original name in mid-July 2015.

The club won the Swedish women's national basketball championship in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. The club also lost the national finals in the years of 2005, 2006, 2007, 2011 and 2012.2017 and 2018.

[[Visby BBK]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball clubs in Sweden, 1992 establishments in Sweden

Visby BBK is a basketball club in Visby, Sweden. The club was established in 1992 out of the Visby AIK basketball section. The women's team play as Visby Ladies. The club won the Swedish women's national basketball championship during the season of 2004-2005.

Tia Paschal played for the club during the 1997-1998 season.

[[Ockelbo BBK]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 establishments in Europe, Basketball clubs in Sweden, 1960s establishments in Sweden

Ockelbo BBK is a basketball club in Ockelbo in Sweden. The club was established in 1969. The women's team played in Elitserien between 1995-1999. The men's team qualified for the Swedish Basketball League in 2003. In 2006 the club was suffering from economic problems in 2006. The club applied for bankruptcy to the Gävle District Court on 13 February 2007. The men's team first played the two remaining games of the regular season.

[[Mastiff]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds, Molossers

The Mastiff, also called the English Mastiff, is a large breed of dog. They have a rectangular body, thick muscles and a massive head with a wrinkled forehead. They stand from 27.5 to 30 at the shoulder and typically weigh between 120 and 230. The Mastiff is one of the largest breeds of dogs who can outweigh many full-grown men. They can be gentle with family members but are also excellent guard dogs.

[[Neapolitan Mastiff]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds, Molossers

The Neapolitan Mastiff or Italian Mastiff, (Mastino Napoletano) is a large, ancient dog breed. This large breed is often used as a guard dog and family protector. Despite their looks, they are a big gentle dog with family and friends. They can be trained as guard dogs to protect people or property. Neapolitan Mastiffs need a lot of daily exercise. They are one of the oldest dog breeds. The Neapolitan Mastiff descends from the traditional guard dogs of central Italy, that were direct descendants of the "Canis Pugnax" of the legions of ancient Rome. It was recognised as a breed by the Ente Nazionale della Cinofilia Italiana in 1949.

This breed is closely related to the Cane Corso.

[[Banu Hilal]]

CATEGORIES: History of Africa

The Banu Hilal (بنو هلال) was a group of Nomadic Arabs. In the 11th century they migrated from Upper Egypt into what is now Tunisia and eastern Algeria. They defeated the Berbers.  

[[Maturity onset diabetes of the young]]

CATEGORIES: Diabetes mellitus

Maturity onset diabetes of the young, or MODY is any of several hereditary forms of diabetes mellitus caused by gene mutations. The mutations interfere with the making of insulin. MODY is often called monogenic diabetes. MODY 2 and MODY 3 are the most common forms of the disease.

The term "MODY" goes back to around 1964.

In MODY 2, oral medications or insulin may not be needed. In MODY 1 and MODY 3, insulin may be necessary.

Some people with MODY may be obese or overweight.

[[Deal or No Deal (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Wiz Khalifa albums

Deal or No Deal is the second studio album by American rapper, Wiz Khalifa. Deal or No Deal was released on November 24, 2009 through Rostrum Records. 5,900 copies were sold in the first week of release.

The album peaked at #10 on the Billboard Top Rap Albums and at #25 on the Billboard Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums.

[[Setif, Algeria]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Africa

Setif (Arabic: سطيف) is a town in northeastern Algeria. It is the capital of Sétif Province and it has a population of 288,461 people as of the 2008 census. Setif is east of Algiers. It is the second most important Wilaya after the country's capital. The streets are lined with trees with a fountain and theater, giving the town  a French feel.

[[Rolling Papers]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Wiz Khalifa albums

Rolling Papers is the third studio album by American rapper, Wiz Khalifa. Rolling Papers was released on March 29, 2011 through both Atlantic and Rostrum Records.

The album debuted at #2 on the Billboard 200. Rolling Papers was certified Gold by the RIAA which is uncommon for an album that was released through an independent label. It has sold 500,000 copies in the United States.

The album featured the singles "Black and Yellow", "Roll Up", "On My Level", and "No Sleep".

[[Umeå BBK]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 establishments in Sweden, Basketball clubs in Sweden, Umeå

Umeå BBK is a basketball club in Umeå, Sweden. The representative teams play under the name "Udominate Basket". The club was established in 2012 out of the KFUM Umeå women's basketball section "Umeå Comets".  The women's team debuted in Basketligan dam during the 2012-2013 season. They ended up fifth and reached the semifinals. They lost there to the Norrköping Dolphins. The club also plays in the BWBL.

During the 2013-2014 season the men's team qualified for the Swedish Basketball League.

[[Henry Segerstrom]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from California

Henry Thomas Segerstrom (April 5, 1923 – February 20, 2015) was an American entrepreneur and philanthropist. He was the founding chairman of the Orange County Performing Arts Center now known as the Segerstrom Center for the Arts.

[[Harris Wittels]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Houston, Texas, Actors from Oklahoma City, American television actors, American television producers, American television writers, Comedians from Texas, Musicians from Houston, Texas, Musicians from Oklahoma, Writers from Oklahoma City, Writers from Texas

Harris Lee Wittels (June 20, 1984 – February 19, 2015) was an American actor, comedian, writer, producer and musician. He was born in Oklahoma City and raised in Houston. He is best known for having been a writer for The Sarah Silverman Program, a writer, actor and executive producer for Parks and Recreation. 

Wittels died in Los Angeles on February 19, 2015 at the age of 30.

[[Pallor]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms

Pallor (also known as paleness) is when the skin is a pale color. It can be caused by illness, stress or even shock. 

Pallor is seen most easily on the face and palms. It can develop suddenly or slowly.

Causes of pallor may include migraines, headache, hypoglycemia, anemia or scarlet fever.

[[Tin whistle]]

CATEGORIES: Woodwind instruments

A tin whistle is a cheap metal whistle. It is very popular in Ireland. It is important to Irish folk music.February 2015

[[Misophonia]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses

Misophonia (meaning "hatred of sound") is a rarely diagnosed mental disorder. It is a condition where certain sounds can cause someone to be angry or enraged. The sounds could be as simple as someone chewing food with their mouth open. Other examples include a ballpoint pen clicking (repeatedly), tapping, typing and other common sounds. The disorder has only been identified and named in the last 20 years. According to one sufferer, "It’s like a fight-or-flight response: Your muscles get tense, you’re on edge, your heart races, and you feel the urge to flee". Misophonia is often misdiagnosed as one of several psychological disorders. Sufferers often keep away from trigger sounds. There is no cure but it can be treated. 

[[O.N.I.F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, Wiz Khalifa albums

O.N.I.F.C. is the fourth studio album by American rapper, Wiz Khalifa. O.N.I.F.C. was released on December 4, 2012 through both Atlantic and Rostrum Records. The name of the album is inspired by the Prodigy album, H.N.I.C..

The album debuted at #2 on the Billboard 200. The album featured the singles "Work Hard, Play Hard" and "Remember You".

[[J1 (Y-DNA)]]

CATEGORIES: Chromosomes, DNA

Haplogroup J1, more fully Y DNA haplogroup J-M267, is a Y chromosome haplogroup found in the Middle East. This means it represents a group of descendants from a single common ancestor along the father's line. It carries a mutation on the Y chromosome known as M267. This type of mutation is called a SNP, or a single nucleotide polymorphism, which is a change in the chemicals at one position in a gene's DNA. Y chromosomes are passed down from father to son without changing, so an SNP like this shows common ancestry.

The origin of this mutation was between 4,000 and 24,000 years ago.

This mutation followed a previous mutation, which created the haplogroup known as haplogroup J-P209 or simply haplogroup J, and so this makes this Y chromosome the "child" of the older version of the Y chromosome. Haplogroup J arose from a mutation which occurred about 31,700 years ago in Southwest Asia.

[[Haplogroup]]

CATEGORIES: DNA, Chromosomes

A haplogroup is a group of single chromosomes, or single DNA strands, which share a common ancestor. They have the same mutation in all versions. 

Haplogroups show deep ancestral origins dating back thousands of years.

In human genetics, the haplogroups usually studied are Y-chromosome (Y-DNA) haplogroups and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplogroups. Both can be used to define genetic populations. Y-DNA is passed only from father to son, while mtDNA is passed only from mother to children. Neither recombines, and thus Y-DNA and mtDNA change only by chance mutations with no intermixture between parents' genetic material.

[[Filipstads IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Filipstads IF is a sports club in the town Filipstad in Sweden. It was established in 1930. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division during the seasons of 1967-1968, 1972-1973 and 1974-1975. The soccer team played in the Swedish fourth division during the season of 1956/1957.

[[Nynäshamns IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 establishments in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden

Nynäshamns IF is a sports club in the town of Nynäshamn in Sweden. It was established on 4 February 1917. It became an alliance club on 1 January 1989. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division during the season of 1972-1972.

The men's soccer team played in the Swedish second division during the seasons of 1939-1940 and 1940-1941.

[[IFK Askersund]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 establishments in Europe, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, 1890s establishments in Sweden

IFK Askersund is a sports club in the town of Askersund in Sweden. It was established 1 February 1895. It runs soccer activity. The club has also scored bandy successes. The bandy team played nine seasons in the Swedish top division between 1945 and 1964-1965.

[[Söderköpings IS]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 establishments in Sweden, 2004 disestablishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Söderköpings IS was a sports club in the town of Söderköping in Sweden. It was established 12 December 1917. The bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1942. It lost all five league games. In 1950 the club won the bandy district championship. The soccer team has played five seasons in the Swedish fourth division.

On 15 January 2004 the club merged with IK Ramunder. It lead to the establishment of Söderköpings IK.

[[Haplotype]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics

A haplotype is a term in genetics. It is short for haploid genotype. A haplotype is a collection of specific alleles (particular DNA sequences) in a cluster of tightly-linked genes on a chromosome. A cluster is usually inherited together. Put simply, haplotype is a closely-knit group of genes which a child inherits from one parent.

A second meaning of the term haplotype is a set of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) usually found together on a single chromatid (of a chromosome pair). So, finding a few alleles of a haplotype sequence identifies all other sites in its region. Such information is very valuable for investigating the genetics of common diseases.

Comparing haplotypes of two or more people shows the degree of genetic relationship between their respective lines. It is done in genetic genealogy projects.

[[Single nucleotide polymorphism]]

CATEGORIES: DNA, Genetics

A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP, pronounced snip; plural snips) is a DNA sequence variation in a population. A SNP is just a single nucleotide difference in the genome. 

For example, sequenced DNA fragments from two people, AAGCCTA to AAGCTTA, is different in a single nucleotide. In this case we say that there are two alleles. Almost all common SNPs have only two alleles. SNPs occur most often in regions of the DNA which do not affect the survival of the organism: otherwise they would be weeded out by natural selection. Other factors, like genetic recombination and mutation rate, can also affect SNP density. There are variations between human populations, so a SNP allele that is common in one geographical or ethnic group may be much rarer in another.

These genetic variations between individuals (particularly in non-coding parts of the genome) are sometimes exploited in DNA fingerprinting, which is used in forensic science. Also, these genetic variations cause differences in our susceptibility to disease. The severity of illness and the way our body responds to treatments are also manifestations of genetic variations. For example, a single base mutation in the APOE (apolipoprotein E) gene is associated with a higher risk for Alzheimer's disease.

[[Härnösands AIK]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 establishments in Sweden, Athletics clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Table tennis clubs in Sweden

Härnösands AIK is a sports club in the town of Härnösand in Sweden. It was established in 1945 and originally thought to be called BK Virgo. However the club was required to change name because the other name was already in use. The club plays bandy. Earlier the club also ran soccer, track and field athletics, skiing and table tennis.

The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division during the season of 1984-1985. The women's bandy team has played several seasons in the Swedish top division.

[[Forsbacka]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Forsbacka is a locality in Gävle Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,702 people lived there.

[[Forsbacka IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Forsbacka IK is a sports club in Forsbacka in Sweden. It was established in 1918. The club plays bandy, floorball, handball and soccer. The men's bandy team has popular been known as the "Yellow Peril" (Gula faran) and has played 16 seasons in the Swedish top division. between 1940 and 1967-1968. The men's bandy team has often been described as a typical "yo-yo" club that has been promoted and relegated between the top division and second division for almost 30 years.

The men's soccer team has played nine seasons in the Swedish third division.

The floorball section was started in 1991.

[[IK Heros]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 establishments in Sweden, Athletics clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

IK Heros is a sports club in Smedjebacken in Sweden. It was established in 1915. The club has bandy and track and field athletics sections. It earlier even played soccer. The men's bandy team has played 11 seasons in the Swedish top division. between 1940 and 1965-1966.

The men's soccer team has played five seasons in the Swedish third division.

[[Myxobacteria]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

The myxobacteria ("slime bacteria") are a group of bacteria that usuallly live in the soil. They feed on insoluble organic substances. They have very large genomes compared to other bacteria. Myxobacteria are included in the delta group of proteobacteria, a large group of Gram-negative forms.

Myxobacteria move by gliding on the surface. They travel in swarms with many cells kept together by intercellular molecular signals. The swarm puts out extracellular enzymes to digest food. This increases feeding efficiency. 

[[Jack Horner (paleontologist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, American paleontologists, Scientists from Montana

John R. "Jack" Horner is an American paleontologist. He discovered and named Maiasaura. He also showed for the first time that some dinosaurs cared for their young. Horner also served as the technical advisor for all of the Jurassic Park films. He served in the Vietnam War.

[[Alessandra Ambrosio]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American models, Brazilian models, People from Rio Grande do Sul

Alessandra Ambrosio (born April 11, 1981 in Erechim, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil) is a Brazilian-born American supermodel. She beame a Victoria's Secret Angel in 2004. She was featured several times on the Forbes list of best paid models.

[[Fashion show]]

CATEGORIES: Fashion

A fashion show is an event put on by a fashion designer. It is to show his or her new line of clothing. Often they are held during Fashion week.  Fashion shows debuts every season. There are the Spring/Summer and the Fall/Winter seasons. This is where the latest fashion trends are made. The two most influential fashion weeks are Paris Fashion Week and New York Fashion week. Both are semiannual events. The Milan and London are also of global importance.

In a typical fashion show, models walk the catwalk dressed in the clothing created by the designer.  Occasionally, fashion shows take the form of installations. This is where the models will pose standing or sitting to show the clothing. The order in which each model walks out wearing a specific outfit is usually planned.

[[IF Verdandi]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Table tennis clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

IF Verdandi is a sports club in the town of Eskilstuna in Sweden. It was established in 1900. The club runs soccer. It earlier even ran amateur wrestling, bandy, cycling and table tennis. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1932, 1933 and 1941.

The men's soccer team has played the Swedish second division during the seasons of 1942-1943., 1943-1944  and 1944-1945.

Kjell Johansson has played table tennis for the club.

[[Eskilstuna BS]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 establishments in Europe, Bandy clubs in Sweden, 1960s establishments in Sweden

Eskilstuna BS is a bandy club in the town of Eskilstuna in Sweden. It was established in 1965 when the bandy sections of Eskilhems BK and VoIF Diana merged. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in the seasons of 1972-1973 and 1977-1978.

[[IFK Strängnäs]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden

IFK Strängnäs is a sports club in the town of Strängnäs in Sweden. It was established in 1899. The club runs track and field athletics, handball, disabled sports, orienteering. Earlier the club also played bandy. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1931. and 1932.

[[Värmbols GoIF]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 establishments in Sweden, 1990 disestablishments in Europe, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, 1990s disestablishments in Sweden

Värmbols GoIF was a sports club in the town of Katrineholm in Sweden. It was established in 1927. The club ran association football and bandy. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1931. and 1932.

The men's bandy team played seven seasons in the Swedish top division. The women's soccer team played in the Swedish third division during the 1980s.

The men's soccer team played in the Swedish third division in 1975 and 1976.

On 3 December 1990, the club was split up into Värmbols FC (men's soccer), DFK Värmbol (women's soccer) and Värmbol-Katrineholm BK (bandy).

[[Skoghalls IF]]

CATEGORIES: Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Skoghalls IF was a sports club in Skoghall in Sweden. It was established in 1963. The club ran association football and bandy. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1940, 1942, 1946 and 1947. 

The men's soccer team played seven seasons in the Swedish third division.

The club merged with Vidöns IK to form IFK Skoghall in 1963.

[[Waggeryds IK]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Waggeryds IK is a sports club in Vaggeryd in Sweden. It was established in April 1920. The club runs bandy and soccer. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1942. and 1963-1964. and played in the qualifying rounds for the Swedish top division in 1970.

[[IFK Växjö]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Athletics clubs

IFK Växjö is a sports club in the town of Växjö in Sweden. It was established on 2 July 1919. The club runs track and field athletics and disabled sports. It earlier also ran bandy and soccer. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1941. The women's soccer activity was transferred to Östers IF in 1983. That led to the establishments of Östers IF dam.

Carolina Klüft has competed for the club.

[[Grycksbo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Grycksbo is a locality in Falun Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,825 people lived there.

[[Grycksbo IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Grycksbo IF is a sports club in Grycksbo in Sweden. It was established in 1908. The club runs bandy, orienteering, skiing and soccer. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in the season of 1963-1964.

Three-time Vasaloppet winner Daniel Tynell first competed for Grycksbo IF.

[[Linköpings AIK]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Linköping

Linköpings AIK is a sports club in the town of Linköping in Sweden. It was established on 22 October 1908. The club runs orienteering, earlier even bandy and soccer. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1931. The men's bandy team reached three semifinals when the Swedish national championship was played as a knockout-tournament back in the 1920's. The men's soccer team also played in the Swedish third division during the seasons of 1928-1929 and 1929-1930.

[[IF Rune]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

IF Rune is a sports club in Kungsör, Sweden. It was established on 28 April 1908. The club runs gymnastics and orienteering. It earlier also ran bandy and soccer. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1935. The men's soccer team played in the Swedish second division during the seasons of 1934-1935, 1936-1937 and 1937-1938.

[[IK Mode]]

CATEGORIES: Athletics clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Sport in Stockholm

IK Mode was a sports club in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. The club ran bandy, ice hockey, soccer and track and field athletics. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1937. and 1940. 

The men's ice hockey team played in the Swedish second division during the 1929-1930 season. The club track and field athletics section was especially successful during the 1930s and 40s. The club won Dagbladsstafetten in 1940 and 1946. Other successful track and field athletes competing for the club were Åke Stenqvist who won Swedish national long jump champion for men in 1936, 1937 and 1938. Lennart Eliasson  won the same event in 1943.

AIK offered to take over the club's track and field athletics section.

[[IK Viljan]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

IK Viljan is a sports club in Strängnäs in Sweden. It was established in 1914. The club runs soccer. It earlier even ran bandy. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1942. and 1943.

The men's soccer team has played in the Swedish third division.

[[Alfta GIF]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Athletics clubs, Ski clubs in Sweden

Alfta GIF is a sports club in Alfta in Sweden. It was established on 10 November 1900. The club runs handball, ice hockey and soccer. Earlier the club also ran bandy. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1941. The men's soccer team has played in the Swedish third division. The ice hockey section was established in 1947. The skiing and track and field athletics sections have been inactive since 2002.

[[Borgia Norrköping BK]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Norrköping

Borgia Norrköping BK is a bandy club in Norrköping, Sweden, established in 1941. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division during the season of 1988-1989.

[[Falu BK]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 disestablishments in Europe, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Falu BK was a bandy club in the town of Falun in Sweden. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish top division in 1934. The men's soccer team played in the Swedish third divisin during the seasons of 1934-1935 and 1935-1936.

The club was one of four clubs who merged to become Falu BS in 1935.

[[Clockwork Angels]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums

Clockwork Angels is the twentieth studio album by Rush. The album was released on June 12, 2012. It was the band's first studio album with label Roadrunner Records. The album debuted at #1 in Canada and at #2 on the Billboard 200 chart. The album won the award for Rock Album of the Year at the 2013 Juno Awards.

[[Mi pecado]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 television series debuts, Telenovelas, Mexican television series, 2000s establishments in Mexico, 2009 television series endings, 2000s disestablishments in Mexico

Mi pecado is a Mexican telenovela. It is produced by Televisa.

[[IF Vesta]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 establishments in Europe, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Uppsala, 1910s establishments in Sweden

IF Vesta is a sports club in the town of Uppsala in Sweden, established on 8 June 1911. The club runs bandy and soccer. It earlier even ran floorball and ice hockey.

The men's bandy team played eleven seasons in the Swedish top division.

[[Canadian French]]

CATEGORIES: French language

Canadian French (français canadien) includes the varieties of the French language spoken in Canada. In the 2011 census about 10 million people said they could speak French in a conversation. French is the mother tongue of about 7.3 million Canadians. 7.9 million said they spoke French at home. French is the only official language of Quebec. But government services are also conducted in English (and French in the rest of English-speaking Canada). Manitoba and New Brunswick are the only provinces in Canada that are officially bilingual. There are differences between the French spoken in Paris (called metropolitan French) and Canadian French. When the first French immigrants came to Canada they spoke French as it was spoken in France at that time. Since then, Parisian (metropolitan) French has become the normal language in France. However both languages are very similar.

[[IF Hallby]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 establishments in Europe, Athletics clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Cycling, Figure skating, Handball clubs in Sweden, Sport in Jönköping, Skating, Ski clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, 1920s establishments in Sweden

IF Hallby is a sports club in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It was established on 7 April 1929., It originally ran cross-country skiing, soccer, track and field athletics and ice skating. The club won the 1932 speed skating district team championship. Handball was adopted in 1933 In 1934 the club's orienteering section was started. The club beame an alliance club on 1 June 2001.

The men's handball team has played four seasons in the Swedish top division. The women's handball team has played in the Swedish top division for two seasons.

The men's soccer team played 19 seasons in Division III, back then the Swedish third division, between 1943-1983.

An important gathering-place for the club is Hallbystugan. It  is located in a popular outdoor recreation area near Axamo.

[[Västerås BK30]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 establishments in Europe, Athletics clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Table tennis clubs in Sweden, 1920s establishments in Sweden

Västerås BK30 is a sports club in the town of Västerås in Sweden. It was established on 29 November 1929 as a merger out of IK City and IK Sture. It was named after 1930. 1930 was the year it joined the Swedish Sports Confederation. The club nowadays mostly runs soccer. It earlier also ran bandy, handball, ice hockey, table tennis and track and field athletics.

The soccer activity has mostly used Ringvallens IP as home ground. A women's soccer team was established in 1969. The women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division in 1994.

Bandy was a major sport up to the mid 1980s. The club played in the Swedish top division in 1932 and 1936.

[[Mark Fischer (attorney)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2015 deaths, American lawyers, People from Evanston, Illinois, Writers from Illinois, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts

Mark Alan Fischer (1950 – February 18, 2015) was an American author and lawyer. He wrote the book Perle, Williams & Fischer on Publishing Law. He helped create the Biobricks Foundation Public Agreement, which allows scientists to make their biotechnology tools available to the public. 

[[Sadeq Tabatabaei]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, Deaths from lung cancer, Iranian educators, Iranian politicians, Iranian writers, Iranian journalists, Television presenters

Sadeq Tabatabaei (صادق طباطبایی; 12 December 1943 – 21 February 2015) was an Iranian writer, journalist, TV host, university professor at the University of Tehran and politician.

He served as Deputy Prime Minister from 1979 to 1980. He was also Deputy Minister of the Interior and held the March 1979 referendum. He was Iran's Ambassador to Germany from 1982 until 1986. He died of lung cancer in Duesseldorf.

[[Sunvära SK]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 establishments in Sweden, Athletics clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden

Sunvära SK is a sports club in Sunvära in Sweden. It was established on 4 January 1943. The club runs bandy. It plays its home games on Sjöaremossen's artificial ice rink. The activity originally consisted of bandy, racewalking, skiing and track and field athletics. Since the 1950s the club only runs bandy.

The women's bandy team has played three seasons in the Swedish top division.

[[Kyla Rae Kowalewski]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 births, Living people, American child actors, American voice actors, Actors from Chicago

Kyla Rae Kowalewski (born April 8, 2001) is an American child voice actress. She is known for her role as Anais Watterson in The Amazing World of Gumball. She was also the voice of Fufu in Ni Hao, Kai-Lan.

[[Oxberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Oxberg is a minor locality in Mora Municipality in Sweden. In 2010, 97 people lived there. Vasaloppet goes through Oxberg. It is also the start site for Tjejvasan, Kortvasan and Halvvasan. The Oxberg Bridge is also located here.

[[G.U.Y.]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 songs, Dance songs, Lady Gaga songs

"G.U.Y." is a song by American pop singer-songwriter Lady Gaga. It is from her third studio album, Artpop.  It was released on March 28, 2014 (Gaga's 28th birthday). It was the third single from the album, after "Applause" and "Do What U Want". The single charted at number 76 on the US Billboard Hot 100. It charted at number 115 on the UK Singles Chart.

[[Weka]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of New Zealand, Gruiformes, Flightless birds

A weka (Gallirallus australis), also known as the Maori hen or woodhen, is a flightless bird in the rail family. It is endemic to New Zealand. There are four subspecies. Weka are sturdy brown birds, about the size of a chicken. They feed mainly on invertebrates and fruit.

[[Trans man]]

CATEGORIES: Transgender

A trans man (sometimes incorrectly written as trans-man) is a female-to-male (FTM) transsexual or transgender person. Many people in this group like the name trans man over the many medical terms that are out there. Other non-medical names are t-boy, tg-boy and ts-boy. 

Trans men were called girls when they were born, but they feel that they really are male. To show their true gender as men, trans men may transition from living as women to living as men. A trans man's transition can include telling family and friends, wearing different clothes, flattening the chest, using a new name, changing legal papers, using medical treatments of testosterone, and changing the body with surgery. Getting medical care can be more difficult for trans men because some doctors will not help them or they cannot afford it. Trans men can also face discrimination because they are transgender.

Not all trans men are straight (attracted to women). Some trans men are gay (attracted to men),  bisexual, or asexual. Estimates of how many trans men there are range from 1 in every 30,000 people called girls at birth, to 1 in every 170 people called girls at birth.

[[Thai people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Asia, Thai people

Thai people, formerly known as Siamese, are the main ethnic group of Thailand. They are part of the larger Tai group of peoples living in Southeast Asia, southern China and north-east India. They speak the Thai language, which has several regional variations. Most Thai people are followers of Theravada Buddhism.

"Thai people" usually refers to central and southern Thai (Tai Siam), northern Thai (Lanna) and Isan people. However, the term has a loose meaning and can sometimes refer to any person from Thailand, not only ethnic Thais.

About 60 million live in Thailand. Large populations have lived in Laos, Malaysia, Cambodia and Myanmar for many years.

Thai people most likely originally come from the province of Guangxi in China. Tai peoples began to move south some time between the 8th and 10th centuries. They settled in the valley of the Chao Phraya River. They became heavily influenced by Mon and Khmer and became Buddhist. Early Thai states included the Sukhothai Kingdom and Suphan Buri Province. The Thai were called "Siam" by the Khmer, and were ruled by the Khmer Empire. The Thai people began growing in power after they built Ayutthaya.

[[Rocka Rolla]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 albums, Debut albums, Judas Priest albums

Rocka Rolla is the first studio album by British heavy metal band, Judas Priest. Rocka Rolla was released on 6 September 1974 through both Gull Records. The album was produced by Rodger Bain, who had produced the first three albums for Black Sabbath.

When the album was released, it was met with a small reception and sold "only a few thousand copies". Due to the flop of the album, Judas Priest had found themselves financially in dire straits. The band said that there were nights where they were starving and that they didn't know when they were going to get their next meal. They tried to make an agreement with Gull to pay them 50 pounds a week, but the record label was also not doing well financially and they did not agree.

The album featured the single "Rocka Rolla".

[[Still Alice]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 drama movies, Academy Award winning movies, American drama movies, British drama movies, French drama movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, American independent movies

Still Alice is a drama movie from 2014 based on the novel of the same name. It is about a linguistics professor diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Julianne Moore plays Alice. Kristen Stewart plays Lydia. Kate Bosworth plays Anna. Alec Baldwin plays John.

Still Alice was released on December 5, 2014 in the United States. Julianne Moore won an Academy Award for Best Actress.

[[I'm Going Slightly Mad]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 songs, Queen songs

I'm Going Slightly Mad is the second single from Queen's album Innuendo. The album was released on 4 March 1991. The song 'I'm Going Slightly Mad' was written by Freddie Mercury.

[[Sports club]]

CATEGORIES: Sports clubs

A sports club is an organization that runs sporting activity. Some of them are amateur. Others are professional. Some sports clubs are only active within one sport. Others participate in two or more sports.

[[Roman Sitko]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 births, 1942 deaths

Roman Sitko (1880-1942) is a Catholic blessed. He was a Polish priest that worked in Poland in Tarnów and Mielec. He died in Auschwitz.

[[Orion Arm]]

CATEGORIES: Local galaxies

The Orion Arm, or Orion–Cygnus Arm, is a minor spiral arm of the Milky Way galaxy. It is of interest because the Solar System (including the Earth) is inside it. The spiral arm is some 3,500 across and approximately 10,000 in length. 

The Orion Arm is named after the Orion constellation, one of the most prominent constellations. It is seen in the Northern Hemisphere during winter and in the Southern Hemisphere during summer. Some of the brightest stars and most famous celestial objects are in the Orion Arm: Betelgeuse, Rigel, the stars of Orion's Belt and the Orion nebula. They are shown on the interactive map below.

The Orion Arm is between the Carina–Sagittarius Arm (toward the Galactic centre) and the Perseus Arm (toward the outside Universe). The Perseus Arm is one of the two major arms of the Milky Way. The Solar system is on the Orion spur, between the two longer adjacent arms Perseus and Carina-Sagittarius.

Inside the Orion Arm, the Solar System is close to the inner rim, in the Local Bubble. It is about halfway along the Orion Arm's length, about 8,000 from the Galactic centre.

[[Irish Civil War]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 in Europe, 1923 in Europe, Civil wars, 1920s in Ireland

The Irish Civil War (Cogadh Cathartha na hÉireann; 28 June 1922 – 24 May 1923) followed the Irish War of Independence. It went along with the beginning of the Irish Free State. It was independent from the United Kingdom but stayed a part of the British Empire.

The conflict was between two opposing groups of Irish republicans over the Anglo-Irish Treaty. The forces of the "Provisional Government" (which became the Free State in December 1922) supported the Treaty. The Republican opposition saw it as a betrayal of the Irish Republic (which had been proclaimed during the Easter Rising). Many of those who fought in the conflict had been members of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) during the War of Independence.

The Civil War was won by the Free State forces. They had many weapons provided by the British Government. The conflict may have claimed more lives than the War of Independence that went before it. It left Irish society divided and bitter for generations. About 927 people died during the civil war. 

[[Chevrolet Cobalt]]

CATEGORIES: Chevrolet automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Chevrolet Cobalt was a compact car sold by the General Motors division Chevrolet from 2005 to 2010. It replaced the Cavalier and the Geo Prizm (although the Pontiac Vibe serves as the Prizm's replacement, many auto sites list the Cobalt as a secondary successor). From 2005 to 2009, it was sold under the Pontiac marque under various names including the Pursuit, Pursuit G4 and the G5. The Cobalt was available as a sedan and coupé, while the G5 was strictly a coupé in America and offered as a sedan model in Canada. It was replaced by the Chevrolet Cruze (a rebadged Daewoo Lacetti Premiere). The Pontiac G5 was replaced by the Buick Verano. As of 2014, GM was recalling this car because of problems with the ignitions that can shut off the engine without warning and cause disabled air bags and cause serious injury or death. Chevrolet Cobalt was considered an improvement over its predecessor the Cavalier because it earned a "Good" crash test rating from the IIHS, but without optional side airbags it earned a "Poor" in side impact tests. However, with the optional side airbags it earned an "Acceptable".

[[Venevisión]]

CATEGORIES: Television networks, Venezuelan culture

Venevisión, is one of Venezuela's largest television networks. It is also a Venezuelan cable and broadcast television network. Venevisión is owned and operated by Gustavo Cisneros. In the United States, many of Venevisión's programs can be seen on Univision.

[[Here Without You]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 songs, Pop ballads, Rock ballads

"Here Without You" is the third single off American rock band 3 Doors Down's second studio album Away from the Sun. The song was released on August 11, 2003.

On the Billboard charts, Here Without You was able to peak at #5 on the Hot 100 chart.

Lead singer Brad Arnold said that his inspiration for this song was his now ex-wife. Arnold said "The song's about being away from someone, or missing them. And it really doesn't matter if you're here without them for all day or all month. It's about the loneliness and missing of somebody". The song was used by the WWE in a tribute video to professional wrestler Eddie Guerrero after he died from a heart attack in November 2005.

[[Sindhi Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias, Websites established in 2006

Sindhi Wikipedia (سنڌي وڪيپيڊيا, سندھی ویکیپیڈیا) is the Sindhi language edition of Wikipedia. It started in February 2006. As of July 2015, it had more than 3,000 articles.

[[Livin' la Vida Loca]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 songs, Ricky Martin, Songs about sexuality, Billboard Rhythmic Songs number-one singles

"Livin' la Vida Loca" is the first single off Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin's self-titled first English studio album. The song was released on March 23, 1999. It is Martin's signature song.

On the Billboard charts, Livin' la Vida Loca was able to peak at #1 on the Hot 100, Adult Pop Songs, Hot Latin Songs, Latin Pop Songs, Tropical Songs, Pop Songs, and Rhythmic Top 40 charts.

At the 2000 Grammy Awards, Livin' la Vida Loca was nominated for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, Best Male Pop Vocal Performance, Best Instrumental Arrangement Accompanying Vocalist(s). In 2007, VH1 ranked the song #28 in their list of 100 Greatest Songs of the 90s.

[[LibreOffice]]

CATEGORIES: Office suites

LibreOffice is an open source office suite forked from Sun Microsystems' OpenOffice office suite. It was created by the Document Foundation in response to Oracle Corporation's acquisition of Sun Microsystems. LibreOffice possesses a word processor called "LibreOffice Writer", a spreadsheets program called "LibreOffice Calc", a presentation program called "LibreOffice Impress", a database program called "LibreOffice Base", a graphics editor called "LibreOffice Draw", and a mathematical formula editor called "LibreOffice Math".

[[MariaDB]]

CATEGORIES: Databases

MariaDB is a free, open source database management system forked from Sun Microsystems' MySQL. It was created by MySQL's software developers, inluding Monty Widenius. They were concerned about Oracle Corporation's acquisition of Sun Microsystems.

[[Campaign for "santorum" neologism]]

CATEGORIES: Controversies, Politics of the United States, 2003 in the United States

The campaign for the neologism "santorum" started with a contest held in May 2003 by Dan Savage. Savage is a sex columnist and LGBT rights activist. He asked his readers to create a definition for the word "santorum" in response to then-U.S. Senator Rick Santorum's opinions about homosexuality, and comments about same sex marriage. In his comments, Santorum had stated that "In every society, the definition of marriage has not ever to my knowledge included homosexuality. That's not to pick on homosexuality. It's not, you know, man on child, man on dog, or whatever the case may be." Savage announced the winning entry, which defined "santorum" as "the frothy mixture of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the byproduct of anal sex". He created a web site, spreadingsantorum.com (and santorum.com), to promote the definition.

In 2010 Savage said he would take the site down if Santorum donated US$5 million plus interest to Freedom to Marry. That group supports legal recognition of same-sex marriages. In September 2011 Santorum asked Google to remove the definition from its search engine index. Google refused. They said that the company does not remove content from search results except in very limited circumstances.

[[El Instituto Cultural Cubano-Norteamericano]]

CATEGORIES: Havana, Educational institutions, 1943 establishments in North America, 20th-century establishments in Cuba

El Instituto Cultural Cubano-Norteamericano  was an American institution established in Havana, Cuba in 1943.  It offered courses relating to the U.S. and the English language.  

The institute's library was called Biblioteca Pública Martí-Lincoln.  Most of the books were given by the government of the United States and individual Americans.  Popular American magazines were also in the library.

Unlike other libraries in Cuba at that time, the institute's library let people borrow books for reading outside of the library.

The director was the Cuban historian Herminio Portell Vilá.

In 1945, the institute began publishing  a bulletin entitled Dos Pueblos, first for students but later sent to libraries abroad. 

An article in Granma describes the institute as designed to influence and penetrate Cuban society  and culture.

[[Argelès-Gazost]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Hautes-Pyrénées

Argelès-Gazost (Argelèrs de Gasòst) is a commune in the Hautes-Pyrénées department in southwestern France in the Occitanie region. It is part of the historical region of Gascony and is the capital of the arrondissement of Argelès-Gazost.

[[Bagnères-de-Bigorre]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Hautes-Pyrénées

Bagnères-de-Bigorre (Banhèras de Bigòrra) is a commune in the Hautes-Pyrénées department, of which it is a subprefecture, in the Occitanie region, southwestern France.

[[Échez]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Occitanie

The Échez is a river in southwestern France that flows through in the Occitanie region.

It is a left tributary of the Adour river, in the French department of Hautes-Pyrénées.

[[Santorum]]

Santorum can refer to:

[[Mort Sahl]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Actors from Montreal, American movie actors, American stand-up comedians, American television actors, American television personalities, Comedians from Quebec, Jewish American actors, Jewish American comedians, Jewish American writers, Writers from Montreal

Morton Lyon "Mort" Sahl (born May 11, 1927) is an American comedian and actor of Jewish background. He is thought to be the first modern stand-up comedian. He was known for writing jokes for President John F. Kennedy in his speeches. He was born in Montreal, Quebec.

[[Ibrahim Biogradlić]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Bosnia and Herzegovina footballers, Deaths from disease, Olympic silver medalists, People from Sarajevo

Ibrahim "Ibro" Biogradlić (8 March 1931 – 20 February 2015) was a Bosnian footballer. He was born in Sarajevo, Kingdom of Yugoslavia. He played at 1956 Summer Olympics for SFR Yugoslavia, winning a silver medal. He was capped 646 times for FK Sarajevo, and is the club's record holder with the most appearances.  

He died on 20 February 2015 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina after a long illness, aged 83. 

[[Dick the Bruiser]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1991 deaths, American football players, American professional wrestlers, Green Bay Packers players, Sportspeople from Indiana

William Fritz Afflis (June 27, 1929 – November 10, 1991) was an American professional wrestler and football player. He was better known by his ring name Dick the Bruiser.

Before becoming a professional wrestler, Afflis was a professional football player and played for the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League (NFL) from 1951 until 1954.

On November 10, 1991, Afflis died from internal bleeding. His wife Louise said that he was weightlifting at home with his adopted son, Jon Carney, and ruptured a blood vessel in his esophagus.

[[Joey Haro]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Miami, Florida, Living people, American television actors

Joey Haro is an American actor best known for playing Clark Stevenson on the MTV teen comedy Awkward. He was also a member of The Warblers on Glee.

[[Thermal decomposition]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

Thermal decomposition is a process that causes a chemical compound to break down into simpler chemical compounds or elements under heat.

[[Predicate (grammar)]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar

The predicate in traditional grammar is the second part of a clause or sentence, the first being the subject. A predicate completes an idea about the subject, such as what it does or what it is like.

The predicate provides information about the subject.

The subject NP is shown in green, and the predicate VP in blue.

There is a quite different theory of sentence structure, called dependency structure grammar. This puts the finite verb (= conjugated verb) as the root of all sentence structure. It rejects the binary NP-VP division.

[[Rainier III, Prince of Monaco]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from renal failure, Military personnel of World War II, Princes and princesses of Monaco

Rainier Louis Henri Maxence Bertrand Grimaldi (31 May 1923 – 6 April 2005), also known as Rainier III, ruled the Principality of Monaco for almost 56 years. He was one of the longest ruling monarchs in European history. His family has ruled Monaco for seven centuries. Prince Rainier was internationally known due to his marriage to the American actress Grace Kelly. He was responsible for reforms to the Constitution of Monaco. He expanded the principality's economy beyond its traditional casino gambling base. Gambling accounts for about three percent of the nation's annual revenue today. When Rainier became prince in 1949, it had accounted for more than ninety-five percent.

[[Afa Anoaʻi]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, American movie actors, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from San Francisco, WWE Hall of Fame

Arthur "Afa" Anoa'i, Sr. (born November 21, 1942) is a Samoan American retired professional wrestler and manager. He was best known as one-half of the tag team The Wild Samoans with his brother Sika. He competed in many different National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) affiliates and the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF).

He was born in Samoa and he moved with his family to San Francisco, California. Before becoming a professional wrestler, Anoa'i joined the United States Marine Corps at the age of 17.

After retiring, he started the Wild Samoan Training Facility with Sika. In 1999, along with Lynn Anoa'i, Afa started the Usos Foundation, which is a non-profit organization that aims towards turning young people away from drugs, gangs and poverty by giving scholarships to the Wild Samoans Training Center.

[[Granadilla, Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Ghost towns, Settlements in Extremadura

Granadilla is a ghost town in Spain. It is located in Extremadura. Since 1960 it belongs to Zarza de Granadilla's municipality. On June 24, 1955 its citizens had to leave when the Spanish Council of Ministers built a reservoir. Currently, the area is a summer campsite for young people and tourists.

[[It Gets Better Project]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT, Non-profit organizations

The It Gets Better Project is a non-profit organization that reaches out to LGBT youths who feel depressed or suicidal. Contributors to the project submit videos, essays, and other media. These are to share their stories, experiences, and messages telling LGBT youth that their lives will get better over time. The It Gets Better Project shows LGBT youth that they was not alone in their experiences. It shows they have people to turn to for support. The project was created by Dan Savage and his husband Terry Miller in 2010. It includes submissions by US President Barack Obama and US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.

In 2010, a rash of LGBTQ teen suicides across the U.S. — including Seth Walsh, 13, and Billy Lucas, 15 — inspired the gay advice columnist Dan Savage and his now-husband, Terry Miller, to do something. Together, the pair uploaded a video to YouTube with a simple but profound message: “It gets better.” In response to a number of students taking their own lives after being bullied in school, they wanted to create a personal way for supporters everywhere to tell LGBT youth that, yes, it does indeed get better.

The It Gets Better Project™ has become a worldwide movement, inspiring more than 50,000 user-created videos viewed more than 50 million times. To date, the project has received submissions from celebrities, organizations, activists, politicians and media personalities,including President Barack Obama, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Rep.Nancy Pelosi, Adam Lambert, Anne Hathaway, Colin Farrell, Matthew Morrison of"Glee", Joe Jonas, Joel Madden, Ke$ha, Sarah Silverman, Tim Gunn, Ellen DeGeneres, Suze Orman, the staffs of The Gap, Google, Facebook, Pixar, the Broadway community, and many more.

The nonprofit is run by a small team of less than 10 people, but its reach includes a global affiliate network across 17 countries.

[[The Smiler]]

CATEGORIES: Roller coasters by name, Staffordshire, 2013 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2010s establishments in England

The Smiler is a Gerstlauer Infinity Coaster located at Alton Towers in Staffordshire, United Kingdom. It has 14 inversions. The Smiler holds the world record for the roller coaster with the most inversions. The riders must be 140 tall to ride the smiler. The top speed is about 53. Riders experience about the same G-Force as a drag car driver (about 4.5 Gs). The Smiler had multiple delays before opening to the public including unforseen teething problems on the 23rd which delayed the opening by another 8 days. The Smiler finally opened to the public on the 31 May 2013. The ride's trains are arranged in 4 individual ride cars in which seat four people, leading to a capacity of 16 riders per train. Five trains can run on the track at once, leading to a capacity of 1,000 riders per hour. On June 2nd 2015, an accident occurred where 5 people were seriously injured when the train crashed into a stalled test train in the batwing element.. After rigorous safety checks, the ride reopened in March 2016, and is still operating to this day with no further problems. It is perfectly safe today.

[[Transmission medium]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Energy in transport

A transmission medium  is something (solid, liquid, gas, or plasma) that can transmit energy. For example, the transmission medium for sounds is usually air. But sound can also be transmitted through solids and liquids. A wire can transmit electrons in the form of electricity. There are advantages and disadvantages to every transmission medium. These can be things such as cost, bandwidth (or how much of something can be transmitted), the speed of the transmission and scope.

[[Sika Anoaʻi]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, WWE Hall of Fame

Leati "Sika" Anoa'i (born April 5, 1945) is a Samoan American professional wrestler. He was best known as one-half of the tag team The Wild Samoans with his brother Afa. He competed in many different National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) affiliates and the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF).

He was born in Leone, American Samoa and he moved with his family to San Francisco, California. Before becoming a professional wrestler, Anoa'i joined the United States Merchant Marine to help feed his family.

He started the Wild Samoan Training Facility with Afa. He has two sons, Matthew and Leati Joseph. Matthew was a professional wrestler who wrestled in the WWE under the ring name Rosey. Leati Jr. was a college football player and is now a professional wrestler who works for the WWE under the ring name Roman Reigns.

Rosey died on April 17, 2017.

[[University of Puget Sound]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Washington, Tacoma, Washington

The University of Puget Sound (Puget Sound) is a private liberal arts college in Tacoma, Washington,  United States. It offers Bachelor's, Master's and doctorate degrees. The college draws approximately 2,600 students from 44 states and 16 countries. It offers 1,200 courses each year in more than 50 areas of study. In 2012 Puget Sound was named one of 40 schools in the guide Colleges That Change Lives: 40 Schools That Will Change the Way You Think About Colleges. It has ties to The United Methodist Church. But the college is no longer officially affiliated with the church. The board of trustees is independently elected.

[[Pedro Morales]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Former WWE wrestlers, 2019 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in New Jersey, Puerto Rican professional wrestlers, WWE Hall of Fame

Pedro Morales (October 22, 1942 – February 12, 2019) was a Puerto Rican retired professional wrestler. He competed in many different National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) affiliates, Worldwide Wrestling Associates (WWA), and the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF).

While he was in the WWWF, Morales was the first male wrestler in wrestling history to win all three of the major men's titles in the company. He won the WWWF Championship, the Intercontinental Championship, and the WWF World Tag Team Championship. When he won the WWWF United States Championship, Morales became the first wrestler to hold four different titles within the promotion, a distinction which would later became known as a Grand Slam Championship.

[[Dory Dixon]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Former WWE wrestlers, Jamaican sportspeople, Living people, Professional wrestlers, Weightlifters

Dorrel "Dory" Dixon (born February 1, 1935) is a Jamaican retired professional wrestler. He competed in many different National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) affiliates and Mexican promotions, as well as the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF). He made his professional wrestling debut in Mexico's Empresa Mexicana de la Lucha Libre (EMLL).

Before becoming a professional wrestler, Dixon was competitive weightlifter and was the winner of the "Mr. Jamaica Body Beautiful" tournament. He was chosen to be a member of the Jamaican weightlifting team in the 1954 Central American and Caribbean Games which was held in Mexico City, Mexico. He fell in love with Mexico and he decided to stay back while the rest of the team left back to Jamaica.

Dixon would also wrestle the WWWF World Heavyweight Champion Buddy Rogers at Madison Square Garden in New York City.

[[Country Road]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 establishments in Sweden, 1984 disestablishments in Europe, Swedish musical groups, Örebro, 1980s disestablishments in Sweden

Country Road was a countryband in the town of Örebro in Sweden. It was active between 1973 and 1974. The band played at the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville.

The band also charted at the Swedish album charts.

[[Ulf Georgsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Swedish musicians

Ulf Georg Georgsson, born 22 April 1962 in Kinna Parish in former Älvsborg County, Sweden is a  Swedish songwriter. As a songwriter he has participated at Melodifestivalen. He has also written songs recorded by acts like Lasse Stefanz, Vikingarna, Playtones, Drifters, Zekes, CC & Lee, Black Jack, Barbados, Friends and Frøya.

As a musician he plays the drums in Flamingokvintetten since June 2013. Before that he played the drums 30 years in Bhonus.

He became the second most successful Svensktoppen composer in the year 2000. He was also appointed Svensktoppen "composer of the year" in 2001.

[[Peppa Pig]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 British television series debuts, Animated television series, English-language television programs

Peppa Pig is a British preschool animated television series. It was created, directed and produced by Astley Baker Davies. It originally aired on 31 May 2004. Peppa Pig is distributed by E1 Kids. To date, six seasons have been aired. It is shown in 180 countries.

[[Discrete]]

Discrete in science is the opposite of continuous: something that is separate; distinct; individual.

Discrete may refer to:

[[United Methodist church]]

CATEGORIES: Methodism, Christianity in the United States

The United Methodist Church (UMC) is a Methodist–Christian denomination that is one of the largest Protestant churches in the United States. It was founded in 1968 by the union of the Methodist Church (USA) and the Evangelical United Brethren Church. The UMC traces its roots back to the teachings of John and Charles Wesley in England. With over 8 million members and 35,000 churches it is second only to the Southern Baptist Convention among Protestant denominations. As of 2009, worldwide membership was about 12 million. It is a member of the World Council of Churches, the World Methodist Council, and other religious associations.

[[Rise of the Tomb Raider]]

CATEGORIES: Adventure games, PlayStation 4 games, Windows games, Xbox 360 games, Xbox One games

Rise of the Tomb Raider is an action-adventure video game. It was developed by Crystal Dynamics. It was published by Square Enix and Microsoft Studios. The game is the sequel to the 2013 video game Tomb Raider. It was released in November 2015 for Xbox 360 and Xbox One.	

The game is set in Siberia and it follows Lara Croft and Jonah Maiava as they find an ancient city that was built by the Grand Prince of Vladimir during the 13th century.

[[Son in Law]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 romance movies, 1993 comedy movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Steve Rash, Movies set in Los Angeles, California

Son in Law is a 1993 American romantic comedy movie. It was directed by Steve Rash and was produced by Peter M. Lenkov and Michael Rotenberg. Son in Law was released on July 2, 1993. The movie starred Pauly Shore.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 12% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Michael Wilmington of the Los Angeles Times said that the movie was trying to be a comedy version of Guess Who's Coming to Dinner even thorugh the main character is genuinely a jerk.

[[The Dick Van Dyke Show]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 establishments in the United States, 1966 disestablishments in the United States, American sitcoms, Emmy Award winning programs, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

The Dick Van Dyke Show is an American situation comedy television series. It premiered on CBS on October 3, 1961. The series lasted for 158 half-hour episodes. The show came to an end on June 1, 1966 and is no longer airing. that same year, CBS began broadcasting in color. The show was created and produced by Carl Reiner. The executive producer was Sheldon Leonard. The show starred Dick Van Dyke, Mary Tyler Moore, Rose Marie and Morey Amsterdam. It was about a fictional television comedy writer, Rob Petrie (Van Dyke). The series won 15 Emmy Awards. In 1997, the episodes "Coast-to-Coast Big Mouth" and "It May Look Like a Walnut" were ranked at 8 and 15 on TV Guide's 100 Greatest Episodes of All Time. In 2002, it was ranked at 13 on TV Guide's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.

In 1991, Nick at Nite began airing reruns, and continued airing until 2000, when it was removed from the lineup. It also aired on TV Land from 2000 to 2007, and again from 2011 to 2013.

In 1993, Bud Light launched its Rob and Laura campaign, and continued until 1998. The 30-second black and white spots feature a clip from an episode of The Dick Van Dyke Show. The spot closes with the narrator saying "For the great taste that won't fill you up and never lets you down, Make it a Bud Light".

[[Encino Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 comedy movies, 1990s fantasy movies, American comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in California

Encino Man (known as California Man in Europe) is a 1992 American comedy movie. It was directed by Les Mayfield and was produced by George Zaloom, Hilton A. Green, and Michael Rotenberg. Encino Man was released on May 22, 1992. The movie is about two teenagers from Encino, Los Angeles, California, who discover a caveman in their backyard that is frozen in a block of ice. The caveman has to try and learn to live in the 20th century. A television movie spin-off titled Encino Woman was released in 1996.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 16% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Pauly Shore won a Razzie Award for Worst New Star.

[[Forest-Montiers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Forest-Montiers is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Ochancourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ochancourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Forest-l'Abbaye]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Forest-l'Abbaye is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Le Titre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Le Titre is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 385 people lived there.

In 1288, Edward I of England and his wife Eleanor of Castile bought the castle's land.

[[Nouvion]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Nouvion is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Franleu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Franleu is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Saint-Valery-sur-Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Saint-Valery-sur-Somme is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Beaumetz]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Beaumetz is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Ablaincourt-Pressoir]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ablaincourt-Pressoir is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Acheux-en-Vimeu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Acheux-en-Vimeu is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Béthencourt-sur-Mer]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Béthencourt-sur-Mert is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Bernay-en-Ponthieu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Bernay-en-Ponthieu is a commune. It is in Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in north France.

[[Ponthoile]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ponthoile is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Domvast]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Domvast is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Arry, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Arry is a commune. It is in the Hauts-de-France region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 196 people lived there.

[[Bayonvillers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Bayonvillers is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Vergies]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Vergies is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Lamotte-Buleux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Lamotte-Buleux is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 345 people lived there.

[[Agenvillers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Agenvillers is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Aigneville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Aigneville is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Port-le-Grand]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Port-le-Grand is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Canchy, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Canchy is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Neuilly-l'Hôpital]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Neuilly-l'Hôpital is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Sailly-Flibeaucourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Sailly-Flibeaucourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Saint-Riquier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Saint-Riquier is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[List of musical instruments]]

CATEGORIES: Music-related lists, Musical instruments

This is a list of musical instruments.

[[La Chaussée-Tirancourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

La Chaussée-Tirancourt is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Oneux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Oneux is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 379 people lived there.

[[Ault, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ault is a commune. It is in the Hauts-de-France region in the Somme department in the north of France.

Ault is on the English Channel, 20 west of Abbeville. It has chalk cliffs and a beach of pebbles and sand at low tide.  South of the town is a large wooded valley, the ‘Bois de Cise.  North of the town the cliffs become smaller, to the level of the beach at Onival. The area around the town, the 'hâble d’Ault' was mostly tidal marshland. This has been reclaimed from the sea and is used for farming cattle and sheep.

[[Rue, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Rue is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Yamagata Aritomo]]

CATEGORIES: 1838 births, 1922 deaths, Japanese military people, Prime Ministers of Japan, People from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Yamagata Aritomo was a Field Marshal in the Imperial Japanese Army. He was twice Prime Minister of Japan. Yamagata was the founder of the Imperial Japanese Army.

[[Vron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Vron is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Cefalexin]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Antibiotics

Cefalexin is a type of drug called an antibiotic. It is a type of antibiotic called a cephalosporin. Cefalexin can treat some bacterial infections in areas including the ear, bone, joint, skin, and bladder.  It may also be used for some types of pneumonia and strep throat. Like other antibiotics, cefalexin cannot treat viral infections, such as the flu or common cold.

Cefalexin can be used in children and people over the age of 65.  Using it during pregnancy or breastfeeding has not been shown to cause harm to the baby.  People with kidney problems may need lower doses of cefalexin. 

Common side effects include diarrhea, vomiting, and upset stomach.  Allergic reactions can occur, such as rash or even trouble breathing.  An allergic reaction and infection with Clostridium difficile (C. diff), a severe diarrhea, is also possible. 

Cefalexin can interact with some drugs.  These interactions are usually mild. BCG can treat cancer and also is a tuberculosis vaccine.  Cefalexin and BCG cannot be taken together because the effects of BCG will decrease.  Alcohol may affect the absorption of the drug. 

This drug can be taken by mouth in the form of a tablet, capsule, or suspension.  It is taken with or without food.

[[Drew University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in New Jersey

Drew University is a selective coeducational private university located in Madison, New Jersey, USA.  Drew has been nicknamed the "University in the Forest" because of its wooded 186 campus. The Princeton Review has called Drew one of "America's Top Ten Most Beautiful Colleges". For 2015 it has an enrollment of 1,493 undergraduates. Tuition for the 2014–2015 academic year was $45,214 USD. Drew University has a theology school and is affiliated with the United Methodist church. 

[[MMMBop]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 1997 songs

"MMMBop" is a song by American pop rock group Hanson. It was from their 1997 album Middle of Nowhere. The song hit #1 in several countries, including United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Germany and Mexico.

The song was released on April 15, 1997 in the United States.

[[International Women of Courage Award]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of State, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

The International Women of Courage Award is an American award.  Every year the United States Department of State gives the award to women around the world who have shown the ability to lead other people, the ability to do something that they know is difficult or dangerous, the ability to deal well with new or difficult situations and to find solutions to problems, and who are ready to give up something to help to make people aware of women's rights.

[[Division of Tangney]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Western Australia, 1974 establishments in Australia

The Division of Tangney is an Australian electoral division in the state of Western Australia. It was named after Dame Dorothy Tangney, the first woman in the Australian Senate. it was set up in 1974.

It covers most of the City of Melville and a large part of the City of Canning. In Melville it includes the suburbs of:

In Canning it includes the suburbs of:

[[Mykhailo Chechetov]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2015 deaths, Politicians who committed suicide, Suicides by jumping, Ukrainian politicians

Mykhailo Vasilyevich Chechetov (Чечетов Михайло Васильович; 3 October 1953 – 27 February 2015) was a Ukrainian politician.

Chechetov committed suicide on the night of 27 February 2015 by jumping from the window of his apartment in Kiev.

[[Duck Commander]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, Louisiana, 1972 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Louisiana

Duck Commander is a company that makes duck calls. They also make duck and deer hunting equipment Their main office is in West Monroe, Louisiana, United States.

[[Duck Dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 American television series debuts, 2010s American television series, American reality television series, Louisiana in fiction, English-language television programs

Duck Dynasty is an American reality television series that portrays the lives of the Robertson family and the Duck Commander company.

[[ZZ Top]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 establishments in the United States, 1960s American music groups, 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, Musical groups established in 1969, Musical groups from Texas, Musical trios, Warner Bros. Records artists

ZZ Top is an American rock band from Houston, Texas.

[[Seasons in the Abyss]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 albums, Slayer albums

Seasons in the Abyss is the fifth studio album by American thrash metal band, Slayer. Seasons in the Abyss was released on October 9, 1990 through both Def American Records.

The album debuted at #40 on the Billboard 200. Seasons in the Abyss was certified Gold by both the RIAA in the United States and the CRIA in Canada.

[[Cane Corso]]

CATEGORIES: Molossers

The Cane Corso is an ancient mastiff breed from Italy.  It is a large size dog which is very muscular and loves to run.  It is an excellent watchdog. The Cane Corso has been used to hunt animals such as wild boar.

The Cane Corso is highly intelligent, very trainable, and has a stable temperament. It’s skin is tough.  It has excellent hearing.  It is important that this dog be socialized early.  If carefully trained as a pup, it is very good with other people while always being highly protective of its owner. His name derives from the Latin "Cohors" which means "guardian," "protector." The dog is highly tolerant of pain and sometimes electric fences are ignored by the dog.  The dog also loves and needs daily exercise.

Early training of this dog is imperative. The owner must introduce the dog to his environment. This includes family, friends, nearby cats and dogs.  This is because the Cane Corso breed is first and foremost highly protective of its owner.

[[Holly Smale]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, English children's writers

Holly Smale (born 7 December 1981) is the a British writer. She wrote the best-selling, award-winning series Geek Girl.

Smale won the 2014 Waterstones Children's Book Prize. She was shortlisted for the Roald Dahl Funny Prize. She was recruited by a modelling agency at the age of 15. She modeled for 2 years before deciding to become a writer.

[[The Benchwarmers]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 comedy movies, 2000s sports movies, American comedy movies, 2000s buddy movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Sports comedy movies, Buena Vista International movies

The Benchwarmers is a 2006 American sports-comedy movie. It was directed by Dennis Dugan and was produced by Adam Sandler and Jack Giarraputo. The Benchwarmers was released on April 7, 2006.

[[The Hot Chick]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 comedy movies, 2000s buddy movies, 2000s criminal comedy movies, 2000s fantasy-comedy movies, 2000s sex comedy movies, 2000s teen comedy movies, American criminal comedy movies, American fantasy-comedy movies, American sex comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, Body swapping in fiction, Female buddy movies, English-language movies

The Hot Chick is a 2002 American comedy movie. It was directed by Tom Brady and was produced by John Schneider and Carr D'Angelo. The Hot Chick was released on December 13, 2002. The movie is about teenage girl and a 30-year-old criminal who have their minds magically swapped.

The movie had negative reviews from critics and holds a 21% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Movie critics Roger Ebert and Richard Roeper gave the movie two thumbs down. Ebert also gave the movie half a star out of a four and said "The MPAA rates this PG-13. It is too vulgar for anyone under 13, and too dumb for anyone over 13."

[[Carol Dempster]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1991 deaths, Actors from Minnesota, American movie actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from heart failure, Disease-related deaths in San Diego County

Carol Dempster (December 9, 1901 – February 1, 1991) was an American actress. She was a silent movie star who appeared in movies from 1916 through 1926. She married a wealthy banker and retired from the movie industry. In her later years she was famous for her  philanthropy.

[[Nancy Kulp]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Pennsylvania, American military personnel of World War II, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in California, 1921 births, 1991 deaths

Nancy Kulp (August 28, 1921 – February 3, 1991) was an American actress. She played Miss Jane Hathaway on The Beverly Hillbillies. She also played Anastasia in the NBC sitcom It's a Great Life.

She was born in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. She died from cancer in Palm Desert, California at age 69.

[[50 First Dates]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 comedy movies, 2004 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Hawaii, Movies directed by Peter Segal

50 First Dates is a 2004 American romantic comedy movie. It was directed by Peter Segal. It was produced by Jack Giarraputo, Steve Golin, and Nancy Juvonen. 50 First Dates was released on February 13, 2004.

The movie got negative reviews from critics. It has a 44% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Movie critic Roger Ebert gave the movie three out of four stars. He said "The movie is sort of an experiment for Sandler. He reveals the warm side of his personality, and leaves behind the hostility, anger and gross-out humor... The movie doesn't have the complexity and depth of Groundhog Day... but as entertainment it's ingratiating and lovable."

[[Division of Mayo]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, South Australia, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Mayo is an Australian electoral division in the hills east of Adelaide, South Australia. It includes the Adelaide Hills, Fleurieu Peninsula and Kangaroo Island, including the towns of Bridgewater, Crafers, Echunga, Gumeracha, Hahndorf, Langhorne Creek, Lobethal, Macclesfield, Mount Barker, Myponga, Oakbank, Stirling, Strathalbyn, Victor Harbor, Woodside, Yankalilla, and part of Birdwood.

It was set up in 1984 and is named after Helen Mayo, the first woman elected to an Australian University Council. 

[[Novospassky Monastery]]

CATEGORIES: Monasteries, Russian Orthodox Church, House of Romanov, Buildings and structures in Moscow

Novospassky Monastery (New monastery of the Saviour), is one of the oldest monasteries in Moscow. The first monastery was built in the 14th century. At that time it was inside the walls of the Kremlin. In 1491 the monastery was moved to new buildings on the banks of the Moskva River. It was called the "new monastery". 

In 1571 and 1591, the wooden buildings were attacked by the Crimean Tatars. In 1612, the Tsar, Michael of Russia, had the monastery completely rebuilt. This included the thick stone walls which made it one of the fortified monasteries on the edge of Moscow. These new stone walls were 7.5 meters high and 2 meters thick. They were 782 meters in length, and included six towers. These are the buildings which are still standing. The bell-tower, one of the tallest in Moscow, and the Sheremetev sepulchre in the church of the Sign, were added in the 18th century,

The monastery was supported by Andrei Kobyla's descendants, including the Sheremetyev and Romanov boyars. They used it as their burial vault. Among the last Romanovs buried in the monastery were Xenia Shestova (the mother of the first Romanov Tsar), Princess Tarakanova (a pretender who claimed to have been the only daughter of Empress Elisabeth) and Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich of Russia. 

[[Hebridean Terrane]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland

The Hebridean Terrane is one of the terranes that form part of the Caledonian orogenic belt in northwest Scotland. Its boundary with the neighbouring Northern Highland Terrane is formed by the Moine Thrust Belt.

The basement rock is formed by Archaean and Paleoproterozoic gneisses of the Lewisian complex. They are overlaid unconformably by the Neoproterozoic Torridonian sediments. This in turn is unconformably overlain by a sequence of Cambro–Ordovician sediments. It formed part of the Laurentian foreland during the Caledonian continental collision.

The Hebridean Terrane is the westernmost strip of mainland Scotland, most of the Inner Hebrides and all of the Outer Hebrides. Similar rocks are also thought to be present on Shetland. They have been proved west and north of the Outer Hebrides by BGS shallow boreholes and hydrocarbon exploration wells. The full extent of this terrane to the west is obscured by the effects of Mesozoic rifting.

Some similar rocks occur in Shetland, which are the northern outpost of the Caledonian orogeny,

[[Sudden cardiac death]]

CATEGORIES: Heart disease

Sudden cardiac death is a condition where a person dies because the heart fails to work. It is very common, about 80% of the people have other heart problems. In general three conditions are present:

In general, people become unconscious within one hour form the onset of symptoms.

[[Edsvalla]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Edsvalla is a locality in Karlstad Municipality in Värmland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,016 people lived there.

[[Helsingør]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Denmark, 1420s establishments in Europe, Establishments in Denmark

Helsingør is a city on the northeastern part of Zealand in eastern Denmark. 

[[Division of Port Adelaide]]

CATEGORIES: Former electoral divisions of Australia, South Australia, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Port Adelaide was an Australian electoral division in the state of South Australia. It included the suburbs of Alberton, Beverley, Birkenhead, Cheltenham, Findon, Kilkenny, Largs Bay, Mansfield Park, North Haven, Ottoway, Parafield Gardens, Paralowie, Pennington, Port Adelaide, Queenstown, Rosewater, Salisbury Downs, Semaphore, Woodville, West Croydon, and part of Seaton. The seat also included Torrens Island and Garden Island.

It was set up in 1949, and was named after Port Adelaide, the working port of Adelaide.

The Division was abolished in 2019 when a redistribution cut South Australia's divisions from 11 to 10. 

[[June Diane Raphael]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York, American movie actors, American television actors, American television writers, New York University alumni, Screenwriters from New York, 1980 births, Living people

June Diane Raphael (b. January 4, 1980) is an American actress, comedian and screenwriter. She studied acting at New York University. She played Ann in the movie Forgetting Sarah Marshall. She also played Amanda in Bride Wars.

Raphael was born in Rockville Centre, New York.

[[Smokin' Aces]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 movies, 2000s crime thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Nevada

Smokin' Aces is a 2006 American crime thriller movie. It is about a Las Vegas Strip magician who became a mafia informant and the FBI agent who is assigned to protect him. Taraji P. Henson plays Sharice. Ray Liotta plays Donald. Alicia Keys plays Georgia.

The movie got negative reviews from critics. It made more than $54 million worldwide.

[[List of pharaohs]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of heads of state, Pharaohs

This is a list of the pharaohs of Ancient Egypt. It starts in the Early Dynastic Period, before 3100 BC. It ends with the Ptolemaic Dynasty, when Egypt became a province of Rome under Julius Caesar in 30 BC.

The dates given are approximate. The list of pharaohs uses the dates of Ancient Egypt,  developed by the Petrie Museum of Egyptian Archaeology.

[[Caitlin Stasey]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Actors from Melbourne, Australian child actors, Australian feminists, Australian LGBT people, Australian movie actors, Australian singers, Australian television actors, Musicians from Melbourne, LGBT actors

Caitlin Jean Stasey (born 1 May 1990) is an Australian actress and singer. She is best known for her role in the soap opera Neighbours. She also has appeared in television series such as The Sleepover Club, Please Like Me and Reign. She also appeared in the movies Tomorrow, When the War Began (2010), All Cheerleaders Die (2013), Lust for Love (2014) and I, Frankenstein (2014).

Stasey was born in Melbourne, Victoria. Her English parents are from Norwich. She is a feminist. She married American actor Lucas Neff in 2016.

[[Defragmentation]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

Complex

When file systems store a file, they usually try to store the whole file in one part. When the disk drive fills up, finding an empty space that is large enough becomes more difficult. In such a case, the file systems will split the file into  parts, and store each part at a different location on the disk. This process is known as fragmentation. Fragmentation occurs because the different parts are not stored next to one another. When the file is read, it has to be assembled from the different locations. Files that are stored in one part can be read faster. 

[[Sweden Box Open]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 establishments in Sweden, 1997 disestablishments in Sweden, Boxing, Sport in Stockholm, Sundsvall

The Sweden Box Open was an international amateur boxing event in Sweden. It was held between 1980-1997 The event was often held in January. It was usually held in Stockholm as the Stockholm Box Open. The 1995 and 1996 editions were held in Sundsvall and Timrå.

The event was one of the major amateur boxing competitions in Europe.

[[Skara HF]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 establishments in Europe, Handball clubs in Sweden, 20th century establishments in Sweden

Skara HF is a handball club in Skara, Sweden. It was established on 8 April 1993 when Hangelösa HF and Stenums IF merged their handball sections. The women's team has played in the Swedish top division during the 1990s.

[[Swedish Ski Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 establishments in Sweden, Skiing in Sweden

The Swedish Ski Games (Svenska skidspelen) is an annual cross-country skiing event in Sweden. It was started in Sundsvall in 1947. It was moved to Falun in 1959. Ski jumping and Nordic combined skiing were included up to 1991 as a recurring event. Alpine skiing was also included between 1950-1953 (in Åre). Biathlon was included in 1984. The event is usually held in February or March as one of the final World Cup competitions during the season. The event is usually held at  Lugnet. Sometimes the lack of snow has required the event to be moved to other places in Sweden.

[[Transtrand]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Transtrand is a locality in Malung-Sälen Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 386 people lived there.

[[The Lawnmower Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 movies, 1990s science fiction horror movies, American science fiction horror movies, English-language movies, American independent movies

The Lawnmower Man is a 1992 science fiction-horror movie. It is about a simple-minded gardener who later becomes intelligent. A priest punishes him for not completing his chores. He then gains special powers. Pierce Brosnan plays Dr. Lawrence Angelo.

The movie got mixed reviews from the critics. It made over $32 million at the box office.

[[Man Trouble]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 romance movies, 1992 comedy movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Italian romance movies, Italian comedy movies, Movies set in California

Man Trouble is a 1992 American romantic comedy movie. Ellen Barkin plays Joan. Jack Nicholson plays Harry. Beverly D'Angelo plays Andy.

This movie did not have good reviews from critics. It flopped at the box office.

[[Melina Mercouri]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 1994 deaths, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from lung cancer, Government ministers of Greece, Greek actors, Greek singers, People from Athens

Melina Mercouri (31 October 1925 – 6 March 1994) was a Greek actress, singer, and politician. 

[[Arrhythmia]]

CATEGORIES: Heart disease

Arrhythmia (commonly called irregular heartbeat) is the name for a number of conditions, where the heartbeat is not normal. It may be too fast (tachycardia); too slow (bradycardia); or the heart may not beat in its regular rhythm.

[[Deaths in March 2015]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 deaths, March 2015 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in March 2015. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".

[[Kim Kyung-roul]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, 2015 deaths, Cue sports players, South Korean sportspeople

Kim Kyung-roul (김경률; 23 February 1980 – 22 February 2015) was a South Korean professional billiards player. He won the 2010 Three-Cushion World Cup.

Kim lived in Ilsan, where he died on 22 February 2015, after falling out of his apartment window. He was 34.

[[John Rowlands (author)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, Welsh writers

John Rowlands (1938 – 23 February 2015) was a Welsh language author of several novels including Lle bo'r gwenyn ("Where Bees May Be", 1960). He was a Professor of Welsh Literature.  

[[Rakhat Aliyev]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2015 deaths, Civil servants, People who committed suicide in prison custody, Suicides by hanging

Rakhat Mukhtaruly Aliyev (Рахат Мұхтарұлы Әлиев; 10 December 1962 – 24 February 2015) was a senior official of the government of Kazakhstan. He died in an Austrian prison awaiting trial on charges of murder. His trial was planned to start in Vienna in first half of year 2015. He was chief of Kazakhstan's tax police, deputy chief of the KNB state security service (Kazakhstan's successor to the Soviet KGB), ambassador to Austria, and first vice foreign minister.

[[Irving Kahn]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 2015 deaths, American centenarians, Businesspeople from New York City

Irving Kahn (December 19, 1905 – February 24, 2015) was an American businessman and investor. He was the oldest living active investment professional. He was an early disciple of Benjamin Graham, the creator of the value investing methodology.

Kahn began his career in 1928 and continued to work until his death in 2015. He is one of the most notable alumni of City College of New York.

[[Roger Cecil]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, British painters, Welsh people

Roger Cecil (1942 – c. 22 February 2015) was a Welsh painter and mixed media artist. He was born in Abertillery, and studied at Newport College of Art and St Martin’s School of Art.  In 1964 he won the David Murray Landscape Award from the Royal Academy.

He was known for both his figurative and largely abstract paintings, "rich in imagery, poetry and colour, which are drawn from his environment, the industrial valley towns and mountains."

In later years Cecil suffered from dementia. He was reported as missing from hospital on 21 February 2015, and was last seen in the early hours of 22 February. After a search, his body was found on 24 February in a field near Cwmbran. Gwent Police treated the death as unexplained. They referred themselves to the Independent Police Complaints Commission because a member of the public had spoken to a police officer about Cecil before his body was found.

[[Donald Keough]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Businesspeople from New York

Donald R. Keough (September 4, 1926 – February 24, 2015) was an American businessman. He was the Chairman of the Board of Allen & Company Incorporated, a New York investment-banking firm. He was elected to that position in April 1993.

[[Maurice Hurley (screenwriter)]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, American screenwriters, American television producers

Maurice Hurley (August 16, 1939 – February 24, 2015) was an American screenwriter and producer. He was known best for his work on Star Trek: The Next Generation.

[[Bertrice Small]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, American novelists, Writers from Manhattan

Bertrice Small (December 9, 1937 – February 24, 2015), was an American New York Times bestselling writer of historical and erotic romance novels. She was a member of The Authors Guild, Romance Writers of America, PAN, and PASIC.

[[Boris Nemtsov]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2015 deaths, Assassinated people, Murders by firearm in Russia, Russian murder victims, Russian politicians, Russian physicists, Sochi

Boris Yefimovich Nemtsov (Бори́с Ефи́мович Немцо́в bɐˈrʲis jɪˈfʲiməvʲɪtɕ nʲɪmˈt͡sof; 9 October 1959spaced ndash27 February 2015) was a Russian scientist, statesman and liberal politician. He had a successful political career during the 1990s under President Boris Yeltsin. Since 2000 had been an outspoken critic of Vladimir Putin. He was shot and killed in February 2015 for his pro-democracy views on Russia, probably by loyalists of Vladimir Putin, on a bridge near the Kremlin and Red Square in Moscow.

Nemtsov studied physics, and held the equivalent of a Phd in physics and mathematics, from the university of Nizhny Novgorod, which was called Gorki at the time.

[[Terry Gill]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Cancer deaths in Victoria (Australia), Deaths from lung cancer, English movie actors, English television actors

Terry Gill (25 October 1939 – 25 February 2015) was an Anglo-Australian character actor. He was known for his roles in Crocodile Dundee and in Prisoner.

[[Fritz J. Raddatz]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Bisexual people, German LGBT people, LGBT writers, Suicides in Germany, Writers from Berlin

Fritz Joachim Raddatz (3 September 1931 – 26 February 2015) was a German feuilletonist, essayist, biographer and romancier.

In September 2014 Raddatz announced his retirement from active writing. He was a bisexual.

Raddatz, who was an advocate of Euthanasia, committed suicide at the age of 83 on 26 February 2015 in Zurich. He never wanted to become a nursing case. In full possession of his powers he decided: "That's it, it's enough."

[[Earl Lloyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Detroit Pistons players, Sportspeople from Virginia

He didn’t enter the draft he was just randomly picked. He was walking down campus when someone told him he was picked in the draft

Earl Francis Lloyd (April 3, 1928 – February 26, 2015) was an American professional basketball player. He was the first black person to play in the National Basketball Association, in the 1950–51 NBA season. Three other African Americans played in the same season: Chuck Cooper, Nathaniel Clifton, and Hank DeZonie. 

[[Tom Schweich]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2015 deaths, Ambassadors of the United States, Harvard University alumni, Politicians from St. Louis, Missouri, Politicians who committed suicide, US Republican Party politicians, Yale University alumni

Thomas A. "Tom" Schweich (October 2, 1960 – February 26, 2015) was an American politician, diplomat, attorney, and author. A member of the Republican Party, Schweich served as State Auditor of Missouri.

Prior to being elected State Auditor, he served as the U.S. Coordinator for Counternarcotics and Justice Reform in Afghanistan.  While in that position, he was given the rank of Ambassador by U.S. President George W. Bush.

In the 2010 election, Schweich was elected State Auditor, defeating Democratic incumbent Susan Montee. He was reelected in 2014 without opposition. In 2015, Schweich announced he would run for Governor of Missouri in the 2016 election. On February 26, 2015, he died as a result of injuries sustained from a gunshot wound.

[[Martha Cohen]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2015 deaths, Canadian activists, Canadian Jews, Jewish philanthropists, People from Alberta

Martha Ruth Cohen, CM, AOE, LLD (née Block; 1920 – February 26, 2015) was a Canadian community activist and philanthropist. She was a member of the Order of Canada.

Cohen was of Jewish descent.

[[Avijit Roy]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2015 deaths, American engineers, Bangladeshi people, Bloggers, Murders by blade weapons, Activists, Bangladeshi bloggers, American bloggers

Avijit Roy (অভিজিৎ রায়; 12 September 1972 – 26 February 2015) was a Bangladeshi-American engineer, writer, blogger and secular activist. He was hacked to death in Dhaka, Bangladesh, on 26 February 2015. A Muslim extremist group claimed responsibility for the attack. 

Avjit Roy was a U.S. citizen.  He was born in Bangladesh. His family is Hindu.  He studied microbiology at Dhaka University.  His father Ajoy was a professor of physics at the university.  Avjit Roy moved to the city of Atlanta in the United States.  He had a job there as an engineer.

[[Richard Bakalyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Massachusetts

Richard Bakalyan (January 29, 1931 – February 27, 2015) was an American character actor. He was known for his roles in Batman, Chinatown, The Fox and the Hound.

[[The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by Wes Anderson

The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou is a 2004 American comedy-drama movie directed by Wes Anderson. It stars Bill Murray, Cate Blanchett, Willem Dafoe, Michael Gambon, Jeff Goldblum, Anjelica Huston, Owen Wilson, and Seymour Cassel. It was released to mixed reviews on December 25, 2004.

[[Seymour Cassel]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Detroit, Michigan

Seymour Joseph Cassel (January 22, 1935 – April 7, 2019) was an American actor. He was known for his role as Sam Catchem in Dick Tracy and as Esteban in The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou.

Cassel died of complications from Alzheimer's disease in Los Angeles on April 7, 2019 at the age of 84.

[[Moonrise Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s adventure movies, 2012 comedy-drama movies, 2010s coming-of-age movies, Coming-of-age drama movies, American adventure movies, American comedy-drama movies, American coming-of-age movies, English-language movies, Movies set in the 1960s, Movies set in islands, New England, Movies directed by Wes Anderson

Moonrise Kingdom is a 2012 American comedy-drama adventure movie. It was directed by Wes Anderson and written by Anderson and Roman Coppola. It stars Jared Gilman, Kara Hayward, Bruce Willis, Edward Norton, Bill Murray, Frances McDormand, Jason Schwartzman, Bob Balaban and Harvey Keitel. It is set in New England in 1965. It is about a 12-year-old boy and 12-year-old girl who run away together. It received very positive reviews when it was released on May 25, 2012.

[[Alejandro González Iñárritu]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning directors, BAFTA Award winning directors, Golden Globe Award winning directors, Satellite Award winners, Saturn Award winners, 1963 births, Living people, Mexican movie directors, Mexican screenwriters, Composers, Writers from Mexico City

Alejandro González Iñárritu (born August 15, 1963) is an Academy Award-winning Mexican movie director, screenwriter, movie producer, and composer. His five feature movies – Amores perros (2000), 21 Grams (2003), Babel (2006), Biutiful (2010), Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance) (2014), and The Revenant (2015).

He is also close friends with fellow Mexican filmmakers Alfonso Cuarón and Guillermo del Toro, collectively known as "The Three Amigos of Cinema".

[[Bohdan Tomaszewski]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2015 deaths, Polish writers, Polish sportspeople

Bohdan Tomaszewski (August 10, 1921 – February 27, 2015) was a Polish sports journalist, tennis player, sports commentator, and author of several sports books. Called a “legend of Polish sports journalism”, he was a member of the Polish Writers Association, and, with his son Tomasz, worked for the television station Polsat Sport.

[[Vulcan salute]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek

The Vulcan salute is a hand gesture which became popular by the 1960s television series Star Trek. It is done when the hand is raised with the palm forward and the thumb extended, while the fingers are parted between the middle and ring finger. It is a symbol of greeting by the character Spock. Nimoy based it on a hand gesture used by Jewish priests called Kohanim to bless people in Orthodox Jewish synagogues. 

[[Bob Benmosche]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Businesspeople from New York City

Robert Herman "Bob" Benmosche (May 29, 1944 – February 27, 2015) was the president and chief executive officer of American International Group (NYSE: AIG https://web.archive.org/web/20140406031305/http://www.nyse.com/about/listed/lcddata.html?ticker). He was appointed President & Chief Executive Officer by the US Department of Treasury and AIG Board of Directors to succeed Edward M. Liddy.

[[Yaşar Kemal]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, Kurdish people, Turkish writers

Yaşar Kemal, (born Kemal Sadık Gökçeli 6 October 1923 – 28 February 2015) was a Turkish writer of Kurdish origin. He was one of Turkey's leading writers. Kemal was long a candidate for the Nobel Prize in Literature, on the strength of Memed, My Hawk.

[[Jönköping Concert Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

The Jönköping Concert Hall (Jönköpings konserthus) is a concert hall in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It was opened in September 1990.

There are two halls. They are the Hammaskjöld Hall (Hammaskjöldsalen) and the Rydberg Hall (Rydbergssalen).

[[Minnie Miñoso]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, African-American baseball players, Chicago White Sox players, Cleveland Indians players, Cuban sportspeople, Deaths from COPD, Disease-related deaths in Chicago, Illinois, Naturalized citizens of the United States, St. Louis Cardinals players

Minnie Miñoso (Saturnino Orestes Armas "Minnie" Miñoso Arrieta, m; miˈɲoso, November 29, 1922 – March 1, 2015), nicknamed "The Cuban Comet" and "Mr. White Sox", was a Cuban-American professional baseball player. 

He began his career in the Negro league in 1946, becoming an All-Star third baseman with the New York Cubans in 1947 and 1948. He was signed by the Cleveland Indians after the 1948 season as baseball's color line slowly fell. 

In 1949, he became the first black Cuban in the major leagues, and went on to become a seven-time All-Star. In 1951, as a rookie left fielder for the Chicago White Sox, he became the first black player in White Sox franchise history, and one of the first Latin Americans to be named to a major league All-Star team.

Miñoso was found dead in the driver's seat of a car near a gas station in Chicago at 1 am on March 1, 2015, aged 92. He died of a torn pulmonary artery caused by COPD.

[[Jönköping Theatre]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 establishments in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Jönköping, Theatres

The Jönköping Theatre (Jönköpings teater) is a theatre in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It is also used for concerts. It was opened on 2 December 1904.

[[Supergame]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 establishments in Sweden, Football in Sweden, Sport in Gothenburg

The Supergame (Supermatchen) is an annual soccer event. It is played at Nya Ullevi in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. The first game was played in 2012. It is usually played as a game between two top club teams in July-August. It is mostly an exhibition game. It is however given much attention as its played between major clubs. Draws are followed up by penelaty shootouts.

[[Pavel Chekov]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: The Original Series characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1966

Pavel Andreievich Chekov is a fictional character in the television and movie franchise Star Trek. He one of the navigators of the Starship Enterprise.  Chekov is played by actor Walter Koenig in The Orginal Series and by Anton Yelchin in the three Kelvin Timeline movies before his death in 2016.

[[Spira Culture Center]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 establishments in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

The Spira Culture Center (Kulturhuset Spira) is a culture center in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It was opened on 11 November 2011.

[[Montgomery Scott]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: The Original Series characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1966

Montgomery Scott is a fictional character in the television and movie franchise Star Trek. He one of the navigators of the Starship Enterprise.  Scotty is played by actor James Doohan and by Simon Pegg.

[[Leonard McCoy]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: The Original Series characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1966

Leonard McCoy is a fictional character in the television and movie franchise Star Trek. He works as a doctor of the Starship Enterprise.   McCoy is played by actor DeForest Kelley and by Karl Urban.

[[Uhura]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: The Original Series characters

Nyota Uhura is a fictional character in the television and movie franchise Star Trek. She works as a lieutenant of the Starship Enterprise.  Uhura is played by actress Nichelle Nichols and by Zoe Saldana.

[[Drottningstorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Drottningstorp is a village in Habo Municipality, Sweden. It is located near the western shorelines of Domneådammen betwen Habo and Mullsjö. An annual country music festival called "Drottningstorps midsommardagscountry" has been held here on Midsummer Day since 2006.

[[Hikaru Sulu]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: The Original Series characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1966

Hikaru Sulu is a fictional character in the television and movie franchise Star Trek. He is a lieutenant of the Starship Enterprise.  Sulu is played by actor George Takei and by John Cho.

[[Nichelle Nichols]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Singers from Chicago, Actors from Chicago

Nichelle Nichols (born Grace Dell Nichols on December 28, 1932) is an American actress, singer and voice artist. She was known for her role as Uhura in the sci-fi television series Star Trek: The Original Series.

In May 2018, Nichols' son, Kyle Johnson, announced that she was suffering from "severe" short-term memory loss as a complication of advanced dementia.

[[Khan Noonien Singh]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek characters

Khan Noonien Singh, better known as Khan, is a fictional villain in the Star Trek science fiction franchise. The character first appeared in the 1967 Star Trek: The Original Series episode "Space Seed". He also appeared in the 1982 movie Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan. In both of those, he was portrayed by Ricardo Montalbán. In the 2013 movie Star Trek Into Darkness, he was played by Benedict Cumberbatch.

[[Sentinel Prime]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters, Transformers (franchise)

Sentinel Prime is the name of several fictional characters in many of the Transformers series. First mention of Sentinel Prime was in issue #65 of the US Marvel Comics Transformers series, where he was mentioned to hold the Autobot Matrix of Leadership before Optimus Prime. 

Sentinel Prime is One of the members of the Dynasty of Primes and dedicated as the leader of the autobots and has since appeared in a variety of forms as either Optimus Prime's mentor or friend. In the 2011 live action movie Transformers: Dark of the Moon, Sentinel was the main villain and was voiced by Leonard Nimoy. 

[[Chungking Express]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 drama movies, Chinese movies, Hong Kong movies

Chungking Express is a 1994 drama movie made in Hong Kong. It was directed by Wong Kar-wai. The movie has two stories, one after the other. Each story is about a policeman who is unlucky in love. The main actors in the first half were Takeshi Kaneshiro and Brigitte Lin. The second half of the movie stars Tony Leung as a different policeman. Valerie Chow plays the flight attendant. The movie features the American song "California Dreamin'" and other songs by Faye Wong. The movie received good reviews.

[[Robbins, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois

Robbins is a village in Cook County, Illinois, United States. The population was 5,337 at the 2010 census.

[[Gastric bypass surgery]]

CATEGORIES: Surgery, Obesity

Gastric bypass surgery is a surgery in which the stomach is divided and the gastrointestinal tract is redirected. The surgery is performed on people who have morbid obesity or have type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure or other weight-related health problems. 

As with all surgery, problems may occur. Some people could die after having the surgery.

Gastric bypass surgery can be done using methods that make only small incisions (cuts) into the abdomen. It is one of the most difficult surgeries to perform that way. Advantages of using those methods include that patients don't have to stay in the hospital as long, they have less pain, it doesn't take as long to recover, and the scars are smaller.

[[Swedish Ski Association]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 establishments in Sweden, Skiing in Sweden

The Swedish Ski Association (Svenska Skidförbundet) is a special sports association for skiing in Sweden. It was established in Sundsvall on 11 December 1908 as the Swedish Cross-Country Skiing Association (Svenska skidlöpningsförbundet). It changed name in 1911. The headquarters were originally located in Stockholm. On 3 May 2001 the headquarters were relocated to the town of Falun.

[[Östersund Ski Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Skiing in Sweden, Östersund

The Östersund Ski Stadium (Östersunds skidstadion) is a facility for cross-country skiing, biathlon and ski orienteering in the town of Östersund in Sweden. It was appointed national stadium for Swedish biathlon in October 2013 . Since 2007 the stadium has always snow starting on 1 November. This is because it uses leftover snow gathered by Östersund Municipality over the spring and summertime season.

[[Swedish Biathlon Federation]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments in Sweden, Skiing in Sweden

The Swedish Biathlon Federation (Svenska Skidskytteförbundet) is a special sports association for biathlon in Sweden. It was established in 1986. It was appointed into the Swedish Sports Confederation in November 1987. It joined the Swedish Sports Confederation on 1 July 1988. Its headqarters are located in the town of Östersund.

[[Francisco González Ledesma]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Spain, Comics writers, Deaths from stroke, Spanish journalists, Spanish novelists, Writers from Barcelona

Francisco González Ledesma (March 17, 1927 – March 2, 2015) was a Spanish journalist, comic writer and novelist. He was a popular crime novelist. He wrote under the pseudonym Silver Kane. He published over 1000 novels, most of them in western novels. Ledesma was born in Barcelona, Spain.

Ledesma died in Barcelona, Spain from complications of a stroke, aged 87.

[[Laxmi Aggarwal]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Indian activists, Crime victims, Living people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Laxmi Aggarwal (born 1 June 1990) is a leading figure for the "Stop Acid Attacks" group in India.  In 2014, US First Lady Michelle Obama gave Laxmi received an International Women of Courage Award.  NDTV (New Delhi Television Limited) chose her as Indian of the Year.

[[Jaden Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, Living people, Actors from Malibu, California

Jaden Christopher Syre Smith (born July 8, 1998) is an American actor and rapper. He is the son of actors Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith. He is the older brother of singer Willow Smith and younger half-brother of Trey Smith. His first movie role was in the 2006 movie The Pursuit of Happyness. He has also appeared in The Day the Earth Stood Still (2008) and The Karate Kid (2010).

[[Un refugio para el amor]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 television series debuts, Telenovelas, Mexican television series, 2010s establishments in Mexico

Un refugio para el amor (A Shelter For Love) is a Mexican telenovela. It is produced by Televisa.

[[Digital Millennium Copyright Act]]

CATEGORIES: United States federal legislation, Internet, Copyright

The Digital Millennium Copyright Act is a copyright law that protects copyright on the internet in the U.S.A. This Act was passed by the United States Congress in 1998.

It puts into effect two 1996 treaties of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). It criminalizes production and distribution of technology, devices, or services intended to circumvent (get around) measures which control access to copyrighted works. These "measures" are commonly known as digital rights management or DRM.

The WIPO Copyright Treaty is the basis of protecting copyright on the web.

[[Thelarche]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality, Breasts

Thelarche means the development of breasts in human females during puberty (sexual development).

[[Gonadarche]]

CATEGORIES: Human body features

Gonadarche refers to the first gonadal changes of puberty. The ovaries in girls and the testes in boys begin to grow and increase the production of the sex steroids.

[[Law of the excluded middle]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

The law of the excluded middle is a simple rule of logic. It states that for any proposition, there is no middle ground. Every proposition is either true or false. For example, "Ginger is a cat" affirms the fact that Ginger is a cat. If it is true, then its opposite cannot also be true. If Ginger is a cat, then Ginger is not something else.

In mathematics, the law of the excluded middle is a key presupposition behind a proof technique called proof by contradiction. Because of that, those who reject the validity of the law of the excluded middle (for example, the intuitionists) must also reject the validity of proof by contradiction as well.

[[Swedish Basketball Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball, 1952 establishments in Europe, Sport in Stockholm, 1950s establishments in Sweden

The Swedish Basketball Federation (Svenska Basketbollförbundet) is a special sports association for basketball in Sweden. It was established on 25 October 1952. It was established out of the Swedish Handball Federation's basketball section. The Swedish Handball Federation's basketball section had been started in 1948. Its headqarters are in Stockholm.

[[Finnish Ski Association]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 establishments in Europe, Skiing in Finland, Helsinki, Lahti, 20th century establishments in Finland

The Finnish Ski Association (Suomen Hiihtoliitto, Finlands skidförbund) is a skiing governing body in Finland. It is based in the towns of Helsinki and Lahti. It is a member of FIS. It runs cross-country skiing, ski jumping and Noridc skiing. Sections for alpine skiing and freestyle skiing are instead within the Ski Sport Finland.

It was established in 1908 as Liitto Suomen hiihtourheilun edistämiseksi. The first chairman was Lennart Munck Af Flukila. It modern name was adopted in 1931.

[[Pajala IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 establishments in Sweden, Basketball clubs in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Table tennis clubs in Sweden, Volleyball clubs in Sweden

Pajala IF is a sports club club in Pajala in Sweden. It was established in 1930. It originally played soccer. It later also adopted basketball, table tennis, soccer, floorball, ice hockey, skiing and volleyball.

The men's volleyball team played in the Swedish top division during the season of 2000-2001.

[[Elitserien (men's volleyball)]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Sweden, Volleyball, Sports leagues

Elitserien  (Elitserien i volleyboll för herrar) is the Swedish men's volleyball top top division. It is followed up by the Swedish national championship playoff by late February-early March.

[[Elitserien (women's volleyball)]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Sweden, Volleyball, Sports leagues

Elitserien  (Elitserien i volleyboll för damer) is the Swedish men's volleyball top top division. It is followed up by the Swedish national championship playoff by late February-early March.

[[Hjorthagens IP]]

CATEGORIES: Stadiums in Sweden, Football stadiums in Sweden, Sport in Stockholm, Buildings and structures in Stockholm

Hjorthagens IP is a sports ground in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. It has been used by Djurgårdens IF FF as practice ground. It has also been used by Djurgårdens IF Handikappfotbollförening as well as Värtans IK. In the wintertime is has been ice skating.

Three soccer grounds using artificial turfs were opened on 3 October 2012.

[[Marie McDonald]]

CATEGORIES: American stage actors, American movie actors, Singers from Kentucky, Actors from Kentucky, 1923 births, 1965 deaths

Marie McDonald (July 6, 1923 – October 21, 1965) was an American singer and actor. She was known as "The Body Beautiful" and later nicknamed "The Body". She was in many movies and television programs. In Lucky Jordan, she played Pearl. In Guest of the House, she played Miriam.

On January 5, 1957, a truck driver found McDonald on a highway near Indio, California. After she was rescued, a doctor found she had two cracked teeth, bruises on her face and injuries on her neck, legs and cheek. She claimed that she was kidnapped by two men. Police began doubting McDonald's story. Harry Karl, her estranged husband, also doubted the story, and claimed she was not well.

McDonald was born in Kentucky. She died from an overdose of drugs at age 42 in California.

[[Okefenokee Swamp]]

CATEGORIES: Wetlands, Geography of Georgia (U.S. state), Geography of Florida

The Okefenokee is a swamp, a National Wildlife Refuge and a U.S. wilderness area. It is  shallow, 438,000 acre (1,770 km²), peat-filled wetland straddling the Georgia–Florida border in the United States. 

The Okefenokee is the largest "blackwater" swamp in North America. The term Okefenokee in Native American is "land of trembling earth". The swamp was designated a National Natural Landmark in 1974. The Okefenokee Swamp is considered to be one of the Seven Natural Wonders of Georgia. 

The swamp was formed over the past 6,500 years by the build-up of peat in a shallow basin on the edge of an ancient Atlantic coastal terrace, the geological relic of a Pleistocene estuary. 

The swamp is bordered by Trail Ridge, a strip of higher land believed to have formed as coastal dunes or an offshore barrier island. The Suwanee River drains at least 90% of the swamp's watershed southwest towards the Gulf of Mexico. 

Longtime residents of the Okefenokee Swamp, "Swampers", are mostly of English ancestry. Due to their isolation, the Swampers used Elizabethan phrases and syntax well into the twentieth century. The Suwanee Canal was dug across the swamp in the late nineteenth century in a failed attempt to drain the Okefenokee. After the Suwanee Canal Company's bankruptcy, most of the swamp was bought by the Hebard family of Philadelphia, who logged cypress from 1909 to 1927. Several other logging companies ran railroad lines into the swamp until 1942; some remains are visible across swamp waterways. Most of the Okefenokee Swamp is included in the 403,000 acre (1630 km²) Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge.

A wildfire begun by a lightning strike near the center of the Refuge on May 5, 2007 eventually merged with another wildfire which began near Waycross, Georgia, on April 16 when a tree fell on a power line. By May 31, more than 600000, or more than 935 square miles, had burned in the region.

The Okefenokee Swamp Alliance is a conservation group that works for the continued preservation of the swamp.

[[James Paris Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1831 births, 1904 deaths, American inventors, Canadian inventors, Scottish inventors

James Paris Lee (9 August 1831 –  24 February 1904) was a British, Canadian and later American inventor. He was also a small arms designer. Lee is best known for inventing the Lee-Metford and Lee-Enfield series of rifles.

Lee was born in Hawick, Scotland, 9 August 1831. At age 12 he created his first gun. He accidentally blew himself up with gunpowder. He also accidentally shot himself, twice. His family was surprised he reached adulthood. He was obsessed with guns, but he was apprenticed to a clockmaker. His family migrated to Canada. Lee worked making and repairing clocks and watches. In 1850 he opened his own shop where he could work on rifles in his spare time.

[[Blackwater river]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers

A blackwater river is a river with a deep, slow-moving channel flowing through forested swamps or wetlands. Its colour is caused by the decaying vegetation. As vegetation decays, tannins leach into the water, making a transparent, acidic water that is darkly stained, looking like tea or coffee. 

Most rivers in the Amazon Basin and the Southern United States are  blackwater rivers. Not all dark rivers are blackwater in that technical sense. Some rivers in temperate regions, which drain or flow through areas of dark black soil, are black due to the color of the soil. These rivers are black mud rivers or estuaries.

Blackwater rivers are lower in nutrients than whitewater rivers and have ionic concentrations higher than rainwater.  The unique conditions lead to flora and fauna that differ both from whitewater and clearwater rivers. 

The classification of Amazonian rivers into black, clear and whitewater was first proposed by Alfred Russel Wallace in 1853.

[[Edmund Ignatius Rice]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1844 deaths, Missionaries

Edmund Ignatius Rice (Éamann Iognáid Rís; 1 June 1762 – 29 August 1844), was a Roman Catholic missionary and educator. Rice was the founder of two religious institutes of monks. In 1808 Rice and several friends took religious vows and became the Presentation Brothers. In 1822, as Brother Ignatius, he was elected Superior general of the Irish Christian Brothers.

In 1779 he became his uncle's apprentice in a merchant business. Rice inherited the business about 1790 after his uncle died. He became a successful businessman. After his wife died he dedicated his life and wealth to helping the poor.

[[Dave Mackay]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2015 deaths, 1958 FIFA World Cup players, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers, Sportspeople from Edinburgh

David Craig Mackay (14 November 1934 – 2 March 2015) was a Scottish football player and manager. 

Mackay was best known for a highly successful playing career with Heart of Midlothian, the Double-winning Tottenham Hotspur side of 1961, and winning the league with Derby County as a manager. He also represented Scotland 22 times, and was selected for their 1958 FIFA World Cup squad.

Mackay died on 2 March 2015 in Nottingham, England at the age of 80.

[[Joshua Fishman]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, American educators, People from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Joshua Aaron Fishman (Yiddish: שיקל פֿישמאַן — Shikl Fishman; July 18, 1926 – March 1, 2015) was an American linguist. He specialized in the sociology of language, language planning, bilingual education, and language and ethnicity.

Fishman was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He died in The Bronx, New York, aged 88.

[[Anthony Mason (basketball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, New Jersey Nets players, Denver Nuggets players, New York Knicks players, Milwaukee Bucks players, Miami Heat players, Sportspeople from Miami, Florida, Sportspeople from New York City, Sportspeople from Tennessee, People of Tennessee State University

Anthony George Douglas Mason (December 14, 1966 – February 28, 2015) was an American professional basketball player. In his 13-year career he played with the New Jersey Nets, Denver Nuggets, New York Knicks, Charlotte Hornets, Milwaukee Bucks and Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association. 

Mason was born in Miami, Florida. He spend most of his life in Tennessee and in New York City. Mason studied at Tennessee State University.

Mason played for Tennessee State University and played professionally in Turkey, Venezuela, the Continental Basketball Association (CBA) and the United States Basketball League (USBL).

Mason suffered a massive heart attack in early February 2015 and was diagnosed with congestive heart failure. He died on February 28, 2015 in Manhattan, New York at the age of 48 from the illness.

[[M. Stanton Evans]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2015 deaths, American academics, American activists, Cancer deaths in Virginia, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Journalists from Texas, People from Chattanooga, Tennessee, Writers from Tennessee, Writers from Texas, Writers from Washington, D.C., Yale University alumni

Medford Stanton Evans (July 20, 1934 – March 3, 2015) was an American journalist, author and educator. He was the author of eight books, including Blacklisted by History: The Untold Story of Senator Joe McCarthy and His Fight Against America's Enemies (2007). 

Evans was born in Kingsville, Texas. He was raised in Chattanooga, Tennessee and in the Washington, D.C. area. He studied at Yale University. Evans died in Leesburg, Virginia from pancreatic cancer, aged 80.

[[Enrique Bolaños]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Presidents of Nicaragua, Vice Presidents of Nicaragua

Enrique José Bolaños Geyer (13 May 1928 – 14 June 2021) was a Nicaraguan politician. He was the President of Nicaragua from 10 January 2002 to 10 January 2007.

Bolaños died in Nindirí, Nicaragua on 14 June 2021, just one month after his 93rd birthday.

[[Arturo Armando Molina]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Presidents of El Salvador

Colonel Arturo Armando Molina (August 6, 1927 – July 19, 2021) was the 36th President of El Salvador. He served between July 1, 1972 and July 1, 1977. Molina was a member of the National Conciliation Party.

Molina died on July 19, 2021 in El Salvador at the age of 93.

[[José Napoleón Duarte]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1990 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, Presidents of El Salvador, Mayors

José Napoleón Duarte Fuentes (November 23, 1925 – February 23, 1990) was a Salvadoran politician. He served as President of El Salvador from 1984 to 1989.  He was mayor of San Salvador before running for president in 1972.

Duarte died of stomach cancer in San Salvador at the age of 64.

[[All Apologies]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 songs, Nirvana songs, Rock ballads

"All Apologies" is the second single off American rock band Nirvana's third studio album In Utero. The song was released on December 6, 1993. It was released as a double A-side along with the song "Rape Me".

On the Billboard charts, All Apologies ranked at #1 on the Alternative Songs, #4 on the Mainstream Rock, and #45 on the Radio Songs charts.

In 1995, the song was nominated for two Grammy Awards in the categories of Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal and Best Rock Song in 1995. "All Apologies" won a BMI award winning song. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame included the song on their list of "The Songs That Shaped Rock and Roll".

[[European green woodpecker]]

CATEGORIES: Piciformes

The European green woodpecker (Picus viridis), or European green woodpecker, is a member of the woodpecker family Picidae. It occurs in most of Europe and in western Asia. There are four subspecies. All have green upperparts, paler yellowish underparts, and a red crown.

The woodpecker spends much of its time feeding on ants on the ground and does not often 'drum' on trees like other woodpecker species. It is a shy bird but usually draws attention with its loud calls. A nest hole is excavated in a tree; four to six eggs are laid which hatch after 19–20 days.

It gives a loud call known as  yaffling.

Old deciduous trees for nesting, and nearby feeding grounds with plenty of ants, is essential. This is usually found in semi-open landscapes with small woodlands, hedges, scattered old trees, edges of forests and floodplain forests. Suitable habitats for foraging include grassland, heaths, plantations, orchards and lawns.

[[Honeyguide]]

CATEGORIES: Piciformes

Honeyguides (family Indicatoridae) are near-passerine birds of the order Piciformes.  They are also known as 'indicator birds', or 'honey birds'.

They have an Old World tropical distribution, with most species in Africa and two in Asia. These birds are known for their interaction with humans. One or two species will deliberately lead humans to bee colonies, so that they can feast on the grubs and beeswax that are left behind.

[[Brood parasitism]]

CATEGORIES: Parasitism, Birds

Brood parasites are animals, usually birds, which trick other species to raise their young. The best-known example is the cuckoo. Brood parasitism works because the parasite develops faster than the resident eggs, kills its nestmates and turfs them out of the nest. The adult birds cannot tell the difference in the young, and spend their time raising the offspring of another species. In some cases, the parasite has the ability to make the begging cheeps of the host species.

The strength of defences and counter-adaptation rely on the species' ability to evolve. Some host species have very strong rejection defences. This makes the parasitic species evolving to have very close mimicry. But in other species, hosts do not reject the foreign egg. As a result, the parasitic species shows no egg mimicry.

Similar methods are used by some fish and insects.

[[Diggiloo]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments in Europe, Swedish music, 2000s establishments in Sweden

Diggiloo is an outdoor summertime show where famous artists tour Sweden. They perform songs accompanied by a live band. It debuted in 2003 with shows only in Båstad. The event became touring in 2004.

[[Ilha da Queimada Grande]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic islands, Islands of South America, Geography of Brazil

Ilha da Queimada Grande is an island off of the coast of São Paulo state in Brazil. The island has earned the nickname of Snake Island. It is the home of the Golden Lancehead Viper (Bothrops insularis), one of the most venomous snakes in the world. The Brazilian Navy bans people from visiting, though some biologists and researchers are able to receive waivers to visit the island.

[[Sapporo International Ski Marathon]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 establishments in Japan, Skiing, Sport in Japan

The Sapporo International Ski Marathon is a cross-country skiing marathon in Japan. It was held for first time in 1981 and is a part of Worldloppet since 1985.

[[Dolomitenlauf]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in Europe, Skiing, Sport in Austria, Tyrol (state), 1970s establishments in Austria

The Dolomitenlauf is a cross-country skiing marathon in Austria. It was first held in 1970 and has been part of Worldloppet as long as Worldloppet has been around.

[[Gatineau Loppet]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 establishments in Canada, Skiing in Canada, Sport in Quebec

The Gatineau Loppet, earlier known as Rivière Rouge, Gatineau 55 and Keskinada Loppet, is a cross-country skiing marathon in Canada. It is usually held in February outside Gatineau in the Québec Province. It was held for first time in 1979 and has been part of Worldloppet since then.

[[David Usher]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Canadian rock musicians, Canadian singer-songwriters, Humanists, Living people, Musicians from Ontario, People from Oxford

David Usher (born April 24, 1966) is an British-born Canadian rock singer-songwriter. He is the lead singer of the alternative rock band Moist. 

Usher was born in Oxford, England. He lived in many different places such as Malaysia, New York City, California and Thailand before his family decided to finally settle in Kingston, Ontario. Usher attended high school at Kingston Collegiate and Vocational Institute and he attended Simon Fraser University in Burnaby, British Columbia. He majored in political science. While attending Simon Fraser, Usher formed Moist with guitarist Mark Makowy and keyboardist Kevin Young.

Usher is also a humanist, and he has been involved in causes like War Child Canada, White Ribbon Campaign and Amnesty International. He was featured in the 2001 MuchMusic special Musicians in the WarZone, a humanitarian documentary which was produced by War Child Canada and was directed by filmmaker Liz Marshall.

[[Ushuaia Loppet]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments, Skiing, Sport in Argentina, 20th-century establishments in Argentina

The Ushuaia Loppet is a cross-country skiing marathon in Argentina. It was first held in 1986.

[[Bieg Piastów]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in Europe, Skiing, Sport in Poland, 20th century establishments in Poland

The Bieg Piastów is a cross-country skiing marathon in Poland. It was held for first time in 1976  and is part of Worldloppet since 2008.

[[Tuskegee Airmen]]

CATEGORIES: United States Army, 1940 establishments in the United States, 1950s disestablishments in the United States, 1952 disestablishments

The Tuskegee Airmen t is the popular name for a group of African-American military pilots (fighter and bomber) who fought in World War II. Formally, they formed the 332nd Fighter Group and the 477th Bombardment Group of the United States Army Air Forces. The name also applies to the crew members and support personnel. Their units were all black and all segregated. They had an outstanding record. As fighter escorts they had the reputation that not a single bomber was lost to enemy action while being escorted by Tuskegee airmen. 

The Tuskegee Airmen were the first African-American military aviators in the United States Armed Forces. During World War II, Black Americans in many U.S. states were still subject to the Jim Crow laws. Most Tuskegee pilots were trained at Tuskegee Army Airfield in Tuskegee, Alabama. Training bomber crews took longer than training fighter pilots and the war was won before they finished. Navigators and other crew members trained at various army based in the US.

[[Demino Ski Marathon]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 establishments in Russia, Skiing, Sport in Russia

The Demino Ski Marathon is a cross-country skiing marathon in Russia. It was held for first time on 2007 and was appointed as a Worldloppet event in June 2012.

[[Merino Muster]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments, Skiing, Sport in New Zealand, 1990s establishments in New Zealand

The Merino Muster is a cross-country skiing marathon on the South Island of New Zealand. It was held for first time in 1995 and is part of Worldloppet since 2014.

[[East London]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of London

East London is the northeastern part of London. It is east of the City of London.

It does not have an official definition. The idea has its origins in 1720 as "That part beyond the Tower". By 1950 it was called East London and included all of Greater London east of the City of London and north of the River Thames. This area now makes up the London boroughs of Barking and Dagenham, Hackney, Havering, Newham, Redbridge, Tower Hamlets and Waltham Forest. It includes one of the highest ethnic minority populations in the country, mostly families of South Asian origin.

The East End of London is a subset of East London, corresponding to areas closer to the ancient City. 

The early development of London eastward was caused by shipping on the River Thames. There were docks and shipbuilding. These industries declined after World War II. Felixstowe is now used as the main container port of southern England. East London is now an area of regeneration. 

Areas further east developed in the Victorian and Edwardian eras following the expansion of the railways in the 19th century.  In Tower Hamlets the population peaked in 1891 and growth was restricted to the outer boroughs. By 1971 the population had peaked in every borough and the entire area was experiencing population decline. By the time of the 2011 census this had reversed and every borough had some growth in population.

Many famous places like Spitalfields, Brick Lane and Shoreditch are in East London.

[[Allister]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments in Illinois, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American punk bands, Musical groups established in 1995, Musical groups from Chicago, Pop punk bands, Musical groups disestablished in 2007, 2007 disestablishments in the United States, 2000s disestablishments in Illinois, Musical groups established in 2010, 2010 establishments in Illinois

Allister is an American punk rock band from Chicago, Illinois. 

[[Bio-Dome]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Buddy movies, English-language movies

Bio-Dome is a 1996 American stoner comedy movie. It was directed by Jason Bloom. It was produced by Bradley Jenkel, Brad Krevoy, and Steven Stabler. Bio-Dome was released on January 12, 1996.

The movie got negative reviews from critics. It has a 5% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Shore co-won a Razzie Award for Worst Actor and was tied with Tom Arnold who had won for Big Bully, Carpool and The Stupids.

[[AIDS (MS-DOS)]]

CATEGORIES: Malware

AIDS is a computer virus that infects .COM and .EXE files. In MS-DOS, the .COM and .EXE files run programs including the operating system. When a computer is infected with this virus, it loads the virus into the computer memory. There, the AIDS virus may infect another .COM or .EXE file each time it is run. AIDS writes on the first 13,952 bytes of an infected executable file. These corrupted files have to be deleted and replaced by non-corrupted backups to remove the virus.  

This virus is also known as the "Hahaha virus" in Europe. IBM calls it the "Taunt virus". When an infected computer starts up, it displays a message, with AIDS covering about half of the screen. The system is then halted. It is impossible to recover the original information of the file on the rewritten part.

[[Gilles Corey]]

CATEGORIES: Salem Witch Trials, 1621 births, 1692 deaths

Giles Corey (1621 – September 19, 1692) was accused of witchcraft along with his wife Martha Corey during the Salem Witch Trials. After being arrested for witchcraft, Corey refused to enter a plea of guilty or not guilty. As a result he was pressed to death.

[[Maha Al Muneef]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Saudi Arabian people, 1960 births, Physicians

Maha Al Muneef (Arabic:  مها عبدالله المنيف) is a pediatrician from Saudi Arabia. She specializing in infectious diseases in children. Al-Muneef won an International Women of Courage Award in 2014. 

[[Swept Away (2002 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 romance movies, 2002 comedy movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, Italian romance movies, Italian comedy movies, Movies set in Greece, Movies set in Italy, Movies directed by Guy Ritchie

Swept Away is a 2002 romantic comedy movie. Madonna plays Amber Leighton. Elizabeth Banks plays Debi. Jeanne Tripplehorn plays Marina.

The movie received bad reviews from the movie critics. It was a box office bomb. It made only $1,036,000, compared to the ten million dollars it cost to make. It received a Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Picture of 2002.

[[Maureen Dowd]]

CATEGORIES: American journalists, 1952 births, Living people, Pulitzer Prize winners

Maureen Dowd (born January 14, 1952) is an American columnist for The New York Times. She is also a best-selling author. She worked for Time magazine in the 1970s and 1980s. She worked for the Washington Star. She first joined The New York Times in 1983.

In 1999, Dowd received a Pulitzer Prize. It was for her series of columns on the Monica Lewinsky scandal in the Clinton administration.

She was born in Washington, D.C..

[[Nada Se Compara Contigo]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 albums, Spanish-language albums

Nada Se Compara Contigo (Nothing Compares to You) is the tenth studio album released by Salvadoran performer Álvaro Torres. It was released on November 19, 1991. The album received a nomination for Latin Pop Album of the Year at the 5th Annual Lo Nuestro Awards.

[[Ricardo Montaner (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 albums, Spanish-language albums, Debut albums

Ricardo Montaner is the eponymous debut studio album recorded by Argentine-Venezuelan singer-songwriter Ricardo Montaner, It was released by TH-Rodven in early 1987 (see 1987 in music). It reached #1 on the Billboard Latin Pop Albums chart.

[[Chayanne es mi Nombre]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 albums

Chayanne es Mi Nombre is the solo album debut from Puerto Rican artist Chayanne, after he left Los Chicos. It was released on RCA Ariola in July 1984.

[[Later medieval artists]]

CATEGORIES: Artists, Lists of people

This a list of later medieval artists. It begins in the 13th century (1200s) and includes famous painters and sculptors.

Each artist is listed with their dates, place of birth, some places that they worked, their media (the type of artwork that they made), one or two most famous works and some art galleries where their works can be seen.

[[County Tyrone]]

CATEGORIES: County Tyrone

County Tyrone is a county of Northern Ireland. It is in the province of Ulster. Tyrone is the eighth largest county by area on the island of Ireland. It is the largest county by area in Northern Ireland. Tyrone is the tenth largest county by population on the island of Ireland. It is the fourth-largest county by population in Northern Ireland.

[[Stock (food)]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking methods

Stock in cooking (cuisine) is a liquid flavoring base for soups and sauces. It is a flavoured liquid preparation, and is the basis of many dishes. The ideas go back to Carême, and were simplified by Escoffier. 

A stock is made by simmering  animal bones and/or meat, fish, or vegetables in water and/or wine. mirepoix or other aromatics are added for more flavour. Mirepoix is a mixture of onions, carrots, celery, and sometimes other vegetables. Many use ready-made ingredients like Oxo cubes or bouillon cubes. It is possible to make stock more quickly with a pressure cooker.

Fish stock, however, is cooked for only twenty minutes or so. 

Stock lasts for three or four days in the fridge, but can be boiled again, and stored again.

[[Oggy and the Cockroaches]]

CATEGORIES: French television series, American children's television series, Animated television series, Nickelodeon television series, 1998 television series debuts, 1990s animated television series, 2000s animated television series, 2010s animated television series, 2020s animated television series, English-language television programs

Oggy and the Cockroaches is a French animated television series. It was created in 1998. The main characters are Oggy, Joey, Marky, Dee Dee and Jack. It is slapstick comedy with a good deal of comic violence. A 5th season has been confirmed and will premiere sometime in 2017. the film adaptation in 2013's Oggy and the Cockroaches: The Movie

[[Lily Serna]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Australian television presenters, Mathematicians, People from Jerusalem, People from Sydney

Lily Serna (born 5 July 1986) is an Australian mathematician and television presenter. She is best known for co-presenting the SBS game show Letters and Numbers from 2010 until 2012 and the cooking show Destination Flavour since later 2012.

Serna was born in Jerusalem. She moved to Sydney with her family when she was eight years old.

[[TACA Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 establishments in North America, El Salvador, Airlines of North America, Establishments in El Salvador, 2013 disestablishments in North America

TACA Airlines (Transportes Aereos del Continente Americano) is an airline from El Salvador. In 2009 it was merged with Avianca. The two airlines continued to operate separately. TACA has had two major air crashes since 1970.

[[Allegiant Air]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the United States, Las Vegas, Nevada, Low-cost airlines, 1997 establishments in the United States

Allegiant Air is an American low-cost airline. Owned by Allegiant Travel Company, it operates scheduled and charter flights. Allegiant Travel Company is a publicly traded company with 1,693 employees and over $2 billion USD in market capitalization. The corporate headquarters are in Enterprise, Nevada, a suburb of Las Vegas.cn

[[The Half Sisters]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 Philippine television series debuts, Philippine television series

The Half Sisters is a Philippine television drama series. It is broadcast by GMA Network.

[[Currying]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

Currying is a technique used in mathematics and computer science that consists of changing a function that takes several arguments into a number of functions that each take one argument. Mathematicians Moses Schönfinkel and Gottlob Frege laid the groundwork for this technique, which is named after Haskell Brooks Curry. Currying is used in Lambda calculus. Some programming languages, such as ML and Haskell say that functions can only have one argument.

[[Joko Widodo]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Presidents of Indonesia, Indonesian businesspeople, Engineers, Muslims

Joko Widodo (யோகோ விடோடோ) (Javanese: ꦗꦑ꧈ꦮꦶꦢꦢ Gêdrìk: Jåkå Widådå; O-Javanese: Jaka Widada; born 21 June 1961), also known as Jokowi (Javanese: ꦗꦑꦮꦶ), is an Indonesian politician and former businessman.

Jokowi is a member of the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P). He started his career as Mayor of Surakarta from 28 July 2005 until 1 October 2012. Then, he was Governor of Jakarta from 15 October 2012 until 16 October 2014. He has been President of Indonesia since 20 October 2014. His Vice President is Jusuf Kalla. Jokowi is running for re-election in the April 2019 presidential election.

Widodo was born in Surakarta, Central Java. He is a Muslim. He has been married to Iriana since 1986. They have three children. He is also a Heavy metal music fan. He graduated from the Faculty of Forestry at the Gadjah Mada University.

[[Villa Vizcaya]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Miami, Florida, Houses in the United States, National Historic Landmarks of the United States, National Register of Historic Places

Villa Vizcaya, now named the Vizcaya Museum and Gardens, is the former villa and estate of businessman James Deering. The house is on Biscayne Bay in Coconut Grove Miami, Florida. Deering made the Deering McCormick-International Harvester fortune,

The estate is on the National Register of Historic Places, and is a National Historic Landmark.

The estate property was originally 180 acres (730,000 m2) of shoreline mangrove swamps and dense inland native tropical forests. Being a conservationist, Deering sited the development of the estate portion along the shore to conserve the forests. The villa was built mostly between 1914 and 1922. The building of the extensive elaborate Italian Renaissance gardens and the village continued into 1923. 

The Vizcaya estate includes the gardens, native woodland landscape and a historic village compound. The landscape and architecture were influenced by Veneto and Tuscan Italian Renaissance models and designed in the Mediterranean Revival architecture style, with Baroque elements. Paul Chalfin was the design director.

Miami-Dade County now owns the Vizcaya property, as the Vizcaya Museum and Gardens, which is open to the public. 'Villa Vizcaya' is served by the Vizcaya Station of the Miami Metrorail.

[[Law of noncontradiction]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

The law of non-contradiction is a rule of logic. It states that if something is true, then the opposite of it is false. For example, if an animal is a cat, the same animal cannot be not a cat. Or, stated in logic, if +p, then not -p, +p cannot be -p at the same time and in the same sense. The law was stated as a principle of mathematical logic by Russell and Whitehead in Principia Mathematica. 

Ravi Zacharias has said most eastern philosophies reject the law of noncontradiction. The law of non-contradiction is found in ancient Indian logic as a rule in the Shrauta Sutras, the writing of Pāṇini, and the Brahma Sutras attributed to Vyasa. It was later elaborated on by medieval commentators such as Madhvacharya. The idea of noncontradiction is rejected in some strands of Buddhism. 

[[Dialetheism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophical movements and positions

Dialetheism is the view that some statements can be both true and false at the same time. It is the opposite of the law of noncontradiction (LNC). Because of this dialetheism is completely opposite of what most philosophers call common sense. Graham Priest defines it as believing there can be true contradictions. Priest gives as an example the liar paradox (or liar's paradox). If someone says "everything I say is a lie", then is the statement true or false? In this paradox it can be both.

[[Diana DeGarmo]]

CATEGORIES: American Idol contestants, American pop singers, American singer-songwriters, American stage actors, Singers from Birmingham, Alabama, Actors from Birmingham, Alabama, Writers from Birmingham, Alabama, 1987 births, Living people

Diana DeGarmo (born June 16, 1987) is an American singer, songwriter and Broadway actress. She became known in 2004 on American Idol. She began a career in musical theater. She played Angelina in The Young and the Restless.

DeGarmo was born in Birmingham, Alabama.

[[NKVD prisoner massacres]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 in Europe, 1940s in the Soviet Union, 20th century in Poland, Massacres in Europe, Massacres during Word War II

The NKVD prisoner massacres were a series of mass executions committed by the Soviet NKVD secret police against prisoners in Eastern Europe during World War II.

The victims were mainly from Poland, Ukraine, the Baltic states, Bessarabia and other parts of the Soviet Union. The Red Army was withdrawing ahead of the German invasion in 1941 (see Operation Barbarossa). The death toll came to 100,000 or more. There were nearly 9,000 in the Ukrainian SSR, to 20,000–30,000 in occupied eastern Poland, now western Ukraine, to all Tartar prisoners in Crimea among other places. Not all prisoner victims (150,000 of them in total) were murdered; some were transported into the interior, others were abandoned in prisons or managed to escape because the retreating Soviet executioners could not attend to all of them.

[[Gave de Pau]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Occitanie, Nouvelle-Aquitaine

The Gave de Pau is a river of south-western France. It is a left tributary of the Adour river.

It takes its name from the city Pau, through which it flows. The word gave is a name given to rivers on the mountains in regions of the western Pyrenees; so, Gave de Pau means "the river of Pau" or "the river that flows through Pau". Many other rivers in the region have the word gave as part of their names.

[[Virgin Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Virgin Group, Airlines of Australia

Virgin Australia is a large Australian airline. It started in 2000. From 2000 until 2011, the airline was called Virgin Blue. Virgin Australia flies as both a full-service airline and a low-cost airline, like Ryanair or Southwest Airlines. As of 2016, the airline has a fleet of 108 airplanes and flies to Australia, Fiji, Indonesia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Tonga, the United States, the United Arab Emirates and Vanuatu. Virgin Australia is Australia's second largest airline. It is the main competitor for Jetstar Airways and Qantas. In 2014, Virgin Australia bought Tigerair Australia. Virgin Australia became bankrupt in 2020 because of the COVID-19 pandemic and was bought by Bain Capital in June 2020.

[[Maiduguri]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 establishments in Africa, Cities in Nigeria, Establishments in Nigeria

Maiduguri, also called Yerwa, is the capital and the largest city of Borno State in north-eastern Nigeria. As of 2007, 1,197,497 live in the city. Maiduguri was founded in 1907 as a military outpost by the British. The Islamist group Boko Haram was founded in Maiduguri in 2002. Since it began its insurgency in 2009, the city has been target of many terrorist attacks by the group.

[[Atlit Yam]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Israel, Geography of Israel, Stone circles

Atlit Yam is an ancient neolithic village off of the coast of Atlit, Israel.

A study by Maria Pareschi of the Italian National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology in Pisa says that a volcanic collapse of Mount Etna's Eastern flank which happened 8,500 years ago likely caused a 10-storey (40 m or 131 ft) megatsunami that hit and engulfed some of the Mediterranean coastal cities within hours. Scientists point to the sudden abandonment of the village around the same time as more evidence that the tsunami happened.

A stone semicircle was found which contains seven 600-kilogram (1,320 lb) megaliths. There are cup marks carved into the stones and the stones are around a freshwater spring. It is suggested that it was used for a water ritual. In 2008, there were skeletons of a woman and child found, which revealed the earliest known cases of tuberculosis.

[[Red Red Wine]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 songs, Pop songs, Songs about drugs

"Red Red Wine" is a pop ballad. It was originally recorded by Neil Diamond. His version reached #62 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1968. The single is about a person drinking red wine to forget his problems. 

The song was covered by UB40 in August 1983. It peaked at #1 in 1984 in United Kingdom and at #34 in the United States.

It was released again in 1988 in the United States. That time, it hit #1.

[[Mace Windu]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1999, Star Wars characters

Mace Windu  is a fictional character in the Star Wars series. 

He was  portrayed by Samuel L. Jackson as a Jedi Master in the prequel movies. He was Master of the High Council of the Jedi in episodes I to III. He appears in Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace, Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones, and Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith. He also appears in the computer and television versions of the movies. 

In  Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith, Windu is betrayed by Anakin Skywalker, and killed by Supreme Chancellor Palpatine.

[[Aer Lingus]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Europe, Ireland, 1936 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in the Republic of Ireland, IATA members

Aer Lingus is Ireland's national airline. It is the second largest Irish airline after its main competitor, Ryanair. Aer Lingus means Air Fleet in the Celtic languages.

The airline began flying in April 1936. At that time, it had only one aircraft. It flew between Dublin and Bristol. As of 2015, the airline has almost 50 airplanes. It flies to about 70 airports in Europe and North America.

[[No Pads, No Helmets...Just Balls]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 albums, Debut albums, Simple Plan albums

No Pads, No Helmets...Just Balls is the first studio album by Canadian pop punk band, Simple Plan. No Pads, No Helmets...Just Balls was released on March 19, 2002 through both Atlantic and Lava.

The album debuted at #35 on the Billboard 200 and at #8 on the Canadian Albums Chart. The album was certified 2× Platinum by the RIAA.

The album featured the singles "I'm Just a Kid", "I'd Do Anything", "Addicted", and "Perfect".

[[Government of Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Ontario

The Government of Ontario is the provincial government of Ontario, Canada. There are several parts of Ontario's government. The Queen of Canada, Elizabeth II, is represented by the Lieutenant Governor of Ontario. The Legislative Assembly of Ontario is a unicameral body with 107 members. A cabinet, called the Executive Council of Ontario, is formed from members of the Assembly, usually from the largest party. The cabinet is headed by the Premier of Ontario.

The current premier is Doug Ford.

[[Legislative Assembly of Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Ontario, Provincial legislatures of Canada

The Legislative Assembly of Ontario is the legislature of the province of Ontario, Canada. It has the second largest number of members out of the provincial legislatures of Canada. It meets at the Ontario Legislative Building in Toronto, the provincial capital.

The Assembly was created in 1867 by the British North America Act. The Assembly is unicameral, meaning there is no upper house. There are 124 members of the assembly, who are called Members of Provincial Parliament (MPPs). Each member is elected from one electoral district. The party with the most members gets to choose the Premier of Ontario, who leads the government, and the Executive Council of Ontario, which is the cabinet. The leader of the second largest party in the assembly becomes the Leader of the Opposition.

The current assembly was elected in the 2018 Ontario general election. The members that were elected are part of the 42nd Parliament of Ontario.

[[Chandra X-ray Observatory]]

CATEGORIES: Space telescopes

The Chandra X-ray Observatory (CXO)  is a space telescope launched by NASA on July 23, 1999. 

Chandra is sensitive to X-ray sources 100 times fainter than any previous X-ray telescope. This is done by the high angular resolution of its mirrors. Since the Earth's atmosphere absorbs the vast majority of X-rays, Earth-based telescopes cannot detect them. Space-based telescopes are needed to make these observations. Chandra is an Earth satellite in a 64-hour orbit, and its mission is ongoing as of 2021.

Chandra is one of the Great Observatories, with the Hubble Space Telescope, Compton Gamma Ray Observatory (1991–2000), and the Spitzer Space Telescope.  The telescope is named after Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar.

[[Austrian Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 establishments in Europe, Airlines of Europe, Transport in Austria, Companies of Austria, Star Alliance, IATA members

Austrian Airlines is the largest airline of Austria. Its main hub is the Vienna International Airport. It was founded on May 3, 1923.  Austrian bought its first jet aircraft in 1963. Austrian joined the Star Alliance on March 26, 2000.  The Government of Austria sold the airline in 2008. Lufthansa bought Austrian Airlines in 2009.  In April 2015, Austrian Airlines was combined with Tyrolean Airways. 

[[Miami International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Florida, Buildings and structures in Miami, Florida

Miami International Airport (MIA) is the largest airport in passenger and size terms in the US state of Florida. It's historic name was Wilcox Field.

The airport is one of the busiest airports in the United States. This is mainly because of Miami's closeness to all of Florida's tourist attractions, the city's economic activity, and its large Latin American and European population.

[[Pan American World Airways]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 establishments in the United States, 1991 disestablishments in the United States, Airlines of the United States, Defunct companies of the United States

Pan American World Airways, or Pan Am, was once the largest airline of the USA. The crash of Pan Am Flight 103 and several other factors led to the airline to stop flying in 1991.

[[OGPU]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet Union, Intelligence agencies, Police, 1922 establishments in the Soviet Union, 1934 disestablishments

OGPU was the secret police of the Soviet Union from 1922 to 1934. It was after the Cheka and before the NKVD. Its official name was  the Joint State Political Directorate. 

The OGPU was theoretically supposed to operate with more restraint than the original Bolshevik secret police, the Cheka. The OGPU's powers were greatly increased in 1926, when the Soviet criminal code was amended to include a section on "anti-state terrorism". The law were vaguely written and very broadly interpreted. Even before then, it set up tribunals to try the most exceptional cases of terrorism, usually without calling any witnesses. In time, the OGPU's powers grew even greater than those of the Cheka.

Perhaps its most spectacular success was the Trust Operation of 1924–1925. OGPU agents contacted émigrés in western Europe and pretended to be on a large group working to overthrow the communist regime, known as the "Trust". Exiled Russians gave the Trust large sums of money and supplies, as did foreign intelligence agencies. The Trust finally succeeded in luring one of the leading anti-Communist operators, Sidney Reilly, into Russia to meet with the Trust. Once he was in Russia, he was captured and killed. It was a great propaganda success.

From 1927 to 1929, the OGPU engaged in intensive investigations of an opposition coup.  Stalin soon made a public decree that any and all opposition views should be considered dangerous and gave the GPU the authority to seek out hostile elements. There were many trials during Stalin's Five Year Plan.   

The OGPU was responsible for the creation of the Gulag system. It also became the Soviet government's arm for the persecution of the Russian Orthodox Church, the Greek Catholics, the Latin Catholics, Islam and other religious organizations. The OGPU was also the main secret police agency for the detection, arrest, and liquidation of anarchists and other dissident left-wing factions in the early Soviet Union.

The OGPU was merged into the newly created all-union People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs (NKVD) in July 1934. Its last change was into the more widely known Committee for State Security (KGB).

[[Copa Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Panama, Star Alliance, Airlines of North America, 1947 establishments in North America, IATA members

Copa Airlines is the national airline of Panama. 

[[Aeroflot]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 establishments in the Soviet Union, Airlines of Asia, Companies of Russia, Airlines of Europe, Transport in Russia, IATA members

Aeroflot is the national airline of the Russian Federation. It's one of the oldest airlines in the world. It has been flying for over a century.

[[Interjet]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Mexico, Airlines of North America, 2005 establishments in North America, Low-cost airlines, 2000s establishments in Mexico

Interjet is a low-cost airline based in Mexico begun in 2005. Mexico City International Airport is Interjet's hub. Interjet mainly flies Airbus A320 and Sukhoi Superjet airplanes from Mexico to the USA, Central America and South America.

In 2014, Interjet began an agreement with American Airlines and Iberia.

[[Avianca]]

CATEGORIES: Colombia, Airlines of South America, Star Alliance, 1919 establishments, 1910s establishments in Colombia, IATA members

Avianca is the national and largest airline of Colombia. It is the second oldest airline in the world. It began flying in 1919. Avianca has grown to become one of the largest airlines in the Americas. It flies to 121 cities with over 140 airplanes. In 2009, TACA Airlines and Avianca were combined to create a single airline.

[[Trans World Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the United States, 1925 establishments in the United States, 2001 disestablishments in the United States

Trans World Airlines (TWA) was one of the largest airlines of the United States. It stopped flying after it was bought by American Airlines in 2001, after many financial problems.

[[Eastern Air Lines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the United States, 1929 establishments in the United States, 1991 disestablishments in the United States, 2015 establishments in North America, 2010s establishments in the United States

Eastern Air Lines was one of the largest airlines of the United States. It was founded by Eddie Rickenbacker in 1929. It stopped flying in 1991. Eastern was one of the Big Four airlines of the USA, along with American Airlines, United Airlines and TWA.

In 2015, Eastern relaunched flights.  The company merged with Swift Air in 2017 stating that, "the transaction is not a purchase of one certificate or merger of two certificates." Eastern's last flight was in September of 2017. Swift completed its asset purchase and all remaining Eastern aircraft were transferred to the Swift certificate. In September 2017 Eastern surrendered its certificate to the FAA. The Eastern name will be transferred to Dynamic International Airways, an airline co-owned by Swift ownership.

[[Black Sabbath (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Rock songs, 1970 songs

"Black Sabbath" is a 1970 heavy metal song by the group of the same name. This song was released on their self-titled first studio album. According to them, it was inspired by an experience with Ozzy Osbourne.

Ice-T sampled the song on his 1989 song "Shut Up, Be Happy" and his 1991 song "Midnight". Other musicians have done covers of this song. One of them was Beth Gibbons of Portishead.

[[Malayo-Polynesian languages]]

CATEGORIES: Language

The Malayo-Polynesian languages are a subgroup of the Austronesian languages. There are about 385.5 million people who speak these languages. The Malayo-Polynesian languages are spoken by the Austronesian people of the island nations of Southeast Asia and the Pacific Ocean. There are a smaller number in continental Asia. Malagasy is spoken on the island of Madagascar. Part of the language family shows a strong influence of Sanskrit and Arabic as the western part of the region has many followers of Buddhism, Hinduism, and, since the 10th century, Islam.

[[Ohio Players]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B bands, Musicians from Dayton, Ohio, 1959 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Ohio

The Ohio Players were a funk and R&B band from the United States. The group formed in 1959. They were best known for the songs "Fire", "Funky Worm" and "Love Rollercoaster". This group was most popular in the 1970s. They were from Dayton, Ohio.

The group's first big song was "Funky Worm". The song hit the Top 20 on the Billboard Hot 100. It also hit #1 on the Billboard R&B chart.

They had seven Top 40 songs between 1973 and 1976. The songs included "Fire" in 1975 and "Love Rollercoaster" in 1976.

[[Still Not Getting Any...]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Simple Plan albums

Still Not Getting Any... is the second studio album by Canadian pop punk band, Simple Plan. Still Not Getting Any... was released on October 26, 2004 through both Atlantic and Lava.

The album peaked at #3 on the Billboard 200 and at #2 on the Canadian Albums Chart. The album was certified Platinum by the RIAA, selling one million copies.

The album featured the singles "Welcome to My Life", "Shut Up!", "Untitled (How Could This Happen to Me?)", and "Crazy".

[[Balas y Chocolate]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 albums, Lila Downs albums

Balas y Chocolate (Bullets and Chocolate) is the eighth studio album by Mexican latin singer Lila Downs. Released on March 24, 2015. It was going to be much darker than her earlier material, though it became an upbeat electronic-folk inspired album. The album features collaborations from Juan Gabriel and Juanes.  It reached the top of the charts in Mexico, Argentina, Colombia, Spain and the United States. It also reached the top ten in other major markets.

[[Prisoner's dilemma]]

CATEGORIES: Logical paradoxes

The prisoner's dilemma is a paradox  about co-operation. It shows why two "rational" individuals might not co-operate, even if it seems in their best interests. It is studied in game theory.

[[Seguridad Social]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish musical groups, Rock musicians, 1982 establishments in Europe, 1980s establishments in Spain

Seguridad Social is a Spanish rock music band from Benetússer, Valencia. It was founded in 1982 by José Manuel Casany (also Casañ) (vocalist) and Santiago Serrano (guitar).

Casany met him when he was a member of Paranoicos. After that Serrano left his former band and joined to his friend's group. However they stopped their music career due their military services. Before leaving to go into the armed forces, they signed a contract with Citra label. One year later both returned to the band.

In 1984 Seguridad Social released its first LP: El desconcierto.

The 90's were a big change for the band. Most of its members left Seguridad Social. They were replaced by Javi Vela (guitar/vocalist), Alex Olías (bass/vocalist) and Rafa Villalba (drummer).

[[Cædmon's Hymn]]

CATEGORIES: Christian hymns

Cædmon's ''Hymn is a short Old English poem originally composed by Cædmon. It was about God. It survives in a Latin translation by Bede in his Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum and in other dialects written down in several manuscripts of Bede's Historia. Bede wrote about the poet and his work in the fourth book of his Historia''. 

[[Kingsville, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Texas, Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Kingsville is a city in Texas. It is the county seat of Kleberg County in Texas. It was founded in 1904. The population was 26,312 in 2013. Kingsville has an area of 13.8 square miles.

[[Appeal]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

In law, an appeal is the process in which legal cases are reviewed. An appeal is made to a higher court than the one that made the initial judgment. This is usually an appeals court. In turn, appeals court decisions may be appealed in a supreme court. The person pursuing an appeal is called an appellant.

When a lower court judgement is filed, the losing party (appellant) must file a notice of appeal. The appellant must give the appeals court legal reasons for reversing the decision of the lower court. Usually the legal argument includes legal precedents that relate to this case. The other party, called a respondent or appellee files a brief that counters the claims of the appellant. In turn, the appellant may counter the response of the appellee with a final brief. Then, if the appeals court agrees to hear the case each party argues their case before the court. The appeals court may sustain the original court ruling. They may also reverse the decision sending it back to the lower court. No new evidence is introduced in an appeals court.

[[Phil Lynott]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 1986 deaths, Bass guitarists, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from sepsis, Infectious disease deaths in England, Irish guitarists, Irish rock musicians, Irish singer-songwriters, Musicians from Dublin, Musicians from Staffordshire

Philip Parris "Phil" Lynott (20 August 1949 – 4 January 1986) was an Irish musician. He was born in West Bromwich, Staffordshire, England and raised in Dublin, Ireland from age four. His mother was businesswoman Philomena Lynott. He was a rock bass guitarist and singer, and the leader of the rock band Thin Lizzy.

Lynott started Thin Lizzy in 1969, and they continued until 1983. He also made two solo albums in the early 1980s. They were famous for their songs "The Boys Are Back in Town", "Waiting for an Alibi", "Whisky in the Jar" and "Jailbreak". He also worked with Gary Moore.

Lynott had problems with drugs and alcohol in his final years. On 25 December 1985, he collapsed and was sent to clinic in Wiltshire, England. He was diagnosed with septicaemia. He died of pneumonia and heart failure in Salisbury, Wiltshire on 4 January 1986. He was 36.

[[Femdom]]

CATEGORIES: BDSM

A femdom or female dominant refers to BDSM relationships where the dominant partner is female. An increasing number of men find playing a submissive role with a femdom appealing. A femdom may have other names including: "dominatrix", "mistress" or "madame". The term may depend on her personal preference.

[[Get Your Heart On!]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Simple Plan albums

Get Your Heart On! is the fourth studio album by Canadian pop punk band, Simple Plan. Get Your Heart On! was released on June 21, 2011 through both Atlantic and Lava. It was also released on 17 June 2011 in countries like Australia and the Netherlands.

The album peaked at #52 on the Billboard 200 and at #2 on the Canadian Albums Chart.

The album featured the singles "Can't Keep My Hands off You", "Jet Lag", "Astronaut", and "Summer Paradise".

[[Festival Song]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 songs, Good Charlotte songs

"Festival Song" is the fourth and last single single off American pop punk band Good Charlotte's self-titled second studio album. The song was released in 2001. 

Joel Madden  of Good Charlotte said that the song was about the HFStival, which is a rock festival. He explained:

[[Mexicana de Aviacion]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Mexico, Airlines of North America, 1921 establishments in North America, 1920s establishments in Mexico, 2010 disestablishments in Mexico

Mexicana de Aviacion was one of the largest airlines of Mexico. It was one of the oldest airlines in the world. It began flying in 1921. It stopped flying in August 2010.

[[Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 American television series debuts, 1995 American television series endings, 1980s American television series, 1990s American television series, ABC network shows, First run syndicated television programs

Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous is an American television series. The show ran from March 31, 1984 until September 2, 1995. It was created by Alfred M. "Al" Masini. The show featured the lifestyles of rich and famous celebrities. 

The show was hosted by Robin Leach. After Leach was joined by Shari Belafonte in 1994, the show was renamed to Lifestyles with Robin Leach and Shari Belafonte. The show ended with Leach's catchphrase "champagne wishes and caviar dreams." David Greenspan narrated most of the segments for the show's run and he could be heard narrating when Leach did not appear on camera.

[[Burlington Coat Factory]]

CATEGORIES: American clothing companies, 1924 establishments in the United States

Burlington Coat Factory is a coat factory/store/warehouse established in 1924. It was called "Burlington Coat/Fine Clothing Factory Warehouse for the Entire Family" in 1924-1984 and "The Original Burlington Coat Factory" in 1984-2011.

It is an American national off price retailer, with 523 stores in 44 states and Puerto Rico, with its corporate headquarters in Burlington Township, New Jersey.

[[Kuwait Airways]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the Middle East, Kuwait

Kuwait Airways is Kuwait's national airline. It began in 1954. It has grown very fast. It is one of the largest airlines in the Middle East. It flies to 42 cities in different countries.

Kuwait Airways has 22 aircraft (with 4 more on order). The average age of their aircraft is 17.4 years.

[[Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 songs, Good Charlotte songs

"Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous" is the first single off American pop punk band Good Charlotte's second studio album, The Young and the Hopeless. The song was released in September 6, 2002. 

On the Billboard charts, the song was able to peak at #20 on the Hot 100 and #6 on the Top 40 Mainstream.

In 2003, the song won a MTV Video Music Award for "Viewer's Choice". It was also the winner of a Kerrang! Award for Best Single.

[[The Anthem]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 songs, Good Charlotte songs

"The Anthem" is the second single off American pop punk band Good Charlotte's second studio album, The Young and the Hopeless. The song was released in January 2003.

On the Billboard charts, the song was able to peak at #43 on the Hot 100 and #10 on the Hot Modern Rock Tracks.

In 2004, the song won "Best Rock Video" at the MTV Video Music Awards Japan.

The song has appeared on the soundtracks to the video games Madden NFL 2003, Project Gotham Racing, Elite Beat Agents, and the North American release of Donkey Konga 2.

[[IC 342/Maffei Group]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies

The IC 342/Maffei Group (also known as the IC 342 Group or the Maffei 1 Group) is the nearest group of galaxies to the Local Group.  The group is basically a binary group. The member galaxies are mostly concentrated around either IC 342 or Maffei 1, which are the brightest galaxies in the group.  

The group, and the Local Group, are in the Virgo Supercluster (i.e. the Local Supercluster).

[[The Princess Bride (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 romance movies, 1987 comedy movies, 1980s fantasy movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American fantasy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Rob Reiner, Movies about giants

The Princess Bride is a 1987 American romantic comedy fantasy adventure movie. It was directed and co-produced by Rob Reiner. It was adapted by William Goldman from his 1973 novel of the same name. The story is presented in the movie as a book being read by a grandfather (Peter Falk) to his sick grandson (Fred Savage). This kept the book's narrative style. This movie is number 50 on Bravo's "100 Funniest Movies". It is number 88 on The American Film Institute's (AFI) "AFI's 100 Years...100 Passions" list of the 100 greatest film love stories. In the United States, The Princess Bride has become a cult movie. The film was well-loved by critics.

[[Deltoid muscle]]

CATEGORIES: Muscles

The deltoid muscle is the muscle forming the rounded contour of the human shoulder. Electromyography suggests that it is at least seven groups that can be independently coordinated by the central nervous system.

[[Grass snake]]

CATEGORIES: Colubrids

The grass snake (Natrix) is a non-venomous snake. It is often found near water and feeds almost exclusively on amphibia and lizards.

The grass snake is widely distributed in mainland Europe, from mid Scandinavia to southern Italy. It is also found in Middle East and northwestern Africa. 

There is a native species in Great Britain but it is  not Natrix natrix. It is Natrix helvetica the barred grass snake. The two subspecies were both called Natrix natrix until recently (2017).

Work by the Senckenberg Research Institute in Germany lead a study into the genetics of over 1,600 grass snakes.

[[Smooth snake]]

CATEGORIES: Colubrids

The smooth snake (Coronella austriaca). is found in Britain, where it lives only in southern heathlands.

It is a non-venomous colubrid species found in northern and central Europe, and as far east as northern Iran. In contrast to many other snakes, their scales are flat (not keeled). This gives the snake a smooth texture to the touch, from which it gets its common name.

The smooth snake feeds on smaller animals, especially other reptiles.  It subdues larger prey by constriction, although unlike true constrictors it does not actually kill by this method.  It reproduces by laying eggs, which are buried in sand in a warm place.

[[Villa Castelli helicopter crash]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 aviation disasters, Transport in Argentina, 2010s in Argentina, 2015 in South America

The Villa Castelli helicopter crash occurred on 9 March 2015 when two helicopters collided near Villa Castelli in north-west Argentina. All 10 people on board the two aircraft were killed.

Florence Arthaud, Camille Muffat and Alexis Vastine were passengers.

[[Lynn Borden]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, American movie actors, American television actors, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles

Lynn Borden (March 24, 1937 – March 3, 2015) was an American actress. She was best known for her role as "Barbara Baxter" in the final season of the Shirley Booth sitcom Hazel, which aired on CBS from 1965 to 1966 though the program began in 1961 on NBC.

Borden was born in Detroit. She died of an illness in Encino, Los Angeles.

[[Ernest Braun]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, British educators, British physicists, Scientists from Vienna, Austrian physicists

Ernest Braun (9 March 1925 – 3 March 2015) was a British-Austrian scholar. He worked in technology policy and technology assessment.

[[Gimme Shelter]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 songs, The Rolling Stones

"Gimme Shelter" is a song by English rock band The Rolling Stones. It is the first song featured on their 1969 album Let It Bleed. Merry Clayton provided vocals for the song along with Mick Jagger. The song was released in 5 December 1969. 

During a 1995 interview with Rolling Stone, Jagger said:

In 2004, the song was ranked #38 on "The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time" list by Rolling Stone. It has also been ranked at #12 on "The 200 Greatest Songs of the 1960s" list by Pitchfork Media.

[[Dyan Cannon]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, Saturn Award winners, 1937 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, Actors from Washington, Writers from Washington

Dyan Cannon (born Samille Diane Friesen; January 4, 1937) is an American movie and television actress, director, screenwriter, editor, and producer. She was known for her role as Alice in Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice.

[[Ninan Koshy]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2015 deaths, Christian theologians, Civil servants, Indian politicians

Ninan Koshy (നൈനാൻ കോശി; 1 February 1934 – 4 March 2015) was an Indian political thinker, foreign affairs expert, Christian theologian and social analyst. He was born in 1934 in Thiruvalla. He was a former director of the WCC's Commission of the Churches on International Affairs.

Koshy died in Thiruvananthapuram on 4 March 2015, aged 81.

[[Vlada Divljan]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from appendix cancer, Serbian singers, Songwriters, People from Belgrade

Vladimir "Vlada" Divljan (Serbian Cyrillic: Владимир Дивљан; 10 May 1958 – 4 March 2015), was a Serbian singer and songwriter. He was known as the frontman for the Serbian and former Yugoslav rock band Idoli. He died from appendix cancer.

[[James Molyneaux, Baron Molyneaux of Killead]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2015 deaths, British military personnel of World War II, Former members of the British House of Commons for Northern Irish constituencies, Leaders of political parties in the United Kingdom, Members of the House of Lords, Privy Councillors (UK), UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997

James Henry Molyneaux, Baron Molyneaux of Killead, KBE, PC (27 August 1920 – 9 March 2015) was a Northern Irish Unionist politician. He was leader of the Ulster Unionist Party from 1979 to 1995. He was a leading member and sometime Vice-President of the Conservative Monday Club. An Orangeman, he was also Sovereign Grand Master of the Royal Black Institution from 1971 to 1995.

[[A La Carte Communications]]

CATEGORIES: Television producers, 1990 establishments

A La Carte Communications is a television production company founded in 1990 by Natan Katzman and Geoffrey Drummond. A la Carte produced  Jeff Smith's The Frugal Gourmet cooking show. Other shows produced by the company included Julia Child: Cooking with Master Chefs and In Julia's Kitchen with Master Chefs. A La Carte and Maryland Public Television co-produced the Emmy award-winning series Baking with Julia.

[[Born to Be Wild]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 songs, Rock songs

"Born to Be Wild" is the third single off Canadian-American rock group Steppenwolf's self-titled first studio album. The song was released in June 1968. 

On the Billboard charts, the song was able to peak at #2 on the Hot 100.

In 2004, the song was ranked #130 on the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time list by Rolling Stone. It has also been ranked at #53 on the 100 Hard Rock Songs list by VH1. The song was first featured in the 1969 movie Easy Rider and has since been featured in many movies, trailers, TV shows and commercials. It was ranked #29 on AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs survey of the top songs in American cinema.

[[Edward Egan]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, American Roman Catholics, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Deaths from cardiac arrest, People from New York City, People from Oak Park, Illinois, Roman Catholic archbishops

Edward Michael Egan (April 2, 1932 – March 5, 2015) was an American Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as Bishop of Bridgeport from 1988 to 2000, and as Archbishop of New York from 2000 to 2009. He was elevated to the cardinalate in 2001.

[[Blase J. Cupich]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American Roman Catholics, People from Chicago, People from Omaha, Nebraska

Blase Joseph Cupich (born March 19, 1949 in Omaha, Nebraska) is an American prelate of the Catholic Church. He is serving as the ninth Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Chicago.

He was the surprise choice of Pope Francis to succeed Cardinal Francis George as Archbishop of Chicago on September 20, 2014. Cupich had served as the sixth bishop of the Diocese of Spokane since 2010.

[[Jim McCann (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from throat cancer, Folk musicians, Folk singers, Irish singers, Musicians from Dublin

James "Jim" McCann (26 October 1944 – 5 March 2015) was an Irish entertainer and folk musician. Although a solo artist for most of his career, McCann was a member of the folk group the Dubliners from 1974 until 1979.

McCann's death was announced by his family on 5 March 2015. He had been battling throat cancer.

[[Abe Pollin]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2009 deaths, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Deaths from progressive supranuclear palsy, Disease-related deaths in Washington, D.C., Businesspeople from Washington, D.C.

Abraham Pollin (December 3, 1923 – November 24, 2009) was the owner of a number of professional sports teams including the Washington Capitals in the National Hockey League (NHL), the Washington Mystics in the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA), and the Washington Wizards in the National Basketball Association (NBA).

[[Fred Craddock]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Writers from Tennessee

Fred Brenning Craddock, Jr. (April 30, 1928 – March 6, 2015) was an American priest. He was the Bandy Distinguished Professor of Preaching and New Testament Emeritus in the Candler School of Theology at Emory University. He was an ordained minister of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) from rural Tennessee. He was the director of the Craddock Center, a non-profit service group which operates in rural Appalachia.

[[Windell Middlebrooks]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Fort Worth, Texas

Windell D. Middlebrooks (January 8, 1979 – March 9, 2015) was an American movie and television actor. He was known for his roles in Body of Proof and The Suite Life on Deck.

[[Ram Sundar Das]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2015 deaths, Indian politicians, Civil servants, People from Bihar

Ram Sundar Das (राम सुन्दर दास; 9 January 1921 – 6 March 2015) was an Indian politician and a former Chief Minister of Bihar state. He was a leader of the Janata Dal (United) political party. He was the Chief Minister of Bihar from 21 April 1979 to 17 February 1980. In 1991, he was elected to the 10th Lok Sabha from Hajipur constituency in Bihar.

[[Vasilios Magginas]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2015 deaths, Civil servants, Government ministers of Greece, People from Athens

Vasilios Magginas (Βασίλης Μαγγίνας; 22 October 1949 – 6 March 2015) was a Greek politician. He was member of the Greek Parliament for the New Democracy for the Aetolia-Acarnania constituency and government minister.

[[Edmond Malinvaud]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, French economists, People from Limoges, Alumni of the École Polytechnique

Edmond Malinvaud (25 April 1923 – 7 March 2015) was a French economist. He was the first president of the Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences.

[[Gerardo Sofovich]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, Argentine actors, Argentine comedians, Argentine movie directors, Argentine screenwriters, Argentine businesspeople, Television presenters, People from Buenos Aires

Gerardo Andrés Sofovich (March 18, 1937 – March 8, 2015) was an Argentine businessman, dramaturge, TV host, actor, comedian, scriptwriter, and film director.

He was the producer Polémica en el bar and La noche del Domingo, two of the most popular Argentine television programs of the 1970s and '80s. Sofovich also hosted A la manera de Sofovich and Sin Límite SMS, broadcast on Canal 9.

[[Neutral oxide]]

CATEGORIES: Oxides

Neutral oxides are oxides which are neither acidic nor basic.  In other words, oxides which neither react with acids or with bases are called neutral. Neutral oxides are often misunderstood as amphoteric oxides, which can act as both acidic and as basic oxides. 

[[Crossbill]]

CATEGORIES: Finches

The crossbills are a genus, Loxia, of birds in the finch family (Fringillidae). There are three to five (or possibly many more) species. 

These birds have mandibles with crossed tips, which gives the group its English name. Adult males tend to be red or orange in colour, and females green or yellow, but there is much variation.

Crossbills are specialist feeders on conifer cones. The unusual bill shape is an adaptation to get seeds from cones. These birds are typically found in higher northern hemisphere latitudes, where their food sources grow. They move ("erupt") out of the breeding range if the cone crop fails. Crossbills breed very early in the year, often in winter months. This is the time to get the most cones.

They put their beak slightly open between the scales of conifer cones. Then they close their beaks and the tips push the scales apart. This lets them get at the seed (usually two seeds per scale). The point is that, as cones mature, they tend to open when dry and close when wet.

Eventually they fall, and lie on the ground. As they dry the scales naturally open, and any animal can get at the seeds. With their beaks, crossbills can get at the seeds much earlier than any other animal.

[[In-N-Out Burger]]

CATEGORIES: American fast food restaurants, 1948 establishments in the United States, Irvine, California

In-N-Out Burgers, Inc. is a regional chain of fast food restaurants. The privately held company has 300 locations. These are mostly in the Southwestern United States. In-N-Out encourages customers to customize their orders. They refuse to use Microwave ovens or freezers. Also, In-N-Out pays its employees above the minimum wage. Employees start at a wage of $10.50 an hour.

[[Jerry Ahrlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Jerry Ahrlin, born 15 January 1978 in Östersund, Sweden, is a Swedish cross-country skier.

[[Biskopsgården Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Gothenburg, 1961 establishments in Sweden

The Biskopsgården Church (Biskopsgårdens kyrka) is a church building in the southern parts of Biskopsgården on the island of Hisingen in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. It belongs to the Lundby of the Church of Sweden. It was opened in 1961. It was originally called the Southern Biskopsgården Church (Södra Biskopsgårdens kyrka) until the Northern Biskopsgården Church was taken out of use in 2004.

[[Northern Biskopsgården Church]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in Sweden, Churches in Gothenburg

The Northern Biskopsgården Church (Norra Biskopsgårdens kyrka) is a church building in the northern parts of Biskopsgården on the island of Hisingen in Gothenburg, Sweden. It earlier belonged to the Lundby of the Church of Sweden, it was ianugurated in 1970 as a parish home. It was taken out of use in 2004 and transferred to the Gothenburg Ecclesiastical Town Mission and the Finnish Parish.

[[Martin Luther Church]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in Sweden, Church of Sweden churches

The Martin Luther Church (Martin Luthers kyrka) is a church building in Nyhem in the town of Halmstad in Sweden. It belongs to the Martin Luther Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was opened on 19 December 1970.

[[Post-production]]

CATEGORIES: Movie production

Post-production is part of filmmaking, video production and photography processes. It is a major part in the making of movies, television programs, radio programs, advertising, audio recordings, photography, and digital art. It is a term for all stages of production occurring after the actual end of filming. Along with pre-production and production, it is one of the three phases of creating a movie or program.

[[Real Muthaphuckkin G's]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 songs, Rap songs

"Real Muthaphuckkin G's" (also known as "Real Compton City G's") is a song off American rapper Eazy-E's second EP, It's On (Dr. Dre) 187um Killa. The song was released on August 26, 1993. The song was a diss song towards former N.W.A member Dr. Dre and his protégé Snoop Doggy Dogg.

On the Billboard charts, the song was able to peak at #42 on the Hot 100.

[[Alexis Vastine]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, 2015 deaths, Aviation deaths, Boxers, French sportspeople, Olympic bronze medalists, People from Normandy

Alexis Vastine (17 November 1986 – 9 March 2015) was a French boxer. He won a bronze medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics in the Light Welterweight division. He also competed in the 2012 Summer Olympics. He died in the Villa Castelli helicopter crash during the filming of French TV reality show Dropped for the TF1 network.

[[Lew Soloff]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, American composers, American movie actors, American jazz musicians, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Musicians from Brooklyn, Trumpeters

Lewis Michael Soloff (February 20, 1944 – March 8, 2015) was an American jazz trumpeter, composer and actor. Soloff was born in Brooklyn, New York City. He studied trumpet at the Eastman School of Music and the Juilliard School.  

He worked with Blood, Sweat & Tears from 1968 until 1973. Prior to this, he worked with Machito, Gil Evans, Tony Scott, Maynard Ferguson and Tito Puente.

He died of a heart attack in New York City.

[[Germanwings]]

CATEGORIES: Low-cost airlines, Airlines of Germany, Cologne, 2002 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Germany

Germanwings is a low-cost carrier owned by Lufthansa. It is based in Cologne. It was founded in 2002. It has more than 81 airplanes. It goes to 86 airports.

On March 24, 2015, a Germanwings A320 flying from Barcelona to Düsseldorf crashed in the French Alps. There were no survivors among the 150 people on board.

[[Inezita Barroso]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Brazilian singers, Guitarists, Brazilian actors, Brazilian television presenters, Brazilian educators, People from São Paulo

Ignez Magdalena Aranha de Lima "Inezita" Barroso (4 March 1925 – 8 March 2015), was a Brazilian sertanejo singer, guitarist, actress, TV presenter, librarian, folklorist and teacher.

Barroso died of a long illness in São Paulo, Brazil, aged 90.

[[LOT Polish Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Europe, Transport in Poland, Star Alliance, 1928 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Poland, IATA members

LOT Polish Airlines is the national airline of Poland. It began in 1928 after the merger of all Polish airlines. The airline's main hub is at Warsaw Chopin Airport. LOT is a member of the Star Alliance.

Fleet

[[Carel Visser]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Dutch artists, People from South Holland

Carel Nicolaas Visser (May 3, 1928 - March 1, 2015) was a Dutch sculptor. Visser was born in 1928 in Papendrecht, South Holland. He was known for turning useless pieces of metal and concrete into statues.

Visser died in Le Fousseret, France, aged 86. 

[[South African Airways]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 establishments, Airlines of South Africa, Johannesburg, Star Alliance, 20th-century establishments in South Africa, IATA members

South African Airways is the largest airline of South Africa. It is based at Johannesburg. It has been flying since 1934.

[[Stuart Wagstaff]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Wiltshire, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, British military personnel of World War II, Deaths from pulmonary fibrosis, Disease-related deaths in New South Wales, English movie actors, English television actors

Stuart Wagstaff (13 February 1925 – 10 March 2015) was an English-born Australian entertainer. He was active in all genres of the industry including television, theatre and stage management.

[[Jack Harte (Irish politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2015 deaths, Irish politicians, Military personnel of World War II

John "Jack" Harte (10 December 1920 – 9 March 2015) was an Irish politician. He served as a Labour Party Senator.

Harte was first elected to the 13th Seanad in the 1973 Seanad elections, on the Labour Panel. He was re-elected six times until his retirement at the 1992 elections.

He served with the British Army in Malta and the Middle East during World War II. He published his memoirs of the Second World War, "To the Limits of Endurance: One Irishman's War". On 9 March 2015, he died at the age of 94.

[[Karlskrona HK]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden

Karlskrona HK is an ice hockey club in the town of Karlskrona in Sweden. It was established in 2001. The club qualified for the Swedish top division in 2015.

[[Juanita Morrow Nelson]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, American civil rights activists, People from Cincinnati, Ohio

Juanita Morrow Nelson (August 17, 1923 – March 9, 2015) was an American activist and war tax resister. She co-founded the group Peacemakers in 1948.  She was the author of A Matter of Freedom and Other Writings (1988).

[[Aerolíneas Argentinas]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of South America, Transport in Argentina, 1949 establishments, 20th-century establishments in Argentina, IATA members

Aerolineas Argentinas is the largest airline of Argentina. It began in 1950.

[[Camille Muffat]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, 2015 deaths, Aviation deaths, French sportspeople, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic silver medalists, People from Nice, Sportspeople from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, Swimmers

Camille Muffat (ka.mij myfa; 28 October 1989 – 9 March 2015) was a French swimmer and three-time Olympic medalist. At the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, she won gold in the 400-meter freestyle, silver in the 200-meter freestyle and bronze in the 4×200-meter freestyle relay.

She died in the Villa Castelli helicopter crash during the filming of French TV reality show Dropped for the TF1 network.

[[Vannevar Bush]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1974 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Engineers from Massachusetts, American inventors, Scientists from Massachusetts

Vannevar Bush (v van; March 11, 1890 – June 28, 1974) was an American engineer, inventor and science administrator. He is known in engineering for his work on analog computers, for founding Raytheon, and for the memex.

Bush died of pneumonia in Belmont, Massachusetts, aged 84.

[[Airport lounge]]

CATEGORIES: Airports

An airport lounge is a members-only rest area usually owned by an airline (or operated by several airlines). Anyone who pays the membership fee can join. Airport lounges are designed mainly for business travelers. Most offer private meeting rooms and other business services and conveniences. They offer comfortable seating, food, beverages (often an open bar) and free Wi-Fi.  

Most major airlines have one or more lounges in the major airports they serve. The first airport lounge was owned by American Airlines. It opened in 1939 at LaGuardia Airport.

[[David B. Frohnmayer]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, American educators, Politicians from Oregon, People from Medford, Oregon

Dave Frohnmayer (July 9, 1940 – March 9, 2015) was an American attorney, politician, and university administrator from Oregon. He was the 15th president of the University of Oregon (UO), serving from 1994 to 2009.

On March 9, 2015, Frohnmayer died of prostate cancer in Eugene, Oregon, aged 74.

[[Florence Arthaud]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2015 deaths, Aviation deaths, French sportspeople, People from Ile-de-France, Sailors

Florence Arthaud (28 October 1957 – 9 March 2015) was a French sailor. She was from Boulogne-Billancourt. In 1990 Arthaud established a new world record for the fastest solo crossing of the North Atlantic, beating the previous record by two days.

In 2015, Arthaud took part in Dropped, a reality television show on TF1 in which sportspeople were transported by helicopters into the wilderness. During filming on 9 March 2015, she died in the Villa Castelli helicopter crash in Argentina along with nine other people, two of whom were fellow contestants.

[[Greater Valparaíso]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Greater Valparaíso (Gran Valparaíso) is a metropolitan area located in the Valparaíso Region. The name comes from the city of Valparaíso, the most important harbour in Chile. At the 2012 census, the estimated population was 979,127 people.

[[Chuy García]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, United States representatives from Illinois, Chicago City Council members, US Democratic Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Jesús G. "Chuy" García (born April 12, 1956) is an American politician and member of the Democratic Party. He is the member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Illinois's 4th district since January 3, 2019.

[[The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins]]

CATEGORIES: Rhythm and blues ballads

"The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins" is a song composed by Charles Randolph Grean and performed by Leonard Nimoy, telling the story of Bilbo Baggins and his adventures in J. R. R. Tolkien's novel The Hobbit. The recording was featured on Two Sides of Leonard Nimoy, the second of Nimoy's albums on Dot Records. It was also released as a single (Dot Records Cat. #45-17028) in July 1967.

[[Five Nights at Freddy's 3]]

CATEGORIES: Five Nights at Freddy's (series)

Five Nights at Freddy's 3 is a 2015 indie point-and-click survival horror video game developed by Scott Cawthon. It is the third entry in the Five Nights at Freddy's series. The game was released on Steam on March 2, 2015, then for Android devices on March 7, 2015. The game is set 30 years after Five Nights at Freddy's.

The player assumes the role of a newly hired employee at Fazbear's Fright, a horror-themed amusement park attraction that pays homage to the original Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza. In addition, the player must monitor the status of three operating systems - cameras, audio, and ventilation - and reboot them whenever they begin to malfunction. They have to defend from Springtrap and the 'phantoms', which are more ghostly and burnt-looking versions of the animatronics from the previous games, including Golden Freddy, Chica, Withered Foxy, Balloon Boy, Mangle, and Phantom Puppet. These animatronics cannot physically hurt you, but every time they catch you, one of the systems then needs to be rebooted. While Phantom Mangle does not jumpscare directly, it can appear in the hall or on one of the cameras and emit a garbled static sound, causing the audio system to have to be rebooted. The only animatronic that can cause a game over is Sprintrap, the main antagonist, and he is attracted to sound. The only way to get him to not kill you is by playing audio of Balloon Boy laughing from Five Nights at Freddy's 2. If you play this audio on a camera close to Springtrap, Springtrap will go towards it. He is also attracted to Mangle's loud garbled audio sounds, so if Mangle is in the hallway making noise, he will go towards your office faster.

[[The Abyss]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 movies, 1980s science fiction movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Academy Award winning movies, American science fiction movies, Movies with underwater settings

The Abyss is a 1989 American science fiction adventure movie. It was directed by James Cameron. It was produced by Gale Anne Hurd. It was produced by Van Ling for the special edition version. The Abyss was released on August 9, 1989. The movie is about a US search and recovery team who work with a oil platform crew to race against Russian vessels to recover a sunken American submarine in the Caribbean. They discover a new and mysterious species while deep in the ocean.

The movie got positive reviews from critics. It has a 89% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The movie won an Academy Award in the category of Best Visual Effects in 1990. It was also nominated in the categories of Best Art Direction/Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, and Best Sound.

[[Naked Lunch (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s science fiction movies, 1991 drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, British science fiction movies, British drama movies, Canadian drama movies, American science fiction movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Japanese movies, Movies about drugs, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in the 1950s, Movies directed by David Cronenberg

Naked Lunch is a 1991 science fiction drama movie. It was directed by David Cronenberg. It was produced by Jeremy Thomas and Gabriella Martinelli. Naked Lunch was released on December 27, 1991 in the United States and on 24 April 1992 in the United Kingdom. It is based on the William S. Burroughs 1959 novel of the same name. The movie was co-produced by movie companies in Canada, the United Kingdom, and Japan.

The movie got positive reviews from critics. It has a 71% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Movie critic Roger Ebert rated the movie two-and-a-half stars out of four and said "While I admired it in an abstract way, I felt repelled by the material on a visceral level. There is so much dryness, death and despair here, in a life spinning itself out with no joy".

In 1992, the movie won Genie Awards in the categories of Best Motion Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actress, Best Art Direction, Best Cinematography, Best Overall Sound, and Best Sound Editing.

[[Tórshavn]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Denmark, Faroe Islands

Tórshavn (Thorshavn) is the capital and largest city of the Faroe Islands, a part of the Kingdom of Denmark. As of 2008, the city has a population of 13,000, with the urban area populated by 19,000 people in total.

[[Basuki Tjahaja Purnama]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Indonesian politicians, Protestants

Basuki Tjahaja Purnama (EYD: Basuki Cahaya Purnama, Hakka Chinese: 鍾萬學; born 29 June 1966), also known as Ahok, is an Indonesian politician. He is the current Governor of Jakarta, serving officially since 19 November 2014. He is the first governor to be a Christian and of ethnic Chinese descent.

Basuki was born in Manggar, Belitung of the Bangka–Belitung Islands province. He is married to Veronica Tan and has three children. He is a Protestant.

[[Divine Intervention]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 albums, Slayer albums

Divine Intervention is the sixth studio album by American thrash metal band, Slayer. Divine Intervention was released on September 27, 1994 through American Recordings. Many of the song were inspired by television shows. The songs were also inspired by other things, like Rush Limbaugh, serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer, and vocalist Tom Araya's wife. Araya said that the album "came out of the past four years of hating life."

The album peaked at #8 on the Billboard 200. The album was certified Gold by the RIAA.

It is the first album to feature drummer Paul Bostaph, who replaced Slayer's original drummer Dave Lombardo.

[[Intercostal muscle]]

CATEGORIES: Human body features, Muscles

The intercostal muscles (intercostales interni) are a group of skeletal muscles between the ribs. These muscles help expand and shrink the size of the chest cavity to help breathing.

When breathing in, the muscles of the diaphragm contract. This pulls the diaphragm downwards, and increases the volume of the thorax. At the same time, the external intercostal muscles contract. This pulls the ribcage upwards and outwards. This also increases the volume of the thorax. 

There are three main layers; 

[[Circumflex]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabetic diacritics

The circumflex is a diacritic (accent) used in French and a few other languages. It is like a little hat on top of a vowel. Originally, it was an acute accent and a grave accent put together.

In French, the circumflex usually shows the loss of letter, usually the loss of the letter s. Example: maistre (Middle French) > maître (modern French). Here its function is historical.

Also, less often, the circumflex is used to distinguish between homophones. These are words spelt the same, but with different meanings. Example: sur = on, but sûr = safe or certain. In those cases the pronunciation of the two words may be different.

[[Jimmy Greenspoon]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from melanoma, American composers, Musicians from California

Jimmy Greenspoon (February 7, 1948 – March 11, 2015) was an American keyboard player and composer. He was best known as a member of the band, Three Dog Night.

In 2014, Greenspoon was diagnosed with metastatic melanoma, and was forced to stop touring with Three Dog Night. He died from cancer in Montgomery County, Maryland, on March 11, 2015.

[[Frei Otto]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, German architects, German engineers, People from Chemnitz, Pritzker Prize winners

Frei Paul Otto (31 May 1925 – 9 March 2015) was a German architect and structural engineer.  He was noted for his use of lightweight structures, in particular tensile and membrane structures.  

[[Maienfeld]]

CATEGORIES: Maienfeld, Municipalities of Graubünden, Cities in Switzerland

Maienfeld is a town in the district of Landquart in the Swiss canton of Graubünden.  It is a tourist destination in the Alps. It is popular for its local wine. Maienfeld was the setting of the story Heidi.

[[Cermet]]

CATEGORIES: Materials science

A cermet is a ceramic material, like porcelain or clay, mixed with a metal, like steel or copper. They are long lasting, tough composite materials that are stress resistant and produce little friction. Cermets also have the properties of metals. They can conduct electricity. Like metals cermets are somewhat malleable.

[[East York]]

East York may mean one of two places:

[[2010 (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 drama movies, 1980s science fiction movies, American drama movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in the future, Sequel movies, Movies directed by Peter Hyams

2010 (known also as 2010: The Year We Make Contact) is a 1984 science fiction movie. It was both directed and produced by Peter Hyams. 2010 was released on December 7, 1984. It is based on the Arthur C. Clarke novel 2010: Odyssey Two and is the sequel to the 1968 movie 2001: A Space Odyssey.

The movie got mixed to positive reviews from critics. It has a 66% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Movie critic Roger Ebert rated the movie three out of four stars and said that it "doesn't match the poetry and the mystery of the original film" and that it "has an ending that is infuriating, not only in its simplicity, but in its inadequacy to fulfill the sense of anticipation, the sense of wonder we felt at the end of 2001". He finished his review by "And yet the truth must be told: This is a good movie. Once we've drawn our lines, once we've made it absolutely clear that 2001 continues to stand absolutely alone as one of the greatest movies ever made, once we have freed 2010 of the comparisons with Kubrick's masterpiece, what we are left with is a good-looking, sharp-edged, entertaining, exciting space opera".

In 1985, the movie was nominated for five Academy Awards in the categories of Best Art Direction, Best Makeup, Best Visual Effects, Best Costume Design, and Best Sound Presentation.

[[Erol Büyükburç]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Turkish singers

Erol Büyükburç (8 August 1936 - 12 March 2015) was a Turkish pop music composer and singer. In 1961, he composed his best known hit Little Lucy. He also wrote the lyrics of this melody. He was born in Adana.

Büyükburç was found dead in his home in İstanbul, Turkey. He was 78 years old. He died of a heart attack.

[[LAN Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of South America, 1920s establishments in Chile, 1929 establishments in South America, 20th-century establishments in Peru

LAN Airlines is a group of airlines from South America. It includes LAN Perú, LAN Colombia and LAN Argentina. LAN Airlines in the largest airline in Chile and also in Peru. It's a member of the Oneworld alliance. The name LAN is an acronym in Spanish for Línea Aérea Nacional, meaning National Airline.

[[Michael Graves]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2015 deaths, American architects, Businesspeople from Indianapolis, Indiana

Michael Graves (July 9, 1934 - March 12, 2015) was an American architect. Graves was known first for his contemporary building designs and some prominent public commissions, such as the Portland Building and the Denver Public Library. Graves was born in Indianapolis, Indiana.

Since 2003, Graves was paralyzed from the waist down as a result of a spinal cord infection.

[[Muwahhidism]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic denominations

The Muwahidin or Muwahid Muslims are a Muslim restoration movement that accepts mainstream Islam. The place an emphasis on the concept of tawhid. Muwahidists believe that the Muslim faith has gradually been mixed with many cultural traditions. They want to bring the Muslim faith back to its original foundations. This means the worship of Allah. They acknowledge the five Pillars of Islam.

[[The Twilight Zone Tower of Terror]]

CATEGORIES: Amusement rides

The Twilight Zone Tower of Terror, commonly known as Tower of Terror, is a classic Disney amusement park attraction. The ride is an elevator that drops and rises several times. It is like riding an elevator that fails while people are on it. The theme of the ride is based

[[Capsule]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

A pharmaceutical capsule is an easy way to take medication. Capsules may contain powder, liquid or oil. The outer shell is made of hard or soft gelatin. Capsules come in different shapes and colors to identify dose or what company made them. They are also available as timed release which work over a period of time. Capsules should usually be taken whole. Always consult a pharmacist or desk reference before opening a capsule. Capsules should also not be crushed without first checking to see if it is safe. 

[[You Know You're Right]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 songs, Nirvana songs

"You Know You're Right" is the first song off American grunge band Nirvana's self-titled 2002 compilation album. The song was released on October 8, 2002. It was the last song that was recorded by Nirvana, before Kurt Cobain's death.

On the Billboard charts, You Know You're Right was able to peak at #1 on the Mainstream Rock, #1 on the Alternative Songs, and #45 on the Hot 100 charts.

There was a legal battle between Cobain's widow Courtney Love and Nirvana bandmates Dave Grohl and Krist Novoselic. Both Grohl and Novoselic wanted to use the song for a Nirvana box-set that was planned but Love did not allow this and blocked it from being released. Love said that the song would have been "wasted" by using for a box set, and said that it would be better-suited for a single-disc collection. The lawsuit was settled in September 2002 and it announced that "You Know You're Right" would arrive on "a one-CD history of the band" called Nirvana later that year.

[[Beth Tweddle]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, British Olympic bronze medalists, Gymnasts, People from Johannesburg, Sportspeople from Cheshire

Elizabeth "Beth" Kimberly Tweddle MBE (born 1 April 1985) is a retired British gymnast. She is the most successful British gymnast, male or female, in the history of the sport. She was the first female gymnast from Great Britain to win a medal at the European Championships, World Championships, and Olympic Games. Tweddle is a three-time Olympian. She is the 2012 Olympic bronze medalist on uneven bars.  Tweddle is also the 2006 World uneven bars champion, the 2009 World floor exercise champion, and the 2010 World uneven bars champion. Tweddle retired in August 2013.

Tweddle was born in Johannesburg, South Africa. She moved to Bunbury, Cheshire at 18 months old.

[[Kimberlite]]

CATEGORIES: Igneous rocks

Kimberlite is an igneous rock best known for sometimes containing diamonds. It is named after the town of Kimberley in South Africa. The discovery of a big 83.5 diamond in 1871 started a "diamond rush". This resulted in the Big Hole, a large open mine.

Kimberlite occurs in the Earth's crust in vertical structures known as "pipes" as well as igneous dykes and sills. Kimberlite pipes are the most important source of mined diamonds today. Kimberlites  form deep with the Earth's mantle. Formation occurs at depths between 150 Kimberlite material is erupted rapidly and violently, often with considerable carbon dioxide and other volatile components. 

Kimberlite has attracted attention because it serves as a carrier of diamonds and garnet peridotite mantle xenoliths to the Earth's surface. The study of kimberlite has the potential to provide information about the composition of the lower mantle. Little is known about melting processes at or near the interface between the cratonic continental lithosphere and the underlying convecting asthenospheric mantle.

[[Chickasaw]]

CATEGORIES: Native American

The Chickasaw are a Native American people of the Southeastern Woodlands of North America. Before Europeans arrived, they lived in the Southeastern United States of Mississippi, Alabama, and Tennessee. They speak a Muskogean language and are federally recognized as the Chickasaw Nation.

At first, the Chickasaw lived in western North America, but sometime before the first European contact, they moved to east of the Mississippi River. They settled mostly in present-day northeast Mississippi. They were living here when European explorers and traders came. They had relationships with the French, English and Spanish during the colonial years. The United States considered the Chickasaw one of the Five Civilized Tribes, because they adopted numerous practices of European Americans. They were forced by the US to sell their land in 1832 and move to Indian Territory (Oklahoma) during  the 1830s.

Most Chickasaw now live in Oklahoma. The Chickasaw Nation in Oklahoma is the 13th largest federally recognized tribe in the United States. Its members are related to the Choctaw and share a common history with them. The Chickasaw are divided into two groups: the Impsaktea and the Intcutwalipa. They traditionally followed a system of matrilineal descent. Some property was controlled by women, and hereditary leadership in the tribe passed from a mother to her children.

[[Vincennes]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in France, Communes in Val-de-Marne

Vincennes is a commune in France. Right next to Paris,  with about 50.000 people. Today, the city is known for the Château de Vincennes, which was there before the city, and which has an important role in the history of France. The city also gave its name to the Bois de Vincennes, the largest park in Paris.

[[Dean Hess]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2015 deaths, American military personnel of the Korean War, American military personnel of World War II, People from Cleveland, Ohio

Dean Elmer Hess (December 6, 1917 – March 2, 2015) was an American minister and United States Air Force colonel. He was involved in the so-called "Kiddy Car Airlift". It was the rescue of 950 orphans and 80 orphanage staff from the path of the Chinese advance during the Korean War on December 20, 1950.

[[Magda Guzmán]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Mexico, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors

María Magdalena Guzmán Garza (16 May 1931 – 12 March 2015), better known as Magda Guzmán, was a Mexican movie and television actress. She was known for her role in Amor Bravío as Refugio Chávez.

Guzmán died in Mexico City, Mexico from a heart attack, aged 83.

[[Daevid Allen]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, Australian guitarists, Australian rock musicians, Australian singers, Cancer deaths in New South Wales, Composers, Musicians from Melbourne, Australian poets

Christopher David Allen (13 January 1938 – 13 March 2015), better known as Daevid Allen, sometimes credited as Divided Alien, was an Australian poet, guitarist, singer, composer and performance artist. He was co-founder of psychedelic rock groups Soft Machine (in the UK, 1966) and Gong (in France, 1970).

Allen died of neck cancer at his home in Sydney, New South Wales, aged 77.

[[Irwin Hasen]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2015 deaths, American cartoonists, People from New York City

Irwin Hasen (July 8, 1918 – March 13, 2015) was an American cartoonist. He was best known as the co-creator (with Gus Edson) of the Dondi comic strip. He was born in New York City.

Hasen died at his home in New York City, aged 96.

[[Hyundai Santa Fe]]

CATEGORIES: Hyundai automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Hyundai Santa Fe is a mid sized crossover utility vehicle sold by the South Korean automaker Hyundai. It was introduced in 2002 as a mid sized SUV. It initially replaced the Hyundai Galloper (a badge engineered Mitsubishi Pajero). Beginning in 2007 it was redesigned as a unibody frame crossover utility vehicle. It slots above both the compact Hyundai Tucson and mid sized Hyundai Veracruz. In 2013 the vehicle was given a long wheel-base trim allowing third row seating, replacing the Veracruz in many countires (however it is still produced in South Korea)

[[Aneurysm (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 songs, Nirvana songs

"Aneurysm" is a song by American grunge band Nirvana. The song was released in 1996. It was released in two studio versions, as well as a live version that was featured on the album Muddy Banks of the Wishkah and was released in 1996 as a promotional single.

On the Billboard charts, "Aneurysm" was able to peak at #11 on the Mainstream Rock, #13 on the Alternative Songs, and #63 on the Radio Songs charts.

The first studio version of "Aneurysm" was recorded on 1 January 1991 by producer Craig Montgomery and it appeared on the 1991 single Smells Like Teen Spirit as a b-side. The second studio version of the song was recorded on 9 November 1991 at Maida Vale Studios for Mark Goodier's BBC session and it was first aired on 18 November 1991. A live performance of the song by Nirvana was recorded in 1991 at Del Mar Fairgrounds, California. It was released later as a promotional single in 1996 on the live album From the Muddy Banks of the Wishkah.

[[Douglas Rain]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2018 deaths, Actors from Manitoba, Canadian movie actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, People from Winnipeg

Douglas Rain (March 13, 1928 – November 11, 2018) was a Canadian actor and narrator.

He was known for providing the voice of the HAL 9000 computer in the movie 2001: A Space Odyssey and the sequel 2010. 

He decided to study acting at the Banff School of Fine Arts in Banff, Alberta and the Old Vic School in Bristol, England. He was nominated for a Tony Award in the category of Best Supporting or Featured Actor (Dramatic) for his performance in Vivat! Vivat Regina!.

Rain died in November 11, 2018 at the age of 90 at a hospital in St. Marys, Ontario of natural causes.

[[Las Estrellas]]

CATEGORIES: Television networks, Mexico City, 1950s establishments in Mexico, 1951 establishments in North America

Las Estrellas is one of the main television networks of Televisa. It has affiliate television stations all over Mexico. Its flagship station is XEW-TDT in Mexico City.

== Las Estrellas International == 

Las Estrellas International is available as a pay television network in Europe and Australia as Canal de las Estrellas Europa and Canal de las Estrellas Latinoamerica in Central and South America through Televisa Networks. Both feeds differ from the Canal de las Estrellas programming, usually broadcasting shows weeks behind their original broadcast.

In Canada, XEW-TDT and the Las Estrellas schedule is available in full on Rogers Cable (limited to the Greater Toronto Area) and Bell Fibe TV as an eligible foreign service.

== Network Logos == 

== Programming == 

Weekday programming in the afternoon and prime time consists of telenovelas. Las Estrellas airs sports programming and sports specials like the Olympic Games and the FIFA World Cup. Morning and afternoon programming consists of news, sports, talk shows, and variety shows. Night time programming is filled with a news program and Univision-produced shows. Examples of shows produced by Las Estrellas are Recuerda y Gana, Hoy, El Juego de las Estrellas, and Cuéntamelo ya. The network also produces and airs the Premios TVyNovelas, sponsored by the Televisa-owned magazine of the same name and considered the highest honor in the domestic Mexican television industry.

[[Lado a Lado]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 television series debuts, Telenovelas, Brazilian television series, 21st century establishments in Brazil

Lado a Lado (Side by Side) is a Brazilian telenovela. It is produced by Rede Globo. In November 2013, Lado a Lado won an International Emmy Award for best telenovela.

[[Julie Bishop (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Australian Christians, Australian ministers for Foreign Affairs, Liberal Party of Australia politicians, Politicians from South Australia

Julie Isabel Bishop (born 17 July 1956) is an Australian politician. She was the Minister for Foreign Affairs from 18 September 2013 to 26 August 2018. She also served as Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party from 29 November 2007 to 24 August 2018. For her efforts made in the aftermath of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, she was given a medal of merit by the Netherlands at the NATO summit in Newport, Wales. Since 2019, she has been the chancellor of the Australian National University (ANU).

Bishop was born in Lobethal, South Australia. She was married to Neil Gillon from 1983 until 1988. She is a Christian.

[[Iriana]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, First Ladies and Gentlemen of Indonesia, Muslims

Iriana (born 1 October 1963), also known as Iriana Joko Widodo, is the wife of the current President of Indonesia, Joko Widodo, and the First Lady of Indonesia since 20 October 2014.

Iriana was born in Surakarta, Central Java. She is a Muslim. She has been married to Widodo since 24 December 1986. They have three children.

[[Lincoln Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Actors from Queensland, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, People from Brisbane

Lincoln Clay Lewis (born 24 October 1987) is an Australian actor. He is best known for his roles in Tomorrow, When the War Began, Home and Away and SLiDE.

Lewis was born in Brisbane, Queensland. He is the son of Wally Lewis, a former rugby league player.

[[Cumberland River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Kentucky, Rivers of Tennessee

The Cumberland River is a major waterway of the Southern United States. The 688-long river goes through 18000 of southern Kentucky and north-central Tennessee. The river flows generally west from a source in the Appalachian Mountains. It merges with the Ohio River near Paducah, Kentucky, and the mouth of the Tennessee River.

[[Television station]]

CATEGORIES: Television stations

A television station is a commercial business or organization that transmits their signals directly to television receivers (TV sets). It usually has a studio for making TV shows. Television transmissions can be broadcast using analog television signals or digital television signals. Broadcast television standards are set by the government. These standards vary around the world. Analog television stations usually broadcast their signals on one television channel. Digital television stations broadcast their signals over one or more subchannels. 

The term "television stations" is normally applied to earth-based television stations and not to cable television or satellite television broadcasting. Television stations usually require a broadcast license from a government agency. That agency sets the rules which television stations must follow. In the United States, for example, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) licenses television channels.

[[Luxembourg Palace]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces in France, Buildings and structures in Paris, Former royal residences, 1612 establishments, 1610s establishments in Europe, 17th century establishments in France

The Luxembourg Palace (known in French as the Palais du Luxembourg) is a former royal palace in Paris, France. Since 1958 it has been the seat of the French Senate of the Fifth Republic.

[[Raif Dizdarević]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, Communist politicians, Military personnel of World War II, Presidents of Yugoslavia

Raif Dizdarević (born 9 December 1926) is a Bosniak former politician. Dizdarević was born in Fojnica. During World War II, he fought in the armed resistance in the Partisans.

After the war, as a member of the Communist Party and friend of Josip Broz Tito, he became a strong political leader. From 1945 he was a member of the Department of State Security.

[[Borisav Jović]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Communist politicians, Presidents of Yugoslavia, Serbian politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Serbia

Borisav Jović (Борисав Јовић, jǒːʋit͡ɕ; 19 October 1928 – 13 September 2021) was a Serbian communist politician. He served as the Serbian member of the presidency of Yugoslavia during the late 1980s and early 1990s.

Jović died on 13 September 2021 at a military hospital in Belgrade, Serbia from COVID-19 at the age of 92.

[[Claude Sitton]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Disease-related deaths in Georgia (U.S. state), Journalists from Georgia (U.S. state), Writers from Atlanta, Georgia, Pulitzer Prize winners

Claude Fox Sitton (December 4, 1925 – March 10, 2015) was an American newspaper reporter and editor. He worked for The New York Times during the 1950s and 1960s, eventually becoming the paper's national editor. He served as editorial director of Raleigh News and Observer and Raleigh Times. Sitton won the Pulitzer Prize for Commentary in 1983.

Sitton died in hospice care in Atlanta, Georgia, from congestive heart failure at the age of 89. He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Eva Whetstone, and four children.

[[Federal Communications Commission]]

CATEGORIES: United States government agencies, 1934 establishments in the United States

The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is an independent agency of the United States government. It was created by the United States Congress (Communications Act of 1934) to regulate communications. This includes radio, television, wire, satellite, and cable in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and U.S. territories. While it is an independent agency, the FCC does report to Congress. The FCC took over wire communication regulation from the Interstate Commerce Commission in 1934.

[[Ada Jafri]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Pakistani people, Poets

Ada Jafarey (22 August 1924 – 12 March 2015) was a Pakistani poet. She is thought to be as the first major Urdu poet who published as a woman. She had been called "The First Lady of Urdu Poetry". She had received awards including from the Government of Pakistan and literary societies of North America and Europe in recognition of her efforts.

Jafarey died in the evening of 12 March 2015 in a hospital in Karachi where she was being treated for a long-illness, at the age of 90.

[[Tobin Bell]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Saw (franchise), American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

Tobin Bell (born Joseph Henry Tobin, Jr.; August 7, 1942) is an American character actor. He is best known for his role of John Kramer/Jigsaw of the Saw movie series.

[[Intercourse, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Pennsylvania

Intercourse (population: 1,274 as of 2010 census) is an unincorporated village and census-designated place in Leacock Township, Lancaster County in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania.

[[IFK Nässjö]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden

IFK Nässjö is a sports club in the town of Nässjö in Sweden. It was established in 1924. The men's bandy team played in the 1944 qualifying rounds for the Swedish top division before being disestablished in 1968.

The women's bandy section was started in 2004 when it took over Nässjö IF's women's bandy team. The IFK Nässjö women's bandy team won the Swedish national championship in the year of 2009 and lost the national final in the years of 2008 and 2010. All three final games were played against AIK. The U-17 girls bandy team also won the Swedish national championship during the seasons of 2004-2005 and 2005-2006.

The club was appointed "IFK club of the year 2006" on 18 August 2007.

The club announced its withdrawal from the Swedish women's bandy top division on 23 August 2011 because of lack of players.

[[Maggie Roswell]]

CATEGORIES: American voice actors, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, 1952 births, Living people, Emmy Award winning actors, Annie Award winners

Maggie Roswell (born November 14, 1952) is an American actress. She got both an Annie Award and an Emmy Award. She voiced the characters Maude Flanders, Miss Hoover and Helen Lovejoy in the animated series The Simpsons. She got her acting break during the 1980s in movies including Lost in America and Pretty in Pink.

The actress was born in Los Angeles, California.

[[Marinilabiliaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Marinilabiliaceae is a family of bacteria. The cells are flexible rods and thin. Mostly species are able to move smoothly.

[[Selånger SK]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 establishments in Sweden, Athletics clubs, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Cycling, Figure skating, Handball clubs in Sweden, Ski clubs in Sweden, Sundsvall, Swedish football clubs, Table tennis clubs in Sweden

Selånger SK is a sports club in the town of Sundsvall in Sweden. It was established in 1921. The club runs bandy, soccer, Nordic skiing, orienteering and ski orienteering. It earlier even ran table tennis, cycling, track and field athletics, racewalking, handball and figure skating.  The men's bandy team has played 26 seasons in the Swedish top division. The club became an alliance club in 1991. It has three sections: Selånger SK Bandy, Selånger FK and Selånger SOK. Sven Selånger, Anna-Lisa Eriksson and Arja Hannus are the names of three famous skiers who have competed for the club.

[[Interstate Commerce Commission]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 establishments in the United States, 1995 disestablishments in the United States, United States government agencies

The Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) was a regulatory agency in the United States (created by the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887). The agency's original purpose was to regulate railroads. Later the trucking industry in the United States was added. The purpose was to ensure fair rates, to eliminate rate discrimination, and to regulate other aspects of common carriers. This included public transport bus service and telephone companies. Congress expanded ICC authority to regulate other modes of commerce beginning in 1906. The agency was abolished in 1995, and its remaining functions were transferred to the Surface Transportation Board.

The Commission's five members were appointed by the President of the United States. They were confirmed by the United States Senate. The commission was authorized to investigate violations of the Act and stop any wrongdoing. However, in its early years, ICC orders required an order by a federal court to become effective. The Commission was the first Independent regulatory body. They were also the first agency to regulate big businesses in the U.S.

[[Rick Victor]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Canadian professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Alberta, WWE people

Eric Thompson (born March 4, 1980) is an Canadian professional wrestler. He is better known by his ring names Rick Victor and Viktor. He is currently signed to the WWE and wrestles as part of the tag team The Ascension with Konnor.

He is a former one-time NXT Tag Team Champion with Konnor. They were the longest reigning NXT Tag Team Champions of all time, holding the titles for 364 days.

[[Betsy's Wedding]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about weddings

Betsy's Wedding is a 1990 American romantic comedy movie. It was directed by Alan Alda and produced by Martin Bregman. It stars Molly Ringwald as Betsy. Ally Sheedy plays Connie. Catherine O'Hara plays Gloria. Madeline Kahn plays Lola.

Betsy's Wedding got mixed reviews from critics. The run time is 94 minutes.

[[Peachtree Road]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums

Peachtree Road is the twenty-eighth studio album by Elton John. The album was released on November 9, 2004. It lacked any big hit singles or music videos. The Los Angeles Times gave it three stars and a moderate review. They wrote "Forget about new melodies and themes: They must have trouble just thinking of new song titles." Entertainment Weekly gave it a B-. Their review said “Peachtree's few attempts to rock out are tame and hokey.” Overall, however the album got a score of 70. In sales it got a gold record.

[[Patriot Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 thriller movies, 1992 action movies, 1990s sequel movies, 1990s spy movies, American action thriller movies, American sequel movies, American spy movies, English-language movies, Movies about murderers, Movies about revenge, Movies about terrorism, Movies set in London, Movies set in Maryland, Movies set in Virginia, Movies directed by Phillip Noyce

Patriot Games is a 1992 American action thriller movie. Harrison Ford plays retired CIA analyst Jack Ryan. Anne Archer plays his wife Cathy Ryan. Thora Birch plays his daughter Sally Ryan. Sean Bean plays the IRA terrorist who wants to avenge his brother's death by Jack Ryan during a failed assassination attempt, and kill Ryan and his family. This movie was released on June 5, 1992. It was a financial success at the box office. It got very good reviews. Its sequel is the 1994 movie Clear and Present Danger.

[[Vivian Bullwinkel]]

CATEGORIES: World War II people, Australian military people, Australian nurses, Military personnel of World War II, War crimes

Lieutenant-Colonel Vivian Bullwinkel, Mrs. Statham, AO, MBE, ARRC, FNM (18 December 1915 – 3 July 2000) was an Australian Army nurse during the Second World War. She was the only one alive from the Bangka Island Massacre. In that massacre, Japanese troops killed 21 of her fellow nurses on Radji Beach, Bangka Island (Indonesia) on 16 February 1942.

[[Östersunds BS]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Östersund

Östersunds BS is a bandy club in the town of Östersund in Sweden. It was established on 5 September 1974 when Ope IF's bandy section was disestablished. The women's bandy team debuted in the Swedish top division during the season of 2013-2014.

[[Sporosarcina]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Sporosarcina is a genus of bacteria.

The cells of Sporosarcina are either shaped like a rod or like a bowl (coccoid). Most species are able to move (motile). All species of Sporosarcina are capable of aerobic respiration using oxygen. Some species have the enzyme urease and can break down urea. The species S. ureae is common in the soil where cattle live.

[[BK Ume-Trixa]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 establishments in Europe, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Umeå, 1980s establishments in Sweden

BK Ume-Trixa is a sports club in Umeå, Sweden. It was established in 1981. The club earlier played rink bandy and bandy. It now instead runs women's ice hockey. The women's bandy team played seven seasons in the Swedish top division.

[[Schwerte]]

CATEGORIES: Urban districts in Regierungsbezirk Arnsberg, Unna Rural District

Schwerte is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 48,000 people live there. Schwerte is in the Ruhr valley just north of the mountainous Sauerland region. The Ruhr river runs through the center of Schwerte. Schwerte is a popular cycling destination for tourists.

[[Clostridia]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

The Clostridia are a class of Firmicutes, including Clostridium and other similar genera.

The Clostridia are obligate anaerobes. They lack aerobic respiration, and oxygen is toxic to them. Species of the genus Clostridium are all Gram-positive and can form spores.

Studies show they are not a monophyletic group. In fact, they are highly polyphyletic. Their relationships are not certain. Most are put in the Clostridiales, but is not a natural group. It is likely to be redefined in the future.

Most species of the genus Clostridium are saprophytic organisms found in many places, most notably the soil. However, the genus does contain some human pathogens.

The toxins produced by some members of the Clostridium genus are among the most dangerous known. Examples are tetanus toxin (known as tetanospasmin) produced by C. tetani and botulinum toxin produced by C. botulinum.

Notable species of this class include:

Heliobacteria are also members of the class Clostridia.

[[Planococcaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

The Planococcaceae are a family of gram-positive bacteria. Most of the species are capable of aerobic respiration using oxygen. Some others can live without oxygen, they are anaerobic organism.

[[Alicyclobacillaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

The Alicyclobacillaceae are a family of gram-positive bacteria. Some of them are thermophiles, they can live at around 70. They also tolerate acidic pH levels of 1.5–5.5. They can make endospores. Alicyclobacillaceae are found in soil, water and in geothermal springs.

[[Deep, Deep Trouble]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop songs, 1990 songs, The Simpsons

"Deep, Deep Trouble" is a 1990 song performed by Bart Simpson. It is about Bart getting in trouble. He is told to mow the lawn by father Homer Simpson. The song was from the 1990 album The Simpsons Sing the Blues.

The song was released in early 1991. It charted in many countries. It reached #1 in Ireland.

[[Lana Parrilla]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Actors from Brooklyn, American movie actors, American television actors

 Lana Maria Parrilla (born July 15, 1977) is an American actress. She was born in Brooklyn, New York City. She is the younger daughter of Sam Parrilla. She was regular cast member on the season five of ABC situation comedy, Spin City, from 2000 to 2001. Parrilla later starred in the drama Boomtown (2002-2003). Then she starred in Windfall (2006), Swingtown (2008) and Miami Medical (2010). She also played the role of 'Sarah Gavin' on the season four of Fox series 24 in 2005. In 2011, Parrilla began starring as The 'Evil Queen'/'Regina Mills' in the ABC fantasy drama series, Once Upon a Time.

[[Ana María Giunta]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, Argentine movie actors, Argentine television actors, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in Argentina

Ana María Giunta (1 March 1943 – 14 March 2015) was an Argentine actress. She was known for her roles in S.O.S Gulubú (1986), A King and His Movie (1986), and in Eversmile, New Jersey (1989). Giunta was born in Concepción del Uruguay, Argentina.

Giunta died in Buenos Aires, Argentina from respiratory failure, aged 72.

[[Narayan Desai]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Activists, Disease-related deaths in India, Indian writers

Narayan Desai (24 December 1924 – 15 March 2015) was an Indian Gandhian and author. He was the son of Mahatma Gandhi's personal secretary and biographer Mahadev Desai. He was born in Bulsar (now Valsad), Gujarat. During his career, he wrote many books about the ideas and life of Gandhi. 

Desai died in Surat, India from a short-illness, aged 90.

[[Valentin Rasputin]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, Russian novelists, Soviet writers

Valentin Grigoriyevich Rasputin (Валентин Григорьевич Распутин; 15 March 1937spaced ndash14 March 2015) was a Russian writer. He was born and lived much of his life in the Irkutsk Oblast in Eastern Siberia. 

Rasputin's works show rootless urban characters and the fight for survival of centuries-old traditional rural ways of life. Rasputin's work are about the hard questions of ethics and spiritual revival.

Rasputin died a day short of his 78th birthday on 14 March 2015 in Moscow.

[[Mike Porcaro]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2015 deaths, American bass guitarists, American rock musicians, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Musicians from Connecticut

Michael Joseph Porcaro (May 29, 1955 – March 15, 2015) was an American bass player known for his work with Toto. He retired from touring in 2007 because he was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also known as Lou Gehrig’s disease. 

He was the middle son of Joe Porcaro. His elder brother was Jeff Porcaro. His younger brother is Steve Porcaro.

Porcaro died from complications of ALS in his sleep at his home in Los Angeles, California, aged 59.

[[Ruhr]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of North Rhine-Westphalia, Rivers of Germany

The Ruhr is a river in western Germany. It flows into the Rhine River.

It is 218 long. The Ruhr begins near the town of Winterberg and flows into the Rhine River near Düsseldorf.  Winterberg is located in the Sauerland region and Düsseldorf lies in North Rhine-Westphalia in the west of Germany. It runs through Arnsberg, Iserlohn, Schwerte, Bochum and Essen, among other cities. 

Several Ruhr-area cities joined the Hanseatic league during the middle ages. The Ruhr became a center for business and industry. Beginning in the mid 14th century coal was mined along the Ruhr. It became a center for coal and steel production in Germany for over 200 years. In the mid 20th century coal and steel industries came to an end. The buildings were then used for cultural events and entertainment purposes.

[[Arrondissements of the Landes department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Lists of arrondissements of France

There are 2 arrondissements in the Landes department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into cantons and communes.

The arrondissements of Landes are:

[[Arrondissement of Dax]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Dax is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Landes département. Its capital, and subprefecture of the department, is the city of Dax.

[[Arrondissement of Mont-de-Marsan]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Mont-de-Marsan is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Landes département in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Mont-de-Marsan.

[[Dax, Landes]]

CATEGORIES: Spa towns in France, Subprefectures in France, Communes in Landes

Dax (Dacs in Gascon) is a commune in Nouvelle-Aquitaine in south-western France, sub-prefecture of the Landes department. It is also the capital of the arrondissement of Dax and of 2 cantons in the department: Dax-1 and Dax-2.

It is well-known spa town, specialising in mud treatment for rheumatism and similar medical problems.

[[Cyclone Pam]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in weather, Tropical cyclones in Oceania, Vanuatu, 2010s in Oceania

Cyclone Pam is a 2015 Pacific Ocean tropical cyclone. The storm caused major devastation in Vanuatu. It is the second most intense storm according to pressure, after Cyclone Zoe in 2002. The storm has killed many people and caused heavy damage.

Pam formed March 6 east of the Solomon Islands. It reached Category 5 on Saffir-Simpson Scale. It caused damaging storm surges in certain areas.

[[Andrea Zorzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, 1988 Summer Olympics, 1992 Summer Olympics, Italian Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Veneto

Andrea Zorzi (born July 29, 1965 in Noale, Province of Venice) is an Italian retired volleyball player, who won two World Championships with the Italy men's national volleyball team (1990 and 1994). He was popularly known as Zorro.

After his debut in Bormio in 1986, he totalled 325 caps with Italian national team. He was a silver medalist in the 1996 Summer Olympics and also competed at the 1988 and 1992 games. Playing for almost all the major volleyball clubs of Italy, including Maxicono Parma and Sisley Treviso, he won several titles: these include two Italian Championships (1990, 1996) and one European Champions League in 1995. In 1991 he was declared World's Best Player by FIVB.

[[Anthony Minichiello]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Australian rugby league players, Sportspeople from Sydney

Anthony Minichiello (born 24 May 1980) is an Australian former professional rugby league footballer. He played his entire career (2000–14) for the Sydney Roosters of the National Rugby League, captaining them for his final two seasons. He played more games and scored the most tries for the club than any other player in its history. He played in six grand finals, winning two in 2002 and 2013.

[[Yacht]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, Boats

A yacht is a type of boat which is mainly used for recreation. It usually has a cabin, so it does not need to return to the harbour overnight. Originally, yachts were sailing-boats, but now there are also motor yachts. The name comes from the Dutch word jachtschip, which originally meant hunting-boat or fast boat. Yachts have a fixed keel.

A yacht can vary in size from about 20 feet (6 metres) to 200 feet (60 metres) or more.

Most privately owned yachts fall in the range of about 7-14; the cost of building and keeping a yacht rises quickly as length increases. In the United  States, sailors tend to refer to smaller yachts as sailboats, while referring to the general sport of sailing as yachting. In sailboat racing, a yacht is any sailing vessel taking part in a race.

[[Dhoom]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 movies, Indian movies

Dhoom is a 2004 action thriller movie. This movie was directed by Sanjay Gadhvi. This movie was produced by Aditya Chopra.

[[Abhishek Bachchan]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Indian movie actors

Abhishek Bachchan (born 5 February 1976) is an Indian movie actor, producer and occasional playback singer. He is the son of famous Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan and Jaya Bachchan.

Bachcahn made his acting debut in 2000 with J. P. Dutta's war film, Refugee.This was followed by over a dozen of films which were both critical and commercial disasters.His first commercial success came with the 2004 action film Dhoom, which changed his career prospects. Bachchan later earned critical appreciation for his performances in films such as Yuva (2004), Sarkar (2005), and Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna (2006), all of which garnered him three consecutive Filmfare Award for Best Supporting Actor.In 2007, he portrayed "Gurukant Desai" a character loosely based on Dhirubhai Ambani in Mani Ratnam's drama film Guru, which earned him a nomination for Filmfare Award for Best Actor.

[[Dhoom 2]]

Dhoom 2 is a 2006 action thriller movie.This movie was directed by Sanjay Gadhvi. This movie was produced by Aditya Chopra. The film stars Hrithik Roshan, Abhishek Bachchan, Aishwarya Rai, Uday Chopra and Bipasha Basu in the lead roles. It is the second installment in the Dhoom series. It was released on November 24, 2006 and was generally well received by critics and audiences. In addition, it was a blockbuster at the box office. It became the highest-grossing Indian film of 2006. and the highest-grossing Bollywood film of all time as well at the time of its release. It is the seventh highest-grossing Bollywood film in overseas markets. 

[[Dhoom 3]]

CATEGORIES: Movies about autism, Indian movies, Hindi-language movies, 2010s action thriller movies, 2010s black comedy movies, 2010s chase movies, Movies set in Chicago, Illinois, Movies about revenge

Dhoom is a 2013 action thriller movie.This movie was  directed by  Sanjay Gadhvi. This movie was produced by Aditya Chopra

[[Clocks (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 songs, Coldplay songs, Grammy Award winning songs

"Clocks" is the third single off British alternative rock band Coldplay's second studio album, A Rush of Blood to the Head. The song was released on 10 December 2002. 

[[Astro Boy (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 animated movies, 2009 science fiction movies, 2009 comedy movies, American animated movies, American science fiction movies, American comedy movies, American superhero movies, Computer-animated movies, Robot movies, Chinese animated movies, Movies set in the future, Hong Kong movies, Japanese movies

Astro Boy is an American-Hong Kong-Chinese science fiction action-comedy superhero fantasy computer-animated movie based on the manga of the same name.

This movie was released first in Hong Kong on October 8, 2009. It was released in Japan on October 10, 2009. It was released in the United States on October 23, 2009.

[[Poland men's national volleyball team]]

CATEGORIES: National volleyball teams, Sport in Poland

The Poland national men's volleyball team is the national volleyball team from Poland, controlled by the Polski Związek Piłki Siatkowej (PZPS), which represents the country in international competitions and friendly matches. Poland is one of the world's strongest teams, it is the reigning world champion since 2014 and is ranked third (as of August 2015) in the FIVB world ranking.

[[United States men's national volleyball team]]

CATEGORIES: Sports in the United States, National volleyball teams

The United States men's national volleyball team is the national team for the United States of America. It is governed by USA Volleyball.

[[Moraxella]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Moraxella is a genus of bacteria. It is named after Victor Morax, a Swiss eye specialist (ophthalmologist). They are gram-negative.

The cells are short rods or cocci. Moraxella catarrhalis can cause chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

[[Sugar Hill Records (rap)]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, Rap music, 1974 establishments in the United States, 1986 disestablishments

Sugar Hill Records was an American record label. It was set up by Joe and Sylvia Robinson in 1974 to be the first label issuing exclusively rap music. Their first release came out five years later. It was "Rapper's Delight" by the Sugar Hill Gang.

Sugar Hill Records went bankrupt in 1986.

[[Casablanca Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels

Casablanca Records is an American recording label. It is owned by Universal Music Group. Casablanca operates under Republic Records. The label became most successful as a disco label in the 1970s. It currently operates as an electronic dance music label under the direction of Tommy Mottola.

[[ABC Dunhill Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels

ABC Records purchased Dunhill Records in 1966, forming ABC Dunhill Records. They purchased Don Robey's record labels on May 23, 1973. These included Duke Records, Peacock Records, Back Beat Records and Song Bird Records. 

Later on, they also purchased the Famous Music record labels from Gulf and Western in 1974. These included Dot Records and Blue Thumb Records. With the Famous acquisition, ABC gained a distribution deal with Sire Records. ABC distributed (through Sire) the first releases by punk band the Ramones. Sire switched to Warner Bros. distribution in 1977, being sold to WB a year later.

[[Moraxellaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Moraxellaceae are a family of bacteria. They are gram-negative. Some are pathogens. Moraxella catarrhalis can cause Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Moraxella bovis cause in cattle the so-called pink eye.

[[Anna Atkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1799 births, 1871 deaths, British photographers, English botanists, Female scientists, People from Kent

Anna Atkins (16 March, 1799 – 9 June, 1871) was an English botanist and photographer. Atkins used cyanotypes to photograph algae and make books about them.

[[Cyanotype]]

CATEGORIES: Photography

Cyanotype is a photographic printing process, which produces prints that are blue. John Herschel discovered the process in 1842. Engineers used the process well into the 20th century as a simple and low-cost process to produce copies of drawings, referred to as blueprints. The process uses two chemicals: ammonium iron(III) citrate and potassium ferricyanide.

[[Iris Yassmin Barrios Aguilar]]

CATEGORIES: Guatemalan politicians, Living people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Year of birth missing (living people), Women judges

Iris Yassmin Barrios Aguilar is a judge.  She was the president of one of Guatemala’s two High Risk Court Tribunals. A High Risk Court Tribunal is a kind of court that has authority in difficult cases. The cases are likely to cause people to become upset because they are related to politics or government.

In 2014, Barrios received an International Women of Courage Award from the United States Department of State.

Barrios was in charge of the trial of Efraín Ríos Montt, who ruled Guatemala with total authority.  This trial was the first time a national court tried a former leader of a country for genocide. That trial decided that Montt was responsible for committing the crime of genocide against Ixil Mayans.  The trial finished in 2013.

In April 2014, Barrios' authority as a judge was suspended for a year. This was because of a complaint against her by a lawyer who had a part in the trial of Efrain Rios Montt.

[[Catuskoti]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist terminology

Catuskoti is the idea in Buddhism that statements can be either true, false, both true and false, or neither true nor false. 

[[Rusudan Gotsiridze]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Activists, Baptists, Georgian people, Religious leaders, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Rusudan Gotsiridze (რუსუდან გოცირიძე; born 8 February 1975) is a bishop of the Evangelical Baptist Church of Georgia.  She is a political activist for women's rights. In 2014, Gotsiridze received the International Women of Courage Award.

Gotsiridze was the first female Baptist bishop in Georgia. She supports a policy of women's equality. Gotsiridze has spoken out against the use of physical force to harm women. She started a series of discussions between religious groups in order to prevent disagreements and to help minority religions. She was also one of the first members of the religious community in Georgia to publicly support the rights of the LGBT community. Gotsiridze spoke at the sixth United Nations Forum on Minority Issues about religious minorities in Georgia.

[[13 Ghosts]]

CATEGORIES: American horror movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, 1960 movies, 1960s horror movies, Movies directed by William Castle

13 Ghosts is a 1960 horror movie. This movie was directed by William Castle. It was written by Robb White. It was released in 10 July, 1960.

[[Thirteen Ghosts]]

CATEGORIES: American horror movies, English-language movies, Ghost movies, Movie remakes, Warner Bros. movies, Columbia Pictures movies, 2001 movies

Thirteen Ghosts is a 2001 American horror movie. This movie was directed by Steve Beck. It was a remake of the 1960 movie 13 Ghosts.

[[ABC Africa]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 movies, Iranian movies, Documentary movies, Movies directed by Abbas Kiarostami

ABC Africa is an 2001 Iranian documentary movie. This movie was directed by Abbas Kiarostami.

[[Dagon (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 movies, Spanish movies, Horror movies

Dagon is  a 2001 Spanish movie. This movie was directed by Stuart Gordon. It was written by Dennis Paoli.

[[The Happy Cricket]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 animated movies, 2000s adventure movies, 2000s musical movies, 2000s family movies, 2000s fantasy movies

The Happy Cricket is a 2001 animated children's fantasy movie. This movie directed by Walbercy Riabs. It was released on 20 July 2001.

[[The Color of Milk]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 movies

The Color of Milk (also called The Colour of Milk, Neither Naked nor Dressed, or Selma and Andy), original title Ikke naken, is a 2004 Norwegian family movie.

[[I Want a Dog (movie)]]

I Want a Dog is a 2003 Canadian animated short movie. The movie was directed by Sheldon Cohen.

[[Jimmy, the Boy Wonder]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 movies

Jimmy, the Boy Wonder is a 1996 children's musical movie distributed by Mayflower Pictures. The movie was directed by Herschell Gordon Lewis and was written by Hal Berg.

[[Eustace Mullins]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2010 deaths, American political activists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Texas, Deaths from stroke, People from Virginia

Eustace Mullins (1923-2010) was a right-wing political activist. He wrote many biographies and history books. The best known is Secrets of the Federal Reserve. He also wrote books opposing the one world government movement. David Randall calls him "one of the world's leading conspiracy theorists".

He was born in Roanoke, Virginia. He died of a stroke in Hockley, Texas.

[[Caroline Sunshine]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, 1995 births, Living people

Caroline Mohr Sunshine (born September 5, 1995) is an American actress, dancer and singer. She played Barbara Winslow in the family movie Marmaduke. She also played Annie in the play Stage Door.

She was born in Atlanta, Georgia.

[[Tropical Storm Fabian (1991)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 Atlantic hurricane season, October events, 20th century in Cuba, 1990s in Florida, 1991 in the United States

Tropical Storm Fabian was a short-lived tropical storm during the 1991 Atlantic hurricane season. It was the sixth storm of that year which was given a name. It formed in the northwest Caribbean southwest of Cuba. The storm reached a peak intensity of 45 mph (75 km/h), shortly before crossing over Cuba as it moved northeast past Florida. Fabian became extratropical north of the Bahamas the next day, and dissipated on October 17. Fabian caused only light rainfall along its path and there were no reported deaths or damage.

[[Beatrice Mtetwa]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Zimbabwean businesspeople, Women lawyers, CPJ International Press Freedom Award winners

Beatrice Mtetwa is a lawyer from Zimbabwe.  She is known internationally because she represents journalists and because she speaks to support press freedom. In 2008, The New York Times said she was "Zimbabwe's top human rights lawyer". In 2014, she received an International Women of Courage Award from the U.S. Department of State.

[[Mary King]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Horse riding, British Olympic silver medalists, British Olympic bronze medalists, Sportspeople from Nottinghamshire

Mary King (born 8 June 1961) is a British horse rider. She won the European Championships and the Badminton Horse Trials. She won four gold medals at the World and European championships. She was the British Champion a record four times. Her sixth Olympic appearance was in London at the 2012 Summer Olympics.

King and her daughter Emily were the first British mother and daughter team to represent Britain in their respective age groups, Mary at senior and Emily (15 years old) at junior level.

[[Linda Sue Park]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Illinois, 1960 births, Living people

Linda Sue Park is a Korean-American children’s literature poet and novelist. Park was born on March 25, 1960, in Urbana, Illinois. She was educated at Stanford University, California; Trinity College, Dublin; and Birkbeck College, London. Many of her books are written about Korean ethnicity. She was a food journalist from 1985-1990. She taught English as a second language from 1985-2001. Park enjoys cooking, reading, and watching movies and sports in her free time.

[[Roshika Deo]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Activists, Fijian politicians, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Roshika Deo (born December 12, 1980) is a Fijian politician and activist. Deo started the Be The Change Campaign organization in Fiji.  The organization supports feminism, human rights, and environmentalism. 

Deo was a candidate for the Fiji National Elections in September 2014.  She was the first to put her name on the official list of people trying to be elected. Many members of the FijiFirst and SODELPA parties, as well as members of Methodist Church in Fiji criticized Deo.  It was difficult for Deo to get enough signatures of support to officially become a candidate.

Deo received the New Zealand Defender of Human Rights award in 2013. In 2014, she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Kate DiCamillo]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1964 births, Living people, Children's books

Kate DiCamillo  is an award-winning American children's book author.

[[Rebecca Stead]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from New York City, 1938 births, Living people

Rebecca Stead is an American children’s author. She graduated from Vassar College in 1989. She is the author of three popular children's books: First Light, When You Reach Me, and Liar & Spy.

[[Pam Muñoz Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from California, 1951 births, Living people

Pam Muñoz Ryan is an American children's writer. She was born on December 25, 1951, in Bakersfield, California. She is the daughter of Don Bell and Esperanza Muñoz. She is the eldest of three sisters and twenty-three cousins. She took much of her inspiration for her books from her family and human rights in history.  For example, the idea for Esperanza Rising came from her grandmother's experiences immigrating to America. When Marian Sang shows the discrimination against African Americans in the theater.  She has written two novels, three books in the "Doug" series, and 13 picture books.

[[Jennifer L. Holm]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from California, 1968 births, Living people

Jennifer L. Holm is an American author. Her books include the Babymouse series, Middle School is Worse Than Meatloaf, and The Fourteenth Goldfish. 

[[Clare Vanderpool]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Writers from Wichita, Kansas, Living people

Clare Vanderpool is an American children’s author. Her first book, Moon Over Manifest, won the 2011 Newbery Medal. She lives with her husband and four children in Kansas.

[[Lois Lowry]]

CATEGORIES: American writers, 1937 births, Living people, People from Honolulu

Lois Lowry (born Lois Ann Hammersberg; March 20, 1937) is an American author who was born in Honolulu, Hawaii. Her father wasn’t present in her childhood, so she liked to write about strong father figures in her books. She became interested in reading when she was very young. She had a lot of trouble with math. 

[[Sharon Draper]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Ohio

Sharon Draper is an American author, poet, and master educator. She has won many awards for teaching and written many books, poems, and short stories. She was a teacher in Cincinnati from 1970-1997 and became an author in 1991, which is the career she is currently pursuing. Her first piece was “One Small Torch”, a short story published in the Ebony magazine in 1991 as the winner of a short story contest with 20,000 entries. In her writing, she choses African-American male characters to give a voice to African-American young men.

[[Jacqueline Woodson]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Ohio

Jacqueline Woodson is an American writer who has written many successful books for a wide audience.  She gives a voice to those Americans in our community who are sometimes silenced or looked down upon. Ms. Woodson once said, "I feel compelled to write against stereotypes, hoping people will see that some issues know no color, class, sexuality…. I write from the very depths of who I am, and in this place there are all of my identities."proof Through her quotes and her books she inspires America to take a stand against stereotypes to make our world a better place.

[[Laurie Halse Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from New York

Laurie Halse Anderson is an American author who has written many books. She writes fiction on many different subjects. She was born on October 23, 1961, in New York. As a young child, Anderson loved to listen to her father tell stories and poems. In 1983, Anderson married Gregory H. Anderson, a business executive. One year later in 1984, she earned her bachelor's degree from Georgetown university in Washington D.C. Anderson has published many books for young adults and children. She has written in many different genres as well. Some of Anderson’s most well known books include Speak, Fever 1793, and Catalyst. People appreciate her ability to capture the voices and attitudes of teenagers as they face personal problems in her books. In 2009, Anderson received the Margaret A. Edwards award for her contributions to young adult literature.

[[Judy Blume]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, New York University alumni, Writers from New Jersey

Judy Blume is an American author.

[[Marissa Meyer]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Washington, 1984 births

Marissa Meyer is well known for writing the Lunar Chronicles, which includes Cinder, Scarlet, and Cress. These books have parts of well known fairy-tales, but she added her own twist. The Lunar Chronicle books were very successful, Cinder, the first book in the series, made it onto the New York Times Best Sellers list.  In November 2015, the fifth in the Lunar Chronicle series will be published, Winter. Her most recently published book is Fairest, another book about fairytales. She even has many unfinished books lying around. She lives with her husband and three cats.

[[Tamora Pierce]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Pennsylvania

Tamora Pierce is an American author. She was born in Connellsville, Pennsylvania on December 13th, 1954. Tamora Pierce is the daughter of Wayne Pierce and Jacqueline Pierce, but her parents divorced. Her family moved from Pennsylvania to California many times. Tamora loved reading books as a child, and she started writing stories when she was in 6th grade. When she was a teenager, she stopped writing. One of her teachers motivated her to continue writing, and she started writing again as an adult.

[[Ally Carter]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Oklahoma, American bloggers

Ally Carter is an American author. She was born in Oklahoma in 1974.  She went to Oklahoma State University and Cornell University. Carter began writing at age 12. She published her first book in 2005, Cheating at Solitaire. S. E. Hinton's The Outsiders made her interested in writing. Carter first was a screenwriter, then started writing novels. Some of her books were My True Love Gave to Me, Double Crossed, Learning to Play Gin and Cheating At Solitaire. She also wrote two series, the Gallagher Girls Books and Heist Society Books. All Fall Down came out on January 20, 2015 to start her new series, Embassy Row.

Carter writes about teenage spies and thieves. Her books have been sold in over 20 languages.  It takes her four to six weeks to write one story, but she spends much more time editing the stories. Her books have appeared on several best sellers lists, such as the New York Times, as well as sold over two million copies in the United States alone.

[[Hillsboro, West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Virginia

Hillsboro is a town in Pocahontas County, West Virginia, United States.

[[Raina Telgemeier]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1977 births, Writers from California

Raina Telgemeier was born May 26, 1977 in San Francisco, California. She has published many graphic novels for teenagers, including Smile, Drama, Sister, Baby Sitter Club Series, and X - men: Misfits. Telgemeier gets ideas for her stories from her life. For example, "Smile" came from her life. 

Telgemeier attended the School Of Visual Arts in New York City. She studied illustration. She graduated in 2002. Telgemeier met her husband, Dave Roman, at the School of Visual Arts. After graduating Telgemeier worked for a publisher in New York. But she was thinking about drawing her own books. She now lives and works in Queens, New York. Now, she is a famous cartoonist, animator, and novelist who has written many well known young adult novels. 

[[Kirsten Miller]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from North Carolina, 1973 births

Kirsten Miller is an American author.

[[E. L. Konigsburg]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from New York

Elaine Lobl Konigsburg (February 10, 1930 – April 19, 2013) was an American writer.

[[Wendy Mass]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American novelists, Writers from New Jersey, People from Livingston, New Jersey

Wendy Mass is an American author who writes mainly for young adults and children. She was born on April 22, 1967 in Livingston, New Jersey, United States. She is most known for her young adult novel A Mango Shaped Space and Jeremy Fink and the Meaning of Life. 

[[Cynthia Kadohata]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Illinois

Cynthia Kadohata is an American author, who has written many well known novels. A quote that expresses Cynthia Kadohata’s connection to writing and her books is “My memories become their memories, and their memories become mine.”proof 

[[Louise Erdrich]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Minnesota, 1954 births, Living people

Louise Erdrich is an American author. She was born on June 7, 1954, in Minnesota. Erdrich lived in North Dakota as a child. Her mother is Chippewa. She has a German-American father. Louise incorporates Native American themes in her books. Major characters represent both sides of her heritage and background. She was married to Michael Anthony Dorris, who was a writer and professor of Native American studies at Dartmouth.

[[E. Lockhart]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from New York

Emily Jenkins, also known as E. Lockhart is an American author. Jenkins was born in New York, New York on September 13, 1967. She writes in many genres such as children’s fiction and adult romance novels. She has even won the Boston Globe/Horn Book Honor Award twice. She has also written many respected young adult novels. 

[[Jacqueline Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: New Zealand writers

Jacqueline Kelly is an New Zealand-born American author of children's books.

[[Paula Danziger]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2004 deaths, Writers from Washington, D.C., American children's writers

Paula Danziger (August 18, 1944-July 8, 2004) was an American author of children's and young adult literature. 

[[Dodie Smith]]

CATEGORIES: English writers

Dorothy Gladys Smith (born in 1896), commonly known as Dodie Smith, was an English children’s book author and playwright. She is most famous for writing The Hundred and One Dalmatians and I Capture the Castle, both adapted into famous films. Ms Smith had not intended to be a writer. Her first love was acting but, she once admitted, "I simply wasn't very good."

[[Joan Bauer]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Illinois

Joan Bauer is an American author. She was born on July 12, 1951 in River Forest, Illinois. She was the oldest of four sisters with a teacher for a mother and a salesman for a father. In her teen years, her grandmother got Alzheimer's disease.  Soon after this, her father committed suicide. Bauer said her teenage experiences influenced her stories. As a teen, Bauer was a waitress, an assistant, typing teacher, and a freelance writer. Bauer currently lives in Brooklyn, with her husband Evan Bauer, her daughter Jean, and dog Max. She’s working on another book, which is due to be published in early 2016.

[[Grace Lin]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from New York, 1974 births, Living people

Grace Lin is an American writer and children's illustrator. Her first book, The Ugly Vegetables, was published in 1999. She has written four novels: The Year of the Dog, The Year of the Rat, Where the Mountain Meets the Moon, and Starry River of the Sky. She also writes a series for early readers with twins named Ling and Ting, as well as other books for younger readers. She brings her sketchbook everywhere, and writes down ideas for her books. She wanted to grow up to be a figure skater. She changed her mind because she enjoyed drawing pictures of herself as an ice skater.

[[Nasrin Oryakhil]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Afghan scientists, Physicians, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Nasrin Oryakhil (born 1964) is a gynecologist and obstetrician from Afghanistan. She received a 2014 International Women of Courage Award. 

[[First Graders]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 movies, Iranian movies, Movies directed by Abbas Kiarostami

First Graders (...اولی‌ها, Avalihā...) is a 1984 Iranian documentary feature movie. This movie was directed by Abbas Kiarostami.

[[Where Is the Friend's Home?]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 movies, Iranian movies, Movies directed by Abbas Kiarostami

Where Is the Friend's Home? (خانه دوست کجاست, Khane-ye doust kodjast) is a 1987 Iranian movie. This movie directed and written by Iranian director Abbas Kiarostami. 

[[Thermophile]]

CATEGORIES: Extremophiles, Protista

A thermophile is an organism – a type of extremophile – that thrives at relatively high temperatures. That means between about 40. Many thermophiles are archaea. Thermophilic eubacteria may have been among the earliest bacteria.

Thermophiles are found in various geothermally heated parts of the Earth's surface. Examples are hot springs like those in Yellowstone National Park and deep sea hydrothermal vents. Also decaying plant matter, such as peat bogs and compost, makes higher temperatures.

[[Grant Gustin]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Actors from Virginia, American child actors, American movie actors, American musical theatre actors, American television actors, Living people, People from Norfolk, Virginia

Thomas Grant Gustin (born January 14, 1990) is an American actor and singer. He is known for portraying the roles of Sebastian Smythe on Glee and Barry Allen/The Flash on The Flash.

He was born Norfolk, Virginia to his mother Tina Haney, a pediatric nurse.  He attended the Governor's School for the Arts program in Norfolk for Musical Theatre. He has also been to Hurrah Players Incorporated and graduated from Granby High School. He would then go to the BFA Music Theatre Program at Elon University in North Carolina for two years.

From September 30, 2010 to September 23, 2011, Gustin played the role of Baby John in the Broadway Revival Tour of West Side Story.

[[John Wesley Shipp]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Actors from Virginia, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Living people, People from Norfolk, Virginia, Emmy Award winning actors

John Wesley Shipp (born January 22, 1955) is an American actor. He is known for portraying the roles of Barry Allen on the CBS television show The Flash, Mitch Leery on Dawson's Creek, Kelly Nelson on Guiding Light, and Douglas Cummings on As the World Turns.

He won a Daytime Emmy Award in the category of Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for As the World Turns in 1986. He also won a Daytime Emmy Award in the category of Outstanding Guest Performer in a Daytime Drama Series for Santa Barbara in 1987.

In 2014, it was announced that Shipp would be cast as Henry Allen, the father of Barry Allen in The CW's The Flash.

[[Fatimata Touré]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Living people, Malian people

Fatimata Touré is a women's rights activist and the head of the Regional Forum on Reconciliation and Peace in Gao, Mali. She is also the head of Women’s Action, Research, Study and Training Group, which works against fistula.  In 2014, she received the International Women of Courage Award. 

[[Android]]

The word Android may mean one of two things:

[[Information retrieval]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Information retrieval is a field of Computer science that looks at how non-trivial data can be obtained from a collection of information resources. Commonly, either a full-text search is done, or the metadata which describes the resources is searched. Depending on the content, there may also be other indices. Information retrieval is about finding existing information; it is different from knowledge discovery in databases which is about finding new relationships between different datasets, which were unknown. 

Techniques from information retrieval are commonly used in internet search engines, but also when looking for information on a subject in a library, or when searching complex content such as images in a database. This kind of content is usually described using metadata.  

[[House Party]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 movies, 1990s teen comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, Buddy movies, English-language movies, American independent movies

House Party is a 1990 American comedy movie. The movie is about a group of teenagers who attend a house party. Martin Lawrence plays Bilal. Tisha Campbell plays Sydney.

House Party was released on March 9, 1990. It got positive reviews from critics.

[[Oinikhol Bobonazarova]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Oinikhol Bobonazarova is a Tajikistani human rights activist. In 2014 she received the International Women of Courage Award from the U.S. Department of State.

[[Pseudomonadales]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

The Pseudomonadales are an order of Proteobacteria. They are gram-negative. Some species can cause diseases, they are pathogen. For example, Pseudomonas aeruginosa can cause sepsis. Azomonas and Azotobacter are able to fix nitrogen.

[[Doug Parker]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, American chief executives

William Douglas "Doug" Parker is the current Chairman and CEO of American Airlines, Inc.

[[House Party 2]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 comedy movies, American comedy movies, American independent movies

House Party 2 is a 1991 American comedy movie. This movie is about a pajama party. Queen Latifah plays Zora. Martin Lawrence plays Bilal. Tisha Campbell is also in the movie.

The movie got negative reviews from critics. It started at #1 at the box office.

[[Sophie Turner]]

CATEGORIES: English television actors, English movie actors, 1996 births, Living people

Sophie Belinda Jonas (born née Turner; 21 February 1996) is a British actress. She plays Sansa Stark in Game of Thrones, She played Young Adeline March in The Thirteenth Tale. She also played Heather in the 2015 comedy movie Barely Lethal.

She was born in Northampton, England. In 2019, she married singer-songwriter Joe Jonas.

[[Bird (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 drama movies, 1980s biographical movies, Academy Award winning movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies about drugs, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Clint Eastwood

Bird is a 1988 American biographical movie. It was both directed and produced by Clint Eastwood. Bird was released on September 30, 1988. The movie is about the life and music of jazz saxophonist Charlie "Bird" Parker.

The movie got positive reviews from critics. It has a 78% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The movie won an Academy Award for Best Sound, a Golden Globe Award for Best Director, and Forest Whitaker won Best Actor at the Cannes Film Festival.

[[Mac (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 drama movies, American drama movies, American independent movies

Mac is a 1992 drama movie. The movie is about three brothers who go into construction when their father dies. John Turturro plays Mac. Aida Turturro plays the wife. Ellen Barkin plays Oona Goldfarb. 

The movie was released in February 1993. 

[[Bardo National Museum attack]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 mass shootings, 2015 in Africa, 21st century in Tunisia, Attacks on buildings and structures in Africa, Islamic State, Islamic terrorist incidents in Africa, Islamic terrorist incidents in the 2010s, March 2015 events, Mass murder in 2015, Mass murder in Africa, Mass shootings in Africa, Massacres, Terrorist incidents in Africa in the 2010s, Terrorist incidents in 2015, Tunis

On 18 March 2015, two gunmen dressed in military uniform attacked the Bardo National Museum in Tunis, Tunisia, taking hostages. 23 people, mostly tourists, were killed in the attack, while another 50 were injured. The two gunmen were also shot dead by police in the attack. 19 foreign tourists were killed in the attack, including including four Italians, two French national, one Russian national, one British national, two Colombians, five Japanese, three Polish nationals, one Australian, and one Spaniard were found to have been killed. Another two Tunisians, a police officer and a citizen, were murdered. The gunmen, Yassine Labidi and Saber Khachnaoui, were also Tunisians. Police called the event a terrorist attack. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant later claimed responsibility for the attack.

[[Bardo National Museum (Tunis)]]

CATEGORIES: National museums, Tunisia, Tunis, Buildings and structures in Africa, Establishments in Tunisia, 19th-century establishments in Africa, 1888 establishments

The Bardo National Museum (المتحف الوطني بباردو; Musée national du Bardo) is a national museum in Tunis, Tunisia. In March 2015, the museum was the site of a terrorist attack that left over twenty people dead.

[[El color de la pasión]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 Mexican television series debuts, Telenovelas, Mexican television series

El color de la pasión (The Color of Passion) is a Mexican telenovela. It is produced by Televisa.

[[Old Church Slavonic]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic languages, Languages of Europe

Old Church Slavonic is the language of some Eastern Orthodox churches. It was the first Slavic language for writing literature. It was made by the brothers Saints Cyril and Methodius in the 9th century.

[[Independence (mathematical logic)]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

In mathematical logic, a sentence is independent from a first-order theory, if that theory cannot be used to prove the sentence as true or false. Sometimes, people also talk about the sentence being "undecidable", but this has nothing to do with the notion of decidability as in solving a decison problem.

[[Decison problem]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In computability theory and computational complexity theory, a decision problem is a question in some formal system with a yes-or-no answer. The answer is dependent on the values of the input parameters. Decision problems typically appear in mathematical questions of decidability, that is, the question of the existence of an effective method to determine the existence of some object or its membership in a set. Some of the most important problems in mathematics are undecidable.

[[Jeotgalicoccus marinus]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Jeotgalicoccus marinus is a species of gram-positive bacteria. The cells are coccoid which means that look like a circle or sphere. They are facultative anaerobic bacteria: They can use oxygen when it is present. It is moderate halophilic.

Jeotgalicoccus marinus was isolated from a sea urchin  from the South China Sea.

[[Diabolus in Musica]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 albums, Slayer albums

Diabolus in Musica is the seventh studio album by American thrash metal band, Slayer. Diabolus in Musica was released on June 9, 1998 through American Recordings.

The album peaked at #31 on the Billboard 200.

It is considered to be Slayer's most experimental album with most of the album's content written by guitarist Jeff Hanneman. Hanneman described writing for the album as, "When we were writing this album I was looking for something to beat; I wanted something to beat, but nothing impresses me right now. Nothing sounded really aggressive or heavy enough to inspire me to beat it, so I just had to come up with my own shit."

Vocalist Tom Araya had concerns over the lyrics that guitarist Kerry King gave to the song "In the Name of God". King said; "It's like, 'C'mon, man, you're in Slayer. You're the antichrist — you said it yourself on the first album!' You can't draw the line like that. Whether he agrees with it or not, he didn't write it — I wrote it. So you have to say, 'Well, it's just a part of being in this band.' Now Jeff and I, we don't give a fuck. If Jeff wrote something I had a problem with, I would never even raise a fucking finger. I'd be like, 'Fuck yeah, let's do it! Gonna piss someone off? Alright!'"

[[Señorita Pólvora]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s television series, Telenovelas by Televisa, 2015 Mexican television series debuts, 2015 Mexican television series endings

Señorita Pólvora, is a television series, produced by Teleset for Sony Pictures Television and Televisa, which will be broadcast in the Latin American by TNT. It is the story of a Beauty Queen, who gets involved in a hit, which lead to the premature death of her father.

[[Jeotgalicoccus halotolerans]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Jeotgalicoccus halotolerans is a gram-positive bacterium.

They are facultative anaerobic bacteria: They can use oxygen when it is present. It is moderate halophilic, it growth in the presence of 0–20% NaCl.

Jeotgalicoccus halotolerans belongs to the family Staphylococcaceae.

[[Saints Cyril and Methodius]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, Slavic languages, Cyrillic script

Saints Cyril and Methodius were brothers and 9th century Christian missionaries. They Christianized the Slavic peoples of the Danube. They influenced the culture and religion of all slavic peoples. They received the title "Apostles to the Slavs".

[[Jeotgalicoccus aerolatus]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Jeotgalicoccus aerolatus is a species of bacteria. It is Gram-positive and belongs to the family Staphylococcaceae. It requires oxygen (aerobic).

It was isolated from the air on a turkey farm.

[[Jeotgalicoccus]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Jeotgalicoccus is a genus of gram-positive bacteria. The cells are coccoid which means that they look like a circle or sphere. Most of  the species are facultatively anaerobic. They are halotolerant to halophilic.

Jeotgalicoccus is named after the Korean fish sauce jeotgal from whence these bacteria were first isolated.

[[Roll film]]

CATEGORIES: Photographic film formats

Roll film is the name for a number of formats for photographic film. Roll film is wound on a spool, as opposed to sheet film which comes in cartridges. The most common formats of roll film are the format 120, and the format 220, which are both used in medium format cameras. Even though the common 35 mm film is also wound on a spool, it is not called roll film.  

[[Sheet film]]

CATEGORIES: Photographic film formats

Sheet film is a format of photographic film which is supplied in sheets, rather than rolls. It is commonly used in medium and large format photography. 

[[Jeotgalicoccus coquinae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Jeotgalicoccus coquinae is a species of gram-positive bacteria. The cells are coccoid. It belongs to the family Staphylococcaceae. 

[[Jeotgalicoccus psychrophilus]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Jeotgalicoccus psychrophilus is a gram-positive bacterium.

The cells are coccoid. It is psychrophilic. It growth between 4 and 34 °C.

It belongs to the family Staphylococcaceae.

[[Jeotgalicoccus nanhaiensis]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Jeotgalicoccus nanhaiensis is a gram-positive bacterium. The cells of Jeotgalicoccus nanhaiensis are coccoid. Spores are not formed. Jeotgalicoccus nanhaiensis belongs to the family Staphylococcaceae.

[[Jeotgalicoccus halophilus]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Jeotgalicoccus halophilus is a species of bacteria.

[[Kalaupapa]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Hawaii, County seats in Hawaii

Kalaupapa is an area on the Hawaiian island of Molokai. It is an area where people with the disease leprosy went so they would not infect any other people. Thousands of people from the United States alone were sent there.

[[Niloofar Rahmani]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Afghan military people, Aviators, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Niloofar Rahmani (Persian:نیلوفر رحمانی born 1992) is the first female fixed-wing Air Force aviator in Afghanistan's history.  She is also the first female pilot in the Afghani military since the fall of the Taliban in 2001. Though her family received death threats, she persevered to complete her training.  

In 2015, Rahmani won the U.S. State Department's International Women of Courage Award.

[[Dancing Machine]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 1974 songs

"Dancing Machine" is a 1973 hit song by The Jackson 5. The song reached #2 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100. It also hit #1 on the American R&B charts. The Jackson 5 got their second Grammy Award nomination for this song.

The song was released on February 19, 1974. It sold more than three million copies.

[[BBMak]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2003 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, English pop music groups, Musical groups disestablished in 2003, Musical groups established in 1999, Musical groups from Liverpool

BBMak were an English pop group. The group had three members. They had two hit singles between 1999 and 2003. The singles were "Back Here" and "Still on Your Side". The group were founded in 1999. They disbanded in 2003.

The group sold more than three million albums worldwide.

[[TNT (TV channel)]]

CATEGORIES: American television networks, 1988 establishments in the United States

Turner Network Television (TNT) (stylized as TNT Drama) is an American cable and satellite television network. It is owned by the Turner Broadcasting System division of Time Warner. The channel's programming consists of television series and feature movies. It broadcasts mostly dramatic programming, along with some professional sports events. The sports events include NBA basketball games and PGA golf.

As of February 2015, TNT was available to about 95.3 million households (81.9% of households with at least one television set) in the United States.

[[Camila Sodi]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Actors from Mexico City, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican models, Singers from Mexico City

Camila Sodi (born Camila Ía González Sodi on 14 May 1986 in Mexico City, Mexico), is a Mexican singer, actress and model. She is the niece of actress and singer Thalía.

[[Saúl Lisazo]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Argentine movie actors, Argentine television actors, Argentine footballers

Saúl Lisazo (born June 1, 1956 in Los Toldos, province of Buenos Aires in Argentina) is an Argentine actor and ex-footballer.

[[No Diggity]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 songs, R&B songs, Billboard Rhythmic Songs number-one singles

"No Diggity" is a 1996 new jack swing and rhythm and blues song by Blackstreet. The song reached #1 in the United States and in New Zealand.

The song contains rap verses inside it. The rap verses were performed by Teddy Riley and Dr. Dre.

[[Macarena]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 songs, Pop songs, Songs about sexuality

"Macarena" is a Spanish dance song by Los del Rio. The single is about a woman named Macarena. It was on the 1993 album A mi me gusta. The song was an international hit in 1995, 1996 and 1997.

The song was recorded in 1992. It was released on August 15, 1995 in the United States. A reworked version peaked at #1 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 in 1996. It stayed there for 14 weeks. The song was also performed by the Bayside Boys.

The original version was released in Spanish language in 1993.

[[Vänersborg Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden

The  Vänersborg Church (Vänersborgs kyrka) is a church building in the central parts of the town of Vänersborg in Sweden. It belongs to the Vänersborg and Väne-Ryr Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was built between 1783 and 1784. It was inaugurated on 5 August 1784.

[[Brad Richards]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Canadian ice hockey centres, Chicago Blackhawks players, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Dallas Stars players, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Prince Edward Island, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Memorial Cup winners, New York Rangers players, Rimouski Océanic players, Stanley Cup champions, Tampa Bay Lightning players

Bradley Glenn Richards (born May 2, 1980) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He currently plays for the Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Tampa Bay Lightning, Dallas Stars, New York Rangers, and Chicago Blackhawks.

[[The Stooges]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s American music groups, 1970s American music groups, American punk bands, American rock bands

The Stooges are an American protopunk band. They were formed in 1967 in Ann Arbor, Michigan and began to record music two years later. Their first album was released in August 1969. It was produced by John Cale from The Velvet Underground. They released two more albums before the first members broke up in 1974.

[[Nadia Sharmeen]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century births, Living people, Bangladeshi journalists, Crime victims, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Nadia Sharmeen (Bengali: নাদিয়া শারমীন) is a crime reporter from Bangladesh, who writes news stories about crime.  In 2015, Sharmeen received the US State Department's International Women of Courage Award.

In 2014, the global campaign One Billion Rising for Justice used her story to persuade the Bangladeshi government to accept the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW).  

[[Andrew Desjardins]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Canadian ice hockey centres, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, San Jose Sharks players, American Hockey League players, ECHL players, Ontario Hockey League players

Andrew Desjardins (born July 27, 1986) is a Canadian ice hockey centre. He currently plays for the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the San Jose Sharks.

[[Bound for Glory (2013)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in professional wrestling, Sports in San Diego, California, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling pay-per-view events, 2013 in California, 21st century in San Diego, California, October 2013 events

Bound for Glory (2013) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). It was held on October 20, 2013 at the Viejas Arena in San Diego, California.  It was the ninth Bound for Glory event that TNA held and was also the fourth event in TNA's 2013 pay-per-view schedule. This was the first time that TNA held an event in San Diego.

There were eight matches on the card. The main event saw A.J. Styles defeat Bully Ray to win the TNA World Heavyweight Championship.

[[One Billion Rising]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual abuse, Civil rights organizations, Protests

One Billion Rising is a global movement, started by Eve Ensler, to end rape and sexual violence against women. The "billion" is the number of women who will be raped or beaten in their lifetime.  According to the United Nations, the number is one in three women, or about one billion.

[[Jeotgalicoccus huakuii]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Jeotgalicoccus huakuii is a bacterium. It is gram-positive. The cells are coccoid. It tolerates salt, it is moderately halophilic. It grows in the presence of 0–23% sodium chloride (NaCl). Jeotgalicoccus huakuii is a facultative anaerobic bacteria: It growth under aerobic (oxygen is present) or anaerobic conditions (no oxygen is present).

It belongs to the family Staphylococcaceae.

[[Jeotgalicoccus pinnipedialis]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Jeotgalicoccus pinnipedialis is a gram-positive bacterium. The cells are coccoid. Jeotgalicoccus pinnipediales is a facultative anaerobic bacteria: It growth under aerobic (oxygen is present) or anaerobic conditions (oxygen is not present). It was found in the swab of the mouth of a Southern elephant seal.

It belongs to the Staphylococcaceae.

[[Evan Brophey]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Canadian ice hockey centres, Chicago Blackhawks players, Colorado Avalanche players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, American Hockey League players, Ontario Hockey League players

Evan Brophey (born December 3, 1986) is a Canadian ice hockey centre. He currently plays for the EHC Red Bull München of the Deutsche Eishockey Liga (DEL). He has also played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Chicago Blackhawks and Colorado Avalanche.

[[Arrondissements of the Lot-et-Garonne department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Lists of arrondissements of France

There are 4 arrondissements in the Lot-et-Garonne department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into cantons and communes.

The 4 arrondissements of Lot-et-Garonne are:

[[Arrondissement of Agen]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Agen is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Lot-et-Garonne département in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital, and préfecture of the department, is the city of Agen.

[[Arrondissement of Marmande]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Marmande is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Lot-et-Garonne département in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital, and subpréfecture of the department, is the city of Marmande.

[[Arrondissement of Nérac]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Nérac is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Lot-et-Garonne département in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital, and subpréfecture of the department, is the city of Nérac.

[[Arrondissement of Villeneuve-sur-Lot]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Villeneuve-sur-Lot is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Lot-et-Garonne département in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital, and subpréfecture of the department, is the city of Villeneuve-sur-Lot.

[[Katherine Applegate]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Grand Rapids, Michigan, People from Ann Arbor, Michigan, American children's writers, 1956 births, Living people

Katherine Alice Applegate (born October 9, 1956) is an American author.

[[Thanhha Lai]]

CATEGORIES: Vietnamese people, American children's writers

Thanhha Lai is a American writer who was born in Vietnam. She won the 2011 National Book Award for Young People's Literature and a Newbery Medal for her first novel, Inside Out & Back Again, published by HarperCollins.

[[Rita Williams-Garcia]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Writers from New York, American children's writers

Rita Williams-Garcia is an American author. She was born on April 13, 1957 in Queens, New York. She has written many award-winning novels. They include Blue Tights, Fast Talk on a Slow Track, Like Sisters on the Homefront, Diamond Land, Jumped, No Laughter Here, Catching the Wild Waiyuuzee, One Crazy Summer, and Every Time a Rainbow Dies. Her works have won five selections and citations (ALA, Notable Books for Children and Adults citation, Booklist Editors’ Choice selection, Coretta Scott King Honor Book selection).

[[Amores con trampa]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s television series, Telenovelas by Televisa, 2015 Mexican television series debuts

Amores con trampa, is a Mexican telenovela produced by Emilio Larrosa for Televisa. It is the remake of the telenovela Somos los Carmona produced in 2013.The production of the telenovela began in November 2014.

Itatí Cantoral, Ernesto Laguardia and Eduardo Yáñez star as the protagonists.

[[Pilot (disambiguation)]]

A pilot is a person who drives a vehicle.

"Pilot" might also mean:

[[En nombre del amor]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 television series debuts, Telenovelas, Mexican television series, 2009 television series endings, 2008 establishments in North America, 2000s establishments in Mexico, 2000s disestablishments in Mexico

En nombre del amor (In the Name of Love) is a Mexican telenovela. It is produced by Televisa. In 2010 it won two Premios TVyNovelas awards. The first was for "Best Breakthrough Male" and went to Sebastián Zurita. Leticia Calderón won the "Best Actress Antagonist" award.

[[Staphylococcaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Staphylococcaceae is a family of bacteria. The bacteria of this family are gram-positive. Some of the genus Staphylococcus are harmful: they are pathogens.

[[Alexandrium tamarense]]

CATEGORIES: Protista, Alveolata

Alexandrium tamarense is a dinoflagellate. It produces the neurotoxin saxitoxin. This toxin causes the human illness paralytic shellfish poisoning (PSP).

Alexandrium tamarense often occurs in Mediterranean coastal waters.

[[Wild Turkey (bourbon)]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink

Wild Turkey is an American brand of Kentucky straight bourbon whiskey. Wild Turkey is bottled and distilled by Campari Group's Austin Nichols division. 

[[Steve Clark]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 1991 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United Kingdom, English rock guitarists, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Sheffield

Stephen Maynard Clark (23 April 1960 – 8 January 1991) was an English singer-songwriter, musician and recording artist. He was best known co-lead guitarist and a main songwriter for the hard rock band Def Leppard from 1978 until his death.

Clark was born in Hillsborough, Sheffield. He was engaged to the American model Lorelei Shellis until shortly before his death. At the time of death, his girlfriend was Janie Dean.

Clark was found dead on 8 January 1991 in his Chelsea, London apartment. He was 30. The cause of his death was respiratory failure due to an accidental overdose of prescription drugs and alcohol.

[[2015 Sana'a mosque bombings]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in Asia, 2010s explosions in Asia, 21st century in Yemen, Attacks on mosques, Attacks on religious buildings and structures in Asia, Explosions in 2015, Islamic State, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2015, Islamic terrorist incidents in Asia, March 2015 events, Mass murder in 2015, Mass murder in Asia, Terrorist incidents in Asia in the 2010s

The 2015 Sana'a mosque bombings were a series of three suicide attacks that happened during midday prayers on March 20, 2015 in Sana'a, Yemen. In the attack 142 people were killed. It left 357 people injured. The mosques were mainly attended by Houthis supporters. The Houthis are the ruling faction in Sana'a. Islamic State later claimed that they were behind the bombings.

[[Bacillales]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

The Bacillales are an order of Gram-positive bacteria. Many bacteria of this order make endospores.

[[Zuhr prayer]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic theology

The ẓuhr prayer (صلاة الظهر ar  sˤalaːt aðˤðˤuhr, "noon prayer") is the prayer offered at midday. The name Zuhr was given to this prayer because it falls halfway between two daily prayers, those being Fajir (dawn) and Isha (first darkness or night). Practicing Muslims make this prayer daily. It is the second of the five daily prayers (salat).

On Friday the Zuhr prayer is replaced by Jumu'ah. It is an obligation for Muslim men but women and children may be excused. The Zuhr prayer, on Friday, is led by a Khutba which is a speech given by the leader of the mosque (Imam).

[[Forgiveness]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 1500 Words

Forgiveness is the choice that a person makes to forgive another person for an offense or something that is illegal or immoral. Forgiveness is intentional and voluntary. When someone forgives someone else, they let go of negative emotions, for example vengefulness. They wish their offender well.

[[OpenNIC]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Computers, Websites

OpenNIC uses an alternative Domain Name System, so users can access more websites than they can on the "normal" internet. Users can still access the "normal" internet.

Users can register website names for free on OpenNIC, whereas doing so on the "normal" internet is usually not free.

[[Matt Bomer]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Missouri, 1977 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors

Matthew Staton "Matt" Bomer (born October 11, 1977) is an American actor. He made his television debut with Guiding Light in 2001. He is known for his recurring role in the NBC television series Chuck as Bryce Larkin. He played the lead role of Neal Caffrey in the television series White Collar. The show ran from 2009 to 2014. In 2010 he won won the Breakthrough Male Television Performer award for his performance in White Collar.

[[BDS movement]]

CATEGORIES: Civil rights, Palestine, Arab–Israeli conflict

The BDS movement is a campaign to help Palestinians. The letters BDS stand for "Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions". They help Palestinians by attempting to put economic and political pressure on Israel. They want an end of Israeli occupation of Palestine. The group thinks that they can create a Palestinian state by boycotting the Israeli government. 

The movement may be hurting the Palestinian economy while having little overall effect on the Israeli economy. An example is the Israeli-owned soft drink company SodaStream. Hundreds of Palestinians lost good paying jobs in the West Bank when SodaStream moved its factory to southern Israel. SodaStream denied the move was BDS-related but their profits fell after BDS targeted them. 

The movement has become popular on many US college Campuses. But no US schools have sold any stocks and none are expected to do so . Israel is concerned about the increasing number of American Jews who oppose Israel's policies. Some have even joined BDS campaigns.

[[Puttin' On the Ritz]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 1920s songs, 1927 works, 1982 songs

"Puttin' On the Ritz" is a popular ballad. It was written by Irving Berlin. He wrote this song in May 1927. It was  first published in December 1929. The song is about poor people spending money for a wonderful time and dancing. Fred Astaire first sang the song.

In the early 1980s, Taco released a synthpop euro disco-style version of "Puttin' On the Ritz" in 1981 by RCA Records and Peer Studios. His version had a tap dance inside it. It hit #4 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.

[[Eriophyidae]]

CATEGORIES: Arachnids, Parasites

The Eriophyidae or gall mites are a family of mites. They are plant parasites and produce galls.

The mites can cause severe damage to the host plant. They have only two pairs of legs and are very small, 0.08 mm - 0.3 mm. The gut is straight, there are no outgrowths of the gut. They have no heart or circulatory system.

[[Bound for Glory (2012)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in professional wrestling, Sports in Phoenix, Arizona, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling pay-per-view events, 2012 in the United States, 2010s in Phoenix, October events

Bound for Glory (2012) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). It was held on October 14, 2012 at the Grand Canyon University Arena in Phoenix, Arizona. It was the eighth Bound for Glory event that TNA held. This was the first time that TNA held an event in the state of Arizona.

There were eight matches on the card. The main event saw Jeff Hardy defeat Austin Aries to win the TNA World Heavyweight Championship.

[[Planomicrobium stackebrandtii]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Planomicrobium stackwebrandtii is a species of bacteria. It was named after German microbiologist Erko Stackebrandt. It belongs to the Firmicutes. It is gram-positive and was first found in 2005 at the Himalayas. The cells are cocci in pairs or clumps. It is capable of aerobic respiration using oxygen. The bacterium does not form endospores. It has one or two flagella.

[[Rowan Blanchard]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 births, American movie actors, American television actors, Living people, Queer people

Rowan Eleanor Blanchard (born October 14, 2001) is an American child actress. She plays Riley Matthews in the Disney Channel series Girl Meets World.

In a series of tweets in January 2016, she said that while she had "only ever liked boys" in the past, she was "open to liking any gender" and as such she is queer.

[[David Henrie]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors

David Clayton Henrie(born July 11, 1989) is an American actor, television writer, director and producer. He is known for playing Ted Mosby's future son Luke Mosby on How I Met Your Mother, Justin Russo in Wizards of Waverly Place and Larry on That's So Raven. He also played Rudy Ising in Walt Before Mickey.

[[God Hates Us All]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums, Slayer albums

God Hates Us All is the eighth studio album by American thrash metal band, Slayer. God Hates Us All was released on September 11, 2001 through American Recordings. Most of the lyrics were written by guitarist Kerry King and cover topics like religion, murder, revenge and self-control. The album was recorded at The Warehouse Studio in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada because of the availability for cheaper studio time.

The album peaked at #28 on the Billboard 200 and at #9 on the Canadian Albums Chart. In 2002, the song "Disciple" was nominated for a Grammy Award in the category of Best Metal Performance. It was Slayer's first Grammy nomination.

Before Christmas 2001, Paul Bostaph decided to leave the band because of an elbow injury that affected his ability to drum. He would later reveal that the actual reason for him leaving was because "Musically, I wanted to do something else". Since Slayer was without a drummer to finish their God Hates Us All tour, King contacted original drummer Dave Lombardo and asked if he would want to play the remainder of the tour. Lombardo accepted and played the remaining 21 shows. He did not take a permanent position with the band.

[[Planomicrobium koreense]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Planomicrobium koreense is a species of bacteria. It was first found by Jung-Hoon Yoon in Jeotgal, a salted fermented food made in Korean.

Jung-Hoon Yoon found in Jeotgal also other new bacteria like Jeotgalicoccus psychrophilus and Jeotgalicoccus halotolerans. The cells are rods. Sometimes they can be first coccoid but after some time they change to rods. Planomicrobium koreense is gram-positive. Sometimes the older cells change to gram negative. They have a single polar flagellum.

[[North African Campaign]]

CATEGORIES: North African battles of World War II, 20th century in Libya, 20th century in Egypt, History of Algeria, 20th century in Morocco, 20th century in Tunisia, 1940s

The North African Campaign was part of the Second World War. It took place in North Africa from 10 June 1940 to 13 May 1943.  The campaign in North Africa included fighting in the Libyan and Egyptian deserts (the Desert War), and in Morocco and Algeria (Operation Torch) and Tunisia (Tunisia Campaign).

There was a see-saw series of battles for the control of Libya and parts of Egypt. The Siege of Tobruk in 1941 was one of the turning points. In the Second Battle of El Alamein British Commonwealth forces under the command of Lieutenant general Bernard Montgomery decisive defeated the Afrika Korps and other Axis forces and pushed them back to Tunisia. 

The late 1942 Allied landings in Operation Torch in North-West Africa was done to mop up the remaining enemy forces.  There were battles against Vichy France forces which then changed sides.  The Allies suffered a serious defeat at the Battle of the Kasserine Pass. Later, they defeated the Axis forces in southern Tunisia (battle of Mareth), then encircled the remaining Italian & German troops in northern Tunisia and finally forced them to surrender. 

After the fall of Tunis, the last troops to surrender were the Italians of general Messe in May 13, 1943 in the northern Tunisian peninsula of Cape Bon.

[[Sherman Brothers]]

CATEGORIES: American screenwriters, Grammy Award winners, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters

250px|thumb|right|Robert B. Sherman & Richard M. Sherman at the London Palladium in 2002 during the premiere of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang: The Stage Musical.talk=

The Sherman Brothers were an American songwriting duo that wrote music for musical movies. They were Robert B. Sherman (December 19, 1925 – March 6, 2012) and Richard M. Sherman (born June 12, 1928).

The Sherman Brothers wrote more motion-picture musical song scores than any other songwriting team in movie history. Movie scores of the Sherman Brothers include Mary Poppins, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, The Jungle Book, Charlotte's Web and The Aristocats.

[[Robert B. Sherman]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winners, Grammy Award winners, 1925 births, 2012 deaths, Disease-related deaths in London, Purple Heart recipients, Disney people, American painters, American songwriters, Writers from New York City

Robert Bernard Sherman (December 19, 1925 – March 6, 2012) was an American songwriter. He worked in musical movies with his brother Richard Morton Sherman. Some of the Sherman Brothers' best known songs were in live action and animated musical movies including: Mary Poppins, The Jungle Book, The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, The Slipper and the Rose, and Charlotte's Web.

Sherman was born on December 19, 1925, in New York City, to Russian Jewish immigrants, Rosa (Dancis) and Al Sherman.

In 1943, Sherman joined the United States Army at age 17.  On April 12, 1945, Sherman was shot in the knee, forcing him to walk with a cane for the rest of his life. For being wounded during battle, Sherman was awarded the Purple Heart medal.

Sherman died of natural causes in London on March 6, 2012 at the age of 86.

[[Richard M. Sherman]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winners, Grammy Award winners, 1928 births, Living people, American songwriters, Disney people, Writers from New York City

Richard Morton Sherman (born June 12, 1928) is an American songwriter. He worked in musical movies with his brother Robert B. Sherman. Some of the Sherman Brothers' best known songs were in live action and animated musical films including: Mary Poppins, The Jungle Book, The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, "Bedknobs and Broomsticks", The Slipper and the Rose, and Charlotte's Web. Their most well known work iss the theme park song "It's a Small World (After All)".

Sherman was born in New York City to Russian Jewish immigrants, Rosa (Dancis) and Al Sherman. In 1953 Sherman was drafted into United States Army ans assigned to the Army Band and glee club. He was musical conductor for both groups from 1953 until his honorable discharge in 1955. He studied at Bard College.

Sherman lives in London, England.

[[Chitty Chitty Bang Bang]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 movies, 1960s fantasy movies, 1960s musical movies, British fantasy movies, British musical movies, Movies based on books

Chitty Chitty Bang Bang is a 1968 British fantasy musical film, loosely based on Ian Fleming's novel Chitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang: The Magical Car.  The movie's script is by Roald Dahl and Ken Hughes. The songs are by the Sherman Brothers. The song "Chitty Chitty Bang Bang" was nominated for an Academy Award.

The film stars Dick Van Dyke as Caractacus Potts, Sally Ann Howes as Truly Scrumptious, Lionel Jeffries as Grandpa Potts, James Robertson Justice as Lord Scrumptious and Robert Helpmann as the Childcatcher. The film was directed by Ken Hughes. It was produced by Albert R. Broccoli (co-producer of the James Bond series of films, also based on Fleming's novels). John Stears supervised the special effects. Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted the music.  The musical numbers were staged by Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood.

Baron Bomburst is the main antagonist in the 1968 film Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. He is a cruel king and a pirate who will stop at nothing to get his hands on the enchanted car. In spite of being so cruel and tyrannical, it is clear that he is also incredibly childish, as shown by his selfish love of toys, his whiny nature, and his determination to get everything he wants. Incidentally, the book Chitty Chitty Bang Bang was written by James Bond's creator Ian Fleming, and both films were produced by Albert R . Broccoli.

He was portrayed by the late Gert Fröbe, who also played the titular villain Auric Goldfinger of the James Bond film.

Baroness Bomburst is a supporting antagonist and hero in the film Chitty Chitty Bang Bang and later the stage musical adaptation. The character was created by screenwriter Roald Dahl and did not appear in the original Ian Fleming novel.

In the 1968 film, she is played by Anna Quayle In the theatrical version in London, she was played by Nichola McAuliffe, Sandra Dickinson, and Louise Gold amongst others, and on Broadway, she was played by Jan Maxwell. On the UK National tour, she has been played by (amongst others) Louise Plowright, Jane Gurnett, Kim Ismay, Tamsin Carroll, Michelle Collins, and Claire Sweeney.

[[Sporolactobacillus]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Sporolactobacillus is a genus of bacteria.  The species produce lactic acid: They are lactic acid bacteria (LAB). The cells are rods. They appear single or in pairs. Rarely they make short chains. They can form Endospores which are resistant to temperature of 80 °C  for  10 min. Sporolactobacillus is gram-positive and belong to the Firmicutes.

[[Stanisław Kania]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from heart failure, Polish communist politicians

Stanisław Kania (staˈɲiswaf ˈkaɲa; 8 March 1927 – 3 March 2020) was a Polish former communist politician. He served as First Secretary of the Polish United Workers' Party from September 1980 until his resignation in October 1981. He was replaced by Prime Minister Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski.

Kania died on 3 March 2020 of pneumonia and heart failure, 5 days before his 93rd birthday.

[[Gus Douglass]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, Civil servants, Politicians from West Virginia, US Democratic Party politicians

Gus R. Douglass (February 22, 1927 – March 19, 2015) was an American politician and member of the Democratic Party. He served as Agriculture Commissioner of West Virginia for 44 years.

Douglass died from falling two days earlier in his house in Mason County on March 19, 2015 aged 88.

[[Jørgen Ingmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Danish singers, Eurovision Song Contest winners, Guitarists, People from Copenhagen

Jørgen Ingmann (26 April 1925 – 21 March 2015) was a Danish musician from Copenhagen. He worked as a member of the duet, Grethe og Jørgen Ingmann, together with his wife Grethe Ingmann. 

[[Arkady Arkanov]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, Comedians, Playwrights, Russian writers, Writers from Kiev

Arkady Mikhailovich Arkanov (Аркадий Михайлович Арканов; 7 June 1933 – 22 March 2015) was a well known Russian writer, playwright and stand-up comedian.

[[Sam Nujoma]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Presidents of Namibia

Samuel Daniel Shafiishuna "Sam" Nujoma (n; born 12 May 1929) is a Namibian politician. He was the first President of Namibia from 1990 to 2005.

[[James C. Binnicker]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, American military people, People from South Carolina

Chief Master Sergeant James C. Binnicker (July 23, 1938 – March 21, 2015)  was the ninth appointed Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force (CMSAF) — the  highest non-commissioned officer position in the United States Air Force.

Binnicker died on March 21, 2015 in Calhoun, Georgia, aged 76.

[[Chuck Bednarik]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Philadelphia Eagles players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Charles Philip "Chuck" Bednarik (May 1, 1925 – March 21, 2015), or Concrete Charlie, was a professional American football player. He was known as one of the most devastating tacklers in the history of football and the last two-way player in the National Football League. 

Bednarik played for the Philadelphia Eagles from 1949 through 1962 and, upon retirement, was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1967 (his first year of eligibility). 

Bednarik died in Richland, Pennsylvania from complications from Alzheimer's disease, aged 89.

[[Danny Schechter]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, American television producers, American activists, Writers from New York City

Danny Schechter (June 27, 1942 – March 19, 2015) was an American television producer, independent filmmaker, blogger, and media critic. He wrote and lectured about the media in the US and worldwide. He was known for his documentaries about Nelson Mandela. Schechter was born in The Bronx, New York.

Schechter died in Manhattan, New York from pancreatic cancer, aged 72.

[[Glen Brydson]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1993 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Montreal Maroons players, New York Rangers players

Glenn "Swampy" Brydson (November 7, 1910 – December 9, 1993) was a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger. He played a career total of 8 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Montreal Maroons, St. Louis Eagles, New York Rangers and Chicago Black Hawks.

[[Petr Vopěnka]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2015 deaths, Philosophers, Mathematicians, People from Prague

Petr Vopěnka (16 May 1935 – 20 March 2015) was a Czech mathematician. In the early 1970s, he established the alternative set theory. Since the mid-eighties he concerned himself with philosophical questions of mathematics.

[[Gerda van der Kade-Koudijs]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, Dutch Olympic gold medalists, Female athletes, Long jumpers, Medalists at the 1948 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Rotterdam, Sprinters

Gerda Johanna Marie van der Kade-Koudijs (29 October 1923 – 19 March 2015) was a Dutch athlete who competed at the 1948 Summer Olympics. She won a gold medal in the  4×100 m relay. Two years earlier she won European titles in the 4×100 m relay and long jump and finished sixth in the individual 100 m race.

She was born in Rotterdam and died  in Almelo.

[[Ashley Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2015 deaths, Sport shooters, Accidental deaths, Sportspeople from Queensland

Ashley Phillip Adams (12 October 1955 – 17 March 2015) was an Australian Paralympic shooting medallist and cattle grazier.

Adams died on 17 March 2015 after a quad bike accident on his farm in Blackall, Queensland.  He was 59.

[[Mike Buchanan]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario

Michael Murray Buchanan (March 1, 1932 – January 3, 2017) was a Canadian retired professional ice hockey defenceman. He played 1 game in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Chicago Black Hawks.

[[Thomas Hopko]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American theologians, People from Endicott, New York

Thomas Hopko (March 28, 1939 – March 18, 2015) was an Eastern Orthodox Christian priest and theologian. He was the Dean of Saint Vladimir’s Orthodox Theological Seminary from September 1992  until July 1, 2002 and taught dogmatic theology  there from 1968 until 2002. In retirement, he carried the honorary title of Dean Emeritus.

Hopko died of complications from congestive heart failure on March 18, 2015, in Wexford, Pennsylvania, aged 75. 

[[Palazzo Chiablese]]

CATEGORIES: Turin, Palaces in Italy, Former royal residences

The Palazzo Chiablese is a building in Turin, Italy which was once the residence of the Duke of Chablais (a son of a king of Sardinia) it was also later the home of the Duke of Genoa (himself another king of Sardinia) Today it is home to a cultural collection honouring the history of Piedmont. It is open to the public Wednesday, Thursday, Friday from 4 pm to 8pm and during press conferences, cultural events, concerts.

[[Eva Burrows]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Australian Christians, Politicians from New South Wales

Eva Evelyn Burrows, AC (15 September 1929spaced ndash20 March 2015) was an Australian community welfare organiser. From 1986 to 1993, Burrows served as the 13th General of the Salvation Army. She served as an Officer of the Salvation Army from 1951 to her retirement in 1993.

Burrows died on 20 March 2015 at a hospital in Melbourne, Victoria, aged 85.

[[Robert Kastenmeier]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, United States representatives from Wisconsin, US Democratic Party politicians

Robert William Kastenmeier (January 24, 1924 – March 20, 2015) was an American politician. He represented Wisconsin in the United States House of Representatives from 1959 to 1991. He was a member of the Democratic Party.

[[Arthur A. Hartman]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Ambassadors of the United States to France, Politicians from New York City

Arthur Adair Hartman (March 12, 1926 – March 16, 2015) was an American career diplomat. He was Ambassador to France under Jimmy Carter. He was Ambassador to the Soviet Union under Ronald Reagan.

[[Bruce Crump]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from throat cancer, American songwriters, Musicians from Memphis, Tennessee

Bruce Hull Crump, Jr. (July 17, 1957 – March 16, 2015) was an American musician and songwriter. He was the original drummer with the rock band Molly Hatchet from 1976 to 1983 (including their 1980 hit song "Flirtin' with Disaster" ) and 1984 to 1991. He also played as a member of the Canadian band Streetheart in the early 1980s.

Crump died in a hospital in Richmond, Virginia from throat cancer, aged 57.

[[Andy Fraser]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2015 deaths, People with cancer, English songwriters, English guitarists, Gay men, Musicians from London

Andrew McLan "Andy" Fraser (3 July 1952 – 16 March 2015) was an English songwriter and bass guitarist whose career lasted over forty years and includes a notable period as one of the founding members of the rock band Free in 1968, at age 15.

Fraser died on 16 March 2015 at his home in California. He had been battling Cancer and AIDS. The cause of his death is under investigation. Fraser is survived by his daughters Hannah and Jasmine Fraser.

[[John Mayall]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, English guitarists, English singer-songwriters, People from Cheshire

John Mayall, OBE (born 29 November 1933) is an English blues singer, guitarist, organist and songwriter, whose musical career spans over fifty years. In the 1960s, he was the founder of John Mayall & the Bluesbreakers, a band which has included some of the most famous blues and blues rock musicians.

[[Miguel Donoso Pareja]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Writers, People from Guayaquil

Miguel Donoso Pareja (July 13, 1931 – March 16, 2015) was an Ecuadorian writer. In 2006, he won the Premio Eugenio Espejo Award.

In 1985 Donoso Pareja was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship grant of $26,000 to write fiction; he then traveled several months in Spain and other European countries and spent all the money, and so returned to Ecuador, locked himself up in a borrowed apartment, and wrote 22 stories of love.

Pareja died in Guayaquil, Ecuador from Parkinson's disease, aged 83.

[[Jack Haley (basketball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Chicago Bulls players, Los Angeles Lakers players, New Jersey Nets players, San Antonio Spurs players, Sportspeople from Los Angeles County, California

Jack Kevin Haley (January 27, 1964 – March 16, 2015) was an American professional basketball player. He played for the Chicago Bulls, New Jersey Nets, Los Angeles Lakers, and San Antonio Spurs. Haley was born in Long Beach, California.

Haley died of heart disease in Los Alamitos, California, aged 51.

[[Buddy Elias]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Entertainers from Hesse, People from Frankfurt, Swiss actors

Bernhard "Buddy" Elias (2 June 1925 – 16 March 2015) was a Swiss actor and president of the Anne Frank Fonds. He was born in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. He was the cousin of Anne Frank. Elias was known for his role as Agent Ute Nicolai in the 2014 movie The Monuments Men.

Elias died in Basel, Switzerland at the age of 89.

[[Jamie Dornan]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Actors from Northern Ireland, British models, Musicians from Northern Ireland, British movie actors, British television actors, People from County Down

James "Jamie" Dornan (born 1 May 1982) is a Northern Irish actor, model, and musician. He played Axel von Fersen in Sofia Coppola's movie Marie Antoinette, Sheriff Graham Humbert in the ABC series Once Upon a Time and serial killer Paul Spector in the BBC Two crime drama series The Fall. He played the titular character, Christian Grey, in the movie Fifty Shades of Grey (2015). 

[[Curtis Gans]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, American activists, Writers from New York City

Curtis Bernard Gans (June 17, 1937 – March 15, 2015) was an American activist, writer, and expert on American voting patterns. He was born in Brooklyn, New York.

Gans served as a consultant to the Woodrow Wilson Center for International Scholars, the National Committee for an Effective Congress, and managed a number of political campaigns. Gans died in Frederick, Maryland from lung cancer, aged 77.

[[Frederick, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Maryland, County seats in Maryland

Frederick is a city in the U.S. state of Maryland. It is the county seat of Frederick County. As of 2010, the population of the city was 66,382. 

[[Los Alamitos, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Orange County, California, 1960 establishments in California

Los Alamitos, California is a small city in Orange County, California. It became a city in March 1960. It had a population of 11,449 as of 2010.

[[Gorgoderidae]]

CATEGORIES: Flatworms, Parasites

The Gorgoderidae are a family of Flatworms  (Platyhelminthes). They belong to the ordo Plagiorchiida. The species are parasites of fish, amphibians and reptiles. They have distome, which means they got two suckers, one at the mouth (oral) and one at the waist (ventral). 

[[Shawn Ashmore]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Actors from British Columbia

Shawn Robert Ashmore (born October 7, 1979) is a Canadian movie and television actor. He is best known for his roles as Jake Berenson in the television series Animorphs, Agent Mike Weston in the television drama series The Following, and Bobby Drake / Iceman in the X-Men movie series. He is the identical twin brother of actor Aaron Ashmore.

[[List of The Walking Dead episodes]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of television series episodes

The Walking Dead is an American television series based on the comic book of the same name by Robert Kirkman, Tony Moore and Charlie Adlard, and developed for television by Frank Darabont. It premiered on the cable network AMC on October 31, 2010. The series focuses on Rick Grimes, a sheriff's deputy who slips into a coma after being shot. He awakens to find himself in a dangerous new world that has been overrun by "walkers". He joins a group of survivors (including his wife and son) as they try to survive in a world among the undead.

As of October 5, 2018, 115 episodes of The Walking Dead had aired. The series was to enter its ninth season on October 7, 2018. It has been renewed for a tenth season.

[[Andrew Lincoln]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Actors from London, Actors from Somerset, English movie actors, English television actors, People from Bath, Somerset, People from Kingston upon Hull

Andrew James Clutterbuck (born 14 September 1973), better known by his stage name Andrew Lincoln, is an English actor. He is best known for his portrayal of Rick Grimes in the AMC drama series The Walking Dead. He first came to public attention as Egg in the BBC drama This Life, followed by roles such as Simon in the Channel 4 sitcom Teachers and Mark in the romantic comedy movie Love Actually.

[[List of Austin & Ally episodes]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of television series episodes

The following is a list of episodes of the Disney Channel original series, Austin & Ally. Created by Kevin Kopelow and Heath Seifert, the show follows the partnership between polar opposites — Austin, an extroverted musician/singer, and Ally, an intelligent yet shy songwriter and their two best friends, Trish and Dez. Austin is played by Ross Lynch, Ally is played by Laura Marano, Trish is played by Raini Rodriguez, and Dez is played by Calum Worthy. The four of them eventually become best friends and the series is based on their friendship, team work and talents, as they encounter many difficulties along the way to success. 

[[Yo no creo en los hombres]]

CATEGORIES: Telenovelas, 2010s television series, 2014 Mexican television series debuts, 2015 Mexican television series endings

Yo no creo en los hombres (English: I don't believe in men) is a Mexican telenovela produced by Giselle González for Televisa. It is based on Yo no creo en los hombres (1991), produced in México.

Alejandro Camacho, Adriana Louvier and Gabriel Soto star in the series. Flavio Medina, Azela Robinson and Rosa María Bianchi also star.

[[Muchacha italiana viene a casarse]]

CATEGORIES: Telenovelas by Televisa, 2014 Mexican television series debuts

Muchacha italiana viene a casarse, is a Mexican telenovela. It is produced and directed by Pedro Damián for Televisa. It is a remake of the 1971 Mexican telenovela Muchacha italiana viene a casarse.

Livia Brito and José Ron star as the protagonists of the telenovela. Nailea Norvind and Mike Biaggio star as antagonists.

[[I'm Your Baby Tonight (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 songs, Pop songs, R&B songs, Whitney Houston songs

"I'm Your Baby Tonight" was the lead single and title track from Whitney Houston's album of the same name. The song became a major hit for Houston. It reached the Top 10 in many countries. It hit #1 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.

After her death in 2012, the song was ranked at number 18 by Entertainment Weekly.

[[Tierra de reyes]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 American television series debuts, Telenovelas, American television series

Tierra de reyes is an American telenovela. It is produced by Telemundo.

[[Logogram]]

CATEGORIES: Writing

A logogram or logograph is a grapheme (or symbol) which represents a word or morpheme in a language. This is contrasted with a phonogram, which is a symbol that represents a sound.

[[Christ Illusion]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Slayer albums

Christ Illusion is the ninth studio album by American thrash metal band, Slayer. Christ Illusion was released on August 4, 2006 through American Recordings. It is Slayer's first album to feature original drummer Dave Lombardo since the release of Seasons in the Abyss on October 9, 1990.

The album peaked at #5 on the Billboard 200, #2 on the Top Rock Albums, and at #1 on the Top Tastemaker Albums charts. In 2007, the song "Eyes of the Insane" won a Grammy Award in the category of Best Metal Performance. The next year, the song "Final Six" won a Grammy Award in the same category.

The album art featured a mutilated Jesus painted by Larry Carroll which caused controversy. Lyrics from the album also caused controversy. The lyrics for the song "Jihad" describe the September 11 attacks from a terrorist perspective. An Indian Christian group based in Mumbai were angry and demanded that the albums be recalled. All of the Indian stocks of the album were recalled and destroyed by EMI India.

[[Ice-cream headache]]

CATEGORIES: Head (body part)

An ice-cream headache, also known as brain freeze or cold-stimulus headache is a form of brief head pain or headache. The scientific name is sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia. It is often due to quickly eating cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops. It is caused by having something cold touch the palate of the mouth. It is believed to result from a nerve response or a "referring" of pain from the roof of the mouth to the head. The rate of intake for cold foods has been studied as a contributing factor.

[[World Painted Blood]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Slayer albums

World Painted Blood is the tenth studio album by American thrash metal band, Slayer. World Painted Blood was released on November 3, 2009 through American Recordings and Sony Music Entertainment. It is Slayer's last album to feature drummer Dave Lombardo who was fired and guitarist Jeff Hanneman who died of liver failure, both in 2013.

The album peaked at #12 on the Billboard 200, #18 on the Digital Albums, #2 on the Top Hard Rock Albums, #4 on the Top Rock Albums, and at #1 on the Top Tastemaker Albums charts. In 2010, the song "Hate Worldwide" was nominated for a Grammy Award in the category of Best Metal Performance. The next year, the song "World Painted Blood" was nominated for a Grammy Award in the same category.

[[Bartonella]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Bartonella is a genus of bacteria. It is the only one in the family Bartonellaceae. The species can be  parasitic and cause diseases in animals and humans. They live mostly in the cells of the host, as intracellular parasites.

Bartonella species are pathogens. Bartonella species are transmitted by vectors such as ticks, fleas, sand flies, and mosquitoes. At least eight Bartonella species or subspecies are known to infect humans.

Bartonella is named after Alberto Leonardo Barton (1870–1950), a medical  microbiologist.

[[Nitrosomonadaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

The Nitrosomonadaceae are a family of bacteria. They oxidize ammonia (NH3) to nitrate (NO3−). They are lithoautotrophic meaning they do not need organic substance to live.

[[Planomicrobium]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Planomicrobium is a bacterium. The cells are coccoid or rod shaped. They can move with  one or two flagella. They are aerobic, they need oxygen.

[[Sabrina Carpenter]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 births, Living people

Sabrina Ann Lynn Carpenter (born May 11, 1999) is an American singer, songwriter and actress, who stars as rebellious Maya Hart, the best friend of Riley Matthews (portrayed by Rowan Blanchard) in the Disney Channel series Girl Meets World which debuted on June 27, 2014. She is signed to Hollywood Records.

[[Shane Harper]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Living people, 1993 births

Shane Steven Harper (born February 14, 1993) is an American actor, singer-songwriter, and dancer. He is known for playing Spencer on Good Luck Charlie as well as Josh Wheaton in the independent Christian movie God's Not Dead. His self-titled debut album was released on February 14, 2012.

[[Photios I of Constantinople]]

CATEGORIES: 9th century births, Patriarchs, 891 deaths

Photios I was born c. 810 or 820 in Constantinople and died 891 in Bordi (Armenia). He was the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople from 858 to 867 and from 877 to 886. In the  Eastern Orthodox churches he is called St. Photios the Great. Photios a powerful and influential Patriarch of Constantinople. As a scholar, Photios possessed a tremendous knowledge of Greek literature. He was a leading intellectual of his time, "the leading light of the ninth-century renaissance". He was a central figure in both the religious conversion of the Slavs to Christianity and the Photian schism.

[[Filibacter limicola]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Filibacter limicola is a bacterium. Filibacter limicola is the only species of the genus Filibacter. It is gram-positive. The species is aerob: It needs oxygen. It is filamentous and composed of more than one cells. The cells are curved or straight. It is a gliding bacterium.

[[Planomicrobium chinense]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Planomicrobium chinense is a species of bacteria. It was first found by Xin Dai. It is gram-positive. The cells are short rods or coccoid. They can move by using polar flagella. Planomicrobium chinense doesn't form spores.

[[Norman Scribner]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, American conductors, American composers, American pianists, Musicians from Washington, D.C.

Norman Orville Scribner (February 25, 1936 – March 22, 2015) was an American conductor, composer, pianist, and organist.  He was most widely known as the founder of The Choral Arts Society of Washington, and as its artistic director for over 45 years. He was born in Washington, D. C..

Scribner died in Washington, D. C. on March 22, 2015 at the age of 79.

[[Yehuda Avner]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, British Jews, Cancer deaths in Israel, Ambassadors of Israel, Jewish Israeli writers, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Manchester

Yehuda Avner (יהודה אבנר;  December 30, 1928 – March 24, 2015) was an Israeli prime ministerial advisor, diplomat, and writer. He served as advisor to Israeli Prime Ministers Menachem Begin, Yitzhak Rabin and Shimon Peres. He served as speechwriter to Israeli Prime Ministers Golda Meir and Levi Eshkol. Avner was the Israeli Ambassador to Australia, United Kingdom, and the United States

Avner was born in Manchester, England to Israeli Jewish parents. He died of cancer in Jerusalem, Israel, aged 86.

[[Mark Dean (computer scientist)]]

CATEGORIES: American inventors

Mark E. Dean (born March 2, 1957) is an American inventor and a computer engineer. 

[[Benjamin Banneker]]

CATEGORIES: 1731 births, 1806 deaths, Writers from Maryland, Scientists from Maryland

Benjamin Banneker (November 9, 1731 – October 9, 1806) was a free African American almanac author, surveyor, naturalist and farmer.

[[Sporosarcina ureae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Sporosarcina ureae is a species of bacteria. It is the type species of its genus and is closely related to Bacillus species. It lives in the soil. It is able to break down urea. Therefore, the name (Latin: urea). The cells are coccoid. It has some flagella. Sporosarcina ureae is heterotrophic. It is aerobic, it needs oxygen.

[[Jackie Joyner-Kersee]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, African-American track and field athletes, American Olympic bronze medalists, American Olympic gold medalists, American Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 1984 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1988 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1992 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics

Jacqueline "Jackie" Joyner-Kersee (born March 3, 1962) is a retired American athlete. She is one of the greatest athletes in the women's heptathlon as well as in the women's long jump. Joyner-Kersee represented the United States at four Olympic games (1984-96). She won a total of three gold, one silver, and two bronze Olympic medals. Joyner-Kersee was voted "the greatest female athlete of the 20th century" by Sports Illustrated magazine. She won four World Outdoor Championships gold medals. Joyner-Kersee holds the current world record of 7,291 points in the women's heptathlon.

[[Planomicrobium alkanoclasticum]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Planomicrobium chinense is a species of bacteria.

It is gram-positive. The cells are shaped like rods. Planomicrobium alkanoclasticum doesn't form spores.

[[Cryptic Writings]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums, Megadeth albums

Cryptic Writings is the seventh studio album by American thrash metal band, Megadeth. Cryptic Writings was released on June 17, 1997 through Capitol Records. It is Megadeth's last album to feature drummer Nick Menza.

The album peaked at #10 on the Billboard 200 and at #17 on the Canadian Albums Chart. In 1998, the song "Trust" was nominated for a Grammy Award in the category of Best Metal Performance.

[[Daniel Hale Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1931 deaths, Surgeons, American physicians, People from Pennsylvania

Daniel Hale Williams (January 18, 1856 – August 4, 1931) was an African-American general surgeon. In 1893 he was the second surgeon to successfully repair a heart wound. 

[[John Lee Love]]

CATEGORIES: American inventors, African-American people, 1889 births, 1931 deaths

John Lee Love was an African-American inventor who patented a portable pencil sharpener.

Born:  1889

Died: December 26, 1931

[[Frederick McKinley Jones]]

Frederick McKinley Jones was an African-American inventor who is known for the development of refrigeration equipment used during World War II.

[[James Edward Maceo West]]

James Edward Maceo West is an African-American inventor and professor who developed a microphone component that is used in ninety percent of the microphones used today.

[[Edward Bouchet]]

CATEGORIES: 1852 births, 1918 deaths, African-American people, Yale University alumni, American academics

Edward Alexander Bouchet became the first African American to earn a doctoral degree.

[[Jerry Lawson (engineer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2011 deaths, Engineers from New York

Gerald Anderson "Jerry" Lawson (December 1, 1940 – April 9, 2011) was an American electronic engineer. He was known for his work in designing the Fairchild Channel F video game console.

[[Lewis Howard Latimer]]

Lewis Howard Latimer (September 4, 1848 – December 11, 1928) was an African-American inventor and draftsman.

[[Elijah McCoy]]

CATEGORIES: 1844 births, 1929 deaths, African-American people, Engineers from Michigan, American inventors, Canadian inventors, Firefighters, People from Ontario

Elijah J. McCoy (May 2, 1844 - October 10, 1929) was an African American inventor who is best known for inventing lubrication devices to make trains run better.

He was born in Colchester, Ontario and died in Detroit, Michigan. He was born may 2, 1844.Engineer, inventor, initially employed as a railroad fireman and oiler and fudger. 

[[Octavia E. Butler]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from California, 1947 births, 2006 deaths, People from Pasadena, California, Deaths from stroke, American science fiction writers

Octavia E. Butler was a American science fiction writer. She won many awards. She won the Hugo and Nebula awards more than once. She won the MacArthur Fellowship in 1995.

[[Granville Woods]]

Granville Tailer Woods  (Columbus, Ohio, April 23, 1856 – January 30, 1910)  was an African-American inventor who was awarded more than 50 patents. One of his best know inventions was the Multiplex Telegraph, a device that sent messages between train stations and moving trains.

Granville Woods worked for Springfield, Jackson and Pomeroy Railroad Company in 1878.

Woods' first patent was for an improved steam boiler furnace. He later developed the telephone transmitter. Woods developed what would become trolley's. Woods registered nearly 60 patents in his lifetime.

Woods died in 1910 from a cerebral hemorrhage.

[[The World Needs a Hero]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums, Megadeth albums

The World Needs a Hero is the ninth studio album by American thrash metal band, Megadeth. The World Needs a Hero was released on May 12, 2001 through Sanctuary Records. It is Megadeth's last album to feature original bassist David Ellefson until he returned in 2010. It is also the only Megadeth album to feature Al Pitrelli on lead guitar and the last of two studio albums to feature drummer Jimmy DeGrasso.

The album peaked at #16 on the Billboard 200 and at #20 on the Canadian Albums Chart.

[[Benvenuto Cellini]]

CATEGORIES: 1500 births, 1571 deaths, Italian artists, People from Florence

Benvenuto Cellini (benveˈnuːto tʃelˈliːni; 3 November 1500 – 13 February 1571) was an Italian goldsmith, sculptor, draftsman, soldier and musician, who also wrote a famous autobiography. He was one of the most important artists of Mannerism.

He was born in Florence, and died there.

[[Sonoran Desert]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts, Geography of Arizona

The Sonoran Desert is a North American desert. It covers large parts of the Southwestern United States in Arizona and California. It also covers parts of Northwestern Mexico. This includes Sonora, Baja California and Baja California Sur. It is the hottest desert in North America. The Sonoran Desert has an area of 280000. The western portion of the United States–Mexico border goes through the Sonoran Desert. It is the hottest desert in North America. It is known for its giant Saguaro cactuses.

[[Häagen-Dazs]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 establishments in New York (state), American food companies, Companies based in California, Oakland, California, The Bronx

Häagen-Dazs is a brand of ice cream shops and ice cream franchises. They specialize in ice cream cones, ice cream cups, and ice cream shakes. They have franchises in the United States and many other countries around the world. Häagen-Dazs was created in 1961 by Reuben and Rose Mattus in The Bronx, New York. They opened their first store on November 15, 1976 in Brooklyn.

The "Häagen-Dazs" name was invented by Mattus since it was "Danish-sounding". He used it as a tribute to Denmark's good treatment of Jews during World War II. An outline of Denmark was also used on their early labels. The name is not Danish.

In 1983, Häagen-Dazs was bought by Pillsbury. Pillsbury was then bought by General Mills in 2001.

[[I'm Alive]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 albums

I'm Alive is the tenth studio album by Jackson Browne. The album was released on October 11, 1993. It did not have any major hits but the album managed a gold record.

[[Fistula]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms

The word fistula comes from a Latin word that means tube or pipe. In medicine, a fistula is an abnormal connection between two hollow spaces. This can be blood vessels, intestines, or other hollow organs. Fistulas are usually caused by injury or surgery. But they can also result from an infection or inflammation. Fistulas are generally a disease condition, but doctors may create fistulas by surgery for medical reasons.

[[Nissan Titan]]

CATEGORIES: Nissan automobiles, Pickup trucks, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Nissan Titan is a mid-size pickup truck that is built by Nissan. The Nissan Titan is in its second generation. The Titan started being created on September 21, 2003. It was designed by Diane Allen. The Titan was nominated for the North American Truck of the Year award in 1981.

[[Raphe nuclei]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the brain

The Raphe nuclei (singular = Raphe nucleus) are a cluster of nuclei in the hindbrain which release a neurotransmitter called serotonin (5-HT). The serotonin molecules get sent all over the brain, where they're needed for all sorts of roles. 'Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor' (SSRI) antidepressants are believed to act in these nuclei, as well as at their targets. Many opioids (drugs that calm people down) can act on the Raphe nuclei to secrete too much 5-HT.

[[Tha Dogg Pound]]

CATEGORIES: Rap music groups, 1992 establishments in the United States

Tha Dogg Pound is an American gangsta rap duo. The group was founded in 1992. They were originally signed to the record label Death Row. They made their first appearance on the Dr. Dre album The Chronic. They were also on Snoop Dogg's album Doggystyle.

Their first album, Dogg Food came out in 1995.

During 1993–94, the group assisted MC Hammer on his The Funky Headhunter album along with Suge Knight.

[[Hennessy]]

CATEGORIES: Drink companies, Companies of France, 1765 establishments, 18th century establishments in Europe

Jas Hennessy & Co. is a company that makes cognac. Its headquarters are in Cognac, France. The company sells more than 50 million bottles a year worldwide. It is the world's largest Cognac maker. It is owned by Moët Hennessy, which is co-owned by LVMH (66%) and Diageo (34%). 

[[Perpetuum mobile]]

CATEGORIES: Classical music

Perpetuum mobile means, two different things in music. One is a kind of piece of music, which is usually played in a fast tempo, and which consists of many short notes. The other is a piece of music that is played over and over.

Composers who used this name include Niccolò Paganini, Carl Maria von Weber and Felix Mendelssohn.

[[Flags of Africa]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of flags, Africa

These are the various flags of Africa.

[[Flags of North America]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of flags, Flags of North America

This is a gallery of flags of North American countries and affiliated international organizations.

[[Flags of South America]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of flags, South America

This is a gallery of flags of South American countries and affiliated international organizations.

[[Sexting]]

CATEGORIES: Communication, Human sexuality

Sexting is the act of sending sexually suggestive electronic messages, mainly between mobile phones. The term became popular during the early 21st century. The term is a portmanteau of sex and texting.

The term was first used in print in 2005 in Australia. A naked picture that you make of yourself is sometimes called a nelfie, a mix of the words naked and selfie.

If adults exchange such pictures, this is not a problem. The problem starts when children do this: The image of a teenager or child with little clothes may be child pornography. Many countries have laws against child pornography. This usually includes penalties for owning or spreading such images.

[[Philadelphia Orchestra]]

CATEGORIES: American orchestras, Music in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1900 establishments in the United States

The Philadelphia Orchestra is an American orchestra. It is based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It does over 130 subscription concerts a year from September to May. In the summer the Orchestra performs an outdoor session for a month. It originally gave concerts at the Academy of Music. The orchestra was founded in 1900. It has performed at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts since 2001.

[[Antoine Valois-Fortier]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Canadian Olympic bronze medalists, Judoka, Living people, People from Quebec City, Sportspeople from Quebec

Antoine Valois-Fortier (born February 6, 1985) is a Canadian athlete.  He is best known as a judoka.

[[Germanwings Flight 9525]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 aviation disasters, 2015 in France, 2015 murders in Europe, 2010s crimes in France, Aviation disasters in Europe, March 2015 events, Mass murder in 2015, Mass murder in France, Massacres in Europe, Murder-suicides in Europe, Suicides in France

Germanwings Flight 9525 (4U9525/GWI9525) was a scheduled international passenger flight flying from Barcelona, Spain to Düsseldorf, Germany, operated by the Lufthansa-owned low-cost airline Germanwings. 

On 24 March 2015, the Airbus A320-200 jetliner crashed around 100 northwest of Nice, in the French Alps. All 144 passengers and six crew members were killed.

The crash was a murder-suicide planned and acted out by 27-year old co-pilot Andreas Lubitz.

Opera singers Oleg Bryjak and Maria Radner were passengers on the plane.

[[Walter Burkert]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, German educators, Writers from Bavaria

Walter Burkert (ˈbʊɐ̯kɐt; born 2 February 1931, Neuendettelsau, Bavaria; died 11 March 2015, Zurich) was a German scholar of Greek mythology and cult.

A professor of classics at the University of Zurich, Switzerland, he taught in the UK and the US.  He has influenced generations of students of religion since the 1960s. During his career he taught poets, historians, and philosophers.

[[Maria Radner]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2015 deaths, Aviation deaths, German singers, Musicians from North Rhine-Westphalia, German opera singers, People from Düsseldorf

Maria Friderike Radner (7 May 1981 – 24 March 2015) was a German contralto and internationally renowned opera singer. After studying at the Robert Schumann Hochschule in Düsseldorf, she appeared internationally in opera and concert. In January 2013, she played the Schwertleite in Die Walküre at the Teatro Comunale Florence, Italy under Zubin Mehta, and in March the Erda at the Grand Théâtre de Genève, conducted by Ingo Metzmacher. Her debut at the Metropolitan Opera in 2012 in Götterdämmerung was part of the documentation of the production in the film Wagner's Dream.

Radner died on 24 March 2015 along with her husband Sascha Schenk and their infant son Felix, and colleague Oleg Bryjak, in the Germanwings Flight 9525 crash, which occurred near Prads-Haute-Bléone, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, France. She and Bryjak were returning from performances of Richard Wagner's Siegfried at the Gran Teatre del Liceu in Barcelona.

[[Moncef Ben Salem]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2015 deaths, Tunisian politicians, Civil servants

Moncef Ben Salem (المنصف بن سالم; February 1, 1953 – March 24, 2015) was a Tunisian politician and university professor. He served as the Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research under Prime Minister Hamadi Jebali.

[[Herberto Hélder]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Portuguese writers, Poets

Herberto Helder (November 23, 1930 – March 23, 2015) was a Portuguese poet. He was born in Funchal, Madeira. He was thought to be one of the most important Portuguese poets. His poetry is not yet enough studied by academics because he does not like the attention and refused several literary awards.

[[Abdul Halim of Kedah]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Malaysian politicians, Prime ministers

Almu'tasimu Billahi Muhibbuddin Tuanku Alhaj Abdul Halim Mu'adzam Shah Ibni Almarhum Sultan Badlishah, GCB KStJ (28 November 1927 – 11 September 2017) was the 14th Yang di-Pertuan Agong (supreme head of state) of Malaysia. He was the 27th Sultan of Kedah. He retired as Yang di-Pertuan Agong in 12 December 2016.

He previously served as the fifth Yang di-Pertuan Agong from 1970 to 1975. He is the first person to hold the position twice, as well as the oldest elected to the office. He is a week older than the world's longest reigning monarch, King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand.

Halim died on 11 September 2017 at the age of 89 at his palace on Istana Anak Bukit around 2.30 p.m. (MST).

[[Moshe Arens]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2019 deaths, Ambassadors of Israel, American engineers, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, Israeli academics, Jewish academics, Jewish Israeli politicians, Likud politicians, Lithuanian Jews, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Kaunas, Soviet Jews

Moshe Arens (27 December 1925 – 7 January 2019) was an Israeli aeronautical engineer, researcher and former diplomat and politician. He was a member of the Knesset between 1973 and 1992 and again from 1999 until 2003. Arens was a member of Likud.

He served as Minister of Defense three times and once as Minister of Foreign Affairs. Arens also served as the Israeli ambassador to the U.S. and was professor at the Technion in Haifa.

Arens was born in Kaunas, Lithuania. He studied at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and at the California Institute of Technology. Arens died at his home in Savyon, Israel on 7 January 2019 at the age of 93.

[[Marmande]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Lot-et-Garonne

Marmande is a commune in southwestern France, in the region of Nouvelle-Aquitaine. It is a sub-prefecture of the Lot-et-Garonne department, capital of the arrondissement of Marmande. It is also the capital of 2 cantons in the department: Marmande-1 and Marmande-2.

[[Nérac]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Lot-et-Garonne

Nérac (Nerac) is a commune in Nouvelle-Aquitaine in south-western France, sub-prefecture of the Lot-et-Garonne department. It is also the capital of the arrondissement of Nérac and of the Canton of L'Albret.

[[Gender performativity]]

CATEGORIES: Gender

Gender performativity is a term first used by the feminist philosopher Judith Butler in her 1990 book Gender Trouble. She argues that being born male or female does not determine behavior. Instead, people learn to behave in particular ways to fit into society. The idea of gender is an act, or performance. This act is the way a person walks, talks, dresses, and behaves. She calls this acting "gender performativity." What society regards as a person's gender is just a performance made to please social expectations and not a true expression of the person's 'gender identity'.

[[Angel of Death (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 songs, Slayer songs

"Angel of Death" is a song by American thrash metal band Slayer. It is the opening song to their third studio album, Reign in Blood. The song was released on October 7, 1986. The song is based on Nazi physician Josef Mengele who worked at the Auschwitz concentration camp and did human experiments. Both the lyrics and music were written by guitarist Jeff Hanneman. 

Stylus Magazine's Clay Jarvas said that the song "smokes the asses of any band playing fast and/or heavy today. Lyrically outlining the horrors to come, while musically laying the groundwork for the rest of the record: fast, lean and filthy."

"Angel of Death" caused controversy and led to accusations that Slayer were Nazi sympathizers. Hanneman said about the controversy: "I know why people misinterpret it – it's because they get this knee–jerk reaction to it. When they read the lyrics, there's nothing I put in the lyrics that says necessarily he was a bad man, because to me – well, isn't that obvious? I shouldn't have to tell you that."

[[Michelle (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Michelle is a female given name. The name was originally the French feminine form of Michael. It means "Who is Like God". Michelle is also a last name.

People named Michelle include Michelle Pfeiffer, Michele Steffin and Michelle Obama. Fictional characters include Michelle Tanner from the sitcom Full House.

[[Bridges of Love]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 television series debuts, Philippine television series, 2015 establishments in Asia, 2010s establishments in the Philippines

Bridges of Love is a Philippine television drama series. It is broadcast by ABS-CBN.

[[Fabian Bredlow]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Berlin

Fabian Bredlow ( born 2 March 1995) is a football player from Germany. He plays for F. C. Liefering, the second team of F.C. Red Bull Salzburg, in the SKY GO Erste Liga (2nd level in Austrian football) as goalkeeper.

[[Peter Zeidler]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, German football managers, Sportspeople from Baden-Württemberg

Peter Zeidler (born 8 August 1962) is a German football manager. He manages for FC Liefering. FC Liefering plays in the SKY Go 1. Liga, which is the 2nd level in Austrian Football.

[[Glimåkra]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Glimåkra is a locality in Östra Göinge Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,383 people lived there.

[[Louis Nirenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Abel Prize winners, 1925 births, 2020 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Canadian scientists, Researchers, American mathematicians, People from Hamilton

Louis Nirenberg (28 February 1925 – 26 January 2020) was a Canadian American mathematician. He was thought to be one of the outstanding analysts of the twentieth century. He made fundamental contributions to linear and nonlinear partial differential equations (PDEs) and their application to complex analysis and geometry. In 2015, he won the Abel Prize.

Nirenberg died at a Manhattan hospital on 26 January 2020 at the age of 94.

[[Cathleen Synge Morawetz]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Canadian scientists, American mathematicians, People from Toronto

Cathleen Synge Morawetz (May 5, 1923 – August 8, 2017) was a Canadian-born American mathematician. Morawetz's research was mainly in the study of the partial differential equations governing fluid flow. She is Professor Emerita at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences at the New York University, where she has also served as director from 1984 to 1988. She was born in Toronto, Canada.

In 2012, she became a fellow of the American Mathematical Society.

Morawetz died on August 8, 2017 at her home in Greenwich Village, New York at the age of 94.

[[Shmuel Agmon]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, Living people, Israeli Jews, Israeli scientists, Jewish scientists, Mathematicians, People from Tel Aviv

Shmuel Agmon (שמואל אגמון) (born 2 February 1922 in Tel-Aviv) is an Israeli mathematician. He is known for his work in analysis and partial differential equations.

[[Peter Lax]]

CATEGORIES: Abel Prize winners, 1926 births, Living people, American mathematicians, Hungarian Jews, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Wolf Prize winners, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Budapest, Refugees from Nazism

Peter David Lax (born 1 May 1926) is an American mathematician. He is known for his works in integrable systems, fluid dynamics and shock waves, solitonic physics, hyperbolic conservation laws, and mathematical and scientific computing, among other fields. Lax is listed as an ISI highly cited researcher.

Lax is of Jewish descent.

[[Bobby Lowther]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, American basketball players, Sportspeople from Houston, Texas, Sportspeople from Louisiana

Robert Carswell "Bobby" Lowther, Sr. (December 14, 1923 – March 23, 2015), was the only two-sport All-American athlete at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. In 1946, he earned the recognition in basketball and track and field.

[[George Fischbeck]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, American television presenters, Television personalities from New Jersey

George Richard Fischbeck, (July 1, 1922 – March 25, 2015), better known as Dr. George Fischbeck, was an American television weatherman on KOB-TV in Albuquerque, New Mexico from the early 1960s to early 1970s.  

In 1972 he moved to  KABC-TV in Los Angeles, replacing Alan Sloane, where he became a staple on the station's Eyewitness News broadcasts. He retired from KABC-TV in 1990, but returned to television with a brief show at KCBS-TV from 1994 to 1997.

Fischbeck died in Woodland Hills, California, aged 92.

[[Karl Moik]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, Austrian singers, Television presenters

Karl Moik (19 June 1938 – 26 March 2015) was an Austrian television presenter and singer.

Moik was born in Linz.  

He became famous in Austria, Germany, German-speaking Switzerland and South Tyrol as the television presenter of Musikantenstadl on Austrian broadcaster ORF. He presented Musikantenstadtl from 1981 to 2005 earning him the honorary title by fans as Mr Musikantenstadl.  

Moik died in Salzburg, aged 76.

[[John Renbourn]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English guitarists, English songwriters, Musicians from London, Writers from London

John Renbourn (8 August 1944 – 26 March 2015) was an English guitarist and songwriter. He was best known for his collaboration with guitarist Bert Jansch as well as his work with the folk group Pentangle. 

Renbourn died on 26 March 2015 from a heart attack at his home in Hawick in the Scottish Borders, aged 70.

[[ORF (broadcaster)]]

CATEGORIES: Mass media

Österreichischer Rundfunk (shortened to ORF, literally, Austrian Broadcasting Corporation) is the name for the state-controlled media agency producing radio and tv programmes. In 2015, it produced four nationwide tv channels, 9 regional tv stations in Austria, plus one in Bozen. There are also three nationwide radio channels, plus a number of regional ones. It also takes part in 3sat, a  cultural programme and ARTE. 

[[Jet Airways]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia, Companies of India, Transport in India, 1993 establishments, 1990s establishments in India

Jet Airways is a major airline from India. It began flying in 1993. It has a fleet of over 90 airplanes. The airline is the second largest in India after Air India.

[[All Nippon Airways]]

CATEGORIES: Star Alliance, Airlines of Asia, Transport companies of Japan, 1952 establishments in Japan, IATA members

All Nippon Airways is an airline from Japan. It was established in 1952 by the Goverment of Japan. The airline's main competitor is Japan Airlines.

[[Lède]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine

The Lède is a river of south-western France that flows through the Lot-et-Garonne department, in the region of Nouvelle-Aquitaine. It is a right tributary of the Lot river.

[[SriLankan Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Sri Lanka, Airlines of Asia, 1979 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Sri Lanka

SriLankan Airlines (marketed as SriLankan) is the flag carrier of Sri Lanka and a member of the Oneworld airline alliance. It is currently the largest airline in Sri Lanka by number of aircraft and destinations and was launched in 1979 as Air Lanka following the termination of operations of the original Sri Lankan flag carrier Air Ceylon. Following its partial acquisition in 1998 by Emirates, it was re-branded and introduced the current livery. In 2008 the government of Sri Lanka acquired all the shares of the airline from Emirates. After ending the Emirates partnership, it retained its re-branded name and logo. Sri Lankan Airlines operates over 560 flights per week.

The Airline operates to 113 destinations in 51 countries (including codeshare operations) from its main hub located at Bandaranaike International Airport near Colombo. SriLankan Airlines joined the oneworld airline alliance on 1 May 2014.

[[Eyes of the Insane]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, Grammy Award winning songs, Slayer songs

"Eyes of the Insane" is a song by American thrash metal band Slayer. The song was released in November 23, 2006. It was the second single on their ninth studio album Christ Illusion. The song is based on an article in Texas Monthly entitled "Casualty of War". The lyrics explore the mental torment of an American soldier after he returns home from the second Gulf War.

On the music charts, "Eyes of the Insane" was able to peak at #15 on Tracklisten and #97 on the UK Singles charts.

In 2007, the song won a Grammy Award in the category of Best Metal Performance. Vocalist Tom Araya commented on the win, saying: "Jeff Hanneman and I put a lot into 'Eyes of the Insane' so we're thrilled that the Grammy voters took the time to listen to it, and then vote for it. We're out here on the road and we're all really, really happy."

[[Oleg Bryjak]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2015 deaths, German singers, German musicians

Oleg Bryzhak (October 27, 1960 – March 24, 2015) was a Kazakhstani-German bass-baritone opera singer.  He was born in Jezkazgan, Kazakh SSR.

Bryzhak had been a protodeacon in an Ukrainian Orthodox church in Krefeld.

Bryzhak died on March 24, 2015 along with fellow singer Maria Radner in the Germanwings Flight 9525 crash in France. He was returning from performances of Richard Wagner's Siegfried at the Gran Teatre del Liceu in Barcelona.

[[Bill Slayback]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2015 deaths, American singer-songwriters, Baseball players from California, Detroit Tigers players, Disease-related deaths in California, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California

William Grover "Bill" Slayback (February 21, 1948 – March 25, 2015) was an American professional baseball pitcher. He appeared in 42 games, 17 as a starter for the Detroit Tigers of Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1972 until 1974. He later became a musician and singer-songwriter, releasing several singles such as "Move Over Babe (Here Comes Henry)".

Slayback was born in Hollywood, California. He had two daughters, Samantha and Kelli.

Slayback died on March 25, 2015 at his home in La Crescenta-Montrose, California, aged 67. He had been ill for some years before his death.

[[LAM Mozambique Airlines Flight 470]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 disasters, Murder in 2013, Aviation disasters in the 2010s, Murder-suicides, Transport in Africa, History of Namibia, Mozambique, November 2013 events

LAM Mozambique Airlines Flight 470 was a scheduled international passenger flight by carrier LAM Mozambique Airlines from Maputo International Airport of Maputo, Mozambique. It crashed on 29 November 2013 into the Bwabwata National Park in northern Namibia en route to Quatro de Fevereiro Airport of Luanda, Angola. The wreckage of the aircraft was found the next day. All 27 passengers and six crew members were killed. It was later found out that the aircraft was crashed on purpose by the pilot, Herminio dos Santos Fernandes, in an act of murder–suicide.

All crew members and ten passengers were from Mozambique, nine from Angola, five from Portugal, one from France, one from Brazil, and one from China.

[[Michael Brandner]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian footballers, 1995 births, Living people

Michael Brandner ( born 13 February 1995) is a football player from Austria. He plays for F. C. Liefering, the second team of F.C. Red Bull Salzburg, in the SKY GO Erste Liga (2nd level in Austrian football) as midfielder.

[[José Ron]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Mexican actors

José Ron (born Édgar José Ron Vázquez, August 8, 1981 in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico), is a Mexican actor known for his performances in telenovelas, series and theater. Ron promotes the animal rights, he efforts to stop the hunt and human abuse of animals. He is also involved in nature and environmental causes, as planting trees and raise awareness to people about that.

[[Gentile Bellini]]

CATEGORIES: 1420s births, 1507 deaths, 15th century Italian painters

Gentile Bellini (c. 1429 – February 23, 1507) was an Italian painter. From 1474 he was the official portrait artist for the Doges of  Venice.

[[Stephan's Quintet]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxy clusters

Stephan's Quintet is in the constellation Pegasus. It is a visual grouping of five galaxies of which four are the first compact galaxy group ever discovered. The group is about 280 million light years from Earth.

The group was discovered by Édouard Stephan in 1877 at Marseille Observatory.

The group is the most studied of all the compact galaxy groups.  The brightest member of the visual grouping is NGC 7320. This has extensive H II regions, seen here as red blobs, where active star formation is occurring.

These galaxies are of interest because of their violent collisions.  Four of the five galaxies in Stephan's Quintet form a physical association, Hickson Compact Group 92. They are involved in a cosmic dance that will probably end with the galaxies merging. 

Radio observations in the early 1970s showed a mysterious emission from the inter-galactic space between the galaxies in the group. This same region also showed faint glow of ionized atomic hydrogen. You can see this in the visible part of the spectrum as the magnificent green-blue arc in the picture to the right.  Two space telescopes have recently shown something about the nature of the strange filament. It is now believed to be a giant intergalactic shock-wave (similar to a sonic boom but travelling in intergalactic gas rather than air). This is caused by one galaxy (NGC 7318B) falling into the center of the group at several million miles per hour.

The light blue galaxy NGC 7320 is a foreground galaxy, only 40 million light years from Earth.

[[Bloodhound SSC]]

CATEGORIES: Rockets

Bloodhound SSC is a supersonic land vehicle currently in development. Its goal is to match or exceed 1000. This would mean a new world land speed record. The pencil-shaped car is powered by a jet engine and a rocket engine. It is designed to reach 1050. It is being developed and built with the intention of breaking the land speed record by 33% john has no dog

Runway testing of up to 200 is scheduled to take place in early 2015. Bloodhound SSC will then be tested on the Hakskeen Pan in South Africa. A track 12 long, 2 wide has been cleared.

[[Planomicrobium mcmeekinii]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Planomicrobium mcmeekinii is a species of bacteria. It is gram-positive. The cells are rod shaped. It doesn't form spores. It grows from 0–37°C. Planomicrobium mcmeekinii belongs to the family Planococcaceae.

[[Marram grass]]

CATEGORIES: Poales

Marram grass is Ammophila, a genus of grasses. They are xerophytes, which live in dry places. Marram specialises in being the first line of land plants in coastal sand dunes.

Ammophila has roots up to metres long. They find the moisture below the dry sand. These plants are used to stop sand-blow, because their roots hold the sand, and stop the wind blowing it away. 

[[Kimmo Timonen]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Chicago Blackhawks players, Finnish ice hockey players, Living people, Nashville Predators players, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Philadelphia Flyers players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Swedish Hockey League players, Ice hockey defencemen

Kimmo Samuel Timonen (born March 18, 1975) is a Finnish professional ice hockey defenceman. He currently plays for the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Nashville Predators and Philadelphia Flyers.

[[Tomas Tranströmer]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Atheists, Disease-related deaths in Sweden, Humanists, Nobel Prize in Literature winners, Scientists from Stockholm, Swedish poets, Swedish psychologist, Socialists, Writers from Stockholm, European translators

Tomas Gösta Tranströmer (15 April 1931 – 26 March 2015) was a Swedish poet, psychologist and translator. He was awarded the 1990 Neustadt International Prize for Literature and the 2011 Nobel Prize in Literature.

Tranströmer was born in Stockholm. He was married to Monica Bladh and had two daughters, Emma and Paula. He had a stroke in 1990, leaving him with aphasia and without the use of his right hand.

Tranströmer died after a short illness on 26 March 2015 at his home in Stockholm, aged 83.

[[Pelvic inflammatory disease]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases and disorders of the female reproductive system, Diseases caused by bacteria

Pelvic inflammatory disease or PID is an infection.  It is an infection of the female organs:

Sometimes the woman does not feel sick.

The signs of being sick with this sickness can be:

If this illness is not treated it can prevent a woman from having children.  It can kill the unborn child and it can be very painful. This disease can be treated and the infection can be cured.

[[Salto Grande]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in São Paulo (state)

Salto Grande is a Brazilian city in the state of São Paulo. Its population, in 2014, was 9.190 inhabitants and its area is 211,10 km². Its name means Great Falls in Portuguese.

[[Gélise]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Occitanie, Nouvelle-Aquitaine

The Gélise is a river of south-western France that flows through the Gers, Landes and Lot-et-Garonne departments, in the Occitanie and Nouvelle-Aquitaine regions. It is a left tributary of the Baïse river.

[[Mi corazón es tuyo]]

CATEGORIES: Telenovelas by Televisa, Mexican television series, 2010s television series, 2014 Mexican television series debuts, 2015 Mexican television series endings

Mi corazón es tuyo (English: My heart is yours) is a Mexican telenovela. It is produced by Juan Osorio for Televisa. It airs weeknights on El Canal de las Estrellas. The telenovela is an adaptation of the Spanish telenovela Ana y los 7. It was adapted in Mexico by Alejandro Pohlenz, Marcia del Río, and Pablo Ferrer.

Silvia Navarro and Jorge Salinas are the protagonists. Mayrín Villanueva stars as the main antagonist.

[[Rockstar (drink)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in the United States, Drinks

Rockstar, Inc. (branded ROCKST★R) is a popular energy drink. It was created in the United States in 2001. There are over 25 different flavors of the drink. Rockstar is based in Las Vegas, Nevada. It was founded in 1998 by Russell Weiner, the son of conservative talk show host Michael Savage. The drink was produced by The Coca-Cola Company until February 2009, when PepsiCo took over.

[[Dinkha IV]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2015 deaths, American Christians, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Eastern Christians, Iraqi people, Patriarchs

Mar Dinkha IV (Syriac: ܡܪܝ ܕܢܚܐ ܪܒܝܥܝܐ and مار دنخا الرابع, born Dinkha Khanania; 15 September 1935 – 26 March 2015) was an Iraqi-American Syriac Christianity cleric. He was the Catholicos-Patriarch of the Assyrian Church of the East, headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, United States, from 1976 until his death.

Dinkha IV was born in Darbandokeh to an Assyrian family. He was baptized. He was also a priest in Tehran, Iran.

Dinkha IV died on 26 March 2015 in Rochester, Minnesota, aged 79.

[[Wajid Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Indian painters

Wajid Khan (b. March 10, 1981) is an Indian painter, artist. He is the first ever artist to acquire the patent for Nail Art. Wajid was named in the Guinness Book of World Records, Golden Book of World Records, Limca Book of Records, Asia Book of Records and India Book of Records. His nail portraits include Mary (mother of Jesus), Jesus, Dhirubhai Ambani and Mahatma Gandhi.

[[CIH]]

CATEGORIES: Malware

CIH (also known as Chernobyl or Spacefiller) is a Windows 9x computer virus which first appeared in 1998. It was created by Chen Ing-hau, a Chinese student. The name it was given is based on his initials. After the virus is run on April 26, it will start adding random data to files on the hard drive. On some computers it will also corrupt the BIOS. This will leave the computer unable to operate until the hard drive is recovered with data recovery software and the BIOS is manually reflashed. It does not infect Windows NT computers. It resulted in over 1 billion USD worth in damages. In 1999, IBM shipped some of their Aptiva computers with the virus already on the computer. Some games, like Activision's SiN and Electronic Arts' Wing Commander came with the virus.

[[CryptoLocker]]

CATEGORIES: Malware

CryptoLocker is a file encrypting ransomware. It first appeared in September 2013. It was transferred using email attachments and botnets. The ransomware encrypts most files on the computer (including connected devices), using an RSA encryption.After infection Cryptolocker scan the victim’s folder structure for files matching a set of file extensions, encrypt them and display a message window that demands a ransom in order to decrypt the files. Cryptolocker use RSA public-key cryptography.  Once it has encrypted the files, it will display a window asking for 2 bitcoin for the decryption program. It will give the user 72 hours to pay the ransom.

If the user does not pay the fee in time, the ransomware will uninstall itself and ask the user to download it again. It will then ask the user for 10 bitcoin, instead of 2. A program to decrypt (fix) files was later made available.

[[Ransomware]]

CATEGORIES: Malware

Ransomware is a type of malware. It restricts access to the computer system that it infects or the data that it stores (often using encryption techniques), and demands a ransom be paid to the creator(s) of the malware. This is in order for the restriction to be removed. Some forms of ransomware encrypt files on the system's hard disk. Others may simply lock the system and display messages intended to persuade the user to pay.

Ransomware first became popular in Russia. Now the use of ransomware scams has grown internationally. In June 2013, McAfee said it had collected over 250,000 unique samples of ransomware in the first three months of 2013. This is more than double the number of the previous year. CryptoLocker, a ransomware worm that surfaced in late-2013, had collected an estimated $3 million USD before it was taken down by authorities.

In May 2017, a piece of ransomware called WannaCry spread around the world. It lasted four days and affected over 200,000 computers in 150 countries. Only about $130,000 (USD) was ever paid in ransom, but the attack affected a lot of large companies and organizations. The United Kingdom's National Health Service (NHS) was hit hard by WannaCry. Hospitals could not access their files, and so many surgeries were cancelled and patients had to be turned away. The NHS was especially at risk because it was using a version of the Windows operating system called Windows XP that Microsoft no longer supported. This meant that Microsoft had not been sending out security updates for this version of Windows, leaving it open to the WannaCry virus. Other systems were affected even though they were running newer versions of Windows, because their users had not yet installed the most recent security updates. Even though it was not designed to actually damage computers or their files, WannaCry led to a lot of wasted time and money, showing how vulnerable the world still is to ransomware attacks.

[[Lil' Chris]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Suffolk, English singer-songwriters, Suicides by hanging in the United Kingdom

Christopher James Hardman (26 August 1990 – 23 March 2015), known by the stage name Lil' Chris, was an English singer-songwriter, actor, and television personality. His career began in 2006, after appearing on the Channel 4 series Rock School. Later that year, he released the single "Checkin' It Out", which charted at number 3, and a self-titled album. 

Chris committed suicide (killed himself) by hanging on 23 March 2015 at his home in Lowestoft, aged 24.

[[Richard Butson]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Canadian physicians, British physicians

Colonel Arthur Richard Cecil Butson, GC, OMM, CD and Bar (24 October 1922 – 24 March 2015) was a British-born Canadian explorer and physician. 

He then joined the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey in 1946 during World War II. In 1947 was awarded the Albert Medal, then, with the George Cross. Later, all holders of the Albert Medal were ordered to exchange that medal for the George Cross.

Butson died at the age of 92 on 24 March 2015.

[[Andreas Lubitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, 2015 deaths, Aviation deaths, German criminals, Murderers, People from Bavaria

Andreas Günter Lubitz (18 December 1987 – 24 March 2015) was a German pilot for the international airline Lufthansa. Marseille prosecutor Brice Robin, French and German authorities, as well as executives of Lufthansa, have issued statements that they believe that Lubitz intentionally crashed the Airbus A320 of Germanwings Flight 9525 (GWI18G & D-AIPX) into the French Alps, killing himself along with 149 others in a suicide on 24 March 2015.

[[Ivo Garrani]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Abruzzo, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors

[[Dick Bond (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2015 deaths, Politicians from Washington, US Republican Party politicians

Richard M. (Dick) Bond (April 23, 1921 – March 25, 2015) was an American politician in the state of Washington. He served the 6th district from 1975 to 1987.

[[Ron Suart]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2015 deaths, English footballers, English football managers, Sportspeople from Cumbria

Ronald "Ron" Suart (18 November 1920 – 25 March 2015) was an English football player and manager.

Suart was a full-back at Blackpool, playing alongside fellow defenders George Farrow and Harry Johnston in a team which also included Stanley Matthews and Stan Mortensen. Blackpool reached the 1948 FA Cup Final, but Suart missed it through injury. He transferred to Blackburn Rovers in 1949, before retiring in 1955.

Suart died in March 2015, aged 94.

[[Luís Miguel Rocha]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2015 deaths, Portuguese writers, Television writers, Television producers

Luís Miguel Rocha (February 1976 – 26 March 2015) was a Portuguese author, television writer and producer. Rocha wrote and produced television in London. Rocha's second novel, The Last Pope, was published in 2006. The novel examines the conspiracy theories about the death of Pope John Paul I.

[[T. Sailo]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Indian politicians, Civil servants

Ṭhenphunga Sailo (January 1, 1922 – March 27, 2015) was the second Chief Minister of Mizoram, a state in northeast India. He served as a member of the Mizoram People's Conference, across two stints between 1978 to 1984. Prior to that he served as an officer in the British India Army and then the Indian Army, retiring as a brigadier.

[[Rod Hundley]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Los Angeles Lakers players, American television personalities, People from Charleston, West Virginia, Sportspeople from West Virginia

Rodney Clark "Hot Rod" Hundley (October 26, 1934 – March 27, 2015) was an American professional basketball player and television broadcaster. He played for the Los Angeles Lakers from 1957 to 1963. He later became known as a broadcaster for the Utah Jazz. Hundley was born in Charleston, West Virginia.

Hundley died of Alzheimer's disease at his home in Phoenix, Arizona, aged 80.

[[O Death]]

CATEGORIES: Folk music

O Death — also known as O, Death, Oh Death, and Conversations with Death — is a traditional American folk song.

Country blues banjo player Moran Lee "Dock" Boggs (1898-1971) recorded the song in the late 1920s. A recording from the 1938 National Folk Festival held in Washington, D.C. is on file with the Library of Congress.  Various folk music artists included Oh, Death on a variety of musical collections throughout the 1970s and '80s.

[[Man of Constant Sorrow]]

CATEGORIES: Folk music

"Man of Constant Sorrow" (also known as "I Am a Man of Constant Sorrow") is a traditional American folk song first recorded by Dick Burnett, a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky.  The song was originally recorded by Burnett as "Farewell Song" printed in a Richard Burnett songbook, about 1913. 

An early version was recorded by Emry Arthur in 1928 (Vocalion Vo 5208). It became popular again when it was played in the 2000 movie O Brother, Where Art Thou?.

[[Amaro Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2015 deaths, Canadian politicians, Civil servants

Amaro Silva (c. 1957 – March 27, 2015) was a Canadian politician. He was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. He served on the Winnipeg City Council from 1992 to 1998.

Silva died on March 27, 2015 following a "serious illness", aged 57.

[[Josef Sommer]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Actors from North Carolina, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, German movie actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Mecklenburg-Vorpommern

Josef Sommer (born June 26, 1934) is a German-American stage and movie actor. He was born in Greifswald, Germany, and raised in North Carolina.  He appeared as 38th President Gerald Ford opposite Gena Rowlands in the made-for-TV movie The Betty Ford Story (1987). He is known for his role as Dr. Eaton in the 1998 movie Patch Adams.

[[George Washington University Hospital]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C., Hospitals in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Washington, D.C.

The George Washington University Hospital is the hub of a major medical center in Washington, D.C. in the United States. It is affiliated with the George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences.  The current building was opened on August 23, 2002. Since 1997, The George Washington University Hospital has been jointly owned and operated by a parnership between a subsidiary of Universal Health Services and The George Washington University.

In 1981 after being shot, Ronald Reagan was taken to the hospital.

[[Jack Higgins]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, English novelists, People from Newcastle upon Tyne

Jack Higgins (born 27 July 1929) is a British writer. He is one of the best-selling authors of popular thrillers and espionage novels. His breakthrough novel The Eagle Has Landed (1975). He is also known for his books;  A Prayer for the Dying (1987), The Eagle Has Flown (1991), Thunder Point (1993), Angel of Death (1995), Flight of Eagles (1998), and Day of Reckoning (2000).

[[Sleep deprivation]]

CATEGORIES: Sleep disorders

Sleep deprivation is the condition of not having enough sleep. The condition affects the brain and its cognitive function. The condition can be either chronic or acute. Paradoxically, sleep deprivation can be used to treat certain disorders, such as clinical depression. Sleep deprivation has also been used as a form of torture. Multiple factors can cause or contribute to sleep deprivation including poor sleep hygiene, lifestyle choices, work obligations, sleep disorders, and other medical conditions. Sleep deficiency may be caused by other sleep disorders or medical conditions. For example, sleep apnea, a breathing disorder that induces dozens of nightly awakenings, may hinder both sleep duration and quality. Other medical or mental health problems, such as pain or general anxiety disorder, can interfere with the quality and quantity of sleep.

Generally, sleep deprivation may result in:

[[False memory]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms

Both perception ("experiencing") and remembering are processes which involve the brain. For this reason, errors do sometimes occur. Errors in perception are commonly called illusions. Emil Kraepelin used the term "Erinnerungsverfälschung" (memory falsification) to speak about false memories.

Perceptions need stimuli to be created. A perception without a stimulus is called hallucination. Much like the difference between illusion and hallucination, Kraepelin wanted to distinguish between a false memory and memories of something that did not really happen, which he called "Erinnerkungsfälschung". Unfortunately, both German terms translate to the same English term.

A false memory is a condition where a person remembers something that did not occur or where the memory does not closely match the occurrence.  

[[(Everything I Do) I Do It for You]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 songs, Bryan Adams songs, Grammy Award winning songs, Rock ballads

"(Everything I Do) I Do It for You" is a song by Canadian rock singer Bryan Adams. The song was released on June 18, 1991. It was the first single on his sixth studio album Waking Up the Neighbours. It is also featured on the soundtrack for the 1991 movie Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves.

The song was able to peak at #1 on many different music charts. It sold more than 15 million copies worldwide and is Adams' most successful song. It is one of the best-selling singles of all time.

In 1992, the song won a Grammy Award in the category of Grammy Award for Best Song Written Specifically for a Motion Picture or Television. It was also nominated in the categories of Record of the Year, Song of the Year, and Best Pop Vocal Performance, Male. The song was also nominated for an Academy Award in the category of Best Song.

[[Vaginal discharge]]

CATEGORIES: Female reproductive system, Sexually transmitted diseases, Diseases and disorders of the female reproductive system

Vaginal discharge  is the fluid coming out of the vagina. It can be clear or different colors, white, yellow or green. It can be different thicknesses.

Most of the time clear discharge is normal. Clear discharge is part of the menstrual cycle.  Some discharge can be from an infection, sickness or disease. The discharge from a yeast infection (Candiditis) is white and thick with lumps. Discharge can be a result of an infection that you get while having sex, sexually transmitted disease.

The term blennorrhea is often used to designate mucus discharge from the urethra or vagina. Discharge from an infection called bacterial vaginosis has a 'fishy' smell.

[[Fissure vent]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanic craters

A fissure vent, also known as a volcanic fissure or eruption fissure, is a kind of volcano through which lava erupts. The crack is usually linear (follows a fairly straight line). It is often a few meters wide and may be many kilometers long. Fissure vents can cause large flood of lava and later lava tubes. After some time the eruption cools down gradually and builds up craters.

[[Malalai Bahaduri]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Afghan military people

Malalai Bahaduri is a Senior Instructor in the Afghan National Interdiction Unit (NIU), with the military rank of Second Lieutenant. In 2013, Bahaduri received an International Women of Courage Award.

[[Tsering Woeser]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Activists, Bloggers, Essayists, Poets, Tibetan people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Tsering Woeser (also written Öser; Han name Chéng Wénsà 程文萨; born 1966) is a Tibetan activist, blogger, poet and essayist.  She lives in China.

[[Julieta Castellanos]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Honduran people, Political activists, Sociologists, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Julieta Castellanos (born 8 January 1954) is a Honduran sociologist. She is the rector of the National Autonomous University of Honduras (UNAH) since 2009.  Castellanos has worked against violence in Honduras, working mostly on drug cartels and police corruption. She worked for reform of the courts and the police. In 2004, Castellanos started the Observatorio de la Violencia (Violence Observatory) at UNAH. The Violence Observatory analyzes crime statistics in Honduras. She was also a member of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.  The job of this commission was to find the facts of the 2009 coup that removed President Manuel Zelaya from power.

[[Tim Omaji]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Australian musicians, Australian pop singers, Australian singer-songwriters, Dancers, Nigerian people, People from Canberra, R&B musicians, Reality television participants

Tim Omaji (born 9 September 1987), also known by his former stage name Timomatic, is an Australian singer-songwriter and dancer. He is best known for his single "Set It Off". He was a contestant on So You Think You Can Dance Australia in 2009, finishing seventh in the competition. He also appeared as a contestant on Australia's Got Talent and placed third in the competition. Later that year, he signed with Sony Music Australia.

Omaji was born in Nigeria. He moved to Australia when he was ten months old. He lived in many places all over the nation before settling in Canberra.

[[Josephine Obiajulu Odumakin]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, 1966 births, Nigerian people, Human rights activists

Josephine "Joe" Obiajulu Okei-Odumakin is a Nigerian women's rights activist. She is the president of the rights groups Women Arise for Change Initiative and the Campaign for Democracy.

[[Elena Milashina]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Russian journalists, Russian crime victims, Russian writers, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Free Media Award winners

Elena Milashina (Russian: Милашина, Елена born 1978) is a Russian investigative journalist for Novaya Gazeta.  In October 2009, Milashina received Human Rights Watch's Alison Des Forges Award for Extraordinary Activism. 

In 2006, Milashina's colleague Anna Politkovskaya was assassinated in Moscow. Milashina continues the investigations.  

In the early morning of April 5, 2012, two unidentified people attacked Milashina and her friend Ella Asoyan in the Balashika neighborhood of Moscow.

In 2013, Elena Milashina received an International Women of Courage Award.

[[Fartuun Adan]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Somali people, Year of birth missing (living people), Activists

Fartuun Abdisalaan Adan (Fartuun Aadan, فارتوون عدن) is a Somali social activist.

[[Administrative centre]]

CATEGORIES: Government, Regions

An administrative centre is sometimes used in several countries to refer to a county town, or other seat of regional/local government, or the place where the central administration of a commune is located.

[[Authority control]]

CATEGORIES: Libraries, Science

In library science and information science, authority control means the use and maintenance of the forms of names, subjects, uniform titles, etc. used as headings in a catalog. Since this creates a link between bibliographic records and the authority file, authority control provides the underlying structure of the catalog.

[[Quarter Pounder]]

CATEGORIES: McDonald's, American food, Sandwiches

The Quarter Pounder is a hamburger product sold by international fast food chain McDonald's. The burger contains a patty with a precooked weight of a quarter of a pound (113.4 g), two buns, two slices of American cheese, pickles and onions, as well as ketchup and mustard. The Quarter Pounder was created by Al Bernardin, a franchise owner, in Fremont, California, in 1971.

[[Montabaur]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Rhineland-Palatinate

Montabaur is a town in Germany. Andreas Lubitz came from the town.

[[Princess Leonore, Duchess of Gotland]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 births, Swedish royalty, Living people, People from Manhattan

Princess Leonore, Duchess of Gotland (Leonore Lilian Maria; born 20 February 2014), is the first child of Princess Madeleine of Sweden and Christopher O'Neill. She is the youngest member of the Swedish Royal Family. She is eighth in the line of succession to the Swedish throne. She was christened on 8 June 2014.

[[Christopher O'Neill]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Boston, Massachusetts, Businesspeople from London

Christopher Paul O'Neill (born 27 June 1974), is a British-American businessperson and the husband of Princess Madeleine of Sweden. He is the father of Princess Leonore, Duchess of Gotland, Prince Nicolas, Duke of Ångermanland and Princess Adrienne.

[[Eurovision Song Contest 2015]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in music, Eurovision Song Contest, Vienna

The Eurovision Song Contest 2015 was the 60th edition of the contest and took place in Vienna, Austria, after Conchita Wurst won for Austria in Copenhagen, Denmark in 2014.

A total of 40 countries participated in that year, while Australia participated for the first time ever as a special-guest due the 60th anniversery.

Ukraine quit because of politics, while Cyprus, Czech Republic and Serbia returned to the contest.

[[Satellite DNA]]

CATEGORIES: DNA

Satellite DNA has many sections of repeating, non-coding DNA. 

Satellite DNA is a type of tandem repeat. The repeats sit next to each other, in tandem. These are multiple copies of the same base-pair sequence lying end-to-end. Tandem repeats also include minisatellite and microsatellite DNA. 

Satellite DNA is the main component of centromeres. It forms the main part of heterochromatin.

The most common type of tandem repeat is the heterochromatin, which sits on chromosomes around the centromeres and elsewhere. It is "transcriptionally inactive", meaning, it does not code for proteins.

[[Tandem repeat]]

CATEGORIES: DNA

Tandem repeats occur in DNA when a pattern of nucleotides is repeated. The repeats sit next to each other, in tandem. These are multiple copies of the same base-pair sequence lying end-to-end. 

An example would be:   ATTCG ATTCG ATTCG   in which the sequence ATTCG is repeated three times.

[[Dusty the Klepto Kitty]]

CATEGORIES: Internet celebrities, Individual cats

Dusty the Klepto Kitty is a famous Snowshoe cat. He became popular in early 2011 for his acts of "burglary" in his neighborhood.

By then, Dusty had stolen 16 car wash mitts, 7 sponges, 213 dish towels, 7 wash cloths, 5 bath towels, 18 shoes, 73 socks, 100 gloves, 1 pair of mittens, 3 aprons, 40 balls, 4 pairs of underwear, 1 dog collar, 6 rubber toys, 1 blanket, 3 leg warmers, 2 Frisbees, 1 golf club cover, 1 safety mask, 2 mesh bags, 1 bag of water balloons, 1 pair of pajama pants, 8 swimsuits, and 8 other objects. 

His behavior got him an appearance on the Late Show with David Letterman in February 2011. 

He got the nickname "Klepto Kitty"" because of the word Kleptomania.  He had already taken more than 600 items from the gardens he roams around in. Most of his theft happens at night. The most he has brought home at once is eleven things, his owners say. He has even been caught on camera carrying home a bra.

[[Friedrich L. Bauer]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, German computer scientists, German academics, German military personnel of World War II, People from Regensburg

Friedrich Ludwig Bauer (10 June 1924 – 26 March 2015) was a German computer scientist and professor emeritus at the Technical University of Munich. He served in the Wehrmacht in World War II.

[[Miroslav Ondříček]]

CATEGORIES: BAFTA Award winners, 1934 births, 2015 deaths, Cinematographers, People from Prague

 Miroslav Ondříček (November 4, 1934 – March 28, 2015) was a Czech cinematographer. He worked on over 40 movies including Amadeus, Ragtime and If..... He was nominated for two Academy Awards and won a BAFTA Award.

Ondříček was born in Prague, Czechoslovakia (now the Czech Republic). He studied filmmaking at the Barrandov Studio Training School. Ondříček died in Prague at the age of 80.

[[Bud, Not Buddy]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 books, 20th century American novels, Children's books, Fiction set in the past, Michigan in fiction, Newbery Medal winning books

Bud, Not Buddy is a children's novel written by Christopher Paul Curtis. It is set in Michigan in 1936. It was published in 1999. The book won the Newbery Medal in 2000, for excellence in American children's literature.

[[American Beauty/American Psycho]]

CATEGORIES: Punk albums, Fall Out Boy albums

American Beauty/American Psycho (sometimes abbreviated as AB/AP) is a studio album by punk rock group Fall Out Boy. It was released on January 20, 2015. This was the second album the band recorded since getting back together in 2013. The band wrote the music for the album while on tour with Paramore.

The band released a single ("Centuries") on September 9th, 2014. This was before the album itself was complete. "Centuries" reached No. 10 on the Billboard Hot 100. It reached first position on the UK Rock and Metal Chart. The album debuted at No. 1 on the US Billboard 200 album chart. It sold the equivalent of 218,000 copies in its first week. It became the band's third No. 1 album.

[[Yusuf Mohamed Ismail]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2015 deaths, Ambassadors of Somalia, Ambassadors to the United Nations, Murders by firearm, Muslims, People from Bologna, Somali politicians

Yusuf Mohamed Ismail (Yuusuf Maxamed Ismaaciil Baribari, يوسف محمد إسماعيل‎; 11 September 1960 – 27 March 2015), also known as Bari-Bari, was a Somali politician and diplomat. He joined diplomatic services in 2007. At the time of his death, he was the Ambassador to Switzerland and the Permanent Representative to the United Nations in Geneva since 4 April 2008.

Ismail was born in Bologna, Italy to an aristocratic Somali Muslim family. He studied at the University of Bologna. He was married and had children.

On 27 March 2015, Ismail was injured in an attack by al-Shabaab militants at the Makka al-Mukarama hotel in Mogadishu while attending a conference. He later died from his injuries in hospital, aged 54. He was buried in Garoowe, Puntland on 29 March.

[[Tila Tequila]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Actors from Houston, Texas, Bloggers, Models from Houston, Texas, Singaporean singers, Singer-songwriters from Texas, Singers from Houston, Texas, Television personalities from Texas, American bloggers

Tila Nguyen born October 24, 1981 is an American model. She is more known by her stage names Tila Tequila and Miss Tila. She was born in Singapore. She moved with her family at an young age to Houston, Texas. She is perhaps best known for her reality series A Shot at Love with Tila Tequila on MTV.

[[You Oughta Know]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 songs, Alanis Morissette songs, Rock songs

"You Oughta Know" is a song from Alanis Morissette from her third studio album Jagged Little Pill. It reached the Top 10 in Australia and the United States.

The song was released in the United States on July 7, 1995. It received generally positive reviews by critics.

[[Hand in My Pocket]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 songs, Alanis Morissette songs, Rock songs

"Hand in My Pocket" is a rock song by Alanis Morissette. It was from her third studio album Jagged Little Pill. The album peaked at number one in Canada. In the United States it hit number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 albums chart. The song was released as a single on 31 October 1995 in the United States. It became her second song to hit number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart. A music video in black and white was released for the single showing Morissette at a festival driving her car.

[[Head over Feet]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 songs, Alanis Morissette songs, Rock songs

"Head over Feet" is a rock song from singer Alanis Morissette from Jagged Little Pill. The song talks of a couple who are best friends and lovers. It got positive reviews by critics.

The song was released on 16 September 1996 in North America. It hit #1 on Billboard Adult Top 40.

[[String Quartet No. 14 (Beethoven)]]

CATEGORIES: String quartets, Compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, Mainz

The String Quartet No. 14 in Csharp minor, Opus 131, is a string quartet by Ludwig van Beethoven. He wrote it between November 1825 and July 1826. It was published in Mainz, Germany in April 1827 (after Beethoven's death) with a dedication to Baron Joseph von Stutterheim.

The work consists of seven movements played without a break:

It is about 40 minutes in length.

[[Åsa Romson]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Government ministers of Sweden, Greens politicians

Åsa Elisabeth Romson (born 22 March 1972) is Swedish politician. On 3 October 2014, she became the Deputy Prime Minister of Sweden and Minister for the Environment.

[[Gustav Fridolin]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1983 births, Government ministers of Sweden, Greens politicians

Per Gustav Edvard Fridolin (born 10 May 1983) is a Swedish politician. On 3 October 2014, he became the Minister of Education in Sweden under Stefan Löfven.

[[Alice Bah Kuhnke]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1971 births, Government ministers of Sweden, Greens politicians, Swedish television presenters

Alice Bah Kuhnke (born Alice Bah 21 December 1971) is a Swedish politician and television presenter. In October 2014, she became the Minister of Culture and Democracy in Sweden under Stefan Löfven. She joined the Green Party three days before being appointed.

Bah Kuhnke presented the Mickey Mouse Club during the early 1990s on SVT. She had her own talk show on TV4 called Alice Bah between 1998 and 1999.

[[Complete Genomics]]

CATEGORIES: Companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area, DNA

Complete Genomics (CG), Mountain View, California, is a life sciences company which analyses DNA as a commercial service. CG has developed a commercial DNA sequencing platform for human genome sequencing and analysis.

In March 2013 Complete Genomics was bought by BGI-Shenzhen, the world’s largest genomics services company. BGI is a 4,000-person company in Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. It provides comprehensive sequencing and bioinformatics services for commercial science, medical, agricultural, and environmental applications.

In February 2009, Complete Genomics announced that it had sequenced its first human genome and gave the results to the National Center for Biotechnology Information database. Then, in November 2009, CG published sequence data for three human genomes in the journal Science. By the end of 2009, CG had sequenced 50 human genomes. The company has sequenced more than 20,000 genomes (2015).

In 2014, a collaboration among Radboud University (The Netherlands), Maastricht University Medical Centre (The Netherlands), Central South University (China) and Complete Genomics identified major causes of intellectual disability using whole genome sequencing.

[[Baldwin, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ontario

Baldwin is a township in the Canadian province of Ontario. It is part of the Sudbury District. According to the Canada 2011 Census, it has a population of 551. The junction of Ontario Highway 17 and Ontario Highway 6 is in Baldwin.

[[Manitoba Highway 1]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Manitoba

Manitoba Highway 1 is the section of the Trans-Canada Highway in Manitoba, Canada. It runs from west to east and is 490 kilometers (304 miles) long. It starts on the Saskatchewan border near Kirkella, Manitoba and connects with Saskatchewan Highway 1. The only major city it passes through is Winnipeg. The highway ends at the Ontario border near West Hawk Lake, where it is renamed Ontario Highway 17.

[[Manitoba Highway 21]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Manitoba

Manitoba Highway 21 is a provincial highway in Manitoba, Canada. It is located in the southwestern part of the province. It starts at North Dakota Highway 14 near the border with the United States. It continues north and ends at Highway 45 and Provincial Road 577 in Oakburn, Manitoba. It is 189 kilometers (117 miles) long.

[[Ontario Highway 4]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

King's Highway 4, also known as Highway 4, is a provincial highway in Ontario, Canada. It starts at Highway 3 in Southwold. It then continues northward until ending at Highway 8 in Clinton. It is 100.8 kilometers (62.6 miles) long. The highway passes through Elgin County, Middlesex County, and Huron County. It also passes through the major cities of St. Thomas and London.

[[Ontario Highway 23]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

Ontario Highway 23 is a povincial highway in Ontario, Canada. It starts at Highway 7 near Middlesex Centre. It continues north, passing through Perth County. The highway ends at Highway 9 and Highway 89 in Harriston. It is 97.7 kilometers (60.7 miles) long.

Much of the highway passes through rural areas.

[[Ontario Highway 89]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

Ontario Highway 89 is a provincial highway in Ontario, Canada. It is 107 kilometers (66 miles) long. It starts at the junction of Highway 9 and Highway 23 in Harriston. It then runs eastward and ends at Highway 400 near Innisfil. The highway runs through the settlements of Alliston, Shelburne, and Mount Forest, forming the main streets of these towns.

[[Satisfaction]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 1500 Words

[[Ontario Highway 410]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

Ontario Highway 410 is a provincial highway in Ontario, Canada. It is 20.3 kilometers (12.6 miles) long. It starts at the junction of Highway 401 and Highway 403. It ends north of Brampton at Highway 10.

[[Harold Prince]]

CATEGORIES: Theatre producers, American theatre directors, Movie directors from New York City, 1928 births, 2019 deaths

Harold Smith Prince (born Harold Smith; January 30, 1928 – July 31, 2019) was an American theatrical producer and director. He won 21 Tony Awards. He was involved with Cabaret, West Side Story and Madame Butterfly.

He was born in New York City. Prince died on 31 July 2019 in Reykjavík, Iceland at the age of 91.

[[Fred Robsahm]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, Entertainers from Oslo, Norwegian actors

Fred Otto Robsahm (29 June 1943 – 26 March 2015) was a Norwegian movie actor. He worked on a few Italian spaghetti westerns in the 1960s and 70s. He was married to Italian movie actress Agostina Belli for 15 years.

[[Daundre Barnaby]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2015 deaths, Canadian sportspeople, Jamaican people, Deaths by drowning

Daundre Barnaby (December 9, 1990 – March 27, 2015) was a Canadian track runner in the 400m. He competed for the Mississippi State Bulldogs and ran for Canada at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, finishing 6th in his heat in the 400m.2013

Barnaby disappeared on March 27, 2015 while swimming in the ocean at a training camp in Saint Kitts, and was declared dead later that same day.

[[Rik Battaglia]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Italian movie actors, People from Veneto

Rik Battaglia (Caterino Bertaglia; 18 February 1927 – 27 March 2015) was an Italian movie actor. He was born at Corbola, near Rovigo, Veneto. He was known for his roles in Old Shatterhand  (1963), Die Pyramide des Sonnengottes (1965), Das Vermächtnis des Inka (1965), Black Jack (1968), Winnetou und sein Freund Old Firehand, Winnetou und Shatterhand im Tal der Toten (1968), White Fang (1973), Challenge to White Fang (1974) in and A Man Called Blade (1977).

[[Juan Carlos Maccarone]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2015 deaths, People from Buenos Aires

Juan Carlos Maccarone (19 October 1940 – 29 March 2015) was an Argentine Roman Catholic retired bishop. In 1996, he became bishop in Roman Catholic Diocese of Chascomús. On 18 February 1999, Maccarone was nominated as bishop in Roman Catholic Diocese of Santiago del Estero.

In 2005, a video was published, which showed Maccarone having sex together with a 23-year-old man.

[[B.J. Crosby]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from New Orleans, Louisiana, American jazz musicians, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Deaths from diabetes, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in Louisiana, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana, Singers from New Orleans, Louisiana

B.J. Crosby (November 23, 1952 – March 27, 2015) was an American jazz vocalist, singer, and actress. In 1995, Crosby received a Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical nomination for her performance in the musical, Smokey Joe's Cafe. Her role in Smokey Joe's Cafe included solo parts in the songs "Hound Dog" and "Fools Fall in Love." Crosby was born in New Orleans, Louisiana.

Crosby died in New Orleans, Louisiana from a diabetic stroke, aged 62.

[[Helmut Dietl]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, Deaths from lung cancer, Disease-related deaths in Bavaria, German movie directors, German movie producers, German screenwriters, People from Munich, Television directors, Television writers, Writers from Bavaria

Helmut Dietl (22 June 1944 – 30 March 2015) was a German movie director and author. He was born in Bad Wiessee, but raised in Munich, Germany. He was known for directing the popular television series Monaco Franze – Der ewige Stenz. 

[[Santa Barbara County, California]]

CATEGORIES: Santa Barbara County, California, 1850 establishments in California

Santa Barbara County is a county in the U.S. state of California. It is in the southern part of the state. The county seat is Santa Barbara. At the 2010 United States census, 423,895 people lived in the county.

[[Marilyn Horne]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, American opera singers, Grammy Award winners, People from Long Beach, California, Singers from Los Angeles County, California, Singers from Pennsylvania

Marilyn Horne (born January 16, 1934) is an American opera singer. She is a mezzo-soprano. She has won four Grammy Awards.

She was born in Bradford, Pennsylvania. She grew up in Long Beach, California.

[[Greater prairie chicken]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of the United States, Domesticated animals

The greater prairie chicken (Tympanuchus cupido), also known as a boomer, is a large bird in the grouse family. They come from North America. There used to be many of them. Because of habitat destruction, there are few left in some parts of its range. In other parts, there are none at all. People are trying to save the ones that are left.

Adults of both sexes are medium to large birds. They are similar to chickens. They have round wings and short tails.

[[National Review]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines, 1955 establishments in the United States, Conservatism, 1950s establishments in New York (state)

The National Review is a semi-monthly political magazine. It was founded by author William F. Buckley, Jr. in 1955. The magazine is based in New York City. It contains conservative news and opinion and is often considered the main journal of conservative opinion and ideas. The magazine has had a big role in the Conservative movement and has helped promote many ideas used by conservative politicians. The current editors of the National Review are Jonah Goldberg and Rich Lowry.

[[Optic tectum]]

CATEGORIES: Vision, Anatomy of the brain

The optic tectum is a major part of the midbrain of vertebrates. In vertebrates such as fish, reptiles and birds, it is the main visual processor of the brain. 

In mammals, however, most of the work is done in the visual cortex. This is at the back of the cerebral cortex. The tectum does preliminary visual processing, and controls eye movement. When human anatomy textbooks use the term superior colliculus they are referring to the tectum. The diagram is based on human anatomy.

[[Kulula.com]]

CATEGORIES: Low-cost airlines, Airlines of South Africa, Johannesburg, 2001 establishments, 2000s establishments in South Africa

kulula.com is a low-cost carrier from South Africa. It has a partnership with British Airways. The name kulula means easily in the Zulu language.

[[Trogon]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

The trogons and quetzals are birds in the order Trogoniformes which has only one family, the Trogonidae. There are 39 living species in seven genera.

The fossil record of the trogons dates back 49 million years to the mid-Eocene. The word "trogon" is Greek for "nibbling" and refers to the fact that these birds gnaw holes in trees to make their nests.

Trogons are residents of tropical forests worldwide. The greatest diversity is in the Neotropics, where four genera, with 24 species occur. The genus Apaloderma has the three African species. The genera Harpactes and Apalharpactes, with twelve species, live in southeast Asia.

They feed on insects and fruit. Their broad bills and weak legs reflect their diet and arboreal habits. Although their flight is fast, they do not fly long distances. Trogons are generally not migratory. They have soft, often colourful, feathers with distinctive male and female plumage. They are the only type of animal with a heterodactyl toe arrangement. They nest in holes dug into trees or termite nests, laying 2–4 white or pastel-coloured eggs.

[[Larry Page]]

CATEGORIES: Businesspeople from Michigan, American computer scientists, American chief executives, 1973 births, Living people, American company founders

Lawrence "Larry" Page (born March 26, 1973) is an American computer scientist. He is a cofounder, along with Sergey Brin, and chief executive officer of Google. He was born in East Lansing, Michigan.

[[Eric Saade]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1990 births, Swedish singers, People from Helsingborg

Eric Saade (born 29 October 1990 in Helsingborg, Sweden) is a Swedish  singer. He spent two years with as boy band called What's Up!. He left the band in February 2009 to for a solo career. He won the Swedish Melodifestivalen 2011 with the song "Popular". He represented Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest 2011 in Germany, placing third in the final.

Saade is of Palestinian descent on his father's side.

[[Måns Zelmerlöw]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Swedish singers, Reality television participants, Eurovision Song Contest presenters, Eurovision Song Contest winners

Måns Petter Albert Sahlén Zelmerlöw (born 13 June 1986) is a Swedish singer. He participated in the talent singing competition Idol 2005. He won Let's Dance 2006, both broadcasted on TV4. He won Melodifestivalen 2015. He represented Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest 2015 in Vienna, Austria.2015 In the Eurovision final Zelmerlöw won with 365 pointsahead of Russia and Italy. He will host the Eurovision Song Contest 2016 to be held in Stockholm along with Petra Mede.

[[Ace Wilder]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1982 births, Singers from Stockholm, Songwriters, Writers from Stockholm

Alice Kristina Ingrid Gernandt (born 23 July 1982 in Stockholm), better known by her stage name Ace Wilder, is a Swedish singer and songwriter. She best known for taking part in Melodifestivalen 2014 were she placed second behind Sanna Nielsen.

[[Lisa Vanderpump]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1960 births, Participants in American reality television series, Restaurateurs, Television personalities from London

Lisa Jane Vanderpump (born 15 September 1960) is a British restaurant owner and television personality. She is perhaps best known for her appearance in the Bravo channel series The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills and Vanderpump Rules. She was also a celebrity dancer on the 16th season of Dancing with the Stars. 

[[Postcard]]

CATEGORIES: Postal service

A postcard or post card is a rectangular piece of paper or cardboard, which is intended to send a short message by post. Usually, a postcard is mailed without an envelope. Modern postcards usually have a photo or an image on one side of the card, the other side contains space for writing the address and a short message. The first postcards were used in the second half of the 19th century. Today, many people send postcards when they are on holiday. The designs of post cards have evolved since the early ages and many prefer to send personalized post cards now which gives a personal touch or adds a feeling or emotion to it.

[[Black mangrove]]

CATEGORIES: Trees

The black mangrove (Avicennia germinans) is one of the species of mangrove commonly found in a mangrove forest. Black mangroves have aerial roots. Black mangroves can be found in the tropical and subtropical regions of Africa and the Americas.

[[Rebecca Simonsson]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1985 births, Swedish models, Swedish television presenters

Rebecca Stella Simonsson (born 29 September 1985) is a Swedish model and television presenter. She was part of the music group Sunblock. She presents the "after show" for the reality series Paradise Hotel.

[[Ed van den Heuvel]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Dutch academics, Dutch astronomers, People from Utrecht (province)

Edward Peter Jacobus (Ed) van den Heuvel (born 2 November 1940) is a Dutch astronomer and emeritus professor at the Astronomical Institute Anton Pannekoek of the University of Amsterdam.

[[Deaths in April 2015]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 deaths, April 2015 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in April 2015. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".

[[Woozworld]]

CATEGORIES: Internet culture

Woozworld is a virtual gaming community and social network service. It was originally called Kidstudio 2.0. Woozworld was founded in 2010 and is in Montreal, Quebec. Woozworld allows kids and teens to connect with each other through profiles and other activities.

[[Leroy Jethro Gibbs]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters

Leroy Jethro Gibbs is a fictional character from the CBS Television series NCIS, played by Mark Harmon. He is an ex-Scout Sniper for the United States Marines turned Special agent. He commands a team for the Naval Criminal Investigative Service. Gibbs is the most skilled marksman on the team. He is the most skilled at handling violent situations. He is also a skilled interrogator. Gibbs is a natural leader who always accomplishes his mission. 

[[Taylor County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Taylor County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 131,506 people lived there. The county seat is Abilene.  It was named for three brothers who met death at the Battle of the Alamo, Edward Taylor, George Taylor, and James Taylor. Taylor County has been home to Dyess Air Force Base since 1942.

[[Division of Sturt]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, South Australia, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Sturt is an Australian electoral division in South Australia.  It was set up in 1949, and named for Captain Charles Sturt, an explorer and the first European to visit the Murray River.

It includes the Adelaide suburbs of Athelstone, Burnside, Campbelltown, Dernancourt, Frewville, Gilles Plains, Glynde, Glenside, Hectorville, Highbury, Hillcrest, Holden Hill, Kensington, Klemzig, Magill, Marden, Paradise, Tranmere and parts of Payneham and Rostrevor.

[[Watermelon stereotype]]

CATEGORIES: African-American history, Psychology

The Watermelon stereotype is the stereotypical view that black people can be made happy easily; they only need a watermelon and a little rest for their happiness. The stereotype was perpetuated in minstrel shows often depicting African Americans as ignorant and workshy, given to song and dance and inordinately fond of watermelon.  This stereotype is common in the United States, and probably goes back to the times of slavery: The people who were in favour of slavery wanted to show that black people were simple-minded and only needed few things for their happiness.

[[Jesse Metcalfe]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Actors from Monterey County, California, American movie actors, American television actors, People from Monterey County, California

Jesse Eden Metcalfe (born December 9, 1978) is an American actor. He was born in Carmel Valley Village, California. Metcalfe is mostly known for his role as John Rowland in the series Desperate Housewives. 

Metcalfe has also had roles on the soap opera  Passions and in the movie John Tucker Must Die. He played Christopher Ewing in the continuation of Dallas based on the 1978 series of the same name.

[[Yolanda Hadid]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American bloggers, American models, American television personalities, Dutch models, Dutch television personalities, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from South Holland

Yolanda Hadid (née van den Herik, previously Foster; born 11 January 1964) is a Dutch-American television personality, model, and interior designer.

She was born and raised in Papendrecht, South Holland. She was married to Palestinian real-estate developer Mohamed Hadid from 1994 until they divorced in 2000. They had two daughters, models Gigi Hadid and Bella Hadid and a son, Anwar. She married Canadian musician David Foster in 2011. They divorced in 2017.

She was one of the leading personalities on the reality series The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills. She has modelled in places such as Paris, Tokyo and Sydney for Eileen Ford.

[[Special agent]]

CATEGORIES: Law enforcement agencies

In the United States, a special agent is a detective or investigator who investigates suspected violations of federal, state or local laws. Special agents may also carry firearms and make arrests. Special agents work for many different law enforcement agencies. In some agencies, only special agents may carry firearms. An example is special agents in the Internal Revenue Service. To become special agents most applicants must pass written and physical examinations. In the FBI, like many agencies, applicants must go through a background check.

[[24 (2001 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 thriller movies, 2000s road movies, Czech movies

24 is a 2001 Czech thriller movie. It was directed by David Beránek and stars Barbora Seidlová and Martin Trnavský. It happens during 24 hours and follows a man and a woman on the run in the Czech Republic. The movie was released through Bontonfilm on 11 January 2001.

[[2Bobule]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 comedy movies, Czech movies

2Bobule (2 Berry) is a 2009 Czech comedy movie directed by Vlad Lanné. The movie follows Marie (Jana Pidrmanová), Jirka (Lukáš Langmajer) and their wealthy parents (Jiří Krampol and Jana Švandová). It also follows a murderer called Jiří Tichý (Jiří Korn). The movie happens mostly in southern Moravia.

[[Bab El-Oued City]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 movies

Bab El-Oued City is a 1994 Algerian drama movie. It was directed by Merzak Allouache. It was shown in the Un Certain Regard portion of the 1994 Cannes Film Festival. It won the FIPRESCI Award.

[[Naval Criminal Investigative Service]]

CATEGORIES: Law enforcement in the United States

The United States Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) is the primary law enforcement agency of the United States Department of the Navy (DON). It investigates activities concerning crimes against or by United States Navy and U.S. Marine Corps personnel. It also is tasked with national security, counter-intelligence, and counter-terrorism cases. NCIS is the successor organization to the former Naval Investigative Service (NIS).

[[Diahann Carroll]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Breast cancer survivors, Actors from the Bronx, Actors from Manhattan, Singers from New York City, Models from New York City, African American actors, African-American singers, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, New York University alumni, Tony Award winning actors

Diahann Carroll (born Carol Diahann Johnson; July 17, 1935 – October 4, 2019) was an American television and stage actress and singer. She was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress. Later she played the role of Dominique Deveraux on the popular soap opera, Dynasty., 

Carroll was born in the Bronx and raised in Harlem. She was briefly engaged to British journalist David Frost. In 1997, she was diagnosed with breast cancer, but was cancer-free after radiation therapy. Carroll died of cancer on October 4, 2019 in Los Angeles at the age of 84.

[[Kitty Jutbring]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1977 births, Swedish television presenters, Reality television participants, Feminists

Anna Maria Kitty Skura Jutbring (born 8 April 1977) is a Swedish reality television contestant, radio/television host, She became known in Sweden after being a housemate on the second series of Big Brother in 2002. After that, she became a radio and television host. She has hosted shows on Sveriges Radio P3 and Sveriges Television. 

Jutbring has been an active supporter of feminism and equal opportunities for women. She has been particularly vocal regarding the situation of young girls in Sweden regarding issues of body consciousness and sex. 

Jutbring has also been an active activist for the new and controversial gender neutral personal pronoun hen.

[[Anna Kinberg Batra]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Swedish politicians

Anna Maria Kinberg Batra (born 14 April 1970) is a Swedish politician. In January 2015, she became the leader of the Moderate Party the main opposition party in Sweden as of 2015.

She resigned as Party Leader on 25 August 2017.

[[Sally Forrest]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in California, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American dancers, Actors from San Diego, California, Singers from California

Sally Forrest (born Katherine Feeney; May 28, 1928 – March 15, 2015), was an American movie, stage and TV actress of the 1940s and 1950s. She was known for her role in Rawhide. Forrest was born in San Diego, California.

Forrest died of cancer at her home in Beverly Hills, California, aged 86.

[[Carlos Gaviria Díaz]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from lung disease, Colombian politicians, Colombian lawyers, Judges

Carlos Emilio Gaviria Díaz (8 May 1937 – 31 March 2015) was a Colombian lawyer, professor and politician. He served as the 5th Chief Magistrate of the Constitutional Court of Colombia, where he served as a Magistrate from 1993 to 2001.

After retiring from the Court, he went into politics becoming a Senator of Colombia in 2002. He ran for President as an Alternative Democratic Pole candidate in the 2006 presidential election, ultimately losing to ex-president Álvaro Uribe Vélez, who was seeking his second term in office.

[[Ingrid van Houten-Groeneveld]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2015 deaths, Dutch astronomers

Ingrid van Houten-Groeneveld (21 October 1921 – 30 March 2015) was a Dutch astronomer. She worked at the Leiden Observatory. She analyzed new asteroids. She is thanked for finding several thousand new asteroid discoveries.

Van Houten-Groeneveld died on 30 March 2015, at the age of 93, in Oegstgeest, Netherlands.

[[Philip A. Potter]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2015 deaths, Civil servants

Philip Alford Potter (19 August 1921 – 31 March 2015) was a Dominican religious leader. He was a leader in the Methodist Church. He was the third General Secretary of the World Council of Churches (1972–1984).

Potter was born at Roseau, Dominica, West Indies into a Christian family with a Protestant mother and a Catholic father. He died on 31 March 2015 in Lübeck, Germany, aged 93.

[[Gertrude Weaver]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 2015 deaths, African-American supercentenarians, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Arkansas, People from Arkansas, World record holders

Gertrude Weaver (July 4, 1898 – April 6, 2015) was an American supercentenarian. She was born in Arkansas near the border with Texas. Weaver was the verified oldest living person in the world from April 1 to April 6, 2015.

She became the oldest living person in the United States upon the death of Dina Manfredini on December 17, 2012, and became the oldest living person in the world on April 1, 2015 following the death of Japanese woman Misao Okawa. At the time of her death in April 2015, she was the seventh verified oldest person ever, and the third oldest person ever from the United States, after Sarah Knauss and Lucy Hannah.

On April 6, 2015, Gertrude Weaver died in Silver Oaks Health and Rehabilitation Center at the age of 116 from pneumonia.

[[Eddie LeBaron]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Washington Redskins players, Dallas Cowboys players, Sportspeople from California

Edward Wayne LeBaron, Jr. (January 7, 1930 – April 1, 2015) was an American football quarterback in the 1950s and early 1960s in the National Football League. He played for the Washington Redskins, Calgary Stampeders, and for the Dallas Cowboys. 

He was added into the College Football Hall of Fame in 1980, into the Bay Area Sports Hall of Fame in 2004 and was a charter inductee into the Sac-Joaquin Section Hall of Fame in October 2010. He died on April 1, 2015.

[[John Paul Hammerschmidt]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from respiratory failure, United States representatives from Arkansas, US Republican Party politicians

John Paul Hammerschmidt (May 4, 1922 – April 1, 2015) was an American politician from the state of Arkansas. A Republican, Hammerschmidt served for 13 terms in the U.S. House of Representatives from the northwestern Arkansas district before he retired in 1993. 

Hammerschmidt was born in Harrison, Arkansas. He studied at the University of Arkansas.

In 1974, a nationally Democratic year, he secured his fifth term by defeating the then 28-year-old future President Bill Clinton. 

He was also the first Republican elected to the House of Representatives from Arkansas since Reconstruction.

Hammerschmidt died at a hospital in Springdale, Arkansas from heart and respiratory failure, aged 92. 

[[Nicolae Rainea]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from pulmonary edema, Romanian people, Romanian footballers, Referees

Nicolae Rainea (19 November 1933 – 1 April 2015), nicknamed The Locomotive of the Carpathians, was a Romanian football referee. He refereed at three FIFA World Cups (1974, 1978, 1982), the UEFA Euro 1980 Final, the 1983 European Cup Final, the second leg of the 1978 European Super Cup and the second leg of the 1978 UEFA Cup Final.

After an untreated mild cold turned into a pulmonary edema, Rainea suffered a cardiac arrest while in hospital. He died on 1 April 2015 in Bucharest. He was 81 years old.

[[Gal Costa]]

CATEGORIES: People from Salvador, Bahia, American pop musicians, 1945 births, Living people

Gal Costa (born September 26, 1945) is a Brazilian singer. She usually does pop music. She began her professional career in August 1964. Her first album, Domingo, was released in 1967. In 1973, the cover of her record Ìndia was censored.

Costa was born in Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.

[[Lana Wood]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Santa Monica, California, Actresses who played Bond girls

Lana Wood (born March 1, 1946) is an American actress and movie producer. She played Plenty O'Toole in the 1971 movie Diamonds are Forever. She played Sandy Webber in the television series Peyton Place.

[[Range]]

Range might mean:

[[Dentin]]

CATEGORIES: Teeth

Dentin or dentine is calcified tissue that makes up the second layer of teeth. In the crown (top) of a tooth, dentin is found between enamel and pulp. In the root of a tooth, it is found between cementum and pulp. Dentin makes up most of a tooth. Dentin is yellow. The yellowness of dentin shows through in a tooth because enamel is semi-translucent.

[[Peat swamp forest]]

CATEGORIES: Rainforests

Peat swamp forests are forest wetlands in tropical and subtropical areas. They have poor drainage. Waterlogged soil prevents dead leaves and wood from decomposing fully. Over time, this creates a thick layer of acidic peat. They are made up of trees which are broadleaved (not conifers), and many other types of flowering plants. 

Peat swamp forests are usually surrounded by lowland rain forests on better-drained soils. There may be brackish or salt-water mangrove forests near the coast. 

These tropical swamp forests are quite different from the north temperate peat bogs in climates such as in Ireland. Temperate peat bogs are not caused by forests, but mostly by mosses such as Sphagnum, grasses, sedges and shrubs.

